Staggers 1 William Staggers Sarah Basil ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Hazard of Public Smoking on Society Public smoking is something that everyone most likely encounters every day. It has been associated with many health risks to the smoker and anyone nearby who inhales the second hand smoke. This has always concerned many people who view smoking to be an intrusion on their basic rights to clean health. Many anti-smoking organizations such as Campaign For Tobacco Free have taken action against the tobacco industry and campaigned for public smoking laws. They have fought to ban smoking in school zones and many other places as well. This organization believes that smoking of any kind in public areas should be restricted and even separate areas for smoking should be banned (CTFK). They are responsible for a lot of campaign ads that promote anti-smoking and dissuade the public to resist the dangers of smoking. Through the rhetorical appeals of logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos, The Campaign For Tobacco Free Kids is able to educate the public and reach out to them to end public smoking. The appeal to pathos requires information to provoke an emotional response out of viewers. The use of pathos in image 1 is very strong because a young girl is shown, looking very sad with her head in her hands. The quote is shown, collect $26.6 billion in tax revenue [while less than 2% to fight tobacco An even bigger text above this says promises to our Both of these texts are supposed to connect the failure to keep tobacco Staggers 2 use limited will affect our children in the long term. This will make readers very sad because they might think about their own children or the innocence of other children at risk. Just as well, image 2 uses pathos in a more positive context in order to give viewers hope about where we stand in the fight against tobacco use. Michael Bloomberg is shown next to a text that says Bloomberg boosts global fight against Another smaller text below that says saves over 30 million (CTFK). This is to give the reader a sense of accomplishment in the fight against tobacco and it makes the reader feel good about all of the lives that have been saved from the deadly effects of tobacco. Overall, both images used by this stakeholder are primarily trying to appeal to the emotions of readers and do so by using a small child and reputable politician. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal that relies on credibility and ethics in the source or information that is being provided to the viewer. Image 1 uses ethos in a subtle way by including a statistic that is most likely provided by a government source. The image of the little girl any help to this appeal either. This text very good at convincing the reader of credibility because it provide a source at the bottom or any kind of citation. However, by providing this piece of information, it allows for the reader to investigate this claim further if they wish. The statistics provided are specific and can be refuted if a government source can be found to prove it or not. Ethos is used in a different way in image 2 because the image itself is a use of credibility for the fight against tobacco. Michael Bloomberg is one of the most influential philanthropists and politicians in the U.S. This says a lot of about the information provided in the text which claims that his initiative has saved over 30 million lives (CTFK). People will most likely Staggers 3 recognize him in the image and relate to the information better. Readers who see this also think much about the absence of a source in this picture because they can easily look up his initiative and find out more about it. Although both pictures are weaker in their use of ethos, the stakeholder is still able to display credibility through Michael Bloomberg and the use of statistics. In summation, The Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids is able to gain trust through the use of these ethics. Logos is an appeal that relies on the use of logic and basic common sense when making an argument through the use of rhetoric. The first image is very effective in its use of logos because the statistic which is provided clearly defines the problem with the allocation of funds used from tobacco tax revenue. Readers will look at this statistic and immediately know that only 2% of our taxes that go to the tobacco industry get used to promote anti-smoking campaigns and educate the public about the dangers of tobacco (CTFK). The image of the little girl is also useful in this appeal because it directly shows the reader where out priorities should be in saving the lives of this generation and future generations. Logos is used just as effectively in the second image with the quote that claims the lives that have been saved and the authority of having Michael Bloomberg standing out in the image. The quote next to him clearly defines his initiative is against tobacco and it has claimed to have saved over 30 million lives. This will appeal to logic because they will see the effectiveness of his initiative and logically want to support its efforts. In conclusion, this stakeholder is very straightforward in their use of logic because this is how they are able to persuade readers that their argument is stronger than those of pro-smoking organization. Kairos is a rhetorical appeal that relies on the use of timing in order to make the Staggers 4 important of a statement seem important to take action now. Image 1 uses kairos very well because in connection with seeing the image of the little girl, they will feel that ending tobacco use is important now in order to save her generation from tobacco. Seeing the information about only 2% of tax revenue being used to aid this movement will strike the reader as unacceptable and encourage action to be taken now. The second image uses kairos oppositely in order to make reader feel confident about the initiatives that are active in stopping tobacco related deaths. Readers will see the statistics provided in this image and feel hope about continuing with the fight against tobacco. Overall, Kairos is used very sparingly in these photos but readers are left to consider the long term effects of tobacco which effectively makes them think about this. In todays age, people look twice when seeing a lit cigarette. Tobacco is very ingrained in our society and people often associate the risks of smoking to the act of smoking itself. Whether or not people prefer to ignore the facts or remain hopeful about their health, the for Disease reports that smoking is responsible for more than 480,000 deaths per year in the United States, including more than 41,000 deaths resulting from secondhand smoke (CDC). This is very alarming, considering that 41,000 people who even smoke will die from exposure to it. The CDC also reports that fiscal year 2017, states will collect $26.6 billion from tobacco taxes and legal settlements but will only spend $491.6 than prevention and cessation (CDC). This confirms the credibility and relevancy of the information on image 1. Action on Smoking and has also stated that if smoking continues progression, will kill one billion people in the 21st This should greatly emphasize the dangers of public smoking Staggers 5 and urge people to stop smoking now (ASH). If people are educated more about these dangers, the death rate from this epidemic will hopefully fall. In conclusion, public smoking is not only a danger to those who smoke but also the people around those smokers. Millions of healthy people are exposed to tobacco everyday and must wrongly pay for another fatal habit. With all of this information present, Campaign For Tobacco Free makes for a great organization that is determined to win the fight against public smoking for good with the use of basic facts and knowledge that could help many people. With the help of the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, kairos, and pathos, many people will soon have to face the facts that tobacco kills. Staggers 6 Works Cited ASH > Action on Smoking &  ASH. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. for Tobacco-Free  Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Fast  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.