Rodriguez 1 Eric Rodriguez ENC1102 Professor Campbell January 30, 2017 Controversy at the Rock The presidency of Donald Trump has ushered in change with the signing of several executive orders. A hold was lifted on a large project to move oil via an underground pipeline from the Bakken oil reserve to Patoka, Illinois(DakotaAcessPipelineFacts). Protests erupted in Standing Rock, ND. Protesters of all kinds are coming together in an attempt to stop the pipeline from progressing to an unsafe proximity to Lake Ohae, the nearest water source to the Native American Reservation. The Sioux of Standing Rock and the Energy Transfer Partners are in discord over the implementation of the Dakota Access Pipeline ( DAPL). The Natives are attempting to fund a campaign through public donation to help cover the costs for their efforts to stop the construction of the pipeline, while the ETP are growing weary from legal run-around for their project is 85% complete (DakotaAcessPipelineFacts, Sioux). Both parties are backed by secondary stakeholders, Environmental Activist groups and the U.S. Government, respectively. With more deliberation, a compromise can be made between both sides of this issue that will protect the drinking water for the Natives and the Business interests of the ETP. The Sioux of standing rock have a long history that is shared among other native American tribes. Their ancestors, like many others, were forced onto reservations by the United States government and since have worked to maintain their identity and cultural practices with less people, less land, and less freedoms than they once had. This above all includes their religious and spiritual connection to the environment. Their culture views the environment as Rodriguez 2 God itself. The Sioux of standing rock are one of many Indigenous Nations that have gathered to pursue a sustainable Eco-Friendly lifestyle is 100% in the Oceti-Sakowin camp (Sioux). As described on their website their spiritual and religious beliefs hold the environment as sacred and everything within has a spirit. Their main concern is for the pollution of their water source, Lake Oahe and the surrounding rivers that flow south toward the reservation (Sioux). The threat would begin as the digging begins on the surrounding lands. The vibration and noise pollution would drive animals out of their habitats and damage the serenity of the area. They have raised Hundreds of thousands of dollars and stopped this project multiple times with the help of environmental activists. The Energy Transfer Partners is Fourtune-500 petroleum and natural gas Their main objective is to provide the public with oil. This company is controlled by investors, Sunoco holds 40% equity in this company(EnergyTransferPartners). ETP was formed through a merger in 2006 after they bought up other pipelines from their competitors. The pipeline would be beneficial to everyone when we consider that its creation will bolster the economy in several ways. First, by getting more oil to the market thus increasing revenue from taxes. The oil gained from the pipeline would decrease imports of foreign oil, also keeping money in country. Another point of ETP is to provide jobs. The unemployment rate has gone down over recent years, but there still is a need for improvement. Lobbyists and lawmakers have fought to gain the permits to get keep this project going for the past 3 years. Both the Sioux and ETP seem to have no agreements. They share one critical commonality; They wish to better the world through their goals. These two organizations have worked together to attempt an environmentally sound way to implement this underground pipeline. ETP claims that the involvement of Environmental has usurped the Rodriguez 3 Sioux cause to support their own (DakotaAcessPipelineFacts). The governing process council of the Sioux of standing rock has been kept informed and involved in the decision making as per website. Over 600 meetings were held with native American leaders to minimal environmental The Project was also slated to be rerouted during the Obama administration. Sioux Councilmember Archambault stated that he opposed to economic development but is opposed the infringement on our indigenous rights, our indigenous lands and our indigenous people( Standing Rock Sioux Chairman Describes Mood After Pipeline As we can see preservation of their rights is a number one concern. ETP claims that with proper permits in hand it is an infringement on their right to legally build their pipeline although court rulings constantly change. I propose that the access Pipeline be diverted through an area that has already been disturbed to prevent further unrest from the Native American and environmental community. Groundwater can be polluted by oil if the pipeline were to be damaged. The water we use daily is most often ground water that is pumped up, processed, filtered and supplied to our homes. In such a place like the camp where sustainable living is a goal, their water source go through a chemical purification process but instead a natural one (Miller). To prevent this and prevent further dispute over the safety of water and minimize affected persons by utilizing disturbed lands. Examples of disturbed lands are areas of natural disasters, abandoned surface mining quarries, and ghost towns . The Clean Water Act allows for special I feel it would be in best interest if the least amount of people were effected by such pollution. The concession on the side of the ETP would be the setback in time to redirect the pipeline. This would be of the least threat to people and the environment since there is a low population and/or low ecological significance. If permits can be Rodriguez 4 obtained for the current location, then they can be obtained for another location even if they are protected by other legislation(EPA). It also has been proven that going under the water bodies near older pipelines has no advantages other than comfort that there is no other infrastructure (such as cable and phone lines) that could possibly get in the way. The Sioux of standing rock and Energy Transfer Partners, while in contention, share a common goal: Both are tired of the fight over DAPL. This problem is centered around basic human rights and the legal powers surrounding environmental impact as well as varying views of progress. With the cooperation of the U.S. Government, the pipeline can be rerouted and with the goals of both sides respected. Rodriguez 5 Works Cited Access Pipeline Dakota Access Pipeline Facts, daplpipelinefacts.com/ U.S. Department of the Interior, www.doi.gov/. EnergyTransfer.com - Home Page, Energy Transfer Partners, www.energytransfer.com/. Pipeline Settles Alleged Clean Water Act Violations Related to Spills in Texas, Nebraska and EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 19 Jan. 2017, www.epa.gov/newsreleases/magellan-pipeline-settles-alleged-clean-water-act- violations-related-spills-texas. Miller, G. Tyler, and Scott Spoolman. Living in the Environment, AP Edition. 16th ed. Belmont, C.A.: Brooks/Cole, Cengage Learning, 2012. Print. Standing Rock Sioux Chairman Describes Mood After Pipeline  Weekend All Things Considered, 10 Sept. 2016. Literature Resource Center, go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&i t=r&id=GALE%7CA463246417&asid=caabd54f09dd205aa9eb7b17390b93c4. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017 Standing Rock, 2017, standingrock.org/.