Staggers 1 Alexandria Staggers Emil Smith ENC1101 27 January 2017 More than black dots What does it mean to be successful? Is it simply waking up in the morning, or making six figures on your salary? Just focusing on academics, success is very easy to define. It can be determined by a single letter grade or number out of one hundred on a standardized test. But there are more ways to look at overall success in schools, music and extracurricular activities involving music, playing a role as well. Teachers and businesses are starting to recognize the value of the arts everywhere. With the vast amount of research being done, findings suggest that music offers a unique way for students to grow intellectually, socially, and emotionally. Research also notices that high quality programs promote better test scores. Some studies even argue that even without those benefits, music helps children grow into creative problem solving adults with much needed 21st century skills. Is there more to it than little black dots i.e music notes? exchange actual faculty for the five line music staff and see how it plays out. Does music education really help benefit student academic success in school? Winter, Heather Nicole. The Link Between Music Lesson And Iq In  Music Teacher 66.2 (2016): 14-18. Search Premier . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Staggers 2 This article aims to measure success in students that participate in music. Some of the topics discussed in this article are improvement in reading ability, test scores, and vocabulary from music training. It takes a statistical approach with explaining the results in testing, using a control group of non musical students to find clear data. They used four groups of 144 6-yr old children. Two music groups and two non music groups, and gave them all the WISC-III (Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children - Third Edition) and standardized tests before and after participation. The results showed that higher scores in both the WISC-III and standardized tests with the music groups than the non music groups. Because IQ is a difficult way to measure change in intelligence due to the fact it rarely changes over lifetime and it is almost impossible to show causation (Winter 14). The article also addresses several factors that could mislead any information that they find to narrow down the conclusion that students in some kind of music training have better IQ scores. These factors include being involved in other extracurricular activities, parents with high IQ scores, and the simple idea that students with higher IQs are more likely to enroll in music training (Winter 15) This source is valuable because not only does it give examples of how students are proven to perform better in school, it gives examples of specific studies that were done to prove it. It relates to the research question in relating studies on students participating in music education with test scores and quantitative evidence.. The Author attended Indiana University and majored in vocal music at the prestigious Jacobs School of Music up until she received her Doctorate degree. Now she is an associate professor and the director of the Lyric Theatre. Staggers 3 Odegaard, Denese. Music Education Is Key To Success In School And  Educators Journal 103.2 (2016): 6-7. Search Premier . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. This article discusses the factors and specific skills directly related to participation in school music education programs. She lists these under four main 21st century skills. These are Creativity, Communication, Collaboration, and Critical Thinking (Odegaard 1). A few examples are making music in a group, portraying emotion through music, and performing prepared pieces in concert. 21st Century skills are what a lot of jobs look for in their applicants. She mentions these as well describing some other topics she has noticed like project based learning, self-reflection, self-discipline, perseverance, respect for others and the work of others, along with college and career readiness (Odegaard 1). All of these traits can be linked to some action that is made participating in music. The author is nationally known as one of the presidents of the National Association for Music Education and has taught music for thirty three years. This article is relevant to the research question because in the text it offers a variety of ways to look at success in students. Not only can it be measured in test scores but it can also be measured in the valuable skills that the students learn on a daily basis. This article takes a different approach to the idea of academic success. It looks at fundamental skills rather than universal measurements yet is still very reasonable and credible. Staggers 4 Johnson, Christopher M., and Jenny E. Memmott. of Relationships between Participation in School Music Programs of Differing Quality and Standardized Test of Research in Music Education , vol. 54, no. 4, 2006, pp. Within the text it looks at specific age groups and academic achievement with a statistic scientific approach. They have a sample size of 3,630 middle school students, and a sample size of 1,119 elementary students. They focus on 3-4th grade in the elementary group and 8-9th grade in the middle school group. Some factors that they take into account in their experiment are instructional quality as well as the initial end goal, test scores and level of participation. They found that the elementary group of students data showed higher english and mathematics scores than the kids who were in lower quality music programs. On the other hand they found that level of instruction was not a differential factor in test scores for the middle schoolers, however it was better than no music classes at all. The article cited above was written on behalf of the National Association for Music Education. This relates to the research question as well because it looks at the relationship between participating in school music programs and standardized tests, specifically mathematics and english (Johnson and Memmott 293). It is very helpful because it looks at the two specific age groups and compares and contrast them. Christopher M. Johnson, a professor of music education and music therapy, teamed up with Jenny E. Memmott faculty in the same University medical center to research and create this informative article. Johnson received his Phd at Florida State University. Staggers 5 Shin, Jihae. Investigation of Participation in Weekly Music Workshops and Its Relationship to Academic Self-Concept and Self-Esteem of Middle School Students in Low-Income to Music Education , vol. 38, no. 2, 2011, pp. The main idea of this source is that the most prominent non-musical benefits of music education are academic success. They want to show that there is a positive correlation between music and cognitive domains such as visual analysis, memory, dexterity and etc. (Shin 32). This study took an approach more directed to the people. It focused on finding information using three different techniques. A questionnaire, parent survey, and student interview. These findings led to the conclusion that general school concept and math self concept increased. The big idea of self-concept here is belief, feeling, and attitude toward performance in the category it address. Out of self-concept as a whole and self-esteem they got mixed results. An example of the conflicting findings were that middle schoolers reported higher self esteem from music experiences but not from music performances. And High schoolers did experience increase in self esteem through music performances. This source, brought to you by the Ohio Music Education Association studies how a specific music program helps promote self-concept and self-esteem for middle school students in low income communities (Shin 29).That is how it relates to the research question, music education really help benefit academic success in It is beneficial to the question Staggers 6 because not only does it look at school development it also looks at self. It also uses multiple ways to collect data increasing yet narrowing down the possible outcomes. The Author Jihae Shin is a professor and cellist at the College of Columbia University. Vitale, John L. Makes You Smarter: A New Paradigm for Music Education? Perceptions and Perspectives from Four Groups of Elementary Education Journal of Education / Revue Canadienne De , vol. 34, no. 3, 2011, pp. In this article the Author has this idea of the makes you notion, where he asks the following questions for his study. These questions ask about the effects of cognitive skills, the effect on ,math and science skills, particularly the popular STEM category, the students knowledge of music in general, and the students value in music towards their education and society (Vitale 320). He aims to find out these points with a small sample size of 100 elementary school teachers, elementary students, parents, and non-music teachers.The students being mostly between the ages of 11 and 12. He splits them equally into small groups of 25. He looks at these main topics stated above, through the perceptions and perspectives of the different groupings of people he selected using two techniques. These techniques were surveys and focus groups. He found that all the groups except music teachers thought music had a positive effect on performance in math and science. All of the groups were in favor of funding music education for its benefits in math and science. Only music teachers had an extensive knowledge of music. All Staggers 7 groups believed music has a positive effect on cognitive skills and all groups except students saw value in music to society and education. The Canadian Society For the Study of Education brought this article to us to educate us on the study exploring the perceptions and perspectives of the makes you notion created by the Author John L.Vitale. Dr. John Vitale is now an associate professor at the Schulich School of Education with twelve years experience in secondary music education. This article is beneficial and relevant to the research question because it takes a look at the different roles played in preparing the students giving the data a more well rounded conclusion. Richerme, Lauren Kapalka. We Educators Journal , vol. 98, no. 1, 2011, pp. In the text it gives multiple examples of media and public claims about how there is a decline of music education programs in school. It gives specific locations like saying in New York a lot of schools stopped hiring music teachers completely. But within all this she also states that it is not fact and music education is still around with statistics like 90% or higher of elementary schools and public schools offered music in their programs (Richerme 36). Along with general facts about the amount of music offered and not offered, it talks and negative perceptions of music education through the media highlighting the benefits of academics but claiming evidence is fickle. Staggers 8 Lauren Kapalka Richerme is the Assistant Professor of Music Education at Indiana University Jacobs School of Music with works published in many different Music Education outputs. This Article was written for the National Association for Music Education as well. This article is relevant to the research question because it focuses on another side of Music Education highlighting the fact that it is less prominent and saying data saying music enhances knowledge is inconclusive.