Sillart 1 Alejandro Sillart Emil Smith Comp 1 2/19/17 Music Study Habits It has been long debated that listening to certain kinds of music while studying can help students perform better on their academic tests. Some schools even encourage the listening of classical music while studying, claiming that it helps with the growth of the brain. Knowing that music influences different kinds of people, we cannot be certain that this can be true for everyone that decides to put on earphones before they study. Another thing that has been looked at is if listening to music while studying has a different effect on students that are extroverted or introverted. Introverts tend to keep to themselves more and listen to music on a regular basis, so maybe listening to music while they are studying could also have a positive effect on their study habits. While extroverts are more outgoing and might get distracted easier than their introverted counterparts, so listening to music while they study might have a negative effect on them. Exactly what effect does music have on the study habits of students? Kotsopoulou, Anastasia, and Susan Hallam. The Perceived Impact of Playing Music While Studying: Age and Cultural  Educational Studies 36.4 (2010): 431-40. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sillart 2 This article talks about an experiment that was performed on three different age groups and four different cultures. The experiment was to see the types of music that was played, what they were studying while they were listening to the music, and the effects that it had on the study habits of the different ages and cultures. The study did find similarities and differences between the habits of these different groups. The students then reported the impact that the music had in their habits. This study connects to the research question because it addresses how background music could influence students. This study goes more in depth by talking about different age groups and cultures that could also be affected by music. Anderson, Stacey A., and Gerald B. Fuller. Effect of Music on Reading Comprehension of Junior High School  School Psychology Quarterly 25.3 (2010): 178-87. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article talks about an investigation about how music with lyrics effects the comprehensive levels of reading on middle school students. The test was administered under two environments, the fist being in complete silence, while the other being in a room playing the top hits of 2006. After they have given the test, analysis showed that the students that were exposed to music did much worse than the students that were in silence. This Article is important to the research because it gives a negative effect of listening to music while studying. Most articles online that you find will try to push how music can help students and that students should be allowed to listen to music during test. This article gives a nice opposition to that line of thinking by showing that it may not be a good idea to let students Sillart 3 listen to music because it can reduce comprehension. This study however only focuses on 7 th and 8 th grade students instead of a more mature subject to research, but is a good starting point. Stacey Anderson got her Ph.D. at the University of California San Francisco in social and behavioral sciences, with her last research contribution being in 2011. Furnham, Adrian, and Anna Bradley. Music while you work: The differential distraction of background music on the cognitive test performance of introverts and  Applied cognitive psychology 11.5 (1997): 445-455. This study focused on the effects of mainstream pop music on extroverts and introverts while they performed different cognitive task. They gathered ten introverts and ten extroverts, then put them in a room that was completely silent to complete a reading comprehension test and then a memory test. They then put those same kids in a room hat was playing pop music and asked to complete a series of questions similar to what they had just taken. It was found that the introverts in each test that involved music did worse than when music was not involved, and did significantly worse than their extroverted counterparts on all the test. As with the extroverts, they did better than the introverts on all test, but did worse than themselves when administered the test with music. Adrian Furnham was a lecturer at University College London and then later appointed as Professor of Psychology on October 1, 1992. He continues to hold this position and teaches psychology to undergraduates and post graduate students. This article would be great to include in this paper because it talks about how pop music can affect the cognitive abilities of both introverted and extroverted students. This article only talks about how pop music effects the Sillart 4 abilities of these students, and their sample size was not very large, but it would still be exceptional to include in my research Cassidy, Gianna, and Raymond AR MacDonald. The effect of background music and background noise on the task performance of introverts and  Psychology of Music 35.3 (2007): 517-537. In this study, the effects of music that was both loud and negative was compared with music that was soft and positive. This research was done on introverts and extroverts while comparing their cognitive task performance while listening to both kinds of music. Another study was done to see if having background noise, soft everyday noise just like wind blowing or birds chirping, would also effect their cognitive abilities. The study was done on forty participants and they were asked to complete a series of cognitive task that had them recall certain things they were taught while also being played the music/background noise/silence. While being moderated, they discovered that the introverts performed better overall on each task, but their performance was affected the most by the music that was loud and negative. Gianna Cassidy is a Music Psychologist and Lecturer in Interactive Entertainment Design at Glasgow Caledonian University. Her PhD focused on the impact of music on videogame performance and experience. The article above is important to this research because it talks about how both aggressive music and sensitive music can affect the study habits of students. Although this article focuses more on the introverted and extroverted aspect of the research, it still goes into detail about how the music can affect the individuals task performances and how it can be applied to their study habits. Sillart 5 Daoussis, Leonard, and Stuart J. Mc Kelvie. Musical preferences and effects of music on a reading comprehension test for extraverts and  Perceptual and motor skills 62.1 (1986): 283-289. This study took groups of undergraduate extroverts and introverts based on what their preferred music choice was, which was rock and roll. Both groups reported that they listen to music in the background in a soft volume while they are studying. They then took twenty-four extraverts and introverts and administered them retention test while splitting the two evenly into music and non-music conditions. The scores that the extroverts had were similar in both conditions, but the scores that the introverts had were much different. The scores while being exposed to music were much lower for the introverts than they were for the extroverts. This source is important for the research because it directly talks about the contrasting effects of music on both introverts and extroverts. This research proves what was said in the introduction wrong because it turns out that music does have a much more negative effect on introverts than it does on extroverts. Stuart J. Mckelvie is a Psychology professor at Bishops university. He is a credible source because he has his Ph.D. in behavioral science which is what this research is on. Liu, Tao, et al. Effects Of Noise Type, Noise Intensity, And Illumination Intensity On Reading  Applied Acoustics 120.(2017): 70-74. ScienceDirect. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. This study aims to find out what noise type and intensity level of music has on reading performance. They used three different noise types, factory noise, classical music, and pop music that had lyrics in them. It also used three levels of music volume, which include low, medium Sillart 6 and high music volumes. The results of this experiment showed that there was quite the difference in reading comprehension performance. The reading performance when classical music was played was much higher than the rest of the type of noises. For the noise volume, it was found out that the low volume of music had the best performance with the medium volume coming in second. The result of this test is that performance was best with classical music and low music volume. Tao Liu is a part of the Department of Industrial Design, Suzhou Art & Design Technology Institute, China. There is where she did the research for this experiment. This article connects well with the paper because it talks about three different kinds of music, along with it being made as background music or loud music that can be too distracting. It also answers the research question that music can have a positive effect on study habits if it is used in a low volume and with the specific type of music.