Haley Robbins Professor Sarah Roth ENC 1101, Section 020 02/19/2017 Final Draft for Project 1 Around the world, women are lining up to compete for trophies and titles to be announced the most beautiful or most known female worldwide. For some women, beauty pageants are a way for them to escape reality and get into a world where they feel most comfortable and confident within themselves. However, some individuals that do it for their love of the contest get to the point where they are no longer happy with themselves because of all the competition they are surrounded with. Research shows that out of the 2.5 million girls who compete in beauty pageants each year in the US, a recorded 6% of them have suffered from some kind of depression. Showing how the beauty pageant world has affected mental state of mind, many questions have risen about the purpose of this contest in society. Do these beauty pageants have a positive outcome in society today, or are they used as a form of self-punishment for the individuals competing? Source 1: Seth. Beauty Pageant  Statistic Brain. Statistic Brain, 25 Jan. 2016. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. <http://www.statisticbrain.com/beauty-pageant- statistics/>. In this source, statistics about beauty pageants and their data on how many people each year compete in them are posted. It states how many pageants are held each year in the US, how many girls hire coaches, the amount of girls who have suffered from Robbins, 2 depression, and an average BMI of the contestants. Showing these statistics may cause girls to feel like they have to live within these boundaries and not go out of them in order to win the competition that they are competing in, but also provide insight to those who are genuinely interested in the beauty pageant world. They may rely on the input from others to gain knowledge about the information posted and use it to their advantage when needed. This source brings in basic information about beauty pageants and allows us to gather information about these contests through these numbers given. We are able to compare these results to others we find and see if the statistics are the same throughout the ongoing years, or if they have a drastic change along the way. The source is a statistical website that has data on almost everything you could think of, resulting in over 3 million+ users each month. The founder has a lot of background with software and engineering analysis of things, making him a more credible source than just another magazine. Source 2: Fox Reporter. 13 biggest beauty pageant  Fox News. FOX News Network, 03 Aug. 2016. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. <http://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/2016/08/03/13-biggest-beauty- pageant-scandals.html>. In this source, 13 of the biggest beauty pageants scandals are revealed and explained through a five-sentenced paragraph underneath a picture of each contestant being discussed. It states their scandal and how it affected them, usually them being Robbins, 3 stripped of their win for the pageant they competed in. This source shows how even after beauty pageants are over and the winner may seem a form of perfection to some individuals watching, they have done things in their past that show they are true people who have made mistakes before. It also shows how these things that they have done will always follow them around since they are well known individuals. This source uses its background knowledge and/or research of each contestant to portray each The source is a credible news station that has done tremendous amounts of research on each contestant to show how the controversial beauty pageant winners are stripped of their titles and are now fighting to get rid of their new ones they have received for their actions. Thus relating directly to my research topic. The news station has hundreds of thousands, sometimes even millions, of viewers each month, showing that they are a source that many people come to in order to fully understand the topic being addressed. Source 3: DeNinno, Nadine. The High Cost Of Beauty  International Business Times. N.p., 10 June 2014. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. <http://www.ibtimes.com/high-cost-beauty-pageants-1595724>. In this source, the cost of pageants is discussed from both viewpoints. They talk about how it the pageants are for their children or themselves because of the happiness it brings them, however it also discusses the downside of the payments. This site provides information about how much the beauty pageants cost for competing in it and all of the necessities that come along with it such as hair and makeup products since Robbins, 4 some pageants have a protocol they are required to follow such as not being allowed to get their makeup and hair professionally done, outfits for different stages of the show, travel for when they need to go to another state or country for their contests, etc. It uses direct quotes from people on both sides of the argument, comparing how different people view these pageants in different ways, some being negative and others boosting up how these events help them. This source uses information they gather about each topic to provide articles on them. After doing immense amounts of research to meet their goal, IBT has reached over 55 million people every month and are available in different languages, thus creating a very credible background. The article that I am using discusses the importance of the differentiating sides of the argument, being very useful in my research. Source 4: Peter Reuell, Harvard Staff Writer Christina Pazzanese Harvard Staff Christina Pazzanese, Harvard Staff Writer, Colleen Walsh, Harvard Staff Writer and William J. Cromie, Harvard News Office The whys and woes of child beauty  Harvard Gazette. N.p., 08 June 2000. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. <http://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2000/06/the-whys-and-woes-of-child- beauty-pageants/>. In this source, an view is shown on how they view child beauty pageants. The character of the parent is being judged, questioning if they really want their kid to have fun or just learn poise and  This source shows how the parents prove to their children that beauty pageants are all worth the money, and that the Robbins, 5 thousands they pay is sufficient due to their confidence being racked up by everyone attending the events. They discuss part of the cost of attending the pageants and how many some children attend in a given year. The personality is also talked about, giving insight into how the pageants affect different children. Some are taught to have all of the confidence in the world, while others try to catch up but lack in all of the wrong places. This source comes from a Harvard graduate student who has conducted immense research on the topic and is discussing the affects on children. It ties in with my research topic by allowing me to compare the results of the affects the pageants have had on children to those affects on women who compete in these events as well. Source 5: Cartwright, Martina M. Child Beauty Pageants: What Are We Teaching Our  Psychology Today. N.p., 12 Aug. 2011. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/food-thought/201108/child-beauty- pageants-what-are-we-teaching-our-girls>. In this source the mental health of a child and their parents are put to question. The mental health of the child is tested to make sure they are not encountering any depressions or eating disorders along their journey into the beauty pageant world. The mental health of the parents is brought to question by reaching out to many parents themselves and seeing if they are stable enough to handle their child winning and losing pageants, not necessarily getting upset or out of control. It talks about how individuals Robbins, 6 who compete in the pageants starting at a young age grow to have body image problems or eating disorders while growing up in the harsh world of a teenager. They strive to maintain their body, while trying to juggle everything going on in their every day life as well. Soon enough, their life is overcome with so many things they are not satisfied with, resulting in the downward spirals that lead to mental health disorders. This source comes from a professor of Nutritional Sciences at the University of Arizona who has done boundless amounts of research in order to publish this article. She has written and given seminars on how the nutritional aspects of our lives are important to us and how if we do not get the needed amount of something, our body craves it that much more. These aspects she discusses contributes to the research I have done on beauty pageants because of the eating disorders that some of the contestants acquire. Source 6: Level Friedman, Hilary.  Child Beauty Pageants - Childhood Studies - Oxford Bibliographies. N.p., 24 Feb. 2017. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://www.oxfordbibliographies.com/view/document/obo-9780199791231/obo- 9780199791231-0132.xml>. In this source, Levey Friedman discusses how beauty pageants are held and what different events happen within different contests. It describes the differences between child pageants and adult ones, while still stating the things they might have in common with each other. For child beauty pageants, the children are held to a smaller standard than adults. They are not required to walk a pageant walk; rather they have a set routine with facial expression incorporated to add to the level of their walk. They are looked at as Robbins, 7 Masterpieces their parents have created, whether that has a negative or positive connotation. This source comes from a professor at Brown University, Hilary Levey Friedman, who teaches courses on sports and pageantry at Brown University. She has researched and studied beauty pageants for many years, proving her knowledge on the topic. Levey work relates to my research topic by discussing the works of beauty pageants and what all goes into the events. Talking about the sexualizing nature the children are put in and how some television shows are not allowed to air certain things because the outfits or things the child performs for the shows are not appropriate, this article ties in perfectly with my topic.