Zachary Gottfried Gottfried 1 ENC 1102 13 February 2017 William Drugan Stupid or Stupefying? From the beginning of the century, performance enhancing drugs(PEDs) have been a major controversy in professional sports. These drugs have given athletes the competitive edge that allows them to play at their peak performance. In professional sports, athletes are tempted to utilize these supplements to do well, but they do not realize the dangers that come with the super human abilities. Proposing a compromise that would be beneficial for both of the wants. There are players that want to keep the ban and players that want to take performance enhancing drugs to have a desirable advantage over opponents. In order to please both parties, there needs to be a separation of the stakeholders, this can be done by having two different leagues. The players that want to keep the ban, believe that the game is meant to be played by athletes that have the best natural ability or work ethic for the sport. They feel that if performance enhancing supplements were to be legal, they would be pressured into to taking them in order to keep up with players that use them. The steroids will increase the risk of short term and long term injuries drastically. Steroids are banned from professional sports such as baseball, basketball, and hockey, because steroids are detrimental to health and they give an unfair advantage to the user (Anabolic Steroids 2). Not only are steroids banned in professional sports, they are illegal to possess without a valid prescription by a doctor (Anabolic Steroids 5). possession of illicitly obtained anabolic steroids carries a maximum penalty Gottfried 2 of one year in prison and a minimum $1,000 fine if this is an first drug offense (Anabolic Steroid Steroids are one of the many supplements used in professional sports. the most effective and common one used currently. Moreover, Steroids are detrimental to health. Anabolic-Androgenic steroids are a supplement that acts like testosterone, a natural male hormone, that can be injected or taken orally (Khullar 2). Steroids help athletes build a massive amount of muscle and enhance strength and speed with no time wasted (Khullar 2). Not only do steroids increase athletic performance, they also increase muscle endurance and recovery, allowing athletes to go full throttle for a longer period of time before becoming fatigued (Khullar 2). Steroids can also help individuals mentally, such as increasing self confidence in the user (Khullar 2). On the other hand, there are an abundant amount of negative side effects that come with the use of Anabolic-Androgenic steroids (Khullar 2). For instance, testicular atrophy, mood fluctuations, gynecomastia, high blood pressure, aggression, and depression (Khullar). Are steroids even worth using? Commonly, Athletes partake in the use of steroids without realizing the negative effects, because they are to focused on being the best. Steroid users are commonly athletes and bodybuilders that want to either have a competitive edge or improve their physique with ease. (Anabolic Steroids 1). Athletes obtain steroids illegally by smuggling and purchasing them usually from the country of Mexico, because it is legal to purchase them without a prescription (Anabolic Steroids 2). In contrast, the stakeholders using performance enhancing drugs, want to gain an edge over other competitors without having the work ethic or natural ability to succeed. Athletes that combine steroids and strength training will attain the unattainable results that they desired before using the supplemen. Such results are gaining an abundance of muscle mass and losing fat Gottfried 3 effortlessly (Ormsbee). one study (Bhasin et al. 1996), subjects taking large doses of testosterone over a 10-week treatment period gained 7 pounds of muscle, and those who combined testosterone with strength training gained 13.5 pounds of muscle to this study, athletes can make massive physical improvements with such supplements. is not allowed in most major sports organizations (Smurawa 1). As a result, players for PEDs are at odds with the players against PEDs, because they are not on the same level of play. Once performance enhancing drugs are allowed, the players that are for it are going to use it and have an advantage, forcing the players against it to use them in order to keep of the stakeholders are similar, because they both strive to be at the top. They are different because they want to reach their greatest potential in different ways. There are the stakeholders that want to achieve their goal with performance enhancing drugs, and there are the stakeholders that want to achieve their goal with their natural ability. The best solution that would be fair for both stakeholders is to have a traditional league for the players that want to keep the ban, and a super human league for the players that want to utilize performance enhancing drugs. This compromise is beneficial because it will level the playing field in both leagues (Smith 1). Sports leagues have been struggling to set a level playing field, because athletes continue to utilize performance enhancing drugs (Smith 1). Suspensions and punishment for those players that are caught using performance enhancing drugs are not productive in reducing the amount of athletes using performance enhancing supplements (Smith 1). Having a super human league, where performance enhancing drugs are legal, will produce a higher level of ability in sports, because players will be able to play at their peak performance. huge part of watching sports is witnessing the very peak of human athletic ability, and legalizing Gottfried 4 performance enhancing drugs would help athletes climb even higher. Steroids and doping will help pitchers to throw harder, home runs to go further, cyclists to charge for longer and sprinters to test the very limits of human speed (Smith Legalizing PEDs will make sports more exciting to watch. In order for the compromise to be viable, the presence of investors would be essential. This is worth investing because all one needs to look at is the 1990s when players on steroids such as Sammy Sosa, Barry Bonds, and Mark McGwire were breaking records and because of this games were being sold out and baseball was making a lot of money (Smith 1). Legalizing PEDs will make things easier, because organizations would not be suspicious of any players cheating. Players will not have to worry about taking anything that is for instance stimulants like ephedrine is illegal in professional sports, but however caffeine is legal (Smith 1). Players may believe that PEDs are a health risk, but playing in professional sports is a health risk alone. For, example, football players have damaged brains due to repeated head trauma throughout the years of playing in professional football (Smith 1). Not to mention, PEDs will be regulated safely throughout the leagues and players will not have to rely on dangerous substances from the black market that have not been tested (Smith 1). simple fact is that any recent player inducted to the Hall of Fame will enter under a veil of suspicion and uncertainty, regardless of what evidence exists. If PEDs are made legal in professional sports, then suspicion would no longer need apply and the best players would be fairly rewarded for their on-field performances (Smith Legalizing PEDs will get rid of all the suspicion, when players are inducted into the Hall of Fame. For the compromise to work, players willing to take PEDs is a necessity and there is proof that there are many athletes willing to take them. fact Bamberger and Yaeger (1997) asked a number of elite athletes the following question: If you Gottfried 5 were offered a performance-enhancing substance that came with the guarantees that (1) you would not get caught, (2) you would win every competition you entered for the next 6 years and (3) you would then die from the side effects of the substance, would you take it? Over 50% of the athletes responded yes! While this a true scientific survey, it does illustrate that many young, athletic adults are more concerned with the present than the future (Ormsbee In conclusion, there are players in professional sports that want to keep the ban on PEDs and players that want to utilize them to obtain an edge and play at their peak performance. Essentially, the compromise of having a traditional league and superhuman league benefits and is fair for both sides of the argument. This will satisfy players that want to keep the ban because they will not be pressured to take performance enhancing drugs because no one else in the league will. The players that are for the performance enhancing drugs will also be satisfied because they will be allowed to take them and get bigger, faster, and stronger without having to work as hard. The players that are for performance enhancing drugs will have to give up on the tradition of sports, because they will be playing in a super league. Both types of players will have to give up some of their fans and their salary due to splitting the league into two, but eventually the super human league will make up for the money that it loses. Gottfried 6 Work Cited KHULLAR, NEHA, et al. Prevalence And Predictors Of Anabolic-Androgenic Steroid Use Among Gym Users In Kuwait: A Preliminary  International Journal Of Health 15.2 (2016): 144-156. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ormsbee, Michael, and Matt Vukovich. Performance--enhancing drugs: taking them, and what are the benefits and  IDEA Fitness Journal 2005: 60. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Chris. Why Time To Legalize Steroids In Professional  (2012): 23. Source Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smurawa, Troy M., and Joseph A. Congeni. Testosterone Precursors: Use And Abuse In Pediatric  The Pediatric Clinics Of North America 54.Performance Enhancing Drugs (2007): 787-796. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. United States. Drug Enforcement, Administration. Anabolic  (2004): . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gottfried 7