Aaris Holliman William Drugan ENC 1102/070 29 January 2017 High-Stakes Testing: Good or Bad? W. James Popham defines standardized tests as test that is administered, scored, and interpreted in a standard, predetermined Popham is the former president of the American Educational Research Association. What many people know is that standardized testing has been used in American education since the mid-1800s. It become as widely used until 2002 when the No Child Left Behind Act made it so that annual testing became mandatory in all 50 states. Currently, the type of standardized test that has created the most uproar in schools across the country are high-stakes achievement tests. This is due to the fact that high-stakes achievement tests can have both negative and positive effects on both students and teachers. The positive effects involve possible bonuses for teachers, students being bumped up to the next grade level, recognition for the school, and more; while the negative effects include teachers getting fired, students being denied matriculation, which could possibly lower self-esteem and have a negative effect on the social life. In addition, teachers feel as though they do not have the freedom and flexibility to teach the curriculum in a manner that is conducive to both have certain concepts that need to be covered for the standardized tests in a short amount of time. Students have now begun to view concepts taught during the academic year as only important for the standardized tests and not beneficial for long-term retention or personal growth. A compromise that I am proposing is administering tests once every two years instead of annually because only so much can change in the course of a school year, this way teachers get the leeway they need to teach the way they see fit and students have more of an opportunity to retain the information they learn in school. From my time sitting on the school board of Sarasota County as a representative for Sarasota High School students, I was able to meet with teachers, as well as students, about pertinent issues that the Superintendents could change if they knew about their effects on those in schools. One of the biggest of those issues was standardized testing and its effects on