Brown1 Sasha Pagni-Brown Prof. Drugan ENC 1102-70 January 29, 2017 Global Perspectives The effects of climate change are nothing new; the majority of people are aware of the rising global temperatures caused by greenhouse gases, the frost free winters, the warming oceans, and the extensive droughts. However, people are not aware of a solution that could help to combat the extensive damage that has been done to our Earth; according to studies carried out by biological science professors at the University of Minnesota, adopting a plant based diet is not only beneficial to our bodies, but to the earth as well (Smith). The mass production and consumption of meat is responsible for four-fifths of the deforestation across the Amazon rainforest, the EPA estimates that 80% of ammonia emission come from animal waste, and it takes approximately 1.3 billion tons of grains to feed the animals. These statistics are dangerous and contribute enormously to the degradation of our planet (NASA, Pollutant Emissions Trends Data ). Organizations such as Earthsave work to provide people with the resources to make informative decisions for their own health as well as the health of the planet. They do this through educating people on the benefits of a plant based diet. Organizations such as American Farmland Trust have a mission of protecting farmland as well as farmers and recognize the Brown2 effects of global climate change on their livelihood. Working together to prioritize the sustainability and enduring health of our environment and saving resources by consuming less meat is a beneficial endeavor to all of inhabitants. It comes a surprise to many that the consumption of meat is the second largest threat to the sustainability of the Earth. To put it into perspective, it takes 2,500 gallons of water to produce a pound of meat and only 25 gallons to produce a pound of wheat. One hamburger produces enough fossil fuels to drive a car for 20 miles. According to PETA, the meat industry is directly responsible for 85% of soil erosion in the United States (PETA, Does Eating Meat Harm the Environment). Eating less meat to save the planet is a relatively new concept that has undergone extensive research the last 10 years or so; people are just beginning to look at it on a larger scale as a viable and efficient option to combat the effects of climate change. There is research published by PNAS that shows how a majority vegetarian diet could save millions of lives, trillions of dollars, and the health of the planet. They have found that by adopting a predominantly vegetarian/vegan diet, the 14% of greenhouse gas emissions caused by livestock can be cut down by 70%; an added benefit being the $1 trillion annually saved on healthcare (Worland,1). By choosing a meat free or meat conscious diet, we would be able to undo the damage that has been done to Earth little by little. Earthsave is a stakeholder who recognizes all of these as urgent problems and is looking for solutions through educating people on the benefits of a plant based diet. They first and foremost are interested in the effects a plant based diet has on the body, and then they work outwards and look at the benefits it has for global climate change and the economy. Brown3 In Western civilization, the suggestion of taking on a vegetarian diet, or at least one that requires less meat is met with great opposition. People list reasons of finances, tradition, culture, and national economy as reasons not to adopt a more plant based diet. The consumption of meat has become a staple for many families, especially American families, the advertising world has made millions in promoting meat products to be part of true American cuisine. It is instilled in people that the only feasible diet is one that includes heavy meat products. America celebrates Thanksgiving, a holiday that has turkey as its symbol, so it is understandable a proposition of reducing meat consumption would appear as an extreme measure. There is also opposition from those who makes their livelihood off of the mass production of meat. The livestock business is huge, they feed approximately 318 million Americans and workers of meat and poultry packing produce salaries of over $19 billion. There are thousands of farmers across America and the world who contribute greatly to the economy and many people fear that diminishing their presence in meat specific farming would harm the national and global economy, as well as put those farmers out of work. American Farmland Trust is a stakeholder who is stuck in the middle of the meat industry and environmentalists. American Farmland Trust main concern is to protect farmland and protect farmers. They recognize the dire need for farmers, without them we would have no food and a stagnant economy; they recognize the need for fertile, safe farmland which without the farmers would be left without a source of income. American Farmland Trust has been working to transforms national farm policy that highlight conservation, local growth, and renewable energy. They are an organization that has hands in both sides of the stakeholder spectrum, they want victory for their industry as well as the Earth. Brown4 Both supporters of a Earthsave and the American Farmland Trust have valid and important basis for their opinions, values, and arguments and from the outside, it may seem that vegetarians, environmental activists and scientists, Earthsave, possibly have a common goal with livestock farmers, American Farmland Trust; but if we think of goals in terms of shared fate, there are plenty. Every human and animal has only one option of home, this Earth, the common goal is saving Earth, and there are methods that can benefit both stakeholders, Earthsave and American Farmland Trust. A reduction in the consumption and production of meat helps us all; it conserves water, produces less emissions, contributes to a lively eco system, and aids in putting an end to world hunger (Mohr,1). The less resources we use to contribute to the mass production of livestock to be sold to big farming corporations, the more we have to conserve and use in a responsible sustainable manner. There are various compromises that would be able to benefit both the Earthsave and American Farmland Trust. If some of the livestock farmers who work with American Farmland Trust began to ease out of working with large meat production companies this would benefit the side of Earthsave because it would be cutting down enormously on the power and finances given to the large corporations and factory farmers, which in effect would cut down on meat consumption and the damage being done to the earth. This compromise would benefit the American Farmland Trust because it would give them the power to help their regional economy by bringing the demand back to their homes. People would be able to be supplied with their meat from local and safe farms, whose main priority is quality rather than quantity. It would also give farmers the opportunity to capitalize on more sustainable markets such as milk and eggs (Barclay, 1). This compromise would cut down on wasted resources and overproduction Brown5 that usually leads to lower prices for the meat, it would give farmers more control of their land and livestock, cut down on demands of unsustainable meat, gives animals better lives, and aid in the regrowth of our planet. It is an improbable expectation to ask people who have consumed meat their whole lives to change that overnight, but it is reasonable to ask those who do so to question where their meat comes from and the impact it has on the world around them and to take measures in assuring that the cost of eating meat does not outweigh the reward. Taking small steps such as supporting local farmers over big corporations, eating pasture raised products, and cutting back on the amount they consume is a step that is necessary for all of mankind. not a matter of giving up meat. a matter of shifting to other kinds that have less climate  Doug Boucher, a climate researcher from Union of Concerned Scientists says. Not only would a reduction in the production and consumption of meat help save the Earth and animals as well as bringing business and control back to local farmers, it would also help cut government costs that usually go to combating the effects of climate change. quantify the savings of reducing meat-related greenhouse-gas emissions, they drew on a measurement called cost of which estimates the value of future damages caused by each additional ton of carbon emissions. Out of all the countries, the U.S. would save the most by curbing its taste for meat. Due to its very high per-capita health-care costs, the country could save $180 billion if the population ate according to recommended guidelines, and $250 billion if it eschewed animal food products altogether. . . Brown6 The most viable and efficient option to stop global climate change where it is at and save our home and our species is to cut back on the amount of livestock we use, in all regards. With the help of farmers across the world, this can be a reality that is mutually beneficial, financially and physically. The first step to saving our planet is taking responsibility and putting our lives before our conveniences. Brown7 Works Cited Air Pollutant Emissions Trends  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 23 Dec. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Barclay, Eliza. Why Farmers Can Prevent Global Warming Just As Well As  NPR. NPR, 25 Feb. 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Davis, Lauren. &quot;The Economic Case for Worldwide Vegetarianism. The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 28 Mar. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Mohr, Noam . EarthSave - Food intervention programs to achieve health  EarthSave - Food intervention programs to achieve health independence. Earth Save International, Aug. 2005. Web. 28 Jan. Smith, Carol. New Research Says Plant-based Diet Best for Planet and  Our World. United Nations University , 15 Nov. 2014. Web. Vegetarianism and the  PETA. PETA, 2008. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.