Kranjcec 1 Sydney Kranjcec Mr.Drugan ENC 1102 15 February 2017 Intermediate Draft Think About It Football and Hockey, two of the most watched sports within the United States but do we as the fans really know what happens behind the scenes? But little do fans know that most of their favourite teams, as well as players, are playing a sport that put them in positions where they are at risk for severe neurological damage. Most fans get the hype from the sport due to all the hits, whether the clash of the football helmets or the cross check on the rink we as the fans live for the excitement and the rivalry on and off the fields. But beyond all of this hype every hit puts each player at risk of lasting neurological damage. It may not seem all that important due to the fact that we have been watching these sports for so long, and it been until recently that this issue has become more and more prevalent within our society. Increased media on such topic is due to the fact that there has been an increase in reported medical cases of professional and even youth athletes diagnosed with symptoms that are linked to concussions. A concussion can be defined as a blow or jolt to the body or head that causes the brain to shake. With that type of injury symptoms such as headaches, nausea or dizziness, sleep complications, difficulty concentrating as well as extreme symptoms such as mood disruptions or abnormalities can be linked back to concussions. But on a much larger scale, one can experience short term as well as long term memory loss as well as the individual may experience a harder time retaining Kranjcec 2 information. So with that being said, there has been an increase in awareness and prevention with this type of injury, whether it is through the use of media, or scientific literature doctors are trying to make the public aware of the potential short term as well as long term effects if an athlete sustains this type of injury. Increased awareness on the effects of concussions on the brain generate questions for neurological doctors as well as the sports industry as a whole. The NHL and NFL need to work together with doctors and the sports industry to research potential solutions for new regulations as well as advanced protective equipment. The National Hockey League reported an estimated five hundred and fifty-nine concussions during the regular season between 1997-2004 (Benson 2011). This number was calculated in an experiment conducted by a group of scientists whereby they examined the post- concussion symptoms in athletes who currently played in the NHL during the regular season. They concluded that there is an estimated 1.8 concussions per one thousand player hours (Benson 2011). These injuries are acquired due to the heavy hits these athletes not only get from their opponents but as well as the impact they receive when they are checked into the boards and even onto the rink. When the athletes get hit by their opponents, most concussion symptoms are a result of the brain hitting against the skull causing a major blow and or jolt to the brain itself. When this type of injury is sustained, the athlete may not experience any pain right away, which is a major issue due to the fact that most athletes will continue playing the game without any knowledge of being hurt. Most symptoms will not become prevalent until a certain period of time after the game whereby the athlete may have a headache or feel as though he or she is light headed and/or dizzy. The most common post-concussion symptom is that of a headache, where there was over seventy-one individuals who reported to have that symptom after their incident Kranjcec 3 (Hudson 2016). As a result of this research doctors and scientists feel as though the public needs to be educated about this topic due to the potential life-long effects not only for the players playing the major league sports right now, but as well as the youth who may want to play these sports in the future. Due to the amount of retired athletes who have to live with the post- concussion symptoms acquired throughout their career. The major sport industry is going to be under pressure when increased awareness raises questions of the effects of a concussion on the individual who acquired it. Due to the fact that new regulations, education programs, and new protective gear will need to be implemented to increase the safety of all players. Another aspect that may cause controversy within this industry is that of the fact that all of the regulations and programs are going to cost a pretty penny, and then the question is where are all of those funds going to come from? So, a lot of money is going to be put forth to put all of these new programs and regulations into place. As well as these types of regulations and funds are going to take some time in order for them to be put into place and finalized, and with that if it takes years to do so what will the industry do in the meantime while these actions are being put forth? This a very controversial topic due to the fact that no one wants to take away from the games that millions of fans grew up not only watching but playing. But there needs to be something done to help ensure the safety of our athletes today and the athletes of the future. Even though there is a lot of controversy and change to come regrading this topic both the sports industry as well as the neurological doctors and scientists exploring this topic need to research new ways/technologies to protect our athletes. They both want the same thing and that Kranjcec 4 is of the safety and protection of their players because they want their athletes to be able to have a long lasting career full of many accomplishments so if new regulations are going to help them do so, change is a must. Whether these new regulations make mandatory programs that athletes as well as potential athletes have to attend to gain knowledge about how to be a safe team player as well as how to be cautious of potential injuries that can be acquired. As well as research new protective gear that will allow for the most protection within these high impact sports. Even with all these new implements these sports will forever be the same, but instead a lot safer for our athletes. Taking into account all of these aspects compromise needs to be met and the NFL is the first league to make reforms when it comes to concussion awareness and protection. The NFL recently implemented The NFL Concussion Settlement which states that the NFL is required to pay 675 million into a monetary award fund for retired NFL players depending on their diagnosis and at least 75 million for a baseline assessment program that would offer neurological evaluations that would test for and determine any major cognitive deficits (Harris 2016). This settlement also states that it is going to fund another 10 million to establish an education fund to promote safety and injury prevention to football players, including any potential players entering into the league. Lastly, it states that the NFL offered to pay the attorney fees of the players, but not to exceed 112.5 million dollars in the total law suit costs (Harris 2016). This settlement has not yet been implemented into the NFL but it is estimated that it should be within the next one to two years. This settlement not only helps the players in the league today, but also aims to help future athletes as well as past ones who helped make the game it is today. Kranjcec 5 With increased awareness on this issue, new legislation and regulation is being put into place allowing for the protection of our athletes. Even though there is a lot of controversy regarding this topic the main goal of the NFL and all sport leagues is to protect their players the best they can. Even if that means change has to be made. All individuals want our athletes to have long lasting and successful careers filled with any accomplishments and minimal injuries that we have the ability to potentially control. Works Cited Benson, Brian W., et al. A prospective study of concussions among National Hockey League players during regular season games: the NHL-NHLPA Concussion  CMAJ: Canadian Medical Association Journal 2011: 905. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Kranjcec 6 Harris, Jay Barry. Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays After The Approval Of The NFL Concussion  Defense Counsel Journal 83.2 (2016): 156-164. Business Source Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Hudson, Rob1, rhudson@ussa.edu, and Brandon1 Spradley. Concussions: A Sport Ethics  Sport Journal (2016): 1-7. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017.