Jordan Freed Professor Roth Composition 1 19 February 2017 Child abuse is defined as the of a child by a parent or guardian, including neglect, beating, and sexual Obesity is defined as BMI at or above the 85 th percentile and below the 95 th percentile for children and teens of the same age and (Defining childhood Obesity 2015) Obesity in America is not a new concept, especially when referring to childhood obesity. Because of this, the topic of overweight children has become a controversial one. Many individuals prefer not to speak on this topic, allowing themselves to ignore the numerous health issues at hand. By 2034, 95% of the population will be obese. In order to get ahead of this predetermined statistic, it is important to begin introducing the concept of nutrition to children as young as elementary school. By doing so, it will not only make children and hopefully parents aware of the adverse causes of poor nutrition, but the long term effects as well. Though this idea is ideal, it is not necessarily practical for all schools, especially those without the financial means to support an additional class. Because of this, a majority of the information about nutrition comes from home. If this is so, does letting your child become obese fall under the category of child abuse? Source 1 (Ogden, PHD Cynthia L. of Obesity in the United States, Prevalence of Obesity in the united states, 2011-2012 Obesity JAMA The JAMA Network. N.p., 26 Feb. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017). This source discusses the prevalence of childhood and adult obesity in the United States from 2003-2012. It provides the most recent estimates of childhood obesity, analyzes trends in childhood obesity, and provides detailed obesity trend analyses among adults. This relates to the research question because it is important to know the statistics of childhood obesity before doing research on the social issues of the topic. This source is reliable because it is affiliated with an individual with a PHD. This article was also found on google scholar, automatically making it reliable. Source 2(Jeffreys, Branwen. Child obesity form of BBC News. BBC, 14 June 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.) This source discusses childhood obesity being a form of neglect. It also provides a doctors concerns on this topic as well as diet advice. This source relates to the research question because it is providing an answer as to why obesity can be classified as child abuse. This source is reliable because it is affiliated with the BBC News station and also has certified doctors speaking on this important topic. Source 3(Yam, Philip. Morbid Childhood obesity be considered child abuse? American Blog Network. N.P., 06 Aug. 2013. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.) This source discusses why defining childhood obesity would be unfair due to the cost of healthy food as well as the high marketing of unhealthy foods. This source relates to the research question because it is another article answering the question of whether or not childhood obesity should be considered child abuse. This source is reliable because it was not only found on google scholar but it is also a Scientific American Blog Network. Source 4(Varness, Todd, David B. Allen, Aaron L. Carrel, and Norman Fost. Obesity and Medical Pediatrics. U.S. National Library of Medicine , Jan. 2009. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.) This source discusses the removal of a child from the home if there is 1) a high likelihood that serious imminent harm will occur; 2) a reasonable likelihood that coercive state intervention will result in effective treatment; and 3) the absence of alternative options for addressing the problem. This source relates to the research question because it explains what happens in an event of child abuse and what must take place in order for the child to be removed. This source is reliable because it was found on google scholar and is from the National Library of Medicine. Source 5(Savage, Jennifer S., Jenniger Orlet Fisher, and Leann L. Birch. influence on Eating Behavior: Conception to The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics 35.1 (2007): 22-34. Web.) This source is a journal that discusses the parental influence on eating behavior. This relates to the research question because it is addressing the importance of healthy eating habits being introduced from the first few years of a life. This source is reliable because it is from The Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics. Source Consequences of Obesity in Youth: Childhood Predictors of Adult Health Consequences of Obesity in Youth: childhood predictors of Adult Disease SUPPLEMENT pediatrics. N.p., n.d web. 19 Feb. 2017) This source discusses the health consequences of obesity in children. This relates to the research question because it gives medical reasons as to why being an overweight child is dangerous not only short term, but long term as well. This source is reliable because it is from google scholar and has numerous professionals associated with this source.