Nielsen 1 Christian Brandon Nielsen William Drugan ENC 1102 11 February 2017 Our Meat VS Our Environment - Time to Reach a Sustainable Compromise Climate change is quite possibly the most imminent threat mankind faces in the modern age. One major contributor to deforestation and greenhouse gas emissions is the meat industry. It is the objective of any corporation to make as much profit as possible and the meat industry is no exception. In this endless pursuit of profit the meat industry, like so many others, has wreaked havoc on environments across the globe at many levels of the ecosystem. The industry accepts blame for their environmental impacts and has set goals to reduce their emissions. One of the meat main opponents regarding deforestation and emissions is Greenpeace. Greenpeace is a non-governmental organization (NGO) dedicated to creating a greener and healthier planet. Unsurprisingly, one of missions is to stop deforestation, particularly in the Amazon. Greenpeace has expressed a willingness to work with the meat industry and has stated that they have the common goal of developing solutions to reduce deforestation and emissions. Despite the fact that Greenpeace and the meat industry do not always see eye to eye, an objective and constructive solution can be achieved through the compromise of decreasing red meat production and increasing poultry production. The devastating effects current meat consumption habits will have on the environment and life on earth for generations to come, if they continue to advance unchecked, Nielsen 2 cannot be understated. Scientific research has found that the production of beef and other hoofed animals are responsible for about 15% of the total global emissions (Carrington). Not only does the meat industry contribute to global emissions, it is also responsible for the majority of the deforestation (Sarma). This deforestation further contributes to climate change in a number of ways. The clearing of trees destroys biodiversity and kills oxygen producing plants, these forrest act as the cleansing lungs of our planet. The destruction of our forests is a vicious cycle that continuously increase emissions, reduces the ability maintain equilibrium, and ultimately increases global temperatures. In addition, these effects are only amplified by the fact that the land cleared by deforestation is mostly utilized for more meat production. One of the most prominent organization working to fight this type of devastating deforestation is Greenpeace. The NGO, Greenpeace, is an environmental group dedicated to improving the world, their mission statement is this: will never stop fighting for a greener, healthier world for our oceans, forests, food, climate, and democracy-- No matter what forces stand in our (Greenpeace). A leading goal of the organization is to stop, or at least slow, the beef industry from clearing the Amazon forest. Greenpeace has suggested a number of solutions to fighting back against deforestation, while also acknowledging that there are no bullet that can simply fix the problem (Greenpeace). The resolutions that Greenpeace proposes are in no way considered to be radical or unfair and ask the meat industry to work with them. The Greenpeace webpage dedicated to deforestation solutions includes this statement, can make an impact by introducing policies that clean up their supply (Greenpeace). It is in best interest of all living beings to develop more sustainable methods of meat production that have smallest possible environmental impact Nielsen 3 because climate change truly affects us all. The large-scale deforestation, currently being perpetrated overwhelmingly by the meat industry, is a major contributor to rising global temperatures and it is imperative that something is done to change the current course. The scientific community is in agreement that meat consumption and deforestation need to be reduced to achieve the goal of not exceeding 2 degrees of warming in the atmosphere (Hedenus 2). It is necessary to reach a resolution that all stakeholders can agree to and begin making fast progress towards achieving in the next decade. The meat industry is comprised of a large array of producers, but the industry essentially shares the same goal, which is the primary objective of all industries, to maximize profits. In this pursuit, the industry has contributed a great deal to greenhouse gas emissions. However, most producers like Cargill, Tyson, and the National Beef Packing Corporation admit responsibility for their impact and are taking steps to reduce their environmental footprint. On the websites of all of these meat giants, one can find stated goals to reduce emissions and act more sustainably and responsibly, but each commitment to reducing deforestation remains in question. When told to downsize, the meat industry has hit back saying that it would cost American jobs and cause a blow to the economy, which is a valid concern. According to the North American Meat Institute, than 482,100 workers are employed in the meat and poultry packing and processing it $864.2 billion annually to the U.S. economy, or roughly 6% of the entire That is a massive proportion of the economy to be occupied by any one industry, and they will need to willingly play an extensive role in the goal of reduction of emissions and deforestation to avoid both economic and environmental instability. The environmentally focused mission statement of Cargill is Nielsen 4 2000, been working to reduce our direct climate impact. In 2015, we set new targets for 2020 to reduce greenhouse gas intensity, improve energy efficiency and increase renewables as a part of our (Cargill) The goals set by Cargill are exceptional, but data and research on the the progress the meat industry is making towards said goals remains inconclusive. The life-cycle assessment approach is one good example of a promising sustainable method focused on genetic selection of cattle with increased survival rates and heavier finishing rates that has been proven to reduce emissions, water consumption and land occupation (Machovina It is still very difficult for most to distinguish between what is actually being done and what is just being said by the meat marketers. Nonetheless, major players in the industry have accepted responsibility for the negative impacts caused by meat production, which is a step in the right direction and genuine efforts is being made to reduce environmental degradation. Although the goals of Greenpeace and the meat industry do not align perfectly, both sides agree that meat production takes a massive toll on the environment and something has to be done about it. The question that remains to be answered is what equitable solution(s) should be implemented. We know that there is no silver bullet solution that can instantly erase the incredible devastation caused to many of our forests, but most people agree that we must at the very least start taking step in the right direction. A combination of sustainability-focused actions will be required to reduce the meat impact on the environment, but it is important to note that these actions should also seek to keep Americans employed and to keep the economy intact. Greenpeace has suggested that meat companies police themselves and work to reduce emissions on their own, which fortunately is something that is already underway, but Nielsen 5 we know this alone is not enough. More of an effort must be made to contain emissions and reduce deforestation. One possible and very plausible solution that could reduce the environmental impact by the meat industry is moving away from producing beef to producing more chicken, ecologically-inefficient ruminants (e.g. cattle, goats, sheep) and bushmeat with monogastrics (e.g. poultry, (Machovina Poultry is far more efficient and less resource intensive in comparison with beef production. This could drastically reduce the need for deforestation while maintaining jobs and profits for the meat industry. Chickens require far less land to produce and generate far less emissions than cattle do. In addition, moving away from factory farming and back to a more traditional (rotational farming) style of raising livestock would amplify the positive effects of increasing poultry production and decreasing beef. Mono-product factory farming is environmentally taxing and has a negative effects on our health, but single family farms are more environmentally friendly and would have a positive impact on human health (Machovina 2). With this compromise Greenpeace achieve all of their goals, the meat industry may take a small hit, and it would require a slight cultural shift, but a more traditional style of family farming focused towards and away from seems to be the best resolution currently. It is extremely important to weigh risk vs. reward in this kind of scenario that can have such detrimental outcomes. If global emissions cannot be reduced, the impact on human life will be incredibly destructive. At times like these, it can be necessary to concede individualistic desires and economic gain due to the extreme risks of inaction or negligence. The compromises proposed here describe the most ideal resolutions for groups on both sides of this argument, and will hopefully be agreed upon by organizations like Greenpeace and Cargill in the near future. Nielsen 6 Finding compromise between opposing sides may be difficult at times, but when common ground can be identified between these opponents, the first steps towards a strong and lasting compromise can be taken. Although their objectives may be significantly different, Greenpeace and Cargill can both agree deforestation and emissions negatively impact the earth. This provides these two opponents with fertile ground to begin to make an equitable compromise. Companies like Cargill and the National Meat Packing corporation have already begun to create functional solutions for reducing emissions, like the life-cycle assessment approach, but further solutions must be implemented soon. Reducing the production of beef and transitioning to poultry-dominant farming is a viable solution that would satisfy environmentalists and the meat industry by reducing emissions and maintaining economic prosperity. It is now also the responsibility of consumers, as well as the activists and the industry, to make the right choices that will effect real change and help save the future of mankind. Nielsen 7 Works Cited Carrington, Damian. Eating Less Meat Essential to Curb Climate Change, Says  Guardian News and Media, 02 Dec. 2014. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Climate  Change Cargill, Incorporated, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Greenpeace  Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Hedenus, Fredrik, Stefan Wirsenius, and Daniel J. A. Johansson. Importance Of Reduced Meat And Dairy Consumption For Meeting Stringent Climate Change  1-2 (2014): Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Https://www.facebook.com/onegreenplanet. Beef Production Is Killing the Amazon Green N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Machovina, Brian, Kenneth J. Feeley, and William J. Ripple. Biodiversity Conservation: The Key Is Reducing Meat  Of The Total 536.(2015): 419-431. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Solutions to  Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. The United States Meat Industry at a  United States Meat Industry at a North American Meat Institute, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.