Cat Miranda ENC 1102 01/28/17 Professor Drugan Puppy Mills VS. Animal Shelters Puppy mills and Animal Shelters are complete opposites. Puppy mills are dog breeding factories where the animals are bred to be sold to pet stores and dog stores. Animal shelters are organizations in which animals who have been abused or abandoned are taken in by the shelter, and given the proper medicine and therapy to be able to be adopted back out to a new home. It seems like there be a compromise that the two could agree on, but there is. Puppy mills could adopt their animals to people for free to appease the animal shelters, and in exchange the new owner of the pet has to bring back their animal to breed three times and then all ties are cut off. According to the Humane Organization website there are about 10,000 puppy mills throughout the United States of America. Puppy mills are essentially breeding factories for dogs. In these factories animals are treated animals are bred for the purpose of being sold in pet shops and dog stores. The demand for pure bred puppies is always high so the puppy mills have a method of making money. Puppies that are born deformed almost have no use to the pure bred buyers, this causes the puppy mill owners to make the decision to abandon them or even kill them. These are the options because they cannot make a profit for a deformed dog when it is supposed to be a classic pure bred dog. Most breeding dog mothers are kept in cages their entire lives without ever touching the ground. The dogs are bred over and over again until they are no longer able to breed any longer. Once the mother has lost its purpose, they are sold, abandoned, or killed. This is an issue with animal shelters because puppy mills essentially go against everything they stand for. Puppy mills use these animals to breed, so they can make a profit without ever treating the animals in a humane way. Animal shelters want puppy mills to treat their puppies with care and possibly adopt out some of their animals to good homes for the dogs, instead of selling them to other stores to be bought for an even bigger profit. Animal Shelters are homes for unwanted animals. When an animal is abandoned or abused the animal shelters take the pet in and start the moving in process. Depending on how badly the animals are hurt, they are cleaned thoroughly to get rid of possible ticks, fleas, or rashes. Then the veterinarians take a look at them. When they do this they check for any worms, respiratory issues, heart murmurs, obvious physical deformities, Once they determine what kind of issues the animal has they prescribe medicine and a plan to get the animal healthy. The pet is given food and water so they are not malnourished and if they have Post Traumatic Stress Disorder or other issues the workers, and volunteers help to get the animal back to how they should have been before the abuse or abandonment. After that whole process the animal is put up for adoption. They are put in a cage where people can walk by and see if they would want to take them home with them and care for them. The issue puppy mills have with animal shelters is how they are being compared, and how the ASPCA speaks badly of puppy mills and raising awareness. Puppy mills are losing business because more people are adopting animals now instead of buying them from pet stores, which is where the puppy mills sells their dogs to. Furthermore, animal shelters want the animals to be treated humanely and puppy mills want their business not to be talked badly about. They both want things to change and there is a way for that to happen. There are programs for puppy mills where they adopt out their dogs completely for free, but you have to bring the dog back once it is of breeding age. Once you bring back your dog they are bred three times and then you cut all ties with the puppy mill. With this compromise the animal shelters will be appeased because the animals are being adopted out as puppies and treated humanely. While the puppy mills will be satisfied because the animal shelter will stop speaking badly about their processes due to the fact that the animals are being treated with care and they are being adopted to loving homes. In conclusion, puppy mills and animal shelters could not be more opposite to one another. Animal shelters care for abandoned and abused animals to the point where they are healthy enough to be adopted out and find new loving homes. While puppy mills are factories where puppies are bred so they can be sold to other pet shops and dog stores. In order for both to be appeased with their situations, they should use the compromise. The compromise has the puppy mills adopt out their dogs to loving homes for free. But the catch is the new owner of that puppy has to bring it back when it is of breeding age and let them be bred three times. After the puppy is bred three times, all ties to the puppy mills are cut off and you can spay or neuter your animal if like. Animal shelters should be somewhat happy with this agreement because the animal are being adopted out not sold and they are treated humanely by their new owners. Puppy mills should be happy with this agreement because they still make a profit selling puppies and the animal shelters will stop speaking about them as badly as they did before because they have a redeeming quality, adopting out their puppies. Work Cited: http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=16&sid=bfb222ba-efee-4b4d-a3a1- 51d84b4d1eee%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=1 20528745&db=aph Solotaroff, Paul. The Dog  Rolling Stone 1278/1279 (2017): 42-56. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article goes into the world of puppy mills and shows how animals the puppies are treated through the entirety of the process. It shows where pet store animals come from. It also shows how inhumane the living conditions of the puppy mills are. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=19&sid=bfb222ba-efee-4b4d-a3a1- 51d84b4d1eee%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=S 0167587713003711&db=edselp Lord, Emily, Nicole Olynk Widmar, and Annette Litster. Economic Impacts Of Adoption And Fundraising Strategies In Animal  Preventive Veterinary Medicine 113.(2014): 423-429. ScienceDirect. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Animal Shelters are homes for the homeless animals. The animals are dropped off or rescued by the shelter workers and then groomed to be adopted out to a new home. Animal shelters speak against puppy mills because puppy mills treat the dogs in such a inhumane way. http://www.dreamydoodles.com/guardian-homes/ This website shows a compromise for both parties. The puppies from puppy mills are adopted out to loving homes of people who want to adopt a puppy. Then The puppy is to be brought back to be bred around three times so the puppy mill will get breeding done and the animal shelter will have helped puppies to get adopted instead of sold off. Puppy-mill bill progresses: It would require registration and licensing of  Tulsa World (Tulsa, OK) 2010: General OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article is talking about a bill that has to be passed by the three branches of government. It is stating that breeders need to be licensed and registered in order to breed any type of animal. In doing this, the animals would be checked on and regulated. This means that the breeders would have to treat the animals in a humane way in order to continue with their business. Simmons, Kaitlyn E., and Christy L. Hoffman. Dogs On The Move: Factors Impacting Animal Shelter And Rescue Decisions To Accept Dogs From Distant  Animals (2076-2615) 6.2 (2016): 1-14. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article is about how animal shelters are making an initiative to travel to other cities and possibly other states to get abandoned and abused dogs and bring them back to their shelters to be taken care of. Once they get the animals they will give them all the necessary medical care they need and all the attention they require to be able to be put up for adoption and find their future loving homes and owners. http://www.humanesociety.org/news/publications/whitepapers/puppy-mill- research.html?referrer=https://www.google.com/ This is a website about animals and how they are treated. This give facts of abuse, puppy mills, shelters, etc.. Everything animal related should essentially be on here and should be factual see that it is a professional organization that is well known.