Sanders 1 Zachary Sanders Harley Campbell ENC 1102 097 February 15 2027 The War Against Guns- Unstoppable or Easily Preventable? Everyone knows the second amendment today; the right to bear arms. When the second amendment was written however, it could take upwards of five minutes to fire one bullet. Contrary to modern machine guns which can fire more than five rounds every second So, you can see how organizations like the National Rifle Association and The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence argue about what is the best way to interpret the second amendment, for society. The NRA is a nationwide agency devoted to ensuring all Americans are given the rights they are guaranteed in the U.S. constitution, and has been around since the early 20 th century. The CSGV, like their name suggests, is an organization devoted to keeping guns out of the hands of criminals, supported by religious organizations, welfare advocates, and social justice organizations, just to name a few About The CSGV, having only been around since 1974, is smaller than the NRA. Still they have always been on opposing sides of how to interpret what the constitution calls They do have one common ground, however. Both organizations believe that the right people should be allowed to own guns, but criminals and the like, should not have access to firearms. Just their views on how guns are exchanged, and who should be able to exchange them differs. It is time to change that. The NRA and CSGV need to work together to form a coalition that educates people about gun safety and the importance of background checks, so that people can be safe yet still have the freedoms guaranteed to them in the constitution. Sanders 2 Founded in 1903, the national rifle association is the largest, and oldest civil rights organization. According to homepage, they have almost five million members that support them. As the foremost defender of second amendment rights, they play huge role in modern politics, too. Currently, the NRA supports Donald Trump and his nomination of Jeff Sessions as attorney general (NRA-ILA). The NRA is not just about giving firearms to everyone with no training, however. They have a separate foundation, the NRA Freedom Action Foundation, which is to providing non-partisan Second Amendment education to all American (NRA Freedom Action Foundation). The NRA is also one of the few organizations that specifically states that they support citizens, regardless of race, religion or socio-economic status with respect to the Second Amendment (NRA Freedom Action Foundation). On their for homepage, they claim that Americans are plagued with deceitful media of gun-hating political elites and radical billionaires, who will not be effected by citizens losing their second amendment (NRA Speak for Me). The NRA gives a heart-touching example with the story of Kim Corban, who was living off-campus in a home she was told, completely safe, and that there had never been an incident. Kim did not feel she needed personal protection, until a burglar broke in one night, and assaulted (NRA Speak for Me: Never Again). They believe that taking away gun rights away one of the founding principles that the founding fathers fought Joseph Blocher and Darrell Miller from the University of Chicago Law Review, support the NRAs claim arguing, second amendment is shaped largely with the e first amendment for free So, basically they are saying that if you take away freedom of guns, you are theoretically taking away freedom of free speech too. Blocher and Miller also agree with the NRAs claim that the only thing that stops a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun. Meaning basically that Sanders 3 society needs good guys with arms in order to stop all the bad people with guns. If a criminal has no problem killing someone, he most likely has no problem stealing of purchasing a gun illegally. Therefore, basically if you keep guns away from good people, you take away one of the things you rely on for protection. The coalition to stop gun violence, of CSGV, is a nonprofit organization that is composed of 47 different organizations, each devoted to stopping gun violence. Like their name suggests, they are devoted to stopping gun violence, through research and strategic engagement in social policy advancement. According to their website, they claim that insurrectionist ideology promoted by the NRA and other pro-gun groups, goes against democratic values and institutions that protect freedoms enjoyed by (About US). They further argue that those policies, plus the fact that the NRA is all about selling guns, claiming that more guns equals more freedom, is directly related to all of the violence that has been going on in the US (Guns, Democracy, and Freedom). The CSGV points out on their Universal Background Checks page, that with as little as two hundred dollars, anyone can walk around a gun show, and purchase a fully automatic pistol. On the same page, they state that in order to keep these guns out of the hands of criminals and mentally ill, the federal government needs to enact a federal law requiring universal background checks for any sale of a firearm. Robert Spitzer from Columbia university supports this organization in his book, stating that despite the claims, there is a relation between the number of guns on the streets, and the level of gun violence in a city (XV). At first glance, these organizations would never work together. However, both their goals involve citizens owning firearms; just completely opposite in how to achieve their goals. The NRAs main goal is to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to own a firearm for personal Sanders 4 protection and sports. They goal differs, in that they emphasize background checks, to keep guns out of the hands of the wrong people. This common ground is the building block for a compromise between these two organizations. Given that both organizations have keeping guns in the right hands as one of their goals, the compromise is to collaborate to create a new organization that encourages guns for the use of sports and self-defense, while doing thorough background checks on every person who tries to purchase any type of firearm, including private sales. Like the CSGV states on their website, including private sales in the act to background check gun buyers would dramatically reduce the number of guns in the wrong hands (Universal Background Checks). Mark Duggan, from the university of Chicago supports this, saying that find that changes in gun ownership are significantly related to homicides in a This compromise will not only get the CSGV what they want, but it will encourage gun ownership and keeps the second amendment intact, for those who deserve to own a firearm. As stated before, the solution is there. just that no one has pointed it out. Both the national rifle association, and the coalition to stop gun violence have goals of allowing good people, they just differ on how this goal is to be met. If the NRA and CSGV combine their efforts, and create an organization that encourages gun education and enforces the background checks on all sales, everybody wins. Sanders 5 Works Cited About  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. csgv.org/about-us/ Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Blocher, Joseph Blocher, and Darrell A.H. Miller. What Is Gun Control? Direct Burdens, Incidental Burdens, and the Boundaries of the Second  University of Chicago Law Review. JSTOR, n.d. Web. http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdf/43741601.pdf Accessed 10 Feb. 2017. Duggan, Mark. More Guns, More Crime, Journal of Political Economy 109, no. 5 (October 2001): 1086-1114. DOI: 10.1086/322833. http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/pdfplus/10.1086/322833 Accessed 10 Feb. 2017 Guns, Democracy and  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. http://csgv.org/issues/guns-democracy-freedo/ Accessed 28 Jan. 2017.  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. http://csgv.org/issues/ Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. NRA Freedom Action  NRA Freedom Action Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. http://www.nrafaf.org/ Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Safest Place  Safest Place Home. N.p., n.d. Web. https://www.nraspeaksforme.com/our-campaign/never-again/ Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. Spitzer, Robert J. Gun Control: A Documentary and Reference Guide. Gun Control A Documentary and Reference Guide, ABC-CLIO LLC. Tell Walmart: Stop Selling Guns for Young  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. http://csgv.org/action/tell-walmart-stop-selling-guns-young-children/ Accessed 28 Jan. 2017.