Global Perspectives: How can eating less meat save the world? The effects of climate change are not new, the majority of people are aware of the rising global temperatures caused by greenhouse gases, the frost free winters, the warming oceans, and the extensive droughts. However people are not aware of a solution that could help to combat the damage that has been done to our Earth, according to studies carried out by biological science professors at the University of Minnesota, adopting a plant based diet is not only life saving to our bodies, but to the earth as well (Smith). The mass production and consumption of meat (specifically cattle) is responsible for four-fifths of the deforestation across the Amazon rainforest, the EPA estimates that 80% of ammonia emission come from animal waste,and it takes approximately 1.3 billion tons of grains to feed the animals; these statistics are dangerous and contribute enormously to the degradation of our planet. Prioritizing the sustainability and enduring health of our environment through reduction of resources is an equally beneficial endeavor to all of Earths inhabitants. In Western civilization, there is a lot of opposition to taking on a vegetarian diet, or at least one that requires less meat, people list reasons of finances, tradition, culture, and national economy. The consumption of meat has become a staple for many families, especially American, the advertising world has made millions in promoting meat products to be true American cuisine, it is seemingly ingrained in many people to eat meat. America has entire holidays that revolves around single meat items, it is understandable why such a proposition of reducing meat consumption as well as the demand would seem so extreme. There is also opposition from those who makes their livelihood off of the mass production of meat, the livestock business is huge, they feed approximately 318 million Americans and workers of mea and poultry packing produced salaries of over $19 billion. There are thousands of farmers across America and the world who contribute greatly to the economy and many people fear that diminishing their presence would harm the national and global economy, as well as put those famers out of work. Both supporters of a plant based world and meat eaters have valid and important basis for their opinions, values, and arguments and from the outside, it may seem that vegetarians, environmental activists and scientists possibly have a common goal with livestock farmers but if we think of goals in terms of shared fate, there are plenty. Every human and animal has only one option of home, this Earth, the common goal is essentially saving the world, and there are methods that can benefit both sides of the argument. A reduction in the consumption and production of meat helps us all; it conserves water, produces less emissions, contributes to a lively eco system, and aids in putting an end to world hunger. The less resources we use to contribute to the mass production of livestock to be sold to big farming corporations, the more we have to conserve, use, and aid the poverty stricken in nourishment. The 40% of the worlds land surface, 1/3 of the worlds fresh water water, and billions of tons grain used to grow and feed livestock for the purpose of consumption could be the key to saving the earth along with the people and animals who inhabit it. There are various compromises that would be able to benefit both the livestock farmers and climate change activists. If cattle ranchers began to ease out of working with large meat production companies this would benefit the side of vegetarianism because it would be cutting down enormously on the power and finances given to the large corporations and factory farmers, which in effect would cut down on meat consumption on a large scale and damage being done to the earth. This compromise would benefit the livestock famers because it would give them the power to help their regional economy by bringing the demand back to their homes. People would be able to be supplied with their meat from local and safe farms, who are not worried about quantity over quality. This compromise would cut down on wasted resources and overproduction that usually lead to lower prices for the meat, it would give famers more control of their land and livestock, cut down on demands of unsustainable meat, gives animals better lives, and aid in the regrowth of our planet. It is an improbable expectation to ask people who have consumed meat their whole lives to change that overnight, but it is reasonable to ask those who do to question where their meat comes from and the impact it has on the world around them and to take measures in assuring that the cost of eating meat does not outweigh the reward. Taking small steps such as supporting local farmers over big corporations, eating pasture raised products, and cutting back on the amount they consume is a step that is necessary for all of mankind. not a matter of giving up meat. a matter of shifting to other kinds that have less climate  Doug Boucher, a climate researcher from Union of Concerned Scientists says. Not only would a reduction in the production and consumption of meat help save the Earth and animals as well as bringing business and control back to local farmers, it would also help cut government costs that usually go to combating the effects of climate change. quantify the savings of reducing meat-related greenhouse-gas emissions, they drew on a measurement called cost of which estimates the value of future damages caused by each additional ton of carbon emissions. Out of all the countries, the U.S. would save the most by curbing its taste for meat. Due to its very high per-capita health-care costs, the country could save $180 billion if the population ate according to recommended guidelines, and $250 billion if it eschewed animal food products The most viable and efficient option to stop global climate change where it is at and save our home and our species is to cut back on the amount of livestock we use, in all regards. With the help of famers across the world, this can be a reality that is mutually beneficial, financially and physically. The first step to saving our planet is taking responsibility and putting our lives before our conveniences. Works Cited Air Pollutant Emissions Trends  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 23 Dec. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Barclay, Eliza. Why Farmers Can Prevent Global Warming Just As Well As  NPR. NPR, 25 Feb. 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Davis, Lauren. The Economic Case for Worldwide  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 28 Mar. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Facts on Animal Farming and the  One Green Planet. N.p., 21 Nov. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mohr, Noam . EarthSave - Food intervention programs to achieve health  EarthSave - Food intervention programs to achieve health independence. Earth Save International, Aug. 2005. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Pimentel, David. How Does Meat in the Diet Take an Environmental  Scientific American. Scientific American , 12 Dec. 2011. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Smith, Carol. New Research Says Plant-based Diet Best for Planet and  Our World. United Nations University , 15 Nov. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The consequences of climate change  NASA. NASA, Jan. 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. The United States Meat Industry at a  The United States Meat Industry at a Glance. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Vegetarianism and the  PETA. PETA, 2008. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Walsh, Bryan, and Bryan Walsh. The Triple Whopper Environmental Impact of Global Meat Production  Time. Time, 16 Dec. 2013. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.