Nagabandi 1 Sruthi Nagabandi William Drugan ENC 1102 February 19, 2017 The Positive and Negative Impacts of Animal Testing Is animal testing a way in which science can progress or unethical and unnecessary? Where must the line between scientific advancement and ethics be drawn? The debate regarding animal testing is vast and limitless. It is controversial because it involves the killing of animals to test drugs and cosmetics. Another controversial topic is whether animals have rights. Institutions which use animals to test drugs and cosmetics are often petitioned against. Animal testing may be controversial but it is accepted into society. Some argue that animal testing is a necessary tool for scientific researchers to move forward with their theories. However, animal rights activists claim that testing on animals is not efficient or ethical. While animal testing may help scientists understand drugs and medicine better, many animal rights organizations believe there should be regulations and limits to how much animal testing is done. Animal testing is a way in which many companies and laboratories are able to progress. Scientific laboratories use guinea pigs or rats to test certain drugs before using them on humans. They do this to make sure the drugs are not harmful. The way in which the drugs affect animals generally parallels the performance on humans. Furthermore, cosmetic companies utilize certain animals to see how the products affect skin or hair. There are numerous corporations which are advocates of animal testing for scientific progress. This concept of testing on animals with the goal of scientific progress is known as vivisection. Pro-test is a specific group that is based at the University of Oxford. Pro-test was established in January 2006 by Laurie Pycroft (Pycroft). Laurie Pycroft was a teenager who was not in agreement with the uproar and Nagabandi 2 misconceptions against vivisection. Pro-test strives to bring light to the positive aspects of animal research and the benefits of testing on animals. Pro-test wants to establish an environment where researchers can discuss their work and be proud of their progress. Animal testing is an important aspect of scientific research. Pro-test claims that testing on animals is necessary for science to progress and move forward. The majority of Pro-test comprises of students and researchers in the science field. Pro-test is an example of an organization which defends animal research. Without the use of animals, many companies are not able to properly see the way in which their products work. Humans are not often as accessible as animals and the consequences of harming humans are much greater. Testing on animals does not always lead to death. This is because there are many safe and harmless ways in which companies use animal testing. Specifically, research labs may release animals to shelters after the experiments are done. Many labs may also make sure to perform a limited amount of procedures on animals. Pro-test focuses on progressing human health while disapproving myths centering animal testing. Many people believe that animal testing reduces suffering. Additionally, testing on animals has helped scientists make groundbreaking discoveries. Aziz used monkeys when researching disease and claimed that primate research helps develop new and effective treatments for disease (Pereira 2006). Many scientists claim that animal testing is the only way to get results. Many major-medical advances involve animal testing. For example, vaccines and drugs are often derived from animal testing. New surgical procedures are initially tested on animals. These procedures often do not kill the animals. Many of the population of America understands the need for animal research and how it helps advance Nagabandi 3 medicine. However, as society progresses one day we may be able to use technology and other methods to lessen the need for animal testing. Although animal testing may be beneficial to the advancement of science, it also may be considered unethical by many. Testing on animals without their consent is a violation of animal rights. If there is no regulation to animal testing, companies may overuse living creatures for their products. Drugs may be tested on humans who volunteer their time. For example, many research facilities may not be able to completely understands a performance by solely using animals. Animal testing in cosmetic companies often shows to be inefficient. A corporation or organization which is opposed to animal testing and strives to fight for animal rights is the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine. This committee or PCRM is a non-profit organization comprised of doctors and health professionals. These individuals strive to promote alternatives to animal research. PCRM is an advocate of preventive medicine and eliminating testing on animals. PCRM discusses how scientific researchers often cause diseases in animals to find leads that may apply to human medicine. PCRM claims that preventive medicine is a much better alternative to excessive drugs. Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine strives to integrate nutrition into medical education. PCRM also aims to utilize human-relevant studies rather than animal research. Ultimately, PCRM claims that animal research is not as effective as simple preventative medicine. The arguments against animal testing include that animals are defenseless are not able to give consent. Many individuals say that animal research is not required for accurate results regarding drug delivery or cosmetics. Additionally, there are numerous anatomical differences between monkeys and humans. Animals are not always the best model for humans. A way in which one can see this is how Nagabandi 4 monkeys are often released from research laboratories after procedures. The Suncoast Primate Sanctuary of Palm Harbor, FL houses over 40 macaque monkeys which were released from a diabetes research facility. These monkeys were surgically made to be diabetic to test certain insulin and diabetes medication. However, the experiments that were performed did not produce any substantial results and the monkeys were released to a shelter. However, these animals can no longer eat a normal diet and must be in captivity. The efficiency of drugs on certain monkeys or dogs may not properly reflect the performance on humans. Scientists have even injected HIV into the brains of chimpanzees and have not come to concrete conclusions (Thatcher 2002). Some individuals claim that animals do not value their lives so their lives do not have any value (Fox 1986). Claiming that animals do not value their lives is an assumption. One can see how animals have regard for their lives as they still try to survive and reproduce. Furthermore, cosmetic companies that test on animals may have long lasting negative impacts on animals. These makeup brands may not need to test on animals because there are many cosmetic companies which are branded as Some of these makeup companies which do not test on animals include Nars and Bare Minerals. Many makeup brands use pH testing or simply wearing the product to test longevity and durability of the product. Although there may not be plausible solutions or agreements to organizations that are for and against animal testing, there are ways in which animal research can be regulated. A compromise that can make both sides satisfied is the proper use of animal research. Scientists can replace animal testing methods with technology or human models. This will satisfy corporations that want to test products and drugs while satisfying animal activists. Researchers can also reduce or lessen the amount of animal testing for both parties to be content. For example, in certain research laboratories less rats or monkeys can be tested on. Furthermore, not Nagabandi 5 all forms of animal testing harms or kills animals. Animal testing could be limited to research which benefits animals. Both parties may agree on animal research methods which do not kill the animals used. In other words, research facilities may limit the procedures that are being done on animals currently. Although animal testing is accepted into society it is still controversial. There are numerous sides to the argument of animal testing. People claim that many of the scientific advancements we have made thus far have been because of animal testing. As mankind continues to grow and improve, we may be able to use technology instead of animal research. Some argue that animals have rights and these are violated by animal research. Others argue that animal testing is a necessary concept for the advancement of drug delivery methods and medicine overall. With regulation of animal testing the reducing of the number of animals, both parties can come to a compromise. Nagabandi 6 Works Cited Fox, Michael A. (1986). The case for animal experimentation. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. (2011). Retrieved from http://www.peta.org/ Pereira, E. A C, and T. Z. Aziz. Disease and Primate Research: Past, Present, and  Postgraduate Medical Journal. BMJ Group, May 2006. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Poste, Geore. (2006, September 03).Animal testing a necessary research tool.. Retrieved from http://www.azcentral.com/arizonarepublic/viewpoints/articles/0903poste0903.html Pro-test. Pro-test: Standing up for Science. Laurie Pycroft. n.d. Web. 31 Jan 2017. Pound, Pandora et al. Is the Evidence That Animal Research Benefits BMJ : British Medical Journal 328.7438 (2004): Print. Thatcher, Wendy. (2002, March 19).Chimpanzees: test results that apply to humans. Retrieved from Vogt, Lucile et al. of Animal Experiments Is Based on Confidence Rather than Evidence of Scientific Ed. Ulrich Dirnagl. PLoS Biology 14.12 (2016): e2000598. PMC. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.