Stagg 1 Brooke Stagg Drugan ENC 1102 071 15 February 2017 Trophy Hunting According to the Humane Society, trophy hunting is defined as wild animals for their body parts, such as head and hide, for display but not primarily for food or Hunting by the 2). Although trophy hunting is a recreational activity that takes place across the world, it primarily happens in African countries. There are various organizations who consider trophy hunting a sport that is both rewarding and beneficial, while others believe this activity is immoral and should be stopped. For example, the organization ARU Hunting Safaris sees big game hunting as a sport. In contrast, the organization Trophy Free EU Group believes the hunting of big game animals is considered abuse and a question of world heritage. While these two organizations have drastically conflicting views, they can meet in the middle. A workable compromise between the two is to open wildlife areas owned by private citizens who allow hunting to help combat overcrowding on their land and overpopulation of the specific species in a certain geographical area. An additional part of the compromise would be to put a ban on hunting species that are at risk of extinction. ARU Hunting Safaris is a family-based organization located in Namibia, Africa. It is a place where people can come and stay for multiple nights and enjoy hunting wild animals during their stay. This organization fully supports trophy hunting, as it is their primary goal. They do not believe they are contributing to extinctions or damaging the wildlife system. ARU Hunting Safaris considers trophy hunting a thrilling activity. However, in one of their blog posts they Stagg 2 discuss how there is more to the activity than just killing a majestic animal. The owners and operators of ARU Hunting Safaris believe that hunting trophy animals is justified because of the of that these animals have faced (Kelly). The supporters of this lodge believe that their hunting activities are preventing these trophy animals from wandering into populated areas and hurting the humans and domesticated animals that live there. One of the organizations that shares the same sentiment as the ARU Hunting Safaris is the Namibia Professional Hunting Association, or more commonly known as the NAPHA. In particular, the president of the NAPHA Kai-Uwe Denker explains how the death of animals is part of the natural cycle. rejuvenation on Earth rests on the principle of birth, growth, and death. We have to accept that death is inevitable, and a fundamental precondition for rejuvenation in nature. The majority of deaths in nature are brought about by physical killing a reality necessary for any specie to survive. Death keeps the natural balance (Kelly). The underlying message of ARU Hunting Safaris and the president of the NAPHA is that death and hunting is something that should not be feared in life. They believe instead, that it is something that should be celebrated and respected instead of feared. In addition, the president of the NAPHA states how the real concern of conservation should be with the destruction of the habitats necessary to support these animals and not with the killing of these animals. They believe that the industrialization of what was once a wild habitat is more responsible for the decline in the population in the number of big game animals. The main belief of these two organizations is that the act of controlled hunting is an example of applied conservationism (NAPHA). While trophy hunting is legal in most of Africa, there are many organizations that are against it. Trophy Free EU Group is one of the organizations that is trying to bring awareness to Stagg 3 this controversial issue, providing facts about the reality of trophy hunting. The organization was founded in Finland as a joint project between many other European organizations, with the main purpose being to raise awareness through social media, travel agencies, hunting organizations, and the public. Their website explains the many aspects of trophy hunting and how people can get involved to stop this activity. One of the organizations main concerns about trophy hunting is the method of canned hunting or which happens in an enclosed area where kill is guaranteed within a limited time (Hunting Industry). When people participate in canned hunting the animals are often sedated the night before and released into the area where the hunter will shoot them. These animals who are victims of canned hunting usually are raised in captivity which Trophy Free EU Group is opposed to. They see this act as abuse to the animals considering there is no benefit to either party. The goal of canned hunting is to receive some form of body part of the animal to show case to others or to profit off. Jeff Flocken, the North American director for the International Fund for Animal Welfare, supports Trophy Free EU group, explaining in detail the negative effects trophy hunting has. Many people claim that killing animals for profit and souvenirs is considered an act of conservation. Particularly in African lions, it has been stated adult male lion is the most sought-after trophy by wealthy foreign hunters. And when an adult male lion is killed, the destabilization of that pride can lead to more lion deaths as outside males compete to take over the (Flocken). Based on this information conservation appears to be the opposite of what trophy hunting does. Although the views of both ARU Hunting Safaris and Trophy Free EU group could not differ anymore drastically, there are compromises that can be made. A major disagreement between both sides is the idea of conservation. According to Conservation Magazine, there is Stagg 4 evidence that both conservation and trophy hunting can co-exist. A problem many species face is the limitation of land they are able to inhabit. The first action that should be taken is to open private lands to these big game animals. The development of private sanctuaries will combat the growing problem of industrialization and the negative effects that it has had on the population of several big game animals. The implementation of these private lands will increase the populations of different species because they will have more space to live in. Reducing the strain of environmental resources naturally will allow the population of animals to rebound from years of poor resource allocation as well as overhunting. In addition to this act of conservation, there should also be a limit as to where trophy hunting can take place. The practice of hunting in a specific area has already been studied as a compromise between the acts of conservationists and the desires of those who enjoy the act of hunting. Specifically with elephants, it has already been demonstrated that the implementation of controlled hunting has proven beneficial. trophy hunting has doubled the area of the country under wildlife management relative to the 13% in state protected (Flocken). Due to the practice of trophy hunting, the amount of land that is under protection has increased, which is opposite to the argument of the ARU Hunting Safaris and the NAPHA. However, the inclusion of private land has resulted in area of suitable land available to elephants and other wildlife has increased, reversing the problem of habitat loss, and helping to maintain a sustained population increase in already large elephant (Flocken). This demonstrates the belief that the inclusion of private lands in the plan of conservation is necessary in helping find a compromise between two polar opposites opinions. While limiting the areas that hunting can take place and opening private lands to these fascinating animals is a suitable compromise, giving back to the local communities in which the Stagg 5 hunting takes place should also be seriously considered. As most people know, many of great countries are suffering from poverty and would benefit from the financial relief from practice of trophy hunting. If a portion of the proceeds earned from hunting these animals went back to the local communities, it would have a dramatic positive effect on the lives. This would also be easy to implement, considering most people would not be against helping out suffering communities. A study has already been published in the journal Animal Conservation of areas where this idea is already taking place. Researcher Peter A. Lindsey found that eighty six percent of hunters would prefer hunting in areas where a portion of proceeds went back into local communities. (Lindsey). Trophy hunting will always remain a controversial issue because everyone has differing opinions on the idea. People who believe that no animal should be subject to being shot for fun are never going to be okay with the idea, whereas those who see it as being beneficial to themselves or to others will support it fully. Though there are two opposing sides of the argument, there are compromises to be made that can keep both parties content. Opening lands to allow additional space for species to grow will immensely decrease animal extinction. Those who do not support trophy hunting will at least know that the species are not at danger. Making these compromises will benefit both supporters and non-supporters in that hunting will still be allowed, only it will protect the species existence as well as help communities in need. Stagg 6 Works Cited Can trophy hunting actually help  Conservation. N.p., 26 Aug. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. F, Kelly. We are more than just  Aru Hunting Safaris. N.p., 28 June 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Family, Friends, Couples &  Aru Hunting Safaris. N.p., 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Flocken, Jeff. Opinion: Why Are We Still Hunting  National Geographic. National Geographic Society, 09 Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Feb. 2017 Hunting  Trophy Free EU Group. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Napha. Essential information on hunting in  NAPHA - Namibia Professional Hunting Association: Trophy Hunting in Namibia. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Trophy hunting by the  Humane Society International. N.p., Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.