Carly Diess Prof. Drugan English Comp II January 29, 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Two stakeholders that are completely incompatible are PETA and zoos. They are in conflict with each other about whether the environment of a zoo that animals are forced to live in are safe and healthy. Both goals are to look out for the animals, but while zoos are also focused on their profit and customers as well, PETA is mainly concentrated strictly on the preservation and well-being. Since PETA and zoos both share the same overall intention, caring for the animals and putting them first, they can form a compromise to achieve both of their overall goals while coming together and making both businesses stronger. One way both stakeholders can make an arrangement is zoos can try to make each exhibit more like habitats in the wild. They can show more care for the animals like feeding them the right foods and making them feel more at home. PETA can come a certain amount of times a year and observe and inspect each display to see if they are following the rules and they are up to standards. By doing so, this will help both companies because customers at each zoo will give them more business knowing PETA supports the way they treat their animals and PETA will feel satisfied that they made a difference. The first stakeholder, PETA, mainly focuses its attention on the suffering of animals in the food industry, clothing trade, laboratories, and the entertainment industry such as zoos (PETA). opposes zoos because cages and cramped enclosures at zoos deprive animals of the opportunity to satisfy their most basic (PETA). This stakeholder is completely against zoos and how the employees/owners treat the animals. They believe that zoos care about the relationships organisms have made in their habitat or if they grow out of the stage where they look they just send them somewhere else if they fulfill their obligations. Zoos and wildlife parks prevent natural behavior, such as flying, swimming, running, hunting, etc. which may lead to abnormal behavior, such as incessant pacing, bar-biting, and self- mutilation (PETA). If animals are eventually released into the wild after being in a zoo exhibit for many years, they very rarely know how to survive. captive-bred animals to the wild is, in most cases, impossible because animals who are reared in zoos are denied the opportunity to learn survival skills, can transmit diseases to their wild counterparts, and often have no natural habitat left to return to because of human (PETA). This stakeholder basically believes that there are other ways to protect habitats and animals by supporting other organizations. The second stakeholder, zoos think that they care for and protect animals from the dangerous wild environment while keeping their customers satisfied. Many zoos play a critical role in protecting endangered species from extinction because they are safe in an exhibit. year, good zoos contribute $350 million directly to (Zoos Victoria). The conservation of good zoos is growing and have helped species such as the Eastern Barred Bandicoot, Helmeted Honeyeater, Southern Corroboree, etc. not be extinct (Zoos Victoria). Good zoos also educate visitors and attract the best employees by seeking amazing connections with wildlife and teaching customers about the importance of conservation. employ specialists to design our conservation education programs such as influencing people to help the wildlife, for example, more than 131,000 people have donated mobile phones to help raise more than $228,000 for gorilla (Zoos Victoria). Employees who work at good zoos usually do it because they love animals and want to see species safe and in a wholesome environment. Since there are more and more species becoming endangered or extinct, zoos are becoming extremely important and need all the support they can get. Even though these two stakeholders have many different views and are completely against one another, they both have the same overall goal which is to protect animals and provide the best possible outcomes for them. By having that same intention, both organizations can put their separate views aside and instead of fighting over the same issue, they can resolve it by communicating. Since PETA believes that zoos preclude animals from being themselves and care about the relationships made, zoos can change the environments of the exhibits so it is more like their environments in the wild. They can also vow to keep the animals until they grow old and pass away, therefore they will not be let into the wild inexperienced and they can keep the strong relationships made. As they do this, the zoos will be able to continue to conserve animals to protect them from being endangered or extinct. By working with PETA, zoos will also have more business because customers will see that they are working together for the sake of the animals and working to give them the best environment and safety. To make sure these changes are pursued, PETA can visit certain zoos a couple of times per year. They will make sure good zoos are up to standards and caring for the animals. By these two stakeholders making a compromise, this will not only help save more animals and keep them healthy, it will also teach people to look at this situation from both sides. Both PETA and good zoos care for every animal and want the best for them, therefore they can put their differences aside and cooperate to help not only each other, but also the animals. Both stakeholders will reach more people and make a bigger impact for animals by coming together. PETA and zoos around the world should work together and save animals lives by protecting them one agreement at a time. Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Animal Rights Uncompromised:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Five Facts about Good  Five Facts about Good Zoos Zoos Victoria. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.