Pierre 1 Imbert Pierre Professor Drugan ENC 1102.070 12 February 2017 The Commercialization of Incarceration In our capitalist society, there is ample opportunity for making money. Somewhere down the line, someone had the idea of making money through the privatization of the prison system. Since then we have seen private prisons become one of the most controversial topics that are being discussed in our society. This is a very polarized topic, which leads to very little common ground between the opposing stakeholders. On one side, there are corporations that profit from privatization like CoreCivic, formerly known as the Corrections Corporation of America (CCA), their investors, and those who they employ. On the other end of the spectrum, you have those who are incarcerated or at risk of incarceration. The primary goal of these corporations is to make money, but this often means that inmates are not treated fairly, as corners are often cut. a prison cuts out the cleaning services and the cost per prisoner drops to $90 per day. They instantly earn an additional $10 per day; a number that can add up quickly if there are 1,000 prisoners in the facility. Cutting cleaning makes the company more money, but provides unhealthy and inhumane living conditions for the inmates. Cutting costs ultimately affects the prisoners and diminishes the quality of their living (Investopedia). The two sides will always have conflict on some level, but the situation can improve if they can compromise. The best course of action for both sides of this equation is for private prisons to improve the quality of their facilities. The bulk of the compromise would have to come from the side, mainly because it appears they are in almost complete control, but the prisoners still affect the Pierre 2 public opinion of facilities and corporations. This means if the corporations want quality from their investment, the must be willing to do what is necessary. The first stake holder is CoreCivic. Per their website, CoreCivic was founded in 1983 by T. Don Hutto, Thomas Beasley, and Robert Crants, who are credited as the founders of the private prison industry. Beasley and Crants created the vision that led to what first became known as private prisons that were operated by business, not government (CCA). They gross roughly $1.7 billion dollars a year, and are publicly traded on the stock market. Ranked as the 5th largest correctional system, only behind the federal government and three states, CoreCivic is the leading corrections company in the nation. They house more than 70,000 inmates in over 70 facilities (CCA). In terms, CoreCivic is the most powerful and influential private prison corporation in the United States. The private Prison industry is very lucrative. make money as a private prison, they receive a stipend from the government. This money from the government can be paid in a multitude of different ways. It can be based on the size of the prison, based on a monthly or yearly set amount, or in most cases, it is paid based on the number of prisoners that the prison (Investopedia). a prison can a prisoner $50 per day, that means their prison can theoretically earn $50,000 per day on a prison that houses 1,000 inmates. If they can land another contract with the government to build a prison in the neighboring state, they could start earning an additional $50,000 per day by maxing out that (Investopedia). With such a high potential return on their investments, it is in the best interest of corporations like CoreCivic to bring in as many inmates as possible. The second stake holder is the people who are incarcerated. It is their lives that are at stake. Private prisons only bring in revenue if they can secure government contracts and house inmates. The power comes from their ability to deter private prisons from mistreating Pierre 3 them. If there are constant complaints and legal action taken toward these corporations, it could potentially lead to the government being less willing to send its convicted criminals to them. Gregorio De La Rosa, an honorably discharged former National Guardsman, was serving a six-month sentence for drug possession at a prison in Raymondville, Texas, operated by GEO Group (then known as Wackenhut). The details of the case are laid out in a damning 2009 Court of Appeals ruling that upheld most of a $40 million-dollar jury verdict against the company and Warden David Forrest . . . Gregorio was beaten to death by two other inmates using a lock tied to a sock. The incident prompted officers and wardens to smirk and laugh. Following the incident, during the investigation, allegations of a cover-up and destruction of evidence arose. After the Court of Appeals ruling, the case was settled for an undisclosed (PR Watch). With incidents like this occurring in private prisons across the nation, inmates have the power to affect the corporations by exposing all the negative policies and events that take place, leading the government to limit contracts. The best compromise for both sides of this equation is for private prisons to improve the quality of their facilities. This compromise could benefit both parties. managed prisons tended to perform better with regard to public safety. Five of the six studies that presented data in this area favored public prisons, although the effect sizes are (Lundahl 393). Privately owned prisons could improve the perception people have on them, and in turn increase inmate acquisition and profit. The best way for them to accomplish this is by improving the quality of facilities. Initially, the private corporations may only see the negative aspect of improved quality, Pierre 4 which would be the cost. To make something better, they would have to be willing to spend the money necessary to close the gap between where they are and what is ideal. One of the major selling points that serve as a driving force behind private prisons is often their affordability. According to meta-analysis on the cost-effectiveness of private prisons versus that of government operated ones, privatization policy alternatives result in modest savings (367). But these savings are what lead to a decrease of living quality for inmates. Corporations should invest the time and resources to find a middle point were facility quality increases without costing more than government facilities. These investments could include more security, better living conditions and even higher quality food. More security means that there is more order within the facilities. Inmates are kept safe from each other. Better living conditions could mean a lot of things. This can be as simple as better sheets to lay on, more comfortable beds, and the reduction of overcrowding. These improvements seem as though they would be expensive, mainly because they are. They could potentially cost the corporations a lot of money. But if they can manage to maintain costs below that of the government facilities this investment could lead to them maintaining, or even acquiring a higher level of government contracts due to an increased morale of prisoners and fewer incidents or accounts of mistreatment. Although the government would like to have enough places to house these prisoners, it would not willingly send inmates into a bad situation if it meant an increase of risk and liability faced if prisoners were put in an unsafe environment. Private prisons are 100% dependent on inmates. They need a constant flow of inmates to keep their investors funded and happy. This means that they must maintain some level of safety and happiness of its inmates to acquire more. It seems that the best course of action for all stakeholders surrounding privatized prisons is for corporations who own these prisons to increase Pierre 5 the quality of its facilities, while keeping costs below that of government sites. The increased quality means that prisoner morale is higher and less incidents will occur at these facilities. The lower price means that the government is still willing to contract out the incarceration of inmates due to a decrease in expenses. This scenario results in a win-win for all those involved. Pierre 6 Works Cited Bryant, Sean. The Business Model Of Private  Investopedia. N.p., 22 June 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lundahl, Brad W., Chelsea Kunz, Cyndi Brownell, Norma Harris, and Russ Van Vleet. Prison Privatization: A Meta-analysis of Cost and Quality of Confinement  SAGE Publications, n.d. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Pratt, T. C., and J. Maahs. Are Private Prisons More Cost-Effective Than Public Prisons? A Meta-Analysis of Evaluation Research  Crime & Delinquency45.3 (1999): 358- 71. Web n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. We CCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.