ENC1102 Jaylen Gonzalez Enc 1102 Jaylen Gonzalez 1/23/2017 Intermediate Draft 1 Guided Questions Are Cops Really Crooked? With all the madness that took place in 2016, it is easy to see why many people are fearful for what may happen in the future. But the biggest fear currently might ironically be the same people supposed to and us, the police. Many instances of cops brutalizing black men were in the news, and even though most cases were black males, they the only people brutalized in 2016. While the police force group and a group like the black lives matter moment might not see eye to eye, they could both agree something has to be done about the police brutality that usually ends in someone dead. The agreement that would be best for both parties would be for all policemen to be better trained for all situations so that they mistreat the people they are supposed to serve The multiple stakeholders in this conversation would be simple, the black lives matter group and the law enforcement group. Obviously the stakeholders in this situation would have very ENC1102 Jaylen Gonzalez different perspectives on the subject so reaching an agreement would be key. This would be possible due to the fact that no human should feel scared of the police and also no human should lose their life to the police force regardless of race. With that being said the black community was definitely targeted as shown in 2016 police brutality stats. According to International Business Times there was have been 708 documented deaths in police shootings, 173 of which have resulted the deaths of This is the direct reason why the black lives matter movement would be a top stakeholder in the police brutality situation. The police agenda is to protect and serve, so they would like to protect the people not abuse them while the black lives matter group might not agree with this fully. Their agenda is to get the minority community treated as equals and treated with the same respect as other races. The agenda is to move forward in the rights of the African American community and the eye opening numbers of African being held subject to police brutality is something like a solution to it. There is also the community against police brutality and their agenda is stated in the name. Communities Against Police Brutality would probably be most interested in the overall police ENC1102 Jaylen Gonzalez brutality while a group such as black lives matter would be more vocal on the black lives lost due to police brutality. The Communities Against Police home page on their website describes the group as United Against Police BrutalityTM is a Twin-Cities based organization that was created to deal with police brutality on an ongoing basis. We work on the day-to-day abuses as well as taking on the more extreme cases. Our overriding goal is to create a climate of resistance to abuse of authority by police organizations and to empower local people with a structure that can take on police brutality and actually bring it to an end. We provide support for survivors of police brutality and families of victims so they can reclaim their dignity and join the struggle to end police The stakeholders named seem to be at odds with each other because the law enforcement definitely will think differently than all the groups against police brutality when it comes to thinking about if cops are corrupt. Honestly many cops get a bad name but its highly doubtful any groups believe every cops is corrupt. Many cops do their job properly and get any recognitions but yes the negative side is broadcasted all over the news and social media, as it should be when these things such as police brutality happen, but that what every police officer does from day to day. Actually if one were to think about it, not even a quarter of the police force was involved in police brutality, but on the same hand, 700 plus lives lost to cops hands is way too many by all means. ENC1102 Jaylen Gonzalez Which is why the two opposing sides should take action this way there is no one out there thinking cops are corrupt and lives being lost anymore. What the stakeholders might have in common is that they all want to be protected and served and even though the 3 stake holders may believe the police are corrupt they would still love to have the police force protect and serve them and the police forces top goal. The agreement they could reach is to change the way things are taught to cops in certain situations to prevent police brutality from happening. Many people of the police force say fear leads to brutality, but one could respond why are they fearful. According to TheAtlantic.com the last ten years, an annual average of 51 officers were feloniously killed in the line of duty according to data collected by the FBI. In the same time period, an average of 57,000 officers were assaulted every year (though only about 25 percent of those assaults result in any physical injuries). But for all of its risks, policing is safer now than it has ever been. Violent attacks on officers, particularly those that involve a serious physical threat, are few and far between when you take into account the fact that police officers interact with civilians about 63 million times every year. In percentage terms, officers were assaulted in about 0.09 percent of all interactions, were injured in some way in 0.02 percent of interactions, and were feloniously killed in 0.00008 percent of With that being said everyone from both sides of this argument should be able to agree the police brutality numbers should not be nowhere near what they are at currently. Cops ENC1102 Jaylen Gonzalez are also equipped with a baton taser and pepper spray, on that note there is really no reason whatsoever for an unarmed person to get killed or police brutality to be happening at the rate it did last year. The proper solution for both sides would be to train police officers differently to use secondary weapons before jumping straight to gunshots, this way many altercations between unarmed people and cops due to misunderstandings or whatever the case may be, wont happen anymore. This would also relieve many tensions between the people and the police force, allowing for the police to go back to their job of protecting and serving. WORKS CITED: Stought, Seth. How Police Training Contributes To Avoidable  OnThe Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 14 Dec. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Communities United Against Police  Communities United Against Police Brutality. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Police killed at least 303 black people in the U.S. in  Mapping Police Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.