Alnour 1 Hamza Alnour William Drugan ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Captivity of animals in theme parks and zoos For more than 55 years, SeaWorld has been using animals to entertain guests and gain money and only in the last few years organizations that are fighting for animal rights, like PETA, have started to get some objectives done. The documentary was one of the main reasons why people started to boycott SeaWorld parks and pro animal rights organizations started to fully stop SeaWorld from orca breeding (Schoen 8). In 2016, the government banned orca breeding and in the next few years SeaWorld will stop their orca shows, but after that, the animals will live in their cages and tanks for the rest of their lives. So, instead of just staying in their tanks for the remainder of their lives, these animals should be tested to see if they can adapt to living in the wild and then getting released or if they then SeaWorld should build larger living areas for the animals. One of the largest organizations in the world that is fighting for animal rights and welfare is People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). Their work is mostly focused on three industries where animals had a reputation of being abused: the entertainment industry, the food industry, and the clothing trade PETA is also known as one of the most hated organizations in the world because of their intense and sometimes violent strategies. They are also are critiqued about their overly sexual campaigns (Aaltola 393). SeaWorld entertainment, Inc. owns some of the biggest theme parks in the united states, their biggest way of attracting people to visit their parks is by incorporating animals in the parks for entertainment and Alnour 2 educational purposes, while also having a veterinary care system for marine mammals. statement on their website is are also one of the foremost zoological organizations and a worldwide leader in animal welfare, training, husbandry and veterinary care. The company collectively cares for one of the largest animal collections on the North American continent and has helped lead advances in the care of species in zoological facilities and in the conservation of wild Imagination Meets After years of lawsuits raining down on SeaWorld, in 2016 the federal court banned breeding orcas, so SeaWorld was forced to stop the breeding programs and after that SeaWorld is now planning on stopping the orca shows sometime in the next few years Imagination Meets That was a win for animal rights groups like PETA. Because these new orders were recently issued, people thought much about the lives of the orcas and other animals after the shows stop and that they are still in the parks and in small confined Moreover, in the years after the shows end, the animals are going to be in their cages and tanks with barely any swimming space and little interaction with their same species or even other species of animals. So, one solution to this problem would be releasing the animals to the wild and building bigger enclosures. The screening of the animals to see if they should be released has to be done by unbiased specialists, because they will have the rights as their first priority and not money, and that will be by testing the animals on several rigorous tests to see if they can live and adapt in the wild. After that, if these animals fail the tests and the specialists determine that the animals are unable to adapt, then SeaWorld should build larger enclosures for the animals to swim or roam free instead of living in small tanks or cages (Kirby 204). If SeaWorld puts in the money and the risk to build these new enclosures, then they can raise up the prices and advertise Alnour 3 the new enclosures to attract more guests than before to show the public that they are more animal friendly. If this solution is actually adopted by SeaWorld and implemented, then SeaWorld might gain back some of their costumers that they lost after many bad rumors that was talked about in recent years, which as well means more money back to the parks, it will also help with reputation with it being actually animal friendly company that has its rights as a first priority (Schoen 10). While for PETA, they should be content and happy with this solution because the animals that are released in the wild are going to be free to run or swim freely and are going to be far from any animal cruelty related to SeaWorld (Aaltola 396). This solution might not be implemented because when there are risks that involve money, the person that holds the money is probably going to be reluctant about putting that money on the table. In this case, the only person that has any kind of risk is SeaWorld. Likewise, the risk about this release program might not have the results that SeaWorld wanted and might think that the risk be worth the reward. Also, this solution is not a permanent solution and that might deter SeaWorld from implementing it. While PETA has no risk at all because the releasing program affect their organization in any negative way. Finally, by implementing the releasing of the animals in the wild by appointing the unbiased specialists to conduct the rigorous test on the animals to either release them in the wild or stay in tanks or cages, which will be new bigger and better enclosures will show the everyday people that SeaWorld cares for its animals. However, this solution will also show that PETA is not a malicious organization that hates big corporations like SeaWorld but can also work with them towards to find a compromise that is the best for the animals. If all organizations and Alnour 4 groups that are incorporated in this solution work together and have some kind of working-trust, then this solution might work. Alnour 5 Works Cited Aaltola, Elisa. The Philosophy behind the Movement: Animal Studies versus Animal  Society & Animals 19.4 (2011): 393-406. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Kirby, David. Death at SeaWorld: Shamu and the dark side of killer whales in captivity. New York: St. Press, 2012. Print Schoen, Steven W. Blackfish - ing for Buzz : The Rhetoric of the Real in Theme Parks and  Journal of Florida Studies 1.5 (2016): 1-14. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment. Imagination Meets N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.