Richard Charity U4328-5289 ENC 1102-071 Professor Drugan and Progressive Economic Theory: The Discovery of The government controls taxation, government spending, money supply, and the interest rate; this is known as fiscal policy. The fiscal policies of the United States significantly influence the citizens of the world economy. The government of the United States controls these policies constantly striving towards the goal of reaching full potential gross domestic product, the maximum real gross domestic product a country can sustain in the long run. The goal is to stimulate economic growth; increase the real gross domestic product, a complicated problem. These complicated problems cause substantial amounts of disputation between the policy makers, government officials, political parties, lobbyist, businesses, and the citizens of America over solutions to these problems. These solutions come in different forms and kinds of economic theories each unique it way. In rather recent history, a debate over two fundamental economic theories have proliferated, supply-side economic theory and progressive economics theory. Each theory argues its own points and core beliefs, both theories have their stakeholders. Historically there has been a trend for American Liberals to agree with progressive economic theory and for American Conservatives to agree with supply-side economic theory. By examining progressive and supply-side economic policy, we can see that an unanticipated number of characteristics between the two economic theories, that can be negotiated to meet the liking of both American Liberals and American Conservatives. When one examines supply-side economic policy they can make the assumption that it is an economic theory generally adopted by the Conservative Party. Supply-Side economics popularity increased during Ronald Reagan Presidency. Many Americans coined his version of the term it embraced lowering taxes for the wealthy, leading redistributing the wealth by creating more jobs, hence stimulating economic growth. Reagans economic policy aligns with Teresa Garcia-Mila, Albert Marcet and Eva Ventura evaluation of the effect on welfare due to supply side interventions with the following quote in their article Side Interventions and calibrate and simulate the economy; we find that lowering capital taxes has two effects: it increases efficiency in terms of aggregate production, and it redistributes wealth in favour of those agents with a low wage/wealth (Garcia-Mila, 205). Capital taxes are any taxes made off the profit of bonds, stocks, assets, precious metals or property. The experiment conducted in the article concluded that supply-side taxation policy was the single most important factor in creating widespread economic efficiency across the world. This characteristic of supply side economics that refers to lowering capital taxes for the wealthy. Hence their wealth will trickle down and lead to the creation of jobs has given supply-side economics the nickname trickle-down economics. Quantitative easing is a variation of trickle- down economic theory that has been considered by some as a means to reducing unemployment. The policy involves increasing the price of treasury bonds and other assets to increase output and productions. The policy attributes this increase in production to increase in expenditures. (Watkins, 436). When examining progressive economic theory, one realizes that it generally contradicts every point made in supply-side economic theory. Progressive economic theory tends to focus on the well-being of the poor and bottom-up practices. One could argue that being progressive as much about economic growth as it is about increasing the living the standard. Andrew Simms tends to prove that point in the NewScientist journal, of indefinite global economic growth is that it is needed to eradicate (Simms, 49) This statement tends to prove that he believes that economic growth is not the only way to make poor people richer. He goes on to make a point that proves a claim that supply-side economist wrong, he states, the for every $100 added to the value of the global economy, around $2.20 found its way to those living below the World Banks absolute poverty (Simms, 49). Many progressives believe that when economic growth occurs from the top-down wages actually tend to stagnate. Progressives believe that there should be more investment into sustainable fields, education the poor, and welfare programs. Investing in these programs as well as the middle class would lead to increase output and spending and to better not only the economy but social living standards as well over the long term. A study on the effects of welfare on single mothers proved that when welfare policies drastically changed to encourage work, single mother found it much harder to provide adequate food, pay bills and rent. (Meyers, 7). Common ground is essential to making change in the government. There are many check and balances and frustrating political gridlock that occurs before change can happen. Compromise is necessary. Although supply-side and progressive economics have many differences, as the difference between bottom-up and top-bottom. They both are fiscal policy that want to achieve the goal of stimulate the economic growth. Although progressive economics is not as much focused on the statistics and percentages of gross domestic as it on social living standards. It is true that stimulating economic growth is important for economic and political reasons. The compromise in United States fiscal policy can be achieved by taking points from both theories and implementing them in the real world. I proposed this solution, implement a moderate capital tax cut, and provide incentives for companies that provide jobs for those of lower income while investing and educating lower income citizens. This solution is one example of many solutions that have reasonable accommodation for both theories. The tax cuts and incentives for providing jobs for lower income people satisfy supply-side theory. While investing in the business of lower income citizens while increasing funding that directly impacts education for lower income citizens complies with progressive views. By examining progressive and supply-side economic policy, we can conclude that it is possible to come up with a compromise that complies with people of both theories. In the case of compromise, I see that it would benefit all people that would be effected, policy makers, government officials, political parties, lobbyist, businesses, and the citizens of America. A good amount of the policy makers, government officials, and lobbyist would all get reelected because of the economic growth and social-economic living standard raise. Businesses would boom because of the tax cut and incentives. The future sustainability of this growth trend would be more probable because the rise in education would rise to a stronger middle class. I feel such that because of the economic policy of the United States that all American would have a brighter future. For such a compromise to happen Congress and the government would have to sit down and think about what is best for the country. Not for best for their party, not what best for one business sector, but the country. It would have to be truly and wholly bipartisan. Unfortunately, by examining progressive and supply-side economic policies, I can conclude that a truly bipartisan Congress in high unlikely for a long time. It is possible, the data does show that the most of the poor and most of the rich can both win, but lobbyist and politics get in the way sometimes. The fiscal policy of the United States affects the entire globe, maybe one day the United States sustain its potential Gross Domestic Product. Worked Cited Teresa, et al. SIDE INTERVENTIONS AND The Economic Journal, vol. 120, no. 543, 2010, pp. John P. Watkins. (2015) Economic Waste and Social Provisioning: Veblen and Keynes on the Wealth Effect. Journal of Economic Issues 49:2, pages 441-448. Meyer, Bruce D, and James X. Sullivan. The Effects of Welfare and Tax Reform: the Material Well-Being of Single Mothers in the 1980s and  Journal of Public Economics. 88.7 (2004): 1387-1420. Print PLUNKETT, JAMES. The Rising Tide Economy: Lessons From The Squeezed Middle For Progressive Economic  Political Quarterly 3 (2012): 502. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Simms, Andrew. Trickle-Down  NewScientist (2008): 49. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.