Hiser 1 Eric Hiser Professor Drugon ENG 1102-071 28 January 2017 Should be required to Follow Open Standards for Internet Usage? For a while now, consumers have been unhappy with the way Internet Service Providers have been treating them. The first company to come to mind when talking about is Comcast. Comcast is notoriously known for their terrible customer service. As stated from philly.com, with Internet service fell 2 percent, to a score of 56 - the lowest in the sector in the new (Fernandez, Bob). To help keep Comcast in check, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has been fighting for a while to change the internet and make it If we, the consumers want to enjoy the internet and not fall behind all other countries, it would be imperative to have the FCC and Comcast work together to create something that would benefit both sides. The proposed compromise is to have the minimum required upload and download speed increased from in order to keep competing in the technology race with other countries. Comcast only views the internet as a business and does not care how slow or behind they get as no matter what, they have customers. The FCC on the other hand is much more in terms with the consumers. Consumers want faster speeds and pay less since we have the technology now. Hiser 2 Comcast does believe that there should be an open internet standard, but not the open standard that the FCC wants to set. As stated in the LAtimes.com, agreed to continue to abide by the open Internet rules as part of an agreement to win approval of its deal to acquire media company (James, Meg). Along with the acquisition of NBCUnversial, Comcast would be able to merge with Time Warner Cable Company and then own rights to another million customers of Time Warner (James, Meg). The benefit behind merging for Comcast is there would be very little competition. Comcast would be able to control most of the United States and the majority of consumers would be under rules for internet usage. For consumers, this is not a something that the consumers should be jumping for. If Comcast were to get control of Time Warner Cable (TWC), they could set their own standards and prices. This is where the FCC steps in to try and mitigate what the damage would be if Comcast and Time Warner Cable Company merge. The FCC proposed the standard. This means that can go where they want, when they (www.fcc.gov). With the Open Internet standard, can develop products and services without asking for permission. It means consumers will demand more and better broadband as they enjoy new lawful Internet services, applications and content, and broadband providers cannot block, throttle, or create special fast  for that (www.fcc.gov). This standard would in turn prevent companies that are trying to create a monopoly from blocking, throttling (slowing down internet speed on purpose), and use of paid prioritization broadband from continuing in locking customers in contract. Most consumers would be pro-open internet standard as there are just so many benefits to them with how much the internet is used now a days with streaming services such as Netflix, Hulu, YouTube, and HBO. Hiser 3 As of June 12, 2015, the FCC was able to introduce the Open Internet rules. While this is a very pro-consumer type move, it has downsides for the and lower level that anywhere near as big as Comcast, AT&T, or Time Warner Cable Company. With the Open Internet rules in place, should be required to follow them strictly? While more for less is always better in the eyes of the consumer, too much could cause more to drop out of business and leave only the biggest companies to run the internet. For a while, the biggest threat to consumers was the Comcast and Time Warner Cable Company merger, which has now been torn apart and will no longer happen. Comcast has agreed to abide by the FCC open internet standards but will continually try legal (James, Meg). Comcast would oppose proposal to reclassify broadband Internet access as a telecommunications service subject to Title II of the Communications (James, Meg) as a threat to FCC to keep them from having too much legal leverage over their business. There are good and bad sides to net neutrality and to list one as a starter there is the fact that not all content is created equal. As stated from Spectrum, millions of Comcast customers want to live stream the Super Bowl from NBC, going to require a lot more bandwidth and network resources from Comcast than if they were all trying to load a simple website. ISPs argue that allowing them to charge content creators (such as NBC) based on how much bandwidth they consume, or how fast their content must be delivered, is more (Spectrum.ieee.org) This means that content providers such as Netflix, Hulu, and HBO would also need to pay the in order for their customers to not get throttled by the as they would like more money if they are benefiting the streaming companies so heavily. So what should we do between the Open Internet rules and Hiser 4 The compromise proposed at hand would greatly benefit Comcast and the FCC. This compromise would consist of upping the minimum download and upload speed of internet across all of the This would allow consumers to view streaming services at a reasonable pace and not be held back by the bare minimum that the wish to have the consumer pay for. Perhaps the biggest benefit to this increase would be to all businesses alike. This would speed up production and services related to Information Technology. In the healthcare field, the more that can be transferred quicker, the more patients that they can take in at a time. This could also significantly reduce the diagnoses process. With this compromise, should be allowed to keep data caps and also offer unlimited data plans similar to that of the wireless phone services out there today. The benefit to this would be that the FCC Open Internet standards would not be preventing from charging consumers for going over their monthly data quota. At the same time, if consumers do not want to be bothered by this, they could simply opt in for the unlimited data plans. This seems like it would be a fair trade off as we the consumers are actually given the options to have unlimited, or data caps. Another reason that this compromise may be of interest to the big companies is the fact that they could still make money and we would progress and innovate much faster. Innovation alone could bring many new things to the table to create an enjoyable life world-wide. This could help create the next big idea such as the smartphone that was adopted world-wide and is used by nearly everyone every day. Research teams could collaborate with other research facilities much quicker if they were able to transfer data back and forth at a much faster rate. If the proposed compromise were to take place, would be able to benefit from their customers viewing streaming services as they have a higher chance of the consumers going over Hiser 5 their monthly data quota. This also benefits the streaming service providers as well because they get more revenue from more subscribers who now have the ability to stream their services in a high quality format and with little loading. FCC would not need to keep their eyes on bigger ISP companies as much if everyone is offering the same base minimum upload and download speeds. With this type of ideal setup, should be more inclined to develop new methods for internet delivery and innovate on their technology at hand. With more innovation comes more businesses that are able to sprout and join in on the ISP offerings for more locally defined consumers. With the proposed compromise, Comcast and the FCC should have no issue coming to terms and settling the internet controversy once and for all. Hiser 6 Works Cited Fernandez, Bob. Comcast yet again ranks among worst companies for customer  Philly.com. N.p., 02 June 2015. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Comcast weighs in on FCC net neutrality  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 15 May 2015. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Open  Federal Communications Commission. N.p., 25 Aug. 2016. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Nordrum, Amy. Is Net Neutrality Good or Bad for  IEEE Spectrum: Technology, Engineering, and Science News. N.p., 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Selyukh, Alina. The AT&T-Time Warner Merger: What Are The Pros And Cons For  NPR. NPR, 25 Oct. 2016. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Spectrum  Spectrum Business. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Feb. 2017.