Sackey Tyrique Sackey Prof. Drugan ENC 1102 1/29/2017 Affordable College College cost has been rising for the last decade and it seems like it will not be slowing down no time soon. many ways to make it affordable, but free tuition is the most common solution giving. Some people are even pushing for free room and board also, but in reality not very possible. Free tuition is backed by many politicians and would be the side choose by many Americans. There are those who also believe free tuition will not benefit the poor and will only be a waste of money and not really be worth the investment. According Raoul Reyes From Business Mirror would be a waste of time and resources if poor students end up either not enrolling or dropping out, because they afford the other costs of college. Although free tuition provides access to college education, Basillote pointed out that a student also has to tackle another challenge or obstacle of staying in college until graduation, which she describes as rather This is the other side of the fence who believe the poor wouldnt benefit and all this would be doing is wasting tax dollars. These economist think that a completely making tuition free benefits people with money more than anything. The compromise deemed beneficial for everyone, but still affordable for the country is free tuition at all community college which was proposed by Hillary Clinton in her campaign. Sackey College cheap, and with its ever increasing price people are looking for ways to make it more affordable. In New York, there recently has been a proposal for free tuition and it going in motion and may actually be a reality. Free tuition will not only make college more affordable, but also makes community college free. This will open up a gateway or basically a bridge for any American looking for higher education after high school. According to Cubberley, able to take advantage of up to two tuition-free years at a community college would have a choice of pathways. Completing an industry-recognized certificate in a year or less could put thousands of Americans in the workforce in high demand jobs that pay well and oftentimes offer health benefits and retirement plans. These certificates can be parlayed into an degree in a career program, further strengthening earning This creates endless opportunity and eliminates the possibility of anyone not getting the same opportunity. Free tuition also benefit people attending four year colleges. This makes college very affordable and allows people to attend universities locally and still attend for very cheap. This free bridge also give people the chance that as good at school to achieve in a entree level. This also allows flexibility with choosing major since classes will be free which give students more choices . There are many factors slowing down the process of the passing of legislation for free tuition. It is a popular idea that free tuition will not be an effective method of allowing students easier access to proper education. There are those who believe that free tuition will not help people become successful because in the real world a good job will be needed to become a productive member to society. Another point people may have is college be deemed as important due to the fact that it will devalue your degree. Those also believe students work Sackey as hard since In the first paragraph I brought up this would be a waste of time and resources if poor students end up either not enrolling or dropping out, because they afford the other costs of college. Although free tuition provides access to college education, Basillote pointed out that a student also has to tackle another challenge or obstacle of staying in college until graduation, which she describes as rather saying making the easier guarantee success. A problem that many economist have which really separates the democrats and republicans is demand. According to Insiders When you give something away for free, the demand for it picks Wesbury told WND. the demand for it picks up, the price picks up. We already know what student loans have done to the cost of The viable compromise that seems to meet the standards of economist and American taxpayers is making tuition free college in community college and allowing it to be bridge. This process creates far more opportunity as it gives poor people a chance to accomplish what they do before with the cost restrictions. This helps still separate students and allows the best performers still the opportunity to get scholarships and acceptance in the University of there choices This does not exceed cost since it only community college, which caused a lot of economist to red flag Bernie idea of free education which basically proposes 750 billion dollars to go toward free tuition nation wide . This also creates a balance that many are scared of. It devalue college either since all major university involved and it actually will increase attendance and generate more revenue for colleges. According Fran Where limited resources preclude a number of people from considering college, having the opportunity to enroll in community college for free could inspire, and prepare, many Sackey to realize their dream of obtaining a Often times, students simply need faith in a viable and probably opportunity in order to succeed. If they know their tuition will be covered, they will be more inspired to take advantage of their opportunities, therefore increasing their chances of achieving a good academic standing. This could help people prosper in the future, as most jobs paying a living wage require a college education of some sort. In addition to free tuition for everyone for community college, if students achieve a gpa of 3.2 or higher when attaining their degree, they should receive further assistance from the government to attend higher education. Hillary Clinton proposed a similar compromise. She prospose spending $350 billion on community colleges tuition allowing people to attend to community for free . Their is were the basis of the compromise come from . Her proposal is very possible and if she was elected as president it would have went thru congress and maybe be accepted With college now being seen as a basic requirement for many employment opportunities, there must be legislative reforms that will make acquiring a degree a realistic reality. Community college is a way to give students that are serious about education a fair chance at acquiring a degree that will earn them qualifications to get a well paying job. Even though there are some legitimate concerns about providing free tuition to citizens, the benefits outweigh the negatives. Sackey Work cited Berke, Jeremy. Why a Lot of Economists Hate the Idea of Free Public Insider . Business Insider, 02 Mar. 2016. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. CBS/AP. Could New Free College Tuition Plan Spread across the  News . CBS Interactive, 05 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cubberley, Fran. The Reality Of Free Community College  Of College Admission 227 (2015): 21-23. Search Alumni Edition . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. PBED, youth groups warn public of pitfalls of free-tuition  Mirror [Makati City, 7 Jan. 2017. Insights: Essentials . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pros and Cons of Tuition-Free  Raptor Blog . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.