Zachary Gottfried Gottfried1 ENC 1102 Drugun Janauary 30, 2017 Intermediate Draft From the beginning of the century, performance enhancing drugs have been a major controversy in professional sports. These drugs have been giving athletes the competitive edge that allows them to play at their peak performance. In professional sports, athletes are tempted to utilize these supplements to do well, but they do not realize the dangers that come with the super human abilities. By proposing a compromise that will be beneficial for both of the wants, will be ideal. There are players that want to keep the ban and then players that want to take performance enhancing drugs to have a desirable advantage over opponents. The players that want to keep the ban, believe that the game is meant to be played by athletes that have the best natural ability or work ethic to the sport. They feel that if performance enhancing supplement were to be legal, they would be pressured into to taking them in order to keep up with players that use them. The steroids will increase the risk of short term and long term injuries drastically. Steroids are banned from professional sports such as baseball, basketball, and hockey because steroids are detrimental to health and they give an unfair advantage to the user (Anabolic Steroids 2). Not only are steroids banned in professional sports, they are illegal to possess without a valid prescription by a doctor (Anabolic Steroids 5). possession of illicitly obtained anabolic steroids carries a maximum penalty of one year in prison and a minimum $1,000 fine if this is an first drug offense (Anabolic Steroid Gottfried2 Steroids are one of the many supplements used in professional sports, the most effective and common one used currently. Moreover, Steroids are detrimental to health. Anabolic-Androgenic steroids is a supplement that acts like testosterone, a natural male hormone, that can be injected or taken orally (Khullar 2). Steroids help athletes build a massive amount of muscle and enhance strength and speed with no time wasted (Khullar 2). Not only do steroids increase athletic performance, they also increase muscle endurance and recovery allowing athletes to go full throttle for a longer period of time before becoming fatigued (Khullar 2). Steroids can also help individuals mentally such as increasing self confidence in the user (Khullar 2). On the other hand, there are an abundant amount of negative side effects that come with the use of Anabolic-Androgenic steroids (Khullar 2). For instance, testicular atrophy, mood fluctuations, gynecomastia, high blood pressure, aggression, and depression (Khullar). Are steroids even worth using? Commonly, Athletes partake in the use of steroids without realizing the negative effects because they are to focused on being the best. Steroid users are commonly athletes and bodybuilders that want to either have a competitive edge or improve their physical physique with ease. (Anabolic Steroids 1). Athletes obtain steroids illegally by smuggling them by purchasing them usually from the country of Mexico and the continent of Europe, because it is legal to purchase them without a prescription (Anabolic Steroids 2). In contrast, the stakeholders that are known as the players that want to use performance enhancing drugs, want to gain an edge over other competitors without working as hard or having to be born with natural talent in order to excel. Athletes that combine steroids and strength training will obtain the unattainable results that they desired before using the supplement, such Gottfried3 results are gaining an abundance of muscle mass and losing fat effortlessly (Ormsbee). one study (Bhasin et al. 1996), subjects taking large doses of testosterone over a 10-week treatment period gained 7 pounds of muscle, and those who combined testosterone with strength training gained 13.5 pounds of muscle. In addition, taking testosterone alone improved leg and chest strength by 19% and 10%, respectively, while combining testosterone with strength training increased leg and chest strength by 38% and 22%, respectively. Of note is the fact that subjects in the placebo group who strength trained were able to increase their muscle mass by more than 4 pounds and their leg and chest strength by 21% and 11%, respectively, in the same amount of time According to this study, athletes can make massive physical improvements with such supplements. Moreover, stakeholders are at odds with each other because there are players that are for performance enhancing drugs and players that are against it. Once performance enhancing drugs are allowed the players that are for it are gonna use it and have an advantage, forcing the players against it to use them in order to keep of the stakeholders are similar, because they both strive to be at the top. They are different because they want to reach their greatest potential in different ways. There are the stakeholders that want to achieve their goal with performance enhancing drugs and there are the stakeholders that want to achieve their goal with their natural ability. The best solution that would be fair for both stakeholders is to have a traditional league for the players that want to keep the ban and a super human league for the players that want to utilize performance enhancing drugs. This compromise is beneficial because it will level the playing field in both leagues (Smith 1). Sports leagues have been struggling to set a level playing field because athletes continue to utilize performance enhancing drugs (Smith 1). Gottfried4 Suspensions and punishment for those players that are caught using performance enhancing drugs are not productive in reducing the amount of athletes using performance enhancing supplements (Smith 1). Having a super human league, where performance enhancing drugs are legal will produce a higher level of ability in sports, because players will be able to play at their peak performance. huge part of watching sports is witnessing the very peak of human athletic ability, and legalizing performance enhancing drugs would help athletes climb even higher. Steroids and doping will help pitchers to throw harder, home runs to go further, cyclists to charge for longer and sprinters to test the very limits of human speed (Smith Legalizing PEDs will make sports more exciting to watch. In order for my compromise to be viable, I need investors. This is worth investing because all one needs to look at the 1990s when players on steroids such as Sammy Sosa, Barry Bonds, and Mark Mcgwire were breaking records and because of this games were being sold and baseball was making a lot of money (Smith 1). Legalizing PEDs will make things easier, because organizations would not be suspicious of any players cheating. Players will not have to worry about taking anything that is for instance stimulants like ephedrine is illegal in professional sports, however caffeine is not (Smith 1). Players may believe that PEDs are a health risk, but playing in professional sports is a health risk alone. For, example, football players have damaged brains due to repeated head drama throughout the years of playing in professional football (Smith 1). Not to mention, PEDs will be regulated safely throughout the leagues and players will not have to rely on dangerous substances from the black market that have not been tested (Smith 1). simple fact is that any recent player inducted to the Hall of Fame will enter under a veil of suspicion and uncertainty, regardless of what evidence exists. If PEDs are made legal in professional sports, then suspicion Gottfried5 would no longer need apply and the best players would be fairly rewarded for their on-field performances (Smith Legalizing PEDs will get rid of all the suspicion! For my compromise to work, I need players willing to take PEDs and there is proof that there are many athletes willing to take them. fact Bamberger and Yaeger (1997) asked a number of elite athletes the following question: If you were offered a performance-enhancing substance that came with the guarantees that (1) you would not get caught, (2) you would win every competition you entered for the next 6 years and (3) you would then die from the side effects of the substance, would you take it? Over 50% of the athletes responded yes! While this a true scientific survey, it does illustrate that many young, athletic adults are more concerned with the present than the future (Ormsbee In conclusion, there are players in professional sports that want to keep the ban on PEDs and players that want to utilize them to obtain an edge and play at their peak performance. Essentially, the compromise of having a traditional league and superhuman league benefits and is fair for both sides of the argument. This will satisfy players that want to keep the ban because they will not be pressured to take performance enhancing drugs because no one else in the league will. The players that are for the performance enhancing drugs will also be satisfied because they will be allowed to take them and get bigger, faster, and stronger without having to work as hard. The players that are for performance enhancing drugs will have to give up on the tradition of sports, because they will be playing in a super league. Both sides will have to give up some fans and some of their salary because it will have to be split between the two leagues at first, eventually the super human league will make up for the money that was lost. Gottfried6 Work Cited KHULLAR, NEHA, et al. Prevalence And Predictors Of Anabolic-Androgenic Steroid Use Among Gym Users In Kuwait: A Preliminary  International Journal Of Health 15.2 (2016): 144-156. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ormsbee, Michael, and Matt Vukovich. Performance--enhancing drugs: taking them, and what are the benefits and  IDEA Fitness Journal 2005: 60. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Chris. Why Time To Legalize Steroids In Professional  (2012): 23. Source Premier . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. United States. Drug Enforcement, Administration. Anabolic  (2004): . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gottfried7