Charity 1 Richard Charity ENC 1102-071 Professor Drugan and Progressive Economic Theory: The Discovery of Taxation, government spending, money supply, and the interest rate are controlled by the government through fiscal policy. The goal of fiscal policy is to reach full potential gross domestic product (GDP), the full potential GDP is the maximum real gross domestic product a country can sustain in the long run. The goal is to stimulate economic growth, but the challenge is which approach to fiscal policy should one take: supply-side economic theory or progressive economic theory. Substantial amounts of disputation between the policy makers, government officials, political parties, lobbyist, businesses have proliferated over which approach is ideal. Both supply-side economic theory and progressive economics theory argue their own points and core beliefs well. Through the examination of both economic theories, common ground between the trickle down nature of supply-side economics and the wage-raising wants of progressivism can be negotiated to meet the liking of both lower wage worker unions and the top level executives of large companies. I propose an incentive that cut taxes for businesses that pays lower class workers a wage that is higher than the minimum wage, this incentive will encourage growth in lower class and maximum output from corporations thus leading to economic growth. Cutting taxes on small business is a big component of supply-side economic theory. The popularity of supply-side economic theory increased during Ronald Reagan presidency. Many coined his version of the theory another term for it trickle down economics. It Charity 2 embraced lowering taxes for the wealthy, leading to the redistributing of wealth via the creation of more jobs. The creation of more jobs would give more people the power to spend money hence stimulating economic growth. Supporters of supply-economic are likely to align with the conservative party. This is probability is explained in an essay by Carles Boix of the Ohio State University about political parties and economic theories. second economic strategy consists, instead, in providing a stable and certain economic framework to private agents. Governments fight inflation, supply the right amount of money and run a balanced budget. This last set of policies may not safeguard some sectors from the hardship associated with a temporary fall in economic activity. But it is expected to secure the stability that private agents need to invest and hence maximize output. Conservatives are thus expected to embrace this latter (Boix, 817). This statement makes the statement the conservative party alignment with supply side economics, because it explains that conservative embrace the economic strategy of providing private agents like business with the investments to increase maximum output. Reagans economic policy aligns with Teresa Garcia-Mila, Albert Marcet, and Eva Ventura evaluation of the effect of supply side interventions on welfare with the following quote in their article Side Interventions and calibrate and simulate the economy; we find that lowering capital taxes has two effects: it increases efficiency in terms of aggregate production, and it redistributes wealth in favour of those agents with a low wage/wealth (Garcia-Mila, 205). Capital taxes are any taxes made off the profit of bonds, stocks, assets, precious metals or property. The experiment conducted in the article concluded that supply-side taxation policy was the single most important factor in creating widespread economic efficiency across the world. Quantitative easing is a variation of trickle-down economic theory that has been considered by some as a means of reducing unemployment. The policy involves increasing Charity 3 the price of treasury bonds and other assets to increase output and productions. The policy attributes this increase in production to increase in expenditures. (Watkins, 436). Progressive economic theory generally contradicts every point made in supply-side economic theory. Progressive economic theory tends to focus on the well-being of the poor and bottom-up practices. One could argue that being progressive as much about economic growth as it is about reform of the living standard. Andrew Simms tends to prove that point in the Newscientist journal. of indefinite global economic growth is that it is needed to eradicate (Simms, 49). This statement tends to prove that he believes that economic growth is not the only way to make poor people richer. He goes on to make argue against a point made in supply-side economics. He states, the for every $100 added to the value of the global economy, around $2.20 found its way to those living below the World Banks absolute poverty (Simms, 49). Many other progressives believe that when economic growth occurs from the top-down, wages tend to stagnate. While some progressives believe that capitalism as economic systems is flawed, many progressive believe that reform is the best way to fix the system and sustain economic growth. Progressives believe that there should be more investment into sustainable fields, educating the poor, and welfare programs. Investing in these programs as well as the middle class would lead to increase output and spending and to better not only the economy but social living standards as well over the long term. A study on the effects of welfare on single mothers proved that when welfare policies drastically changed to encourage work, single mother found it much harder to provide adequate food, pay bills and rent. (Meyers,7). For progressive increasing the minimum wage, the lowest wage you can pay someone to work, it will lead to economic growth. Supporters of supply side economics argue that a rise in the minimum wage would lead to a rise in the unemployment rate. In an article about the effects of raising the Charity 4 minimum wage on unemployment, Richard Pollin and Jeannette Wicks-Lim argue against the claim that a rise in the minimum wage would lead to a rise in the unemployment rate. conclude that the fast-food industry could absorb the increase in its overall wage bill without resorting to cuts in their employment levels at any point over this four-year adjustment period. We find that the fast-food industry could fully absorb these wage bill increases through a combination of turnover reductions, trend increases in sales growth, and modest annual price increases over the four-year (Pollin, 716). His article argues that substantial raising the minimum wage for low-wage worker is a possible thing. Common ground is essential to making change especially in the government. There are many check and balances and frustrating political gridlock that occurs before change can happen. Compromise is necessary. Although supply-side and progressive economics have many differences. They both are policies that strive to stimulate economic growth. The compromise in United States fiscal policy can be achieved by taking points from both theories and implementing them in the real world, implement a moderate capital tax cut, and provide incentives for companies that pay their low-wage workers a specific wage above the federal and state minimum wage. Provide a tax cut for companies that invests in educating lower class communities. The tax cuts satisfy the liking of supply side theory. While a raise in the minimum wage, investment of lower class communities, and increasing funding in education for lower class citizens complies with progressive views. By examining progressive and supply-side economic policy, we can conclude that it is possible to propose with a compromise that complies with people of both theories I see that it would benefit all people that would be effected, policy makers, government officials, political parties, lobbyists, businesses, and the citizens of America. A good amount of the policy makers, Charity 5 government officials, and lobbyist would all get reelected because of the economic growth and social-economic living standard raise. Businesses would increase their output because of the tax cut and incentives. The future sustainability of this growth trend would be more probable because the rise in education would rise to a stronger middle class. It is possible, the data does show that the most of the poor and most of the rich can both win. Charity 6 Worked Cited Boix, Carles. Parties and the Supply Side of the Economy: The Provision of Physical and Human Capital in Advanced Economies, American Journal of Political Science, vol. 41, no. 3, 1997, pp. Teresa, et al. Side Interventions and The Economic Journal, vol. 120, no. 543, 2010, pp. John P. Watkins. (2015) Economic Waste and Social Provisioning: Veblen and Keynes on the Wealth Effect. Journal of Economic Issues 49:2, pages 441-448. Meyer, Bruce D, and James X. Sullivan. The Effects of Welfare and Tax Reform: the Material Well-Being of Single Mothers in the 1980s and  Journal of Public Economics. 88.7 (2004): 1387-1420. Print PLUNKETT, JAMES. The Rising Tide Economy: Lessons From The Squeezed Middle For Progressive Economic  Political Quarterly 3 (2012): 502. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Simms, Andrew. Trickle-Down  NewScientist (2008): 49. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.