Hiser 1 Eric Hiser Professor Drugon ENG 1102-071 28 January 2017 Should be required to Follow Open Standards for Internet Usage? For a while now, consumers have been unhappy with the way Internet Service Providers have been treating them. The first company to come to mind when talking about is Comcast. Comcast is notoriously known for their terrible customer service. As stated from philly.com, with Internet service fell 2 percent, to a score of 56 - the lowest in the sector in the new (Fernandez, Bob; www.Philly.com). To help keep Comcast in check, the FCC has been fighting for a while to the internet with open standards. If we, the consumers want to enjoy the internet and not fall behind all other countries, it would be imperative to create a compromise that would both benefit Comcast and the consumers. Now Comcast does believe that there should be an open internet standard, but not the open standard that the FCC wants to set. As stated from LAtimes.com, agreed to continue to abide by the open Internet rules as part of an agreement to win approval of its deal to acquire media company (James, Meg; www.LAtimes.com) Along with the acquisition of NBCUnversial, Comcast would be able to merge with Time Warner Cable Company and then own rights to another million customers of Time Warner (James, Meg; www.Latimes.com) The benefit behind merging for Comcast is there would be very little competition. Comcast would be able to control most of the United States and the majority of Hiser 2 consumers would be under rules for internet usage. For consumers, this is not a very good thing at all. This is where the FCC steps in to try and mitigate what the damage would be if Comcast and Time Warner Cable Company had merged. The FCC proposed the standard. This means that can go where they want, when they (www.fcc.gov) With the Open Internet standard, can develop products and services without asking for permission. It means consumers will demand more and better broadband as they enjoy new lawful Internet services, applications and content, and broadband providers cannot block, throttle, or create special fast  for that (www.fcc.gov) This standard would in turn prevent companies that are trying to create a monopoly from blocking, throttling, and use of paid prioritization broadband from continuing in locking customers in contract. Most consumers would be pro-open internet standard as there are just so many benefits to them with how much the internet is used now a days with streaming services such as Netflix, Hulu, YouTube, and HBO. Given the chance to have this open standard, it may cause issues later on with having too much power. As of June 12, 2015, the FCC was able to introduce the Open Internet rules. While this is a very pro-consumer type move, it has downsides for the and lower level that anywhere near as big as Comcast, AT&T or Time Warner Cable Company. With the Open Internet rules in place, this brings to the major topic, should be required to follow open standards for internet usage? While as more for less is always better in the eyes of the consumer, too much could cause more to drop out of the business and leave only the biggest companies to run the internet. For a while, the biggest threat to consumers was the Comcast and Time Warner Cable Company merger that has now been conflicted and will no longer happen. Comcast has agreed to abide by the FCC open internet standards but will continually try Hiser 3 legal (James, Meg; www.LAtimes.com) Comcast would oppose proposal to reclassify broadband Internet access as a telecommunications service subject to Title II of the Communications (James, Meg; www.LAtimes.com) as a threat to FCC to keep them from having too much legal leverage over their business. There are good and bad sides to net neutrality and to list one as a starter there is the fact that not all content is created equal. millions of Comcast customers want to live stream the Super Bowl from NBC, going to require a lot more bandwidth and network resources from Comcast than if they were all trying to load a simple website. ISPs argue that allowing them to charge content creators (such as NBC) based on how much bandwidth they consume, or how fast their content must be delivered, is more (Spectrum.ieee.org) This means that content providers such as Netflix, Hulu, and HBO would also need to pay the in order for their customers to not get throttled by the as they would like more money if they are benefiting the streaming companies so heavily. So what should we do between the Open Internet rules and I propose a compromise to both allow FCC and such as Comcast to both get a piece of the cake and be happy with the end result. This compromise would be consisting of upping the minimum download and upload speed of internet across all of the This would allow consumers to view streaming services at a reasonable pace and not be held back by the bare minimum that the wish to have the consumer pay for. Perhaps the biggest benefit to this increase would be to all businesses alike. This would speed up production and services related to IT. In the healthcare field, the more data that can be transferred quicker, the more patients that they can take in at a time. This could also significantly reduce the diagnoses process. Hiser 4 With this compromise, should be allowed to keep data caps and also offer unlimited data plans similar to that of the wireless phone services out there today. The benefit to this would be that the FCC Open Internet standards would not be preventing from charging consumers for going over their monthly data quota. At the same time, if consumers do not want to be bothered by this, they could simply opt in for the unlimited data plans. There much of a loss to either side in terms of productivity when it comes to the compromise I am proposing. If the proposed compromise were to take place, would be able to benefit from their customers viewing streaming services as they have a higher chance of the consumers going over their monthly data quota. This also benefits the streaming service providers as well because they get more revenue from more subscribers who now have the ability to stream their services in a high quality format and with little loading. FCC would not need to keep their eyes on bigger ISP companies as much if everyone is offering the same base minimum upload and download speeds. With this type of ideal setup, should be more inclined to develop new methods for internet delivery and innovate on their technology at hand. With more innovation comes more businesses that are able to sprout and join in on the ISP offerings for more locally defined consumers. Overall the effect this compromise would have on the United States would put as back in the right direction which we had started when we first set out to build internet lines. Hiser 5 Works Cited http://www.latimes.com/entertainment/envelope/cotown/la-et-ct-comcast-fcc-net-neutrality- 20140515-story.html https://www.fcc.gov/general/open-internet http://spectrum.ieee.org/tech-talk/telecom/internet/does-net-neutrality-help-or-harm-innovation http://www.npr.org/sections/alltechconsidered/2016/10/25/499185907/the-at-t-time-warner- merger-what-are-the-pros-and-cons-for-consumers https://business.spectrum.com/content/sb-impact-internet-speed