Nixon 1 Hunter Nixon William Drugan ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Should College Athletes Be Paid There has been a long running debate going on in the country as to whether or not college athletes should be paid and treated as if they were employees. The two stakeholders in this argument are the NCAA and all NCAA athletes. As of right now, college athletes do not get paid for competing at very high levels. These athletes are however, given compensation in the form of tuition, food, and housing. This is seen by some as a fair compensation because it still adds up to a good amount of money depending on where they attend school. Though this is paid for some students there are others that have the money to maintain a living outside of the school even though they are essentially working almost everyday throughout the year. This does not allow the athletes to get an actual job to make money. That is why athletes should get paid a low designated rate that allows them to make some money. Not only do they work hard everyday risking injuries that can cause them to miss out on potential money they would make later in their careers if they could have made it to the professional level. These players are forced to stay in college for at least three years before they are allowed to attempt to play at the professional level. The only fair compromise is that college players should get paid depending on how much their respective sport makes and also be paid for their likeness for things like jerseys and video games. From the perspective of the NCAA, players are getting fairly compensated for their contribution to the organization. According to forbes.com, the average cost of attendance for a public university is roughly $28,000 per year. If an athlete gets a full scholarship then this cost is Nixon 2 completely covered for them, which the NCAA believes is enough for a college student. One of the main reasons the NCAA wants to make it this way is because they do not want colleges to be able to offer money to play for their schools, because that will help out the bigger colleges that have more money to offer. In the article college athletes be in Diverse Issues in Education, Donald Remy, the general counsel and vice president of legal affairs for the NCAA, has stated The NCAA, in accordance with courts that have addressed the issue, believes that student-athletes are not employees, under the law, and that they should not be treated as employees either by the law or by the schools they This shows that the stance the NCAA takes in the courts is that the college athletes are students and should not be treated like employees. They believe that the players are gaining enough from what is already being paid for and also by gaining valuable experience that they will need the rest of their lives. One of the main points that the NCAA also argues is that if they had to pay all college athletes across each sport equally they would lose money, because sports like football and basketball make a lot more money for the college than track or swimming. On the other side, college athletes think that they should get paid for many reasons. One of the main reasons that college athletes believe they should get paid is because they generate an insane amount of money for not only their colleges, but the NCAA too. According to moneynation.com, the NCAA has made an average of $814 million dollars per year over the past ten years. In this article, the author Tom Gerenger, explains how the NBA makes an average of $5 billion dollars per year and pays average salaries of $2.5 million dollars, while just college basketball by itself makes roughly $3 billion dollars per year while players are paid nothing. He equates the use of the athletic facilities and cost of attendance to non-monetarily range between $50,000 to $130,000 per year. This shows that they are making the organization roughly the same amount as professionals but are not being compensated anywhere near the Nixon 3 same. Robert and Amy McCormick, two law professors at Michigan State University, believe that these college athletes are more like employees and should get paid as such. The way they explain that these athletes are actually employees is because most of the things they do fall under federal labor laws and that they should be able to form unions and negotiate salaries for their performance. Player likeness is another reason college athletes believe they should be paid. Schools and companies use what looks like either the jersey or what they actually look like, in the case of video games, to sell more products. The way they had been getting away with it was by not using the actual names. But according to USA Today, in 2015 EA Sports paid a $60 million dollar payout to former players who had been suing them for their likeness that was used in the games. Even though it was former and not current players, this was a big step, as it raises hope for players playing now that they can potentially fight to reap benefits from their performance and likeness being used. Both these stakeholders are fighting for the exact opposite sides so coming to a compromise might be difficult. The best possible option that I see is that college athletes should be paid a set salary that does not differ between schools. This would keep players from going to different schools because they pay more while also giving the athletes some extra money for their hard work. I believe that the different sports should get paid differently though in terms of how much money they make the NCAA. By this I mean that athletes that play football or basketball should receive more money because they produce more money. I also believe that they should get paid a certain amount for things that are sold with their likeness like jerseys or video games. An example of this could be the football college players make 25% of the revenue of the league as a whole. According to osmyguy.com, there are 87,256 college football players. So say the NCAA makes $814,000,000, 25% of that would be $203,500,000, split that between the 87,256 players and that would be $2,332 per player. The percentage can fluctuate Nixon 4 based on how much the certain university makes for the NCAA. That plus the amount that they would receive for any use or sale of their likeness would pay them enough to have an enjoyable social life. The main reason the players say they want money is because they cannot have a life outside of football because they have to work to make money or have money to do anything. This amount of money would give them roughly the same amount as if they were to work a part time job. This way if the players still chose to work it would give them a very stable, solid amount of money that would allow them to comfortably live. Overall the NCAA and college athletes seem like going to come to a conclusion on this issue in the not too distant future, as it is becoming a more controversial topic with college athletes pushing harder and harder to get fair compensation for the work they put in. The NCAA is going to continue to fight against it, but it seems as though college athletes will at least strike a compromise that will help more than just getting their cost of attendance and being able to use the athletic facilities. Works Cited Nixon 5 Berkowitz, Steve. Athletes Could Get Several Thousand Dollars Each in NCAA Video Game  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 03 July 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Cooper, Kenneth J. Should College Athletes Be Paid to  Should College Athletes Be Paid to  by Cooper, Kenneth J. - Diverse Issues in Higher Education, Vol. 28, Issue 10, June 23, 2011 Online Research Library: Questia. Diverse Issues in Higher Education, 23 June 2011. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Gerencer, Tom. How Much Money Does the NCAA  Money Nation. Money Nation, 17 Nov. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Onink, Troy. College Costs Could Total As Much As $334,000 In Four  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 01 Feb. 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Sleeper, Ryan. What Are the Odds of Going Pro in Sports?  OSM Guy. N.p., 09 July 2014. Web. 16 Feb. 2017.