Abdiel Compres Dr.Drugan ENC1102 01/27/17 Nuclear Energy August 6,1945 marked a day in human history that will forever become the day that humans themselves had the potential to destroy life on the planet. we no longer needed to worry about natural disasters wiping out our species as a whole, so much as worrying about each other wiping out ourselves. Ever since the atomic bombs at Hiroshima and Nagasaki were deployed governments and organizations have marveled at the possible solutions to our ongoing energy crisis, and how harnessing the power that levels cities could be used to solve the problems that we faced as we realized that our energy consumption was reaching unsustainable levels. Scientists quickly realized that nuclear reactors could potentially solve this crisis, finding that one uranium pellet would produce as much energy as one ton of coal. an so It was in 1957 that the worlds first commercial nuclear power site was opened in Windscale England. Soon after many countries started to invest in their own nuclear power plants. It seemed as though the world were headed into an era of self sustainability and progress. However everything would change in 1986 with the event known as the Chernobyl accident. A nuclear power plant meltdown causing the direct deaths of 31 people and left the entire surrounding area contaminated with nuclear waste. To this day the Chernobyl accident has left the area still uninhabitable for life. However this was no accident. In adequate training and severe dosing flaws in the nuclear reactor were the catalysts that caused this catastrophe. Ever since the disaster at Chernobyl countries have wondered if Nuclear energy was truly the best alternative for un-renewable resources. And if so, what could be done to prevent such disasters from occurring again. I propose that new nuclear facilities be created and that more government regulations and adequate training be given to those scientists working on the nuclear power-plants. and that the money saved from using nuclear power plant she used manly o further develop the technologies of wind and solar energy, as well as fund research into other environmental issues such as conservation of rainforests. However many organizations fear that the reliance on nuclear power could cause permanent damage the surrounding environment, as well as health risks to people from radiation caused cancer as well as the very real threat that terrorists could target such reactors in order to obtain weapons grade uranium and possibly create weapons of mass destruction. Although nuclear reactors themselves do not emits carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, the actual life cycle of the nuclear reactors does. As in the actual transportation of raw building materials to the reactor site as well as the actual act of ming the uranium from the ground itself. Organizations such as Green Peace argue that nuclear reactors are the potential health risk. With cancer being the number two leading cause of death in America news it is a very real concern for many people around the world. Especially due to the fact that any potential nuclear disaster could result in an increase in cancer related deaths in the surrounding area for years to come. In the words of Rex Power is a form of random On top of the existing risks of using nuclear power, is the level of corruption that exists in the private corporations that own and run the nuclear facilities. Such as in the case with Former governor of Fukushima prefecture, Eisako Sato, who brought up safety concerns about the reactor, before he was forced to resign due to what he called were accusations. Sadly though, it took the 2011 nuclear reactor disaster in Fukushima Japan for his warnings to be taken seriously. Its also no surprise that in the United States,4.6 million dollars were donates to congress from the U.S Nuclear Industry. And when safety concerns about some of the reactors were brought up by the NRC, U.S Senator Pete Domenici threatened to cut their funding. Thanks to private corporations running and owning nuclear reactors, they have been able to mostly focus on profit toward the 1% leaving the clean up and decommissioning left for tax payers to deal with. Another issue that many environmentalists have brought up is the actual cost of building nuclear reactors. Nuclear reactors go over budget regularly, and the amount of money used to build the reactors themselves does not include the cost of decommissioning once the reactor is at the end of its life cycle. Nor does it include the cost of security as well as the insurance to cover the nuclear facility. But by far the most controversial issue that most environmentalists have with nuclear energy is the amount of waste generated by the reactors themselves. Other than the fact that nuclear waste is harmful to humans. Isotopes such as Plutonium-239 have half lives of 24,000 years; its no wonder why people would not exactly be keen on having nuclear waste buried in their However there are many positives of using nuclear energy. For one; nuclear power is operational 24/7 unlike solar panels who can only be used during the day and the amount of energy output largely depends on the weather. In fact the Nuclear Energy Institute states that energy produces 62 percent of all U.S. emission free As opposed to wind, solar and geothermal which all together only add up to only about 18% of carbon free emissions. Also although the carbon life cycle of nuclear reactors is greater than wind energy life cycle, 13 tons of carbon emissions vs 12 tons of carbon emissions. They still use much less then solar energy which is 53 tons of carbon emissions and even much less than coals which is around 979 tons of carbon emissions in its life cycle. But the positives of nuclear energy just stop there. The U.S. Nuclear regulatory commission, the U.S. Environmental protection agency and state regulators routinely inspect and check nuclear reactors as well as the surrounding environment for any possible contamination. Nuclear reactors are also built to be incredibly sturdy. Four- foot thick concrete and steel domes surround reactors; as well as multiple back up safety systems incase of emergency. Including multiple check points and security personnel mostly former military, that are required to run multiple emergency drills in case of attack every year. The N.E.I. also states that nearly one hundred power reactors in 30 states provide about 20 percent of all U.S. Which if you do the math, a little more than 300 reactors in the Unites states would be needed to have 100% of the energy it needs to be self sustaining. As well as energy benefits, nuclear reactors also offer economic benefits as well. The N.E.I states that the average nuclear reactor pays around $16 million in state and local taxes, as well as 67 million in federal taxes. On average each nuclear reactor generates 470 million in sales and services to the local community. Lastly, the spent uranium fuel pellets that are currently stored in secure steel and water filled containers. But with the completion of Yucca mountain in the Nevada dessert, nuclear reactors will be able to transport the used up fuel and bury it deep in Yucca mountain, which the surrounding area is not populated for miles and receives little to no rainfall each year allowing it to be the perfect place to keep the fuel. I propose that more nuclear reactors be constructed, so that we can finally become truly independent from fossil fuels in terms of energy. I propose that the money generated from these newly built reactors be directed into the development of more efficient wind and solar power energy. As well as environmental conservation efforts around the world. I also propose that even more training and safety protocols be enacted onto nuclear power plants and that older models be updated with the newest safety features. I propose tax breaks for people living around the reactor sites as well as corporations that help build and hold nuclear waste. And I propose that the government should run these facilities instead of relying on private institutions. So that corruption in the private sector keep important information from being made public. Work Cited Nichols,Hannah. Top 10 leading causes of death in the Www.Medical News Today.com.N.p.,21.2015.Web.29 Jan.2017 Weyler, Rex. Www.Green Peace.org.N.p, 7 July 2011. Web. 29 Jan.2017 Accident Www. World Nuclear Association.org.N.p, Nov.2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Facts: Nuclear Energy in Nuclear Energy Institute. N.p., July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Trembath, Alex, and Emma Brush. Innovation, Back in the The breakthrough Institute. N.p., 20 Dec.2016. Web.29 Jan. 2017 Brumfiel, Geoffrey. Nuclear www.Slate.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 29.2017 McNeill, David. of Nuclear Disaster not heeded, claims www.Independant.co.uk.N.p, 12 Apr. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Clamshell Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.