Smith 1 Bryan Smith Mr. Drugan ENC1102 12 February 2017 The Effect of Automation on the Future Job Market On December 5, 2016, Amazon debuted a new service in the form of a brick-and-mortar store named Amazon Go. One of the major features of this store was the ability to walk in and walk out with your groceries and not having to deal with checkout lines and cashiers. This the first time automation has been seen as a potential replacement for human workers. Years ago Amazon announced a project where packages would be delivered by drones, Uber and Tesla are working on completely autonomous vehicles, and for decades, machines have been replacing human assembly line workers in the production of cars. This considered to be that large of a problem because early robotics were only capable of doing low-level jobs and humans were able to find employment doing more specialized jobs within the same field. However, the evolution of machines is progressing at an exponential rate, and robotics are able to do more complicated tasks. Because of this, it is important that the United States start to think about what can be done to mitigate the impact that automation of jobs will have on the average citizen. The best compromise that allows for companies to adopt autonomous technology while also allowing citizens to work and survive, is to have corporations pay a high and have that fund a guaranteed minimum income that will be distributed to displaced workers. One of the stakeholders on this issue are the people who work low-skilled jobs that will soon be able to be done by autonomous machines. According to a study from Oxford University Smith 2 those who work in the careers that involve driving, financial consultation, and customer service are at the highest risk of being replaced in the upcoming years(Autor 25). Many of the jobs in these fields, are ones that pay well and require a college degree or a certificate to be able to perform. That factor makes these jobs highly accessible to those who are impoverished and seek to improve their position. The United States already has big issues concerning income inequality where, according to Forbes, the wealthiest 1% control 43% of the wealth in the nation (Average). Automation of jobs could potentially make these problems worse because the jobs at greatest risk are ones that are most likely to be taken by those who wealthy. Without a plan in place to address this, the unemployment rate would skyrocket and corporations would bring in even more money, furthering the gap between the rich and the poor. On the other side of this issue, you have corporations investing in and producing automated machinery. For corporations like Uber and Amazon, the biggest motivation for pushing forward the creation of automated machinery is that it results in increased profits. Not only does a company not have to pay an automated worker, they have to provide benefits, give them breaks and vacation time, or do anything else that an employer would have to provide in order to make human workers more comfortable (Brown). Autonomous employees can work twenty four hours a day, every day of the year so theoretically, businesses who can afford them would never have to close. They also have to hire as many human resources employees because there would be less humans to look out for. The only expense that would increase is the electricity or fuel cost to run the machines, and in the case of driving related professions, already paying for the fuel. A good example of this is the loss of jobs that self-driving cars would create in the truck driving industry, a job that require higher education, but still provides Smith 3 middle class pay. As of 2016, there are 1.7 million people working as truck drivers and they make an average of $42,500 a year (Frey and Osborne 12). Taking account only the salary, by replacing every driver with a driverless truck, the industry as a whole would save $72,250,000,000. And companies like Uber who employ only a fraction of that, still stand to save millions of dollar by automating their vehicles. There are two things that the United States could do to try to lessen the impact that automation can have on the future workforce. One potential solution is to provide incentives for companies that use human labor in while also increasing the value of human workers. This could be done through a combination of providing tax credits for business and offering retraining programs for those who at risk of being displaced (Miller). To delay the proliferation of artificial intelligence it makes sense to increase the gap between artificial and natural intelligence. For the near future these adaptations are viable, however eventually the day will come where artificial intelligence can do jobs that require high level critical thinking. In that case the best course of action to prevent the United States from facing an outrageous level of poverty is to make having a job be a choice, not a necessity. When corporations choose to adopt autonomous labor, they should have to pay a hefty tax to replace humans with it. The tax that they pay will will be distributed to citizens as a guaranteed minimum income so they have to worry about being able to support themselves. This does have the downside of being socialism, which would be hard to implement in the United States. However, capitalism is incompatible with an economy in which the opportunities for people to find gainful employment are that limited. In conclusion, autonomous machinery is progressing at an increasing rate and can potentially lead to human workers becoming obsolete. Since the United States cannot allow Smith 4 poverty to skyrocket, or the for the progress of science and technology to come to a halt, a plan must be put into place to aid people who have lost their jobs in this way. A compromise that can be made is to allow corporations to use these automated workers, but to levy a high tax for companies that use this as a method to replace human employees. This tax revenue will be paid out to those affected by the loss of jobs to machines, thus solving the structural unemployment of those replace. Smith 5 Works Cited Autor, David H. Why Are There Still So Many Jobs? The History and Future of Workplace  The Journal of Economic Perspectives, Summer 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Average America vs the One  . Forbes Magazine, 26 July 2012. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Brown, Alan S. Automation vs. Jobs [Mechanical  vs. Jobs [Mechanical . American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Apr. 2012. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Frey, Carl Benedikt, and Michael A. Osborne. The Future of Employment: How Susceptible Are Jobs to  Forecasting and Social Change 114 (2017): 254-80. Libraries . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Miller, Claire C. The Long-Term Jobs Killer Is Not China.  New York Times, 21 Dec. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.