Bryan Smith Mr. Drugan ENC1102 29 January 2017 The Effect of Automation on the Future Job Market On December 5, 2016, Amazon debuted a new service in the form of a brick-and-mortar store named Amazon Go. One of the major features of this store was the ability to walk in and walk out with your groceries and not having to deal with checkout lines and cashiers. This the first time automation has been seen as a potential replacement for human workers. Years ago Amazon announced a project where packages would be delivered by drones, companies like Uber and Tesla are working on completely autonomous vehicles, and for decades, machines have been replacing human assembly line workers in the production of cars. This considered to be that large of a problem because early robotics were only capable of doing low-level jobs and humans were able to find employment doing more specialized jobs within the same field. However, the evolution of machines is progressing at an exponential rate, and beginning to be able to more complicated tasks. Because of this, it is important that the United States start to think about what can be done to mitigate the impact that automation of jobs will have on the average citizen. Obviously, the progression of science cannot be stopped because innovation is necessary to remain the world power that the United States is. I feel that the best compromise that allows for companies to adopt autonomous technology while also allowing citizens to work and survive, is to have corporations pay a high and have that fund a guaranteed minimum income that will be distributed to displaced workers. One of the stakeholders on this issue are the people who work low-skilled jobs that will soon be able to be done by autonomous machines. According to a study from Oxford University those who work in the careers that involve driving, financial consultation, and customer service are at the highest risk of being replaced in the upcoming years. Many of the jobs in these fields, are ones that pay well and require a college degree or a certificate to be able to perform. That factor makes these jobs highly accessible to those who are impoverished and seek to improve their position. The United States already has big issues concerning income inequality where, according to Forbes, the wealthiest 1 percent control 43 percent of the wealth in the nation. Automation of jobs could potentially make these problems worse because the jobs at greatest risk are ones that are most likely to be taken by those who wealthy. Without a plan in place to address this, the unemployment rate would skyrocket and corporations would bring in even more money, furthering the gap between the rich and the poor. On one side of this issue, you have corporations investing in and producing automated machinery, engineers whose job it is to invent and innovate this machinery, and people who, in general, just like to see the progression of science. These three groups all enjoy seeing the world become increasingly automated although for different reasons. For corporations like Uber and Amazon, the biggest motivation for pushing forward the creation of automated machinery is that it results in increased profits. Not only does a company not have to pay an automated worker, they have to provide benefits, give them breaks and vacation time, or do anything else that an employer would have to provide in order to make human workers more comfortable. They also have to hire as many human resources employees because there would be less humans to look out for. The only expense that would increase is the electricity or fuel cost to run the machines, and in the case of driving related professions, already paying for the fuel. A good example of this is the loss of jobs that self-driving cars would create in the truck driving industry, a job that require higher education, but still provides middle class pay. As of 2016, there are 1.7 million people working as truck drivers and they make an average of $42,500 a year. Taking account only the salary, by replacing every driver with a driverless, the industry as a whole would save $72,250,000,000. And companies like Uber who employ only a fraction of that, stand to save millions of dollar by automating their vehicles. Another group who likes to see the innovation of science and technology are the engineers responsible for the creation and upkeep of that technology. Of course engineers like to see the progress of technology screech to a halt. their job to keep it moving forward, and if the United States puts regulations in place that would stagnate the progression of automation, the demand for engineers would drastically decrease. According to the National Society of Professional Engineers there are currently upwards of 2 million engineers working in the United States and many work in research and development. If there were regulation that restricted the expansion of robotics, many of the engineers in those fields would find themselves without jobs. So both of the options proposed so far in this essay would leaded to people losing jobs and then just being out of luck, albeit to different severities. In order to avoid large scale unemployment, a compromise between businesses and the people must occur. I believe that the best course of action to prevent the United States from facing an unemployment crisis is to make it so being unemployed lead down the road to poverty. Rather than forcing businesses to not adopt this technology, I propose that they have to pay a hefty tax to replace humans with it. If corporations are going to adopt autonomous going to have to be held responsible for the workers they displace. The tax that they pay will be distributed to those who lost their jobs to automation as a sort of guaranteed minimum income so that they have to struggle to make ends meet. This problem will probably will be met with opposition and complaints about socialism. However, I believe that capitalism is incompatible with an economy in which the opportunities for people to find gainful employment are that limited. I also believe that it is more important for people to not be poor and homeless, than it is to cling to an economic ideology that conducive to a world where machines do that much of the work. In conclusion, autonomous machinery is progressing at an increasing rate and can potentially lead to human workers becoming obsolete. Since the United States cannot allow poverty to skyrocket, or the for the progress of science and technology to come to a halt, a plan must be put into place to aid people who have lost their jobs in this way. A compromise that can be made is to allow corporations to use these automated workers, but to levy a high tax for companies that use this as a method to replace human employees. This tax revenue will be paid out to those affected by the loss of jobs to machines, thus solving the structural unemployment of those replace. Works Cited Autor, David H. Why Are There Still So Many Jobs? The History and Future of Workplace  The Journal of Economic Perspectives, Summer 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Frey, Carl Benedikt, and Michael A. Osborne. The Future of Employment: How Susceptible Are Jobs to  Forecasting and Social Change 114 (2017): 254-80. Libraries . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Women, Money Wise. Average America vs the One  . Forbes Magazine, 26 July 2012. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.