Romio 1 Gabrielle Romio Professor Drugan ENC 1102-070 29 January 2017 The Planned Parenthood Fight Although the year 2017 has just begun, the year has already been one to go down in history as America has witnessed one of the most dramatic changes of power in history. Barack Obama and Donald Trump, two presidents, two parties, and two people with completely different mindsets when it comes to government. Everything from gun control, to immigration, to even health care, these two presidents could not be more different. One of their biggest differences has to be their approach in handling the healthcare system, and more specifically Planned Parenthood. On one hand, we have the Democratic party which as a whole is in favor of Planned Parenthood and on the other we have the Republican party that disagrees with the funding of Planned Parenthood. As the United States experiences one of the biggest transitions of power it has ever seen, the issue of the government defunding of Planned Parenthood has been pushed to the main stage, which leaves the question of whether or not Republicans and Democrats are ready to sacrifice things such as giving up the protest against the Hyde Amendment and to continue paying for Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood is an organization that believes in giving everyone the right no matter martial status, race, sexuality, age, or income, to take control their reproductive health. Contrary to popular belief, Planned Parenthood not only benefits women, but it also benefits men, by providing STD testing and other medical exams. Planned Parenthood also takes upon the responsibility to provide educational programs that help people learn and understand the Romio 2 implications of human sexuality, and they also promote research and the advancement of technology when it comes to reproductive health. When it comes to Planned Parenthood the biggest problem and the one that causes the most controversy is how funded. Now when people talk about Planned Parenthood, it really means that the government is trying to pass a law that blocks patients that rely on public health care funds such as Medicaid from being able to receive their care from Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood would be removed off the list of places that people could receive care from. One of the biggest misconceptions about the defunding of Planned Parenthood is that, the federal funding people receive cannot be used towards abortion, so when the government proposes to block Planned Parenthood from people who receive federal funding, they are just taking away the ability to receive preventive services (Planned Parenthood). This is important to clear up because, many Americans think that their tax dollars are being used towards abortions, which is not the case. While Planned Parenthood offers many helpful services, Republican party leader Paul Ryan is determined to defund the organization (Diaz). The reason behind defunding Planned Parenthood is because Planned Parenthood offers abortion services which are in direct conflict with what a majority of Republicans believe. Most Republicans are pro-life and because of this, Republicans are pushing for legislation to defund Planned Parenthood (Diaz). Not only is abortion a factor, but Republicans would rather reallocate the money used for Planned Parenthood to fund other programs that they find more important. On the other hand, we have the Democratic party which firmly believes in the importance of funding Planned Parenthood. Democrats aim to continue to fund the program so that people have access to the services that the organization provides (Barry). Not only does the Democratic party support Planned Parenthood and hopes to continue funding it, but it also is pushing for legislation to overturn the Hyde Romio 3 Amendment, which would allow people that receive federal funding to be able to use their funds towards abortions with Planed Parenthood (Barry). Republicans are trying everything they can for this legislation overturn to not pass. While Planned Parenthood has other donors and private organizations that help keep it afloat, 40% of the program is funded by the federal government, and 75% of the 40% comes from Medicaid, which is what they are trying to take away (Diaz). What both Republicans and Democrats can agree on is the fact that reproductive health is an important aspect of The United States. A proposition for a comprise between the two parties is that Planned Parenthood should increase the amount of private funding they receive so that they can decrease the amount of federal aid needed, and that the Hyde Amendment continues as is. Even though many companies such as American Express and Starbucks already help in privately funding the organization, Planned Parenthood can make an effort to increase their 60% private funding percentage to 70% or even 75%. Although this stops the issue of government funding, the compromise needs to address another issue, which is the overturning of the Hyde Amendment. In this compromise Democrats will have to give up the fight for the removal of the Hyde Amendment. This will stop the argument of using government funding towards abortion, and will help the Republican party to be more receptive towards the importance of funding Planned Parenthood. Even though the Democratic party will have to give up the Hyde Amendment argument, Republicans will have to give up the protest for federally funding an organization they support on a level of morality. Although both parties are giving up big parts of the argument, they are both accomplishing something as well. The Democratic party will accomplish keeping Planned Parenthood accessible for low income individuals who rely on it, and Republicans accomplish the fact that their tax dollars will not be able to go towards abortions. Not only does this Romio 4 compromise benefit Republicans and Democrats alike but who it helps the most are the millions of people that do rely on Planned Parenthood, not only for reproductive health needs, but for moral support and education on a topic that lots of people are not comfortable taking about. In American Government the key to success is compromise. Without compromise and the highly unlikely chances of a unanimous opinion it would be impossible to get anything accomplished. When it comes to important issues such as healthcare, not being able to come up with a decision is not an option. Millions of Americans every year put their trust in their leaders to help get things accomplished, not to stop the process of improving this country. On behalf of the millions of people that receive care from Planned Parenthood, the compromised proposed will not affect them, but will only effect the sourcing of funding. This compromise for the argument of Planned Parenthood would benefit both stakeholders and more importantly will continue to help the people that rely on Planned Parenthood as a source for affordable reproductive health care. Romio 5 Works Cited Barry, Susan. Party Platform Fully Embraces Planned Parenthood, Breitbart, 6 July 2016, www.breitbart.com/big-government/2016/07/06/democrat-party-platform- fully-embraces-planned-parenthood-abortion/. Davis, Susan. You Need To Know About The Coming Fight Over Planned Parenthood NPR, NPR, 7 Jan. 2017, www.npr.org/2017/01/07/508598391/heres-what-you- need-to-know-about-the-coming-fight-over-planned-parenthood-fundi. Diaz, Elizabeth. Fight to Defund Planned Time, Time, time.com/4626516/planned-parenthood-defund-republicans/. Kaplan, Thomas, and Robert Pear. Appeal for Compromise: Alter, but Gut, the Health The New York Times, 5 Jan. 2017, www.nytimes.com/2017/01/05/us/politics/affordable-care-act-congress- Planned Parenthood. Parenthood Action Planned Parenthood Action Fund, www.plannedparenthoodaction.org/.