Rodriguez 1 Darrylhi Rodriguez Professor Drugan 16 February 2017 Paternal Leave Pays When considering the issue of paid parental leave, most might assume that it is primarily an issue that affects working women. However, the issue of paid parental leave is just as much a priority for working men as working women. The United States is the only industrialized nation in the world that does not guarantee paid leave for new fathers. Policies that ensure paid leave for new would give them the ability to provide for their families while also contributing to their workplace as employees rather than being forced to struggle under the weight of having to prioritize one of the other. Paid paternal leave is supported by several organizations such as the United States Department of Labor (DOL), which promotes the cause with substantial evidence and research. Still, while key organizations recognize the benefits of paid paternal leave and choose to support its implementation, many employers are understandably reluctant to utilize such policies due to the funds and resources that they might cost. Despite their opposition, a compromise can be made to bridge the gap between the United States Department of Labor and American employers. Through education and understanding, American employers can come to understand the benefits of granting paid paternal leave, while new fathers are paid a portion of their wages during that leave. The United States Department of Labor is a key supporter of paid paternity leave. In their DOL Policy Brief, they explain the benefits and importance of providing fathers with paid leave which are seen both in the workplace and household. The United States Department of Labor Rodriguez 2 emphasizes that businesses would benefit greatly from the use of paid paternity leave for a number of reasons. One benefit listed in the DOL Policy Brief for Paternity Leave is the improvement of gender equity between parents in a household. According to the DOL policy brief, show that the amount of household work fathers and mothers perform may become more gender balanced over means that increasing how much parental leave fathers take can change the culture in ways that make it more As gender equity is reinforced in the homes of new fathers, it is also reinforced in the workplace. In addition, fathers would no longer struggle with work-family conflict to balance their responsibilities. The reduction in work-family related stress and increased gender equity both benefit the workplace by increasing employee morale and individual productivity. In the opposition, American employers are reluctant to implement a paid leave policy for fathers due to its financial costs. This is understandable when one considers the potential cost of hiring and training of temporary workers and compensation of duties while any employee is on paid paternity leave. In addition, employers might also argue that allowing paid leave to their employees opens the door for them to take that leave but never return to work. One voice in the opposition of paid parental leave- and particularly paid maternity leave- is the Foundation for Economic Education. This organization claims that paid leave for new mothers would be expensive constraint on and puts forth the notion that paid leave for new parents would cost employers more than it would benefit them. According to one of their articles discussing paid family leave, employers would be required to invest money into temporary workers and compensation for any employees who are on leave. These arguments against paid leave for new mothers- which can also be applied to new fathers- are reasonable when considering the most immediate financial consequences of implementing paid leave. Rodriguez 3 Despite the opposition between organizations that support paid paternity leave and employers, a compromise can be made that would benefit both stakeholders. Employers in the United States should allow fathers a paid period of leave to be with their newborns that lasts as long as that of new mothers. While on paternity leave, fathers should not receive their full wages, but instead they should receive up to seventy percent of their normal pay. While employers may not appreciate the idea of allowing their employees to take paid leave for any amount of time, it is important that they understand the benefits a workplace can receive by mandating paternal leave for fathers. With the inclusion of pad leave for new parents, employers earn the benefit of improved gender equity, improved employee satisfaction, and increased individual productivity. (Ray, Rebecca, Gornick, Schmitt) Research proves that after returning from paid paternity leave, new fathers experience reduced stress and increased happiness as a result of being with their newborns and families and not having to juggle the responsibilities of both work and family. Additionally, the United economy and businesses will benefit in the long run as a result of paid paternity leave. When fathers and mothers are both able to invest in the health and wellbeing of their children during such a critical time in their development, they are preparing their children to be productive and upstanding members of society. These children will grow up to be adequate employees in the workforce. In the words of researchers Rebecca Ray, Janet C. Gornick, and John Schmitt at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, members of society have a profound interest in the health and well-being of young children and the parents who take care of them. All of us benefit from the existence of happy and healthy children who can go on to become productive members of By giving their employees paid leave to care for their newborn children, they are directly investing in their own future success. Rodriguez 4 To conclude, it is not only fathers and families who benefit from paid paternal leave. While fathers sacrifice a portion of their wages and employers sacrifice productivity, it is clear that the benefits for both stakeholders outweigh the cost. While fathers would forfeit a portion of their wages during their mandated leave, they would be given the opportunity to spend time caring for their newborn children and families. On the other hand, while businesses may be required to spend money to support their workers on leave, once those workers return, employers benefit from increased gender equity among employees, improved performance and satisfaction in employees, and investment in the future workforce that will be made up of the children of those employees. Rodriguez 5 Works Cited Skinner, Curtis, and Susan Ochshorn. Paid family leave: Strengthening families and our  National Center for Children in Poverty (2012). Leave, Paternity. DOL POLICY  Ray, Rebecca, Janet C. Gornick, and John Schmitt. Parental leave policies in 21  Assessing generosity and gender equality (2008). Marshall, Katherine. use of paid parental  Perspectives on Labour and Income 20.3 (2008): 5. Almqvist, Anna-Lena, Anette Sandberg, and Lars Dahlgren. Parental leave in Sweden: Motives, experiences, and gender equality amongst  Fathering 9.2 (2011): 189. Murphy, Robert P. Paid Family  Is a Great Way to Hurt Women Robert P.  FEE. Foundation for Economic Education, 02 June 2015. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.