Mounzer 1 Hassan Mounzer William Drugan ENC 1102.071 19 Feb 2017 Violent Video Games An increase in violence and crime has been taking place during the last few years, and a topic of concern for a lot of people. For some people, being a video game player, a gamer, is a prime concern regarding violent and aggressive behavior. Some describe a gamer as an addict, a time waster, or as a violent person. As for others, they believe that gamers play video games simply to have fun. These people believe that violent or non-violent video games are created with one single purpose: to entertain. Certain organizations stand against violent video games in all its forms and they try their best to stop it from expanding. In the United States of America, parts of the federal government, as well as local governments play an important role in implementing laws and regulations that warn customers of the content found in certain video games. Their mission is to reduce the impact violent video games have on people by providing consumers with information regarding the content of video games in relation to violence or sexual content. In contrast, the video game industries and video game advocates believe that the blame put on violent video games for the crimes taking place is unfair. This is simply being used as an excuse to cover up the real cause, which is based on the upbringing of the child. Each one of these two independent parties works differently to achieve their goals. One is against violent video games and warns people of the impact these games may have on individuals. One example of this took place in 1993 and 1994 when violent games were at the center of federal hearings, video game industry was given a year to create its own classification system or to otherwise have one imposed on them by the Mounzer 2 federal (Videogame Rating Council). The other, the video game industries such as Sega and Rockstar Games, as well as video game advocates, try to convince people that violent video games are being used as a cover-up for lack of proper parenting. One way to solve the blame game is to have both parties come together and agree on a compromise, such as increasing or decreasing the taxes on certain video games, based on their violence rating. To begin with, in this day and age, almost every house a person walks into has some type of videogame in it. In addition, nowadays, video games are very advanced in their graphics and animations, which can make a person become attached to these games. They can sit there for hours or even whole days without even realizing that time has flown by. Any type of addiction is harmful, and when someone adapts to it, it becomes a part of their life. Eventually, it becomes all they think about and it will consume their lives. They may even tend to truly believe that the content they are looking at while playing a particular game is reality. Incidentally, a recent survey of over 600 eighth-and ninth-grade students, children averaged 9 hours per week of videogame play overall, with boys averaging 13 hours per week and girls averaging 5 hours per (Anderson 7). As a result of such exposure, violent video games can have a dangerous effect on certain individuals, especially in the long run. When the government started relating these statistics to certain violent behaviors, the concern about this topic continued to grow until became one of the major issues the government is working on in order to resolve. One of the main purposes of any government is to reduce the number of crimes and violent acts in society. One way the federal government or local governments can achieve this is to limit the exposure of citizens to dangerous or violent video games. For example, 2000, seven states and two local governments have enacted laws that attempted to restrict minors from playing, purchasing, or renting video games containing fictitious violent imagery. In all nine cases, federal courts applying Mounzer 3 established First Amendment law have enjoined the (Burnell). Certain governments continue to pressure the video games industries by accusing them of having violent games that are behind the growing aggressive behaviors in society. They try to implement ways in which consumers can distinguish violent games from non-violent one. For example, Germany, blood in games is required to be colored green and countries from Brazil to Australia have a stricter stance on extremely violent (ENGG 481: Violent Video Games). It is the job of the governments to protect their citizens from any harm that can affect them. As a result, several experimental studies have been performed on people to prove their point. Many experiments where performed on children and college students to see how violent video games affect them differently. found that habitual exposure to violent media was positively associated with higher levels of recent violent behavior. In addition, we found that the newer interactive form of media violence was more strongly related to violent behavior than was exposure to interactive media (Anderson 66). In this same study, it was found that people from all ages are equally vulnerable when it come to the negative effects of violent video games. The government of any country, whether federal or local, should always work on protecting its community from any unsafe activities such as exposure to violent video games, which is very dangerous and addictive. On the other hand, video game advocates believe that violent behaviors are caused by more serious issues such as the upbringing of a child or the environment a person lives in. These people see video games as a thing with one sole purpose: entertainment. They argue that a person should be smart and mature enough to realize that this is just a game, and it has nothing to do with reality. Regardless of how long an individual spends on a video game, it should not change anything or affect his/her behavior. Video game advocate, including members of the video game industry such as Sega and Rockstar, oppose the viewpoint. They believe that it is unfair to put the Mounzer 4 blame on video games for certain crimes and violent behaviors. They go so far as to describe it as a cover up used by the government for other serious issues. Canada, more than 14,000 people work in the gaming industry with more than $2 billion in entertainment software and hardware sales alone. In the ever increasing technological world with many jobs being replaced by technologies or outsourced to cheaper countries. Working for video game industry is one of the few occupations that can create local (ENGG 481: Violent Video Games). As a result of this fact, the video game industries help the government in terms of creating many options for local jobs and helping their growth in one way or another. Christopher Ferguson, associate professor and co-chairman of the Department of Psychology at Stetson University, suggest that video games may help reduce societal violence rather than increase it. Basically, by keeping young males busy with things they like and this would include everything from playing sports and collecting stamps to playing first-person shooter video games. You keep them off the streets and out of (CNN). Video game advocates believe that it is ridiculous for the government to blame violent video games for anything bad that could happen, especially without any real, sufficient evidence that can back their claim. Despite the many odds between the government and the video games industries, sharing a common ground is necessary to help solve the issue of violent video games. Both might reach an agreement by increasing or decreasing the taxes on some of the video games according to their rating, which is based on how violent the game is. To begin with, video games are rated according to how violent they are. The local government should take these ratings into consideration and taxes must be lowered or raised according to the rating that they received. This creates the balance between the local or federal government and the video game advocates/video game industries, and helps both of them achieve their missions. The video game industries will Mounzer 5 still sell their video games, and the government will lower the exposure of aggressive and violent content to a large number of people. Missouri Republican is calling for tax on violent video games, because apparently not government overreach if something kids like. Diane Franklin is pushing for a one percent sales tax on video games with certain (Feldman). Despite their oppositions, the local and federal government and the video game industries share a common concern, which is the disapproval of the violence taking place in real life. This is why they should agree on a compromise that keeps both sides happy. In conclusion, due to the increase in crimes and aggressive behavior that is found in society, it is important to take any type of precautions and find an agreement between the federal or local government and the video game industries regarding the topic of violent video games. Doing so is an important step forward towards finding a solution agreed upon by both parties involved. Knowing that the two sides, the government and the gaming industry, have a common value makes it easier to find a compromise. Although it is true that each side may have to give up a little, they can still find a balance that is fair for the both of them. Mounzer 6 Work Cited Page Videogame Rating  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, 09 Feb. 2017. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Burnell, Jennifer Lane. merchants Regulation of Violent Video Games and DVDS I entertainment merchants association I Jennifer Lane Burnell. N.p, n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017 McCarthy, Randy J., Sarah L. Coley, Michael F. Wagner, Bettina Zengel, and Ariel Basham. Does playing video games with violent content temporarily increase aggressive inclinations? A pre- registered experimental  Journal of Experimental Social Psychology 67 (2016): 13-19. Web. Anderson, Craig Alan, Douglas A. Gentile, and Katherine E. Buckley. Violent video game 12 effects on children and adolescents: theory, research, and public policy. Oxford: Oxford U Press, 2007. Print.  ENGG 481: Violent Video Games. N.p., 16 Aug. 2010. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Do video games lead to  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Josh, Feldman taking Action Against Violent Video Games with Taxer and Mediate States taking action against violent video games with taxes and buyback. Mediate, 16 Jan. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.