Stagg 1 Brooke Stagg Drugan ENC 1102 071 26 January 2017 Trophy Hunting According to the Humane Society, trophy hunting is defined as wild animals for their body parts, such as head and hide, for display but not primarily for food or Hunting by the Although trophy hunting is a global activity, it primarily takes place in African countries. There are various organizations who consider trophy hunting a sport that is both rewarding and beneficial, while others believe this activity is immoral and should be stopped. For example, the organization ARU Hunting Safaris sees big game hunting as a sport. In contrast, the organization Trophy Free EU Group believes the hunting of big game animals is considered abuse and a question of world heritage. While these two organizations have drastically conflicting views, there is a chance they can meet in the middle. A workable compromise between the two could possibly be to limit the areas in which trophy hunting can take place, and to put a ban on hunting species that are at risk of extinction. In addition, the money made from hunting these animals should go back to the local communities. ARU Hunting Safaris is a family based organization located in Namibia. It is a place where people can come and stay for multiple nights and enjoy hunting wild animals during their stay. This organization fully supports trophy hunting, as it is their primary goal. They do not believe they are contributing to extinctions or even partially damaging the wild life system. ARU Hunting safaris considers trophy hunting a thrilling activity. However, in one of their blogs they Stagg 1 talk about how there is more to the activity than just hunting, explaining that there are no negative effects to their sport of choice. Backing up ARU Hunting safaris is the president of NAPHA, Kai-Uwe Denker, who explains how the death of animals is part of the natural cycle. is a natural cycle to kill or forage for food, and the notion of or be and or be is an ancient philosophy. All rejuvenation on Earth rests on the principle of birth, growth, and death. We have to accept that death is inevitable, and a fundamental precondition for rejuvenation in nature. The majority of deaths in nature are brought about by physical killing a reality necessary for any specie to survive. Death keeps the natural balance (Denker). In addition, he states how the real concern for conservation is not the hunting of animals, but the destruction of their habitats. While trophy hunting is legal in Africa for the most part, there are many organizations who are against it and are trying to put it to a stop. Trophy Free EU Group is one of the organizations that is trying to bring awareness to this controversial issue, proving facts about the reality of trophy hunting. The organization was founded in Finland as a joint project between many other European organizations, with the main purpose being to raise awareness through social media, travel agencies, hunting organizations, and the public. Their website explains the many aspects of trophy hunting and how people can get involved to stop this activity. In one of the tabs on the website is an explanation of the three legal forms of hunting in South Africa including Biltong, trophy, and traditional community hunting. Biltong hunting indicates that the animal is being hunted for food and resources whereas trophy hunting is more for display. Traditional community hunting is the third type and is rarely practiced today. One of the organizations main concerns about trophy hunting is the method of canned hunting. Stagg 1 trophy hunting there are two different methods, fair chase and canned hunting. Fair chase principle is that the hunting happens in the wilderness, the kill is not certain and tracking an animal takes time. Canned hunting or captive hunting happens in an enclosed area. Since hunting takes place in an enclosure the kill is guaranteed within a limited time The act of canned hunting is seen as abuse to those who do not support trophy hunting. When people participate in canned hunting the animals are often sedated the night before and released into the area where the hunter will shoot them. These animals who are victims of canned hunting usually are raised in captivity which Trophy Free EU Group and other organizations are opposed to. They see this act as abuse to the animals considering there is no benefit to either party. The goal of canned hunting is to receive some form of body part of the animal to show case to others or to profit off. Massive amounts of these beautiful wild animals are killed every year for nothing more than a souvenir. Jeff Flocken, the North American director for the International Fund for Animal Welfare, supports Trophy Free EU group, explaining in detail the negative effects trophy hunting has. Many people claim that killing animals for profit and souvenirs is considered conserving. Particularly in African lions, it has been stated that adult male lion is the most sought-after trophy by wealthy foreign hunters. And when an adult male lion is killed, the destabilization of that pride can lead to more lion deaths as outside males compete to take over the (Flocken). Based on this information conserving appears to be the opposite of what trophy hunting does. The article also explains how there is little to no proof that the money earned from trophy hunting actually goes to the community in which the hunting takes place. Although the views of both ARU Hunting Safaris and Trophy Free EU group could not differ anymore drastically, it is possible they can come to a compromise. A major disagreement Stagg 1 between both sides is the idea of conservation. According to Conservation Magazine, there is evidence that both conservation and trophy hunting can co-exist. A problem many species face is the limitation of land they are able to inhabit. The first action that should be taken is to open private lands to these big game animals. This will increase the populations of different species because they will have more space to live in. In addition, there should be a limit as to where trophy hunting can take place. Specifically in elephants, it has already been pointed out by Nigel Leader-Williams that the implementation of controlled hunting has proven beneficial. trophy hunting has doubled the area of the country under wildlife management relative to the 13% in state protected thanks to the inclusion of private lands, he says. a result, the area of suitable land available to elephants and other wildlife has increased, reversing the problem of habitat loss, and helping to maintain a sustained population increase in already large elephant (Leader-Williams). While limiting the areas that hunting can take place and opening private lands to these wonderful animals is a suitable compromise, giving back to the local communities in which the hunting takes place should also be seriously considered. As most people know, several parts of African countries are suffering from poverty and can use all the help they can get. If a portion of the proceeds earned from hunting these animals went back to the local communities, it would have a dramatic positive effect on the lives. This would also be easy to implement, considering most people would not be against helping out suffering communities. A study has already been completed and published in the journal Animal Conservation of areas where this idea is already taking place. Researcher Peter A. Lindsey found that eighty six percent of hunters would prefer hunting in areas where a portion of proceeds went back into local communities. (Lindsey). Stagg 1 The act of trophy hunting will probably always remain a controversial issue since everyone is going to have differing opinions on the idea. People who believe that no animal should be subject to being shot for fun are never going to be okay with the idea, whereas those who see it as being beneficial to themselves or to others will support it fully. Though there are two opposing sides of the argument, there are various compromises to be made that can keep both parties content. Making these compromises will benefit both supporters and non-supporters in that hunting will still be allowed, only it will protect the species existence as well as help those in need. Stagg 1 Works Cited Can trophy hunting actually help  Conservation. N.p., 26 Aug. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. F, Kelly. We are more than just  Aru Hunting Safaris. N.p., 28 June 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Family, Friends, Couples &  Aru Hunting Safaris. N.p., 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hunting  Trophy Free EU Group. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Opinion: Why Are We Still Hunting  National Geographic. National Geographic Society, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Trophy hunting by the  Humane Society International. N.p., Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.