PECK 1 Meghan Peck Professor Drugan ENC 1102 1 February 2017 Dakota Access Pipeline The Dakota Access Pipeline, mapped out to travel through four states North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa, Illinois is capable of carrying over 500,000 barrels of crude oil per day, and has been the source of controversy across the country. On Tuesday, January 24, 2017, President Trump signed the executive orders to push the pipeline forward, after efforts made by the Obama administration to block construction of the project. This decision sparked fierce backlash by opponents including the Sioux tribe represented by Dave Archambault II. The DAPL would require drilling underneath Lake Oahe, which is upstream from the Standing Rock tribe border. The Sioux tribe are concerned about the adverse environmental impacts this pipeline will create especially on their water supply and sacred sites. Also, the pipeline is being constructed without the consent of the people it will ultimately affect. However, the Trump administration believes that the pipeline will create jobs and affordable energy that will benefit all Americans. In addition, the pipeline will help make America more energy independent. The main source of drinking water for the Sioux people comes from the Mississippi River, which connects to Lake Oahe where major protests have been staged. The major concerns are the threat to water safety the pipeline poses and the potential damage to sacred sites. If the pipeline could be rerouted into less risky territory, where it poses a 2 PECK lesser threat to water contamination and is located further from the Sioux border, it would benefit both the Sioux and the Trump Administration. Dave Archaumbalt II, Standing Rock Sioux Chairmen, made a statement regarding decision to streamline the Dakota Access Pipeline on January 24, 2017. Americans know this pipeline was unfairly rerouted towards our nation and without our consent. The existing pipeline route risks infringing on our treaty rights, contaminating our water and the water of 17 million Americans (Athena Jones) 1 . Jan Hasselman, the Standing Rock chief lawyer and attorney for Earthjustice, reviewed the Presidential Memorandum regarding the pipeline and stated that President Trump failed to mention the Sioux tribe and address any of their concerns. 2 Earthjustice is an environmental law organization dedicated to holding those who break environmental laws accountable and to making the world a better place. The Sioux tribe would likely be on better terms with the pipeline if the Trump administration would have acknowledged their concerns and addressed them accordingly. A compromise to reroute the pipeline away from the major water source and further from their border would be a better alternative from the current route. President Donald Trump and supporters believe that the pipeline would be beneficial for the American economy and for the American people. The Dakota Access Pipeline would generate jobs and an affordable source of energy. After a briefing from the Trump team regarding the construction of the pipeline, North Dakota Senator John Hoeven (R) stated, Trump expressed his support for the Dakota Access pipeline, which has met or exceeded all environmental standards set forth by four states and the Army Corps of (Samantha Page) 3 . Hoeven goes on to confirm that this PECK 3 administration would work to grow the energy economy and therefore create jobs 3 . President Trump, in his official Memorandum, he states, that construction and operation of lawfully permitted pipeline infrastructure serve the national 4 . USACE, or U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, are responsible for reviewing and issuing permits for all 202 water crossings under their jurisdiction, in alignment with the Clean Water Act and the Rivers and Harbors Act. In addition, USACE also met obligations of the National Historic Preservation Act, which requires consultation with Native American tribes. 5 The Trump administration stand by their decision to streamline the Dakota Access Pipeline because of potential for economic improvement, job creation, and affordable energy production. The Trump administration would benefit from the compromise to reroute the pipeline because in the end, they will have completed their project. In addition, they will likely avoid a legal battle. The Sioux have threatened to take legal action if the pipeline is to be constructed in the current route and without proper consulting with tribal leaders. The compromise to reroute the pipeline may make construction longer and more complex, but it will avoid the areas the Sioux rely on for water and their sacred sites. Also, the Trump administration should have included the Sioux tribe into the Memorandum and addressed their concerns. If the pipeline is to be rerouted away from the water source and sacred sites, the USACE will have the opportunity to consult with tribal leaders and come to a mutually beneficial agreement. If the current route is to be taken, the Sioux will respond with legal action as well as protests in D.C. In order for both parties to benefit from the pipeline, it should be rerouted to avoid Lake Oahe and the Sioux border. In this compromise, the Trump administration and 4 PECK supporters will have completed the pipeline without infringing on sacred land and water sources. The pipeline is expected to boost the energy economy and bring in revenue to the area. In an interview with NPR radio with host Michael Martin, chairmen Dave Archambault II states, never did say we want this pipeline to happen at all. We said you are crossing our treaty lands. You are disturbing our sacred places, and you are threatening our way of life, threatening our 6 (NPR). That being said, the pipeline would not have created as much controversy if it were not located near the Sioux border, threatening their water and sacred sites. It is definitely possible for both sides to come to an agreement; however, both parties must be willing to work with and understand each other. PECK 5 Works Cited 1 Jones, Athena, Jeremy Diamond, and Gregory Krieg. Advances Controversial Oil Pipelines with Executive CNN Politics. Cable News Network, 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/24/politics/trump- keystone-xl-dakota-access-pipelines-executive-actions/>. 2 Shogren, Elizabeth. Down Dakota Access High Country News, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.hcn.org/articles/what- trumps-decision-on-dapl-means>. 3 Page, Samantha. Stands with Big Oil, Backs the Dakota Access ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 02 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <https://thinkprogress.org/trump-backs-dapl-450c414e6e7f#.qsmbzy1t1>. 4 Office of Press Secretary. Memorandum Regarding Construction of the Dakota Access The White House. The United States Government, 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press- office/2017/01/24/presidential-memorandum-regarding-construction-dakota- access-pipeline>. 5 Access U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. USACE, n.d., Web. 09 Feb. 2017. <http://www.usace.army.mil/Dakota-Access-Pipeline/>. 6 Martin, Michael. Rock Sioux Chairman Dave Archambault II On Army Corps NPR. NPR, 04 Dec. 2016. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <http://www.npr.org/2016/12/04/504365465/standing-rock-sioux-chairman-dave- archambault-ii-on-army-corps-decision>. 6 PECK Earthjustice. Earthjustice, n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <http://earthjustice.org/about>.