Friederich, Community Service: Should it be Mandatory? 1 Amanda Friederich ENC 1102 Drugan February 12, 2017 Community Service: Should it be Mandatory? Every year, students seem to be volunteering during their academic years. The question is: Are they volunteering to be a better citizen, or are they volunteering to graduate? Washington D.C. has made it a requirement that in order to graduate you need to have 100 volunteer service hours, based on whatever organization is assigned to you. Then take California, for example, where they have any requirement at all that students should volunteer. These are both two extremes, and the school board of each of these states are both dictating what should be done in terms of volunteering. Volunteering has certainly become something that it seems like every teenage student is doing, but if volunteering is required, it could be that the student care about making a difference. In order for students to volunteer and still want to become an active citizen, students should be educated on volunteering and have it be optional, while the school board could offer some incentives for the act of volunteering. The School Boards in every state, as a whole, have a lot of power and tend to put most policies and practices in place for the good of the student and the good of their community. The Board thinks that by making volunteering a requirement, it will teach the students to fall in love with volunteering and they will be more apt to do it in the future. District of Columbia was one of the first large urban school districts in the country to include community service as a graduation requirement. The community service requirement aims to equip students with the Friederich, Community Service: Should it be Mandatory? 2 necessary skills and abilities for career and educational advancement as well as motivate students to take an active role as leaders in their reads the District of Columbia Public School website (School, n.d.). While everyone can agree that volunteering is good, students have argued against the premise of mandatory volunteerism. Required volunteerism is an oxymoron that has had students up-in-arms over whether that should be a requirement for graduation. When you look at students, specifically in high school, they are trying to be involved in everything and have a lot of time constraints. The last thing on a mind could be volunteering, which is ultimately worse for the organization that trying to help. of us might instinctively feel wary of volunteers who are required to show up. Logic suggests they be as engaged or connected to the cause, that only do the bare minimum, or that they will simply count down their hours and then Shari Tishman writes (Tishman, 2013). States and School Boards in places like Alaksa, Arizona, and Idaho, for example have any requirements for volunteering specifically for those reasons. School boards are trying to make students be proactive citizens by volunteering their time. sure their ultimate goal is to have the students love working with organizations, having them in their later years willingly volunteer just because something that they strongly believe in. When you look at students and their busy time schedules and commitments, it could be beneficial to have other incentives instead of focusing on the possibility of not graduating. Education on volunteering and how that can impact your community as well as your own personal growth is something that should definitely be discussed more in schools. Focusing on that aspect of better developing yourself as a person might be more beneficial than pilling on fear of not having a future. To make volunteering more incentive, however, I would suggest an Friederich, Community Service: Should it be Mandatory? 3 optional volunteer option that would either help raise a class grade, or potentially win you scholarship money for college. Take Florida, for example, as they have both options available for students, however they require mandatory hours. may award up to one-half elective credit for student completion of nonpaid voluntary community or school service work. Students choosing this option must complete a minimum of 75 hours of service in order to earn the one-half credit in either category of instruction. Credit may not be earned for service provided as a result of court action. District school boards that approve the award of credit for student volunteer service are required to develop guidelines regarding the award of the credit, and school principals are responsible for approving specific volunteer activities. Fla. Stat. Ann. (The 50 State Comparison, 2014). The Statute for Florida continues to explain that there are other incentives to volunteering as well such as districts are encouraged to include service learning as part of any course or activity required for high school graduation and to include and accept service-learning activities and hours in requirements for academic awards, especially those awards that currently include community service as a criterion or selection factor. Fla. Stat. Ann. (The 50 State Comparison, 2014). Friederich, Community Service: Should it be Mandatory? 4 References School, D. o. (n.d.). Community Service. Retrieved from https://dcps.dc.gov/page/community-service The 50 State Comparison. (2014, January). Retrieved from The Education Commission of the States: http://ecs.force.com/mbdata/mbquest3RTE?Rep=SL1301 Tishman, S. (2013, October 25). Engaging Volunteers. Retrieved from VolunteerMatch.org: http://blogs.volunteermatch.org/engagingvolunteers/2013/10/25/is-mandatory-volunteering- really-an-oxymoron/