Abdiel Compres Compres 1 Dr. Drugan ENC1102 February 15, 2017 Our Energy Crisis August 6,1945 marked a day in human history that forever became the day that humans themselves had the potential to destroy life on the planet. We no longer needed to worry about natural disasters wiping out our species. We now worried about destroying ourselves. Ever since the atomic bombs at Hiroshima and Nagasaki were deployed, governments and organizations have marveled at the possible solutions to our ongoing energy crisis, and how harnessing that power could be used to solve the problems that our energy consumption was causing. Scientists quickly realized that nuclear reactors could potentially solve this crisis, finding that one uranium pellet would produce as much energy as one ton of coal. As such It was in 1957 that the worlds first commercial nuclear power site was opened in Windscale England. Soon after, many countries started to invest in their own nuclear power plants. It seemed as though the world was headed into an era of self sustainability and progress. However, everything changed in 1986. A nuclear power plant meltdown in Chernobyl caused the direct deaths of 31 people and left the entire surrounding area contaminated with nuclear waste. To this day, the Chernobyl accident has left the area uninhabitable for life. However this was no accident. Inadequate training and severe design flaws in the nuclear reactor were the causes this catastrophe. Ever since the disaster at Chernobyl, organizations such as the GreenPeace Organization have questioned if nuclear Compres 2 energy is truly the best alternative to non-renewable resources. While other Organizations such as the Nuclear Energy Institute argue that not only is nuclear energy safe for the environment, but also more efficient than wind and solar at producing energy. One might propose that new nuclear facilities be created and that the money saved from using nuclear power plants be used manly to further develop the technologies of wind and solar energy, as well as fund research into other environmental issues such as conservation of rainforests. Organizations such as GreenPeace argue that nuclear reactors are a potential health risk. With cancer being the number two leading cause of death in America it is a very real concern for many people around the world(Medical News today.com). Especially due to the fact that any potential nuclear disaster could result in an increase in cancer related deaths in the surrounding area for years to come. In the words of Rex Weyler Power is a form of random Corruption from private corporations is also an issue that the nuclear energy industry faces as well.. Such as in the case with Former governor of Fukushima prefecture, Eisako Sato, who brought up safety concerns about the reactor, before he was forced to resign due to what he called were accusations. Sadly though, it took the 2011 nuclear reactor disaster in Fukushima, Japan, for his warnings to be taken seriously. It is also no surprise that in the United States 4.6 million dollars were donated to congress from the U.S Nuclear Industry. When the NRC brought up safety concerns about some of the reactors around the country, U.S Senator Pete Domenici threatened to cut their funding. Thanks to private corporations running Compres 3 and owning nuclear reactors, they have been able to mostly focus on profit toward the 1%, leaving the clean up and decommissioning left for tax payers to pay fore. By far the most controversial issue with nuclear energy is the amount of waste generated by the reactors themselves. Nuclear waste is harmful to humans. Isotopes such as Plutonium-239 have half lives of 24,000 years. Meaning that it would take radioactive waste 24,000 years for half of the waste generated by nuclear power plants to be decomposed. It is no wonder why people would not exactly be keen on having nuclear waste buried in their There are many positives however, of using nuclear energy. For one, nuclear power is operational 24/7 unlike solar panels which can only be used during the day and varies greatly depending on the weather. In fact, the Nuclear Energy Institute states that energy produces 62 percent of all U.S. emission free Compared to wind, solar and geothermal which all together only add up to only about 18% of carbon free emissions. Although the carbon life cycle of nuclear reactors is greater than wind energy life cycle, 13 tons of carbon emissions vs 12 tons of carbon emissions. They still use much less then solar energy, which is 53 tons of carbon emissions, and even much less than which is around 979 tons of carbon emissions in its life cycle. But the positives of nuclear energy just stop there. Compres 4 The U.S. Nuclear regulatory commission, the U.S. Environmental protection agency and state regulators routinely inspect and check nuclear reactors, as well as the surrounding environment for any possible contamination. Nuclear reactors are also built to be incredibly sturdy. Four- foot thick concrete and steel domes surround reactors; as well as multiple back up safety systems incase of emergency. Multiple check points and security personnel, mostly former military, are required to run multiple emergency drills in case of attack every year. The N.E.I. also states that nearly one hundred power reactors in thirty states provide about twenty percent of all U.S. Simply constructing a little more than three-hundred reactors in the Unites States would be enough to have 100% of the energy it needs to be self sustaining. Another benefit that nuclear reactors offer are the economic benefits as well. The N.E.I states that the average nuclear reactor pays around $16 million in state and local taxes, as well as 67 million in federal taxes. On average, each nuclear reactor generates 470 million in sales and services to the local community. Lastly, the spent uranium fuel pellets that are currently stored in secure steel and water filled containers. But with the completion of Yucca mountain in the Nevada dessert, nuclear reactors will be able to transport the used up fuel and bury it deep in Yucca mountain, which the surrounding area is not populated for miles and receives little to no rainfall each year allowing it to be the perfect place to keep the fuel. One possible proposal would be to construct more advanced nuclear reactors around the United States. These reactors would easily be able to meet the energy demands of the people living in those areas. As stated previously, nuclear reactors generate on average 470 million U.S. dollars. Of which, thirty percent would be used to fund research into wind and solar energy Compres 5 producers. Which at this time are not only expensive, but are inefficient at providing the required energy demanded from our current energy consumption. Currently it costs between 7-9$ U.S. per watt to install solar panels in a family home. In total, the cost to instal solar panels in a family home is around $25,000-35,000. In addition, wind and solar require too much space to efficiently operate when compared to nuclear reactors. Solar panels needing thirty-two acres to power 1000 homes, and wind turbines needing 4000 kilometers to power a city such as New York. This money would also be used tp research more effective solar cells, which currently only generate twenty-two percent of the energy they receive from the sun. Fifteen percent of the profits would also go to environmental agencies and national parks to ensure that natural environments are conserved. Currently national parks such as Joshua Tree National Park in Southern-California, had the money they have needed in order to operate the way they should. So far, the national park has close to $60 million U.S. worth of maintenance to accomplish, which will only get more expensive as time goes on. This funding would help alleviate the financial pressure of national parks such as this one to allow them to be able to hire more park rangers and emergency help. In the end, this compromise would benefit everyone because even though organizations such as GreenPeace and The Nuclear Energy Institute may disagree on how to solve our energy crisis, they do are about the environment and want to protect it for as long as possible. Compres 6 Work Cited Nichols,Hannah. Top 10 leading causes of death in the Www.Medical News Today.com.N.p.,21.2015.Web.29 Jan.2017 Weyler, Rex. Www.Green Peace.org.N.p, 7 July 2011. Web. 29 Jan.2017 Accident Www. World Nuclear Association.org.N.p, Nov.2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Facts: Nuclear Energy in Nuclear Energy Institute. N.p., July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Trembath, Alex, and Emma Brush. Innovation, Back in the The breakthrough Institute. N.p., 20 Dec.2016. Web.29 Jan. 2017 Brumfiel, Geoffrey. Nuclear www.Slate.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 29.2017 McNeill, David. of Nuclear Disaster not heeded, claims www.Independant.co.uk.N.p, 12 Apr. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Clamshell Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rott, Nathan. Parks Have A Long To-Do List But Cover The Repair www.npr.org. N.p., 8 March 2016. Web.16 Feb.2017 do Solar panels supply energy for space www.qrg.northwestern.edu. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Zimmerman, Leda. many wind turbines would it take to power all of New York www.engineering.mit.edu. N.p., 30 Mar.2010. Web. 16 Feb. 2017 Proctor, Cathy. many acres of solar panels do 1000 homes www.bizjournals.com. Denver Business Journal, 31 July 2013. Web. 16 Feb. 2017