Romio 1 Gabrielle Romio Professor Drugan ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Planned Parenthood Fight Although the year 2017 has just begun, the year has already been one to go down in history as America has witnessed one of the most dramatic changes of power in history. Barack Obama and Donald Trump, two presidents, two parties, and two completely different mindsets. From everything from gun control, to immigration, to even health care, these two presidents could not be more different. One of their biggest differences has to be their approach in handling the healthcare system, and more specifically Planned Parenthood. One one hand we have the democratic party which as a whole is in favor of planned parenthood and on the other we have the Republic party that disagrees with the funding of planned parenthood. As the United States experiences one of the biggest transitions of power it has ever seen, the issue of the government defunding Planned Parenthood has been pushed to the main stage, which leaves the question of whether or not Republicans and Democrats will ever come to a compromise. Planned Parenthood is an organization that believes in giving everyone the right no matter martial status, race, sexuality, age, or income, to take control their fertility. Contrary to popular belief planned parent not only benefits women but it also benefits men by providing STD testing and other medical exams (Parenthood). Planned Parenthood also takes upon the responsibility to provide educational programs that help people learn and understand the implications of human sexuality and they also promote research and the advancement of technology when it comes to reproductive health (Parenthood). When it comes to planned Romio 2 parenthood the biggest problem and the one that causes the most controversy is how funded. Now when people talk about planned parenthood, it really means that the government is trying to pass a law that blocks patients that rely on public health care funds such as Medicaid from being able to receive their care from planned parenthood (Parenthood). Planned Parenthood would be removed off the list of places that people could receive care from. One of the biggest misconceptions about the defunding of planned parenthood is that, the federal funding people receive cannot be used towards abortion so when the government proposes to block planned parenthood from people who receive federal funding, they are just taking away the ability to receive preventive services (Parenthood). This is important to clear up because many Americans think that their tax dollars are being used towards abortions which the case. While Planned Parenthood offers many helpful services, Republican party leader Paul Ryan is determined to defund the organization (Diaz). The reason behind defunding planned parenthood is because Planned Parenthood offers abortion service which is in direct conflict with what a majority of Republicans believe Most Republicans are pro-life and because of this, Republicans are pushing for legislation to defund Planned Parenthood (Diaz). Not only is abortion a factor, but Republicans would rather reallocate the money used for planned parenthood to fund other program that they find more important. On the other hand, we have the Democratic party which firmly believes in the importance of funding Planned Parenthood and to continue the services that the organization provides (Barry). Not only does the Democratic party support Planned Parenthood and hopes to continue funding it, but it also is pushing for legislation to overturn the Hyde Amendment which would allow people that receive federal funding to be able to use their funds towards abortions with Planed Parenthood (Barry). Romio 3 While Planned Parenthood has other donors and private organizations that help keep it afloat, 40% of the program is funded by the federal government, and 75% of the 40% comes from Medicaid which is what they are trying to take away (Diaz). What both Republicans and Democrats can agree on is the fact that reproductive health is an important aspect of The United States. My proposition for a comprise between the two parties is that Planned Parenthood should downsize as a company so that it becomes easier to fund without completely wiping out the program and that the Hyde Amendment continues as is. In this compromise Democrats will have to give up the fight for the removal of the Hyde Amendment and they will also have to give up some of the convenient accessibility to the program by shutting down some of their locations and or services, and Republicans will have to give up the protest for federally funding an organization they support on a level of morality. Although both parties are giving up big parts of the argument, they are both accomplishing something as well. The democratic party will accomplish keeping Planned Parenthood accessible for low income individuals who rely on it, and Republicans accomplish the fact that their tax dollars will not be able to go towards abortions. Not only does this compromise benefit Republicans and Democrats alike but who it helps the most are the millions of people that do rely on Planned Parenthood not only for reproductive health needs, but for moral support and education on a topic that lots of people are not comfortable taking about. In various aspects of life there will always be a winner and a loser. In special cases like this, there any. Instead everyone would be a winner because we would have a government that instead of being stuck in a stand still, it would be working together to come up with a solution to a problem that is important to maybe not them specifically, but to a problem that is important to millions of Americans. These Americans vote every year to elect people in our Romio 4 office to get stuff done, but when we have a government where no one is willing the compromise, accomplishing any sort of task becomes difficult and unrealistic. My proposed compromise for the argument of Planned Parenthood would benefit both sides and help millions of American nation wide have access to important health care resources. Romio 5 Works Cited Barry, Susan. Party Platform Fully Embraces Planned Parenthood, Breitbart, 6 July 2016, www.breitbart.com/big-government/2016/07/06/democrat-party-platform- fully-embraces-planned-parenthood-abortion/. Davis, Susan. You Need To Know About The Coming Fight Over Planned Parenthood NPR, NPR, 7 Jan. 2017, www.npr.org/2017/01/07/508598391/heres-what-you- need-to-know-about-the-coming-fight-over-planned-parenthood-fundi. Diaz, Elizabeth. Fight to Defund Planned Time, Time, time.com/4626516/planned-parenthood-defund-republicans/. Kaplan, Thomas, and Robert Pear. Appeal for Compromise: Alter, but Gut, the Health The New York Times, 5 Jan. 2017, www.nytimes.com/2017/01/05/us/politics/affordable-care-act-congress- Parenthood, Planned. Parenthood Action Planned Parenthood Action Fund, www.plannedparenthoodaction.org/.