Beausejour 1 Bedjina Beausejour ENC 1102- William Dugan January 29, 2017 Technology and the young generation For decades now, technology has become an essential tool for the human nature. From video games to spaceship, this tool provides an immense source of help and entertainment. It seems like the word had achieved its goal which was to apply scientific knowledge to practical purposes. One of the biggest accomplishment of the technology world is the invention cell phone known as mobile phone back when it was created. At the beginning, in the early 1900s, it was just a mobile phone that could make and receive call over radio frequency, but as times goes by, in the era, it became a more than that, you could receive and send text messages, take pictures, play games, and use your phone for quick daily tools such as alarm, calculator, calendar. Motorola was the first company to start in the cellphone business, however at this moment, Samsung and Apple have the highest sale rate. Video gaming is one the biggest technology based hobbies that the young generation practices the most since its apparition around the early For most people, the use of the everyday gadgets, such as computers and smartphone became a natural way of communication. It is no longer a surprising object, everyone in this generation, at least the ones in in the developed countries, own and know how to use a computer and a smartphone. At the beginning where the technology made its first apparition, people were stunned and excited about it and the bright future it offered. On the other hand, now, they are still excited but they are used to the applications and its capacity, and are waiting for something new, a big change compared to the transformation of mobile phone to cellphone. Some people view technology as a great way for kids to learn better and quicker, Beausejour 2 however, some people see it as toxic and useless. How does technology really affect the life the young children? In his article, Fox Stephen talks about the effectiveness of the dependencies and the potential negative effects within the framing of new technologies. of hype and disappointment fit well with the popular conceptualizations of innovation, such as creative destruction and disruptive change. Within these conceptualizations, disappointments with technologies are welcome opportunities to introduce further new technologies, which can destroy the old and create new markets, or at least disrupt existing (Fox, The Innovation Big Picture: Including Effectiveness Dependencies, Efficiency Dependencies, And Potential Negative Effects Within The Framing Of New Technologies.) The fact that they are running out of ideas, the society is less hype about the current inventions, the lack of innovation diminish the standard of how technology used to be. In addition to potentially grave negative global effects, there are the unproductive costs of organizations investing in hyped technologies that do not deliver expected positive effects. In her article technology has affect the middle Meadow Rhodes gives a lists of statistics on how social media and technology negatively affect the young adolescents. By continuing to use technology teens could suffer from back pain, they become less active, they can develop arthritis in their fingers and wrists, their sight could be affected, their sleep will be disturbed, they will lose their hearing, they will be more distracted and have more psychological problems, said Rhodes. Because they are more exposed to the gadgets, they have a 50% higher chance to get these type of problems than people from earlier generation. The article says, important to come together as parents, teachers and therapists to help society and see the devastating effects technology is having not only on our physical, psychological, Beausejour 3 and behavioral health, but also on their ability to learn and sustain personal and family (Rhodes, how technology has affect the middle schoolers) . The author think it is necessary that the parents take an action about their technology consummation. This stakeholder is based on the negative sides of technology and social media. Where in the first article, they talk about how it affects the market and causes bankruptcy, because of the lack of innovation, the purchase of new item is not really beneficial to the consumers. The other articles talks more about the negative physical and psychological effects of technology and social media on the teens. In many ways technology has enabled us to strengthen relationships by keeping in contact with old friends, colleagues, and co-workers. We can find old friends from high school through Facebook and many. Technology has even provided opportunities for students all over the world to receive an education online, while still maintaining work schedules and family. Students are now able to take webinar courses and attain their degree online just as any student on campus. the internet, mobile devices, and games were taken away from us, how would we feel? I know many of us would feel like a part of our life is missing due to technology now being a necessity in our everyday life (Walker, positive and negative impacts technology has on our daily . This question that the author asked show how much importance technology has in society, and that a lot of things would not be possible if it was not thanks to it. Other than communication and entertainment, there are some undervalued positives effects that the article bought on light such as, how electronic gadgets have entered homes of the common man to rescue him from the boredom of daily chores; the idea of having four-wheeled modes of transport gave rise to the creation of cars; modes of air and water Beausejour 4 transport came up, thanks to technology; the use of advanced technologies like robotics and artificial intelligence has proven to be helpful in life-risking endeavors like mining and space exploration; branding on the Internet is much more effective that other forms of product promotion; the entertainment media has progressed because of advancements in technology, movies, songs, games are a few clicks away. (Oak, 8 Hugely Undervalued Positive Effects of Technology on Society). The negative effects of technology and social media can be reduced and most importantly, it could disappear. Making good use of this privilege could not only lower the bad sides of it, but also it could benefit and gives better result. The good amount of sleep that teenagers and young adult deprive could be restored simply by making a small change in electronic use before bed. than merely imposing limits on computer time, encourage your teens to engage in additional recreational activities, such as after-school sports and clubs, hobbies, musical instruments, or volunteering at local charities. If they are spending time in other pursuits, they will likely be using up more calories than sitting at the computer (Reduce the Adverse effects of Technology in your Family, 2011). This article subjects the alternation of technology with more outdoor activities that will not only help them into being more creative and active, but it will also help reduce technology dependency, and the risk of getting diseases it causes. Beausejour 5 Technology over the years has been an extraordinary source of help and information for the society. However, some people make good use of this resource and they get negatively affected by it. Some people see it as essential and dependable, meanwhile some others see it as a tool that could spoil the young generation by making them lazier, unproductive, and exposed to diseases. Some others think that by reducing the use of technology, the population would get a better performance and result. Beausejour 6 Works Cited Fox, Stephen. The Innovation Big Picture: Including Effectiveness Dependencies, Efficiency Dependencies, And Potential Negative Effects Within The Framing Of New  Technology In Society 35.(2013): 306-314. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rhodes, Meadow. Negative Effects of Technology and  Film 136C. N.p., 15 June 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Walker, Brittany. The Positive and Negative Impacts Technology Has on Our Daily  University of Wisconsin-Platteville. N.p., 19 Sept. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Oak, Manali. 8 Hugely Undervalued Positive Effects of Technology on  Buzzle. Buzzle.com, 18 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 NAD Health Ministries : July 2011- Reduce the Adverse Effects of Technology in Your  NAD Health Ministries : July 2011- Reduce the Adverse Effects of Technology in Your Family. N.p., July 2011. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.