Mounzer 1 Hassan Mounzer William Drugan ENC 1102.071 29 Jan 2017 Violent Video Games The increase in the violence and crime has been taking place throughout the last few years, and a topic of concern for a lot of people. Many factors are to be blamed for the violent and aggressive behavior of some people. Some describe a gamer as addictive, time waster, and violent as for others they believe that violent or non-violent video games are created with one single purpose to entertain. Certain organizations stand against violent video games in all its forms and they try their best to stop it from expanding. The Government is a permeant organization that stands against violent video games. Their mission is to reduce the impact violent video games have on people. It is important to keep in mind that the influences and regulations a government may vary a lot depending on the ruling political party of different countries. On the other hand, Video Games Industries believe that the blame put on violent video games for the crimes taking place is unfair. This is simply being used as an excuse to cover up the real cause, which is based on the upbringing of the child. Each one of these two independent parties work differently to achieve their goals. One is against violent video games and is persuading people to stay away from it, while the other is trying to convince people that violent video games are being used as a cover-up for a bad government. One way both parties come Mounzer 2 together and agree on a compromise by increasing and decreasing the taxes on certain video games based on their violence rating. To begin with, these days almost every house a person walks into has some type of videogame in it. Especially nowadays videogames are very advanced in their graphics and animations which can make a person get so attached to the game where they can sit there for a whole day without even realizing. Any type of addiction is hurtful and when someone adapts to it, it becomes a part of their life, until it becomes all they think about and all they really believe in in term of what content they are looking at while playing a particular game. From this point Violent video games can have a dangerous effect on certain individuals especially on the long term. a recent survey of over 600 eighth-and ninth-grade students, children averaged 9 hours per week of videogame play overall, with boys averaging 13 hours per week and girls averaging 5 hours per (Anderson 7). After the Government started relating these statistics to certain violent behaviors, the concern about this topic started growing until its became one of the major issues the government is working on resolving. Any purpose is to reduce the number of crimes and violent acts in their society and Some intend to achieve this by trying to stop the dangerous impact violent videogames have on people. The Government keeps on pressuring the Video games industries by accusing them that their violent games are behind the growing aggressive behavior in their society. They have intended to achieve this by putting different regulation. Germany, blood in games is required to be colored green and countries from Brazil to Australia have a stricter stance on extremely violent (ENGG 481: Violent Video Games). a job to protect their citizens from any harm that can affect them, therefore several experimental studies have been performed on people to prove their point. Mounzer 3 Many experiments where performed on children and college students to see how violent video games affect them differently. found that habitual exposure to violent media was positively associated with higher levels of recent violent behavior. In addition, we found that the newer interactive form of media violence (violent videogames) was more strongly related to violent behavior than was exposure to no interactive media violence (Anderson 66). In this same study it was found that people from all ages are equally venerable when it come to the negative effects of violent video games. The Government will always work upon protecting their community from any unsafe activities like violent video games which is a very dangerous and addictive. On the other hand, some people believe that violent behaviors are caused by further more serious issues such as the upbringing of a child or the environment a person lives in. These people see video games as a thing with one sole purpose which is entertainment, they argue that a person should be smart and mature enough to realize that this is just a game and it has nothing to do with reality. So no matter how long an individual spend on a video game, not going to change anything. Videogame industries oppose the statements in every single way, they believe that unfair to put the blame on video games for certain crimes and violent behaviors, and they describe it as a cover up used by the government for other serious issues. Canada, more than 14,000 people work in the gaming industry with more than $2 billion in entertainment software and hardware sales alone. In the ever increasing technological world with many jobs being replaced by technologies or outsourced to cheaper countries. Working for video game industry is one of the few occupations that can create local (ENGG 481: Violent Video Games). From this fact, Videogames industries benefit the government in terms of keeping many options for local jobs and help their growth in one way or another. Mounzer 4 Ferguson, associate professor and co-chairman of the Department of Psychology at Stetson University, suggest that violent video games may help reduce societal violence rather than increase it. Basically, by keeping young males busy with things they like and this would include everything from playing sports and collecting stamps to playing first-person shooter video games. You keep them off the streets and out of (CNN). Videogame industries believe that it is ridiculous for the Government to blame violent video games for anything bad that could happen and especially without any real sufficient evidence that can back their claim. Despite the many odds between the government and the video games industries. Sharing a common ground is something necessary to solve the issue of violent video games. Both might reach an agreement by increasing and decreasing the taxes on some of the video games according to their rating which is based on how violent the game is. First, video games must be rated according to how violent they are and then taxes must be lowered or raised according to the results. This creates the balance between the two of them, and help them achieve their missions. Video Games Industries will still sell their video games, and the Government will lower the exposure of aggressive and violent content to a large number of people. Missouri Republican is calling on violent video games, because apparently not government overreach if something kids like, Diane Franklin is pushing for one percent sale tax on video games, this video game tax would only apply to video games with certain (Feldman). Despite their oppositions, The Government and Video Games Industries share a common value, which is the disagreement on violence taking place in real life. This is why they can agree on a compromise that keeps both sides happy. Mounzer 5 As conclusion, due to the increase in crimes and aggressive behavior it is good to take any type of prevention and finding an agreement between the government and the video games industries regarding the topic of violent video games is an important stept forward towards a solution. Knowing that the two sides the government and the gaming industry have a common value made easier to find a compromise even though each side may have to give up a little they can still find the balance and be fair. Mounzer 6 Work cited page 1- McCarthy, Randy J., Sarah L. Coley, Michael F. Wagner, Bettina Zengel, and Ariel Basham. Does playing video games with violent content temporarily increase aggressive inclinations? A pre-registered experimental  Journal of Experimental Social Psychology 67 (2016): 13-19. Web. 2- Anderson, Craig Alan, Douglas A. Gentile, and Katherine E. Buckley. Violent video game effects on children and adolescents: theory, research, and public policy. Oxford: Oxford U Press, 2007. Print. 3-  ENGG 481: Violent Video Games. N.p., 16 Aug. 2010. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Do video games lead to  CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 5-Josh-feldman taking Action Against Violent Video Games with Taxer and Mediate States taking action against violent video games with taxes and buyback. Mediate, 16 Jan. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.