Khaing 1 Aung Khaing Harley Campbell ENC1102.089 23 January 2017 Research on Cancer of Different Therapies There are many factors that ends a life, no matter who they are, what their age or sex is. However, there is a deadly disease that devour life cells, taking away thousands of life every year, cancer, can be the most stealthy and dangerous illness that human fear for centuries. This disease can happen on anyone regardless of age and gender. Scientists and researchers are working their entire life to find effective ways to cure cancer, and many stood up to form organizations gather funds and provide resources to accelerate the research progress. Cancer Research Institute (CRI) is a organization that uses of human to fight back cancer. Similar organization, Cancer Research UK (CR UK), approach is to speed up drug development and many other multiple ways to cure cancer. Both organizations are trying to cure cancer, but they have different approaches. They want to find absolute answers to win against cancer as soon as possible, because every year there are many people suffering and dying from cancer. CR UK and CRI can enhance their research by establishing a laboratory where both sides share the benefit of research data, and come to understand each studies to work out which method is better. Khaing 2 The first stakeholder, Cancer Research Institute or CRI is a nonprofit organization that devote in research of immune system, which they believe to be the only and the best to conquer cancer for long-term run. It was founded by Helen Coley Nauts in 1953, her father Dr. William B. Coley was a pioneer in non-surgical treatment Their main goal is to cure cancer by using immunotherapy, and finally completely remove cancer out of human bodies is a treatment that uses body immune system to treat illness, which also include (What is cancer 1).Del Bano, a Pharmacist Resident who is working on breast cancer immunotherapy, she wrote an article about her research to prove the possibilities of immunotherapy. In Del Bano article, she concluded of bispecific antibodies brings innovative solutions that are poised to deliver exciting results in a near CRI has been researching immune system for many decades and working with other organizations like AACR and STAND UP TO CANCER From establishing many programs that support young scientists and students to learn more about immunology, open conferences to increase the efficiency, and collaboration with many other organizations, CRI become well known for its research focus In order to reach their goal further investment and research is essential, as immunotherapy is new among all other treatments, which might not be as efficient as chemotherapy or radiotherapy. However, it can be the safest treatment compare to the other. Therefore, if CRI can have a secondary method for cure, there can be Khaing 3 improvement in the way of treatment, and CR UK can be a great organization that CRI can work with, despite the differences in approaches. Secondly, Cancer Research UK (CR UK) is also a non-profit organization that is aims to beat cancer. Their research field has a wide range of focus, which include surgery, radiotherapy techniques and drugs (CR UK). CR UK is trying to deal with all type of cancer in any way they can. For example, precaution can be taken by not smoking and eat healthy food, and kept children away from those harms (CR UK). Their current goal is to increase the survival rate to 75 percent, and finally conquer cancer. Even though CR is an organization focuses on cancer problems that occur in the United Kingdom, they plan to work on global scale. In fact, CR UK had funded in drug research and brings organizations in the UK to collaborate to improve the research (CR UK). Thanks to their influences in the UK they could raise many charity for their research, and they are being trusted in the UK, as well as around the world. Though CR UK has been finding multiple way for cure, their focus is more on chemotherapy and biological therapies, and drug play a major role is these treatments. In fact, chemotherapy means drugs treatment. In the article Comparison Of Four Chemotherapy Regimens For Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung , Schiller explained that one third of cancer patients are suffering from lung cancer and drug treatment prove a high success rate (Schiller1). Both old and new methods are continuing to make a breakthrough and can be very essential, but there are also side effects Khaing 4 that must take into consideration. Therefore, for the sake of beating cancer, more experiment and research are required, this need both organization to consider the possibilities and benefits of oversea laboratory. To begin with, CRI believe that immunotherapy can be the only and the best solution to cure cancer for the long-term and for future, which indeed, have the potential. Where on the other hand CR UK is acting to solve the problem that is occurring now, planning to reduce cancer patient of the United Kingdom by various method. These methods include promoting non-smoking, educating people to stay healthy, and research of treatments with a major focus on drug development. However, both wants to find way to cure cancer so that there are less people with cancer, and more people survive from cancer. They have been working with organizations in their country, collaborating for share of research data to the public. However, to solve cancer; that had been a deadly disease for centuries, unpredictable amount of time will be taken, and more research data and tests must be carry out. Therefore, establishing a new laboratory in US and bring in scientists from the youth to help research, to boost the research. To be able to do this, a third-party organization is required for managing the laboratory, and International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) can be the one. IARC had been working to promote international collaboration for cancer research, bring organizations together and raise charity around the world (IARC). Since, CRI and CR UK is in two different continents, a third-party organization like IARC; Khaing 5 which focus on bring organizations and research across countries around the world including countries that has middle or low income. Records and data is extremely essential in cancer research, because every illness is unique depend on the patient, so the test results can help improve the research, especially when it comes to drug tests. In 2008, American Cancer Society, the US Multi Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer, and the American College of Radiology came together to develop consensus to detect cancer and remove in early stage (Levin 1). This act increase the understanding of different situations and requirements to cure cancer, with the guideline published in 2008 (Levin 1). This prove that organization have better understanding in not just the field they focus, but also other method to cure cancer. CR UK had also notice advantages, but is still focus on chemotherapy and other method because immunotherapy is still new. However, if they can work together on a single task, sharing experiences and research together, they will not just understand each method and come up with the best way to cure. Things that the organizations need to give off will be funds and research data, and with IARC, research will go on a global scale, this will cost them a lot to establish a laboratory. In the future, this laboratory can be expand and bring in other organizations that wish to understand and take part in the research. Finally, with the establishment of this new laboratory, not only CRI and CR UK will be benefit from the collaboration, IARC will have two reliable organizations to promote themselves in foreign country. There are more than 200 types of cancer and many ways to Khaing 6 cure, where one can be more effective than another in each type of cancer. However, immunotherapy has great promise for the future, where chemotherapy is the among the most effective treatment to cancer. Scientists and doctors around the world want to find cure for this disease, and everyone wants to end the tragedy. The road is long, but there is always way to increase the speed, and for everyone around to get the same treatment as the leading country, people must act on and organizations must build bridges that connect the needs. Work Cited Del Bano, Joanie, et al. Taking Up Cancer Immunotherapy Challenges: Bispecific Antibodies, The Path  Antibodies (2073-4468) 5.1 (2016): 1-23. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 6 Feb. 2017 IARC. About  About IARC. IARC, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Levin, B. Screening and surveillance for the early detection of colorectal cancer and adenomatous polyps, 2008: a joint guideline from the American Cancer Society, the US Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer, and the American College of  Ca : a Cancer Journal for Clinicians 58.3 (2008):130. Web. Khaing 7 Jill. About  Cancer Research Institute. CRI, 16 Feb. 2009. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Our Strategy to Beat Cancer  Cancer Research UK. CR UK, 09 Sept. 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Schiller, Joan H., et al. Comparison Of Four Chemotherapy Regimens For Advanced Non- Small-Cell Lung  The New England Journal Of Medicine 2 (2002): 92. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The American Cancer Society Medical and Editorial Content Team. What Is Cancer  American Cancer Society, 23 July 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.