Cat Miranda Miranda1 Professor Drugan ENC 1102 071 16 February 2017 Puppy Mills vs. Animal Shelters Puppy mills and animal shelters are complete opposites in the way that one wants to adopt out animals to loving homes to prevent the overpopulation of animals and the other breeds and sells their puppies to animal stores to be sold again. Puppy mills are dog breeding factories where the animals are bred to be sold to pet stores. Animal shelters are organizations in which animals who have been abused or abandoned are taken in by the shelter, and given the proper medicine and therapy to be able to be adopted back out to a new home. Since animal shelters want people to adopt animals instead of buying them it seems like there be a compromise that the two could agree on, but there is. The proposition to appease both stakeholders would be that puppy mills would adopt out some of their puppies to loving homes. Then once the dog is of age to breed, the new owner would bring back the puppy to breed three times. They do this because they want puppies to sell, but they also want more bad publicity. Then all ties with the puppy mills would be cut off once the puppy has been bred the agreed amount of times. This helps with overpopulation because the puppies that got adopted out would have normally been bred over and over again until they could breed anymore. The amount of litters that the puppies who were not adopted have are substantially greater than those who did get adopted out. Miranda2 According to the Humane Organization website there are about 10,000 puppy mills throughout the United States of America. Puppy mills are essentially breeding factories for dogs. In these factories, animals are treated badly and are bred for the purpose of being sold in pet shops and dog stores. The demand for purebred puppies is always high so the puppy mills have a method of making money. Puppies that are born deformed almost have no use to the pure bred buyers; this causes the puppy mill owners to make the decision to abandon them or even kill them. These are the options because they cannot make a profit for a deformed dog when it is supposed to be a classic pure bred dog. Most breeding dog mothers are kept in cages that are stacked on top of each other in columns with the wire cage floor. The dogs are bred over and over again until they are no longer able to breed any longer. Once the mothers have lost their purpose, they are sold, abandoned, or killed. This is an issue with animal shelters because puppy mills essentially go against everything in which they stand. Puppy mills use these animals to breed, so they can make a profit without ever treating the animals in a humane way. Animal shelters want puppy mills to treat their puppies with care and possibly adopt out some of their animals to good homes for the dogs, instead of selling them to other stores to be bought for an even bigger profit. Animal Shelters are homes for unwanted animals. When an animal is abandoned or abused the animal shelters take the pet in and start the moving in process. Depending on how badly the animals are hurt, they are thoroughly cleaned to get rid of possible ticks, fleas, or rashes. Then the veterinarians take a look at them. When they do this, they check for any worms, respiratory issues, heart murmurs, obvious physical deformities, etc. . . Once they determine what kind of issues the animal has they prescribe medicine and a plan to get the animal healthy. Miranda3 The pet is given food and water so they are not malnourished and if they have Post Traumatic Stress Disorder or other issues the workers, and volunteers help to get the animal back to how they should have been before the abuse or abandonment. After that whole process the animal is put up for adoption. They are put in a cage where people can walk by and see if they would want to take them home with them and care for them. The issue puppy mills have with animal shelters is how they are being compared, and how the ASPCA speaks badly of puppy mills and raising awareness. Puppy mills are losing business because more people are adopting animals now instead of buying them from pet stores, which is where the puppy mills sells their dogs. Furthermore, animal shelters want the animals to be treated humanely and puppy mills want their business not to be talked about badly. They both want things to change and there is a way for that to happen. The compromise has the puppy mills adopt out their dogs to loving homes for free. The puppy gets to grow with its new family, but the catch is once it is of breeding age, the new owner has to bring the puppy back to breed three times. The breeders chose to have the puppies be brought back three times because they get a good amount of puppies per each litter, so they can still make a decent amount of money by giving away a puppy for free. This is also a good amount that the new owner can agree on because they are getting a purebred dog for free. Animal shelters will also be okay with this agreement because it is helping with overpopulation by having these puppies only breed three times instead of continuously until they anymore. If the dog is male, he does his business and the new owners get to take him home after each time he is bred. But if the dog is a female the breeders keep the female dog while she is pregnant so they are assured that they get to keep the puppies that come from the mother. Once the puppy is bred three times, all ties to the puppy mills are cut off and you can Miranda4 spay or neuter your animal if like. With this compromise the animal shelters will be appeased because the animals are being adopted out as puppies and treated humanely. As well as overpopulation being slimmed down as well. While the puppy mills will be satisfied because the animal shelter will stop speaking badly about their processes due to the fact that the animals are being treated with care and they are being adopted to loving homes. They will also make a profit off of the three litters they will acquire from the puppies they adopted out. In conclusion, puppy mills and animal shelters could not be more opposite in the way that one wants to adopt out animals to loving homes to prevent the overpopulation of animals and the other breeds and sells their puppies to animal stores to be sold again. Animal shelters care for abandoned animals and ensure they are healthy enough to be adopted out and find new loving homes. While puppy mills are factories where puppies are bred so they can be sold to other pet shops and dog stores. In order for both to be appeased with their situations, they should use the compromise. The compromise has the puppy mills adopt out their dogs to loving homes for free. The puppy gets to grow with its new family, but the catch is once it is of breeding age, the new owner has to bring the puppy back to breed three times, so the breeders can get a decent amount of puppies from each dog that was adopted out. If the dog is male, he does his business and the new owners get to take him home after each time he is bred. But if the dog is a female the breeders keep the female dog while she is pregnant so they are assured that they get to keep the puppies that come from the mother. Once the puppy is bred three times, all ties to the puppy mills are cut off and you can spay or neuter your animal if like. Animal shelters should be somewhat happy with this agreement because the animal are being adopted out not sold and they are treated humanely by their new owners. Puppy mills should be happy with this agreement Miranda5 because they still make a profit selling puppies and the animal shelters will be happy because puppies are being adopted out and sold, and this process helps with overpopulation. Miranda6 Work Cited: Solotaroff, Paul. The Dog  Rolling Stone 1278/1279 (2017): 42-56. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=16&sid=bfb222baefee4b4da3a151d84b4 d1eee%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=12 0528745&db=aph This article goes into the world of puppy mills and shows how animals the puppies are treated through the entirety of the process. It shows where pet store animals come from. It also shows how inhumane the living conditions of the puppy mills are. The analysis of this article is that it shows how inhumanely animals are treated in these mills and how it should be known to the public. Puppy mills have multiple animals in one cage, and the cages are stacked on top of each other, and put into columns. Lord, Emily, Nicole Olynk Widmar, and Annette Litster. Economic Impacts Of Adoption And Fundraising Strategies In Animal  Preventive Veterinary Medicine 113.(2014): 423-429. ScienceDirect. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=8c268aaf-de10-469f-95fd- 03afcd796998%40sessionmgr4010&vid=0&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd mU%3d#AN=S0167587713003711&db=edselp Animal Shelters are homes for the homeless animals. The animals are dropped off or Miranda7 rescued by the shelter workers and then groomed to be adopted out to a new home. Animal shelters speak against puppy mills because puppy mills treat the dogs in such a inhumane way. http://www.dreamydoodles.com/guardian-homes/ This website shows a compromise for both parties. The puppies from puppy mills are adopted out to loving homes of people who want to adopt a puppy. Then The puppy is to be brought back to be bred around three times so the puppy mill will get breeding done and the animal shelter will have helped puppies to get adopted instead of sold off. Puppy-mill bill progresses: It would require registration and licensing of  Tulsa World (Tulsa, OK) 2010: General OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article is talking about a bill that has to be passed by the three branches of government. It is stating that breeders need to be licensed and registered in order to breed any type of animal. In doing this, the animals would be checked on and regulated. This means that the breeders would have to treat the animals in a humane way in order to continue with their business. Simmons, Kaitlyn E., and Christy L. Hoffman. Dogs On The Move: Factors Impacting Animal Shelter And Rescue Decisions To Accept Dogs From Distant  Animals (2076-2615) 6.2 (2016): 1-14. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article is about how animal shelters are making an initiative to travel to other cities and possibly other states to get abandoned and abused dogs and bring them back to their shelters to Miranda8 be taken care of. Once they get the animals they will give them all the necessary medical care they need and all the attention they require to be able to be put up for adoption and find their future loving homes and owners. http://www.humanesociety.org/news/publications/whitepapers/puppy-mill- research.html?referrer=https://www.google.com/ This is a website about animals and how they are treated. This give facts of abuse, puppy mills, shelters, etc.. Everything animal related should essentially be on here and should be factual see that it is a professional organization that is well known.