Paul Adair ENC 1102 Sensei Drugan 30 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Marijuana has always been a very controversial subject. There are so many views on whether the drug needs to be legalized or not that very hard to come up with a solution that keeps everyone happy. While some groups dedicate themselves to ban marijuana completely from the streets of the United States, others are doing nearly everything in their power to come up with a plan to legalize it. The two most impactful organizations fighting over the subject are CALM (Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana) and NORML (National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). The clash of these titans has resulted in a stalemate, allowing little to no reform to happen to the current laws regarding the legalization of marijuana. CALM is a group of volunteers that was created in California after the recreational legalization of marijuana. They intend to defeat the efforts to legalize marijuana in the United States through educating as many people as they can about the dangers of its legalization. CALM offers a variety of ways to get involved with the group on their website which includes everything from as simple as putting a yard sign up to organizing speeches and presentations in the community to spread awareness. CALM truly believes that the legalization of marijuana would negatively impact the economy due to, absenteeism, compromised work safety, and lost (https://calmusa.org/calmcablog/) On the other hand, CALM does have proof on their website that marijuana does have some medical benefits that are beneficial to patients who truly need the drug. NORML is an organization put together to fight for the complete legalization of marijuana. Their mission is to, public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (http://norml.org/about) NORML wants everyone to enjoy the benefits of marijuana, including the state. The recreational legalization of the drug in certain states have been improving the public-school system and dumping money into their budgets for improving government-funded projects. With the ever-worsening economy we have today, why would the United States not make the moves necessary to set it back on track and pay off the debt we owe? Although not everyone backs up the idea of recreational legalization, legalizing marijuana medically is an idea that has been proven to be backed by the public. The medical legalization of marijuana is one compromise that seems to be a middle ground. CALM would have to accept the fact that marijuana IS legal to some extent. NORML would have to accept that marijuana is legalized, but only people who truly need it benefit from the legalization. Neither organization would be completely satisfied but they both achieve part of their goals with a sacrifice. The legalization of marijuana for medical purposes is not a longshot of a goal at all. In fact, it is very attainable and nearly at fingertips. According to Gallup polls, 58% of Americans are in favor of legalizing marijuana (http://www.gallup.com/poll/165539/first-time- americans-favor-legalizing-marijuana.aspx). The support from the people is definitely there. It is a matter of the laws passing through the strict process of checks and balances that they all go through in Washington D.C. After passing such a law or laws, the benefits will begin to show economically and socially. Although some groups are against legalization and some are for it, society could benefit from its legalization. The benefits outweigh the negatives which results in the support of smaller organizations that have slightly different goals but are still contributing to the societal argument. One example is the MPP (Marijuana Policy Project) which aims to get criminal charges taken out of the list of consequences resulting in being charged with possession. They believe that marijuana should be treated and controlled the same way alcohol is which is a very similar view to goals. Another example includes LEAP (Law Enforcement Against Prohibition), a group of people whose focus is to end the war on drugs. They have dealt with the war on drugs and experienced the effects of the war first hand. They plan to do so by educating the public about the many flaws of the system of laws in place related to marijuana. Also, they are trying to fix the lack of respect towards police. Through several smaller support, one day the people of the United States will be able to enjoy the benefits of marijuana.