Kevin Spencer Professor Drugan ENC 1102 January 29, 2017 Casting Light on the Solar Amendment 1 On the ballot last November was a proposed amendment that few seemed to understand. Those who did claim to understand it seemed to have very different opinions on what the effect on future might be. Some people claimed it would be a wonderful thing for our state, and our energy policy, while others warned that it was a that would do far more harm than good. This proposed Amendment 1, would give people the right to install solar panels on their rooftops, and it claimed to give more people access to affordable and usable solar power. Two particular stakeholders I found reflect two completely different opinions on the issue. The first stakeholder is the Consumers for Smart Solar and the people they worked with to draft the amendment. The other stakeholder is Jonathon Taylor, a man who spent his own money on a social media campaign to combat the amendment. Taylor believes the amendment would only result in increased costs and new fees to those that already had their own rooftop solar panels, and as a result, consumers will be more reliant on the current utility companies that provide solar contracts. side has won the temporary battle, as the amendment did not pass, and his message has garnered a large amount of support. I intend to dissect what these stakeholders are saying in order to find the facts about the amendment, and from here I will try to find the common ground that is needed for this issue to be resolved with the highest benefit. I believe these two stakeholders have more in common than they realize, and simply want what is best for Florida and her people. I also believe that a new amendment could be good for Florida solar, and could help spread solar panel usage throughout the state if formulated correctly. To begin, I need to explain what both stakeholders believe about this amendment, and separate their opinions from the facts. The stakeholder on the side of the amendment, Consumers for Smart Solar, claim it will give people the right to install solar panels and it will protect those people from being subsidized by others who are not solar users. They are implying with this logic, that people who use solar can impact the electric grid, and that this could cost the average consumer who using Solar. Therefore, people using solar need extra protection to ensure that they have rights to use their panels without interference. On their website, this stakeholder expresses that this amendment is about rights, explaining, the amendment will allow consumer choice, and provide consumer  The other stakeholder, Taylor believes the amendment would only result in increased costs and new fees to those that already had their own rooftop solar panels, and as a result, consumers will be more reliant on the current utility companies that provide solar contracts. As a result, he argues, competition will not be encouraged, and consumers will be at the mercy of their utility companies in regards to leasing panels for their home. The main issue that comes forth with the logic of the first stakeholder is that it is largely believed and often true in many instances that solar energy has no impact on the costs of other energy networks, and so it seems even more unlikely that consumers would have to pay more if they were not using solar energy. Neville Williams, one Florida solar entrepreneur, seem to believe that solar could be a bad thing for the energy grid. He  Nowhere in the U.S. is grid-tied, net-metered solar power threatening any utility or power network. In reality, decentralized rooftop solar electricity provides net benefits by reducing the stress on the grid during the daytime, cutting expenditures on fossil  (Williams) Those against the amendment seem to have the same opinion as my second stakeholder arguing that the amendment is a major utility company project, that has its heart in big business. It is worth pointing out that this amendment is strongly backed by several of largest utility companies. Whether or not this is actually good for average consumer and solar energy in general remains to be seen. Despite these major differences in belief about what this amendment means for Florida, I believe that in the end both of these stakeholders want people to have increased access to reliable rooftop based solar energy. Amendment 1 end up passing but I think if new legislation was in the works there would be space for both of these stakeholders to find compromise. The amendment would have to undergo some drastic changes, as the stakeholders seem to have core disagreements about how solar panel usage should spread throughout Florida. Several components need to be considered when aligning both of these stakeholders solar interests. The first component in the compromise to be considered is transparency. In amendment 1, there was instances in the subtext where it seemed to imply hidden fees that consumers would have to undergo in order to set up their own panels, without the help of a utility company. Additionally, the amendment gave utility companies the ability to charge more for their services, and have more power in their contracts. There were definite differences from what the amendment appeared to do, and what it would actually enact if passed. This is one of the main reasons why it was met with such strong opposition, and eventually was struck down. A new amendment, if enacted with the help of Consumers for Smart Solar, would need to be fully explained and fleshed out from the beginning in order to meet the standards of Jonathon Taylor and people like him, who understand that most people take the time to read the fine print. Another step towards successful compromise involves bringing back the idea that the amendment will give people the right to install and use solar panels they way they see fit to suit their energy needs. If the Consumers for Smart Solar are in fact passionate about people having solar as a constitutional right, then they should support this legislation to protect consumers rights. If this new amendment was in fact truthful and only intended to expand the freedoms of consumers, than I am sure that Jonathon Taylor would approve. If it is the case that solar power actually needs protection from subsidies than this should also be included in the amendment, but strictly as a precaution that protects the consumers from anything fees a gas company might try to impose on them. I believe this would protect the people, while also benefiting solar utility companies, as it would keep other electrical companies from taking advantage of their loose footing in this new market. One final aspect of this compromise that would take very careful negotiation to agree to is for it to be illegal for someone to sell extra electricity to their neighbors. Therefore they would not be able to undercut the market. Consumers would still be allowed to use their own panels, or purchase electricity through any approved company, but no one without a license would be permitted to sell their extra energy door to door. Instead, consumers could sell their extra back energy back to an energy company for a small profit. Although it seems that Jonathon Taylor is completely opposed to Consumers for Smart Solar, if he saw that they had these same interests, he would gladly accept their funding for new legislation if he thought it would help out the average Floridian. Indeed, finding these pure intentions that seek to encourage freedom and free-choice are the key to this compromise coming together. Works Cited: Palm Beach Post Staff Writer. Solar Boat Aimed at Voters on Campaign Solar-powered Boat Cruising Florida to Campaign against Amendment 1; Vessel Going around State in Opposition to Amendment  The Palm Beach Post, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Salisbury, Susan. next for Fla.  N.p., 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Salisbury, Susan. Amendment 1 Puts Solar Laws into Constitution Florida Voters to Decide Utility- backed Solar Energy Amendment; Critics Call Measure Misleading; Proponents Say It Ensures  N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Smart Solar Florida  Consumers for Smart Solar. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. How a dot-com millionaire became a social media crusader against solar amendment . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.