Kranjcec 1 Sydney Kranjcec Mr.Drugan ENC 1102 January 2017-01-29 Intermediate Draft Football and Hockey, two of the most watched sports within the United States. But little do fans know that most of their favourite teams as well as players are playing a sport that put them in positions where they are at risk for severe neurological damage. Most fans get the hype from the sport due to all the hits, whether the clash of the football helmets or the cross check on the rink we as the fans live for the excitement and the rivalry on and off the fields. But beyond all this hype very hit enables each player to get closer and closer to lasting brain damage. It may not seem all that important due to the fact that we have been watching these sports for so long, and it been until recently that this issue has become more and more important within our society. Due to the fact that there has been more and more reported cases of professional and even youth athletes diagnosed with symptoms that are linked to concussions. A concussion can be defined as a blow or jolt to the body or head that causes the brain to shake. With that type of injury symptoms such as headaches, nausea or dizziness, sleep complications, difficulty concentration and even so far as mood disruptions or abnormalities. But on a much larger scale one can experience short term as well as long term memory loss as well as the individual may experience a harder time retaining information. So with that being said there has been an increase in awareness and prevention with this type of injury, whether it is through the use of media, or literature scientist and doctors are trying to make the public aware of the potential short term as well as long term effects if an individual sustains this type of injury. Frequent concussions within major league sports cause increased neurological concerns as well as conflicts within the popular sports industry. Kranjcec 2 The National Hockey League reported an estimated five hundred and fifty-nine concussions during the regular season between 1997-2004. This number was calculated in an experiment conducted by a group of scientists whereby they examined the post-concussion symptoms in athletes who currently played in the NHL during the regular season. They concluded that there is an estimated 1.8 concussions per one thousand player hours. These injuries are acquired due to the heavy hits these athletes not only get from their opponents but as well as the impact they receive when they are checked into the boards and even onto the rink. When the athletes get hit by their opponents most concussion symptoms are a result of the brain hitting against the skull causing a major blow and or jolt to the brain itself. When this type of injury is sustained the athlete may not experience any pain right away, which is a major issue due to the fact that most athletes will continue playing the game without any knowledge of them being hurt. Most symptoms will not become prevalent until time after the game whereby the athlete may have a headache or feel as though he or she is light headed and/or dizzy, and the most common post-concussion symptom is that of a headache where there was over seventy-one individuals who reported to have a headache after their incident. As a result of this research doctors and scientists feel as though the public needs to be educated about this topic due to the potential life-long effects not only for the players playing the major league sports right now, but as well as the youth who may want to play these sports as well as all the retired athletes who have to live with the post-concussion symptoms. The Major Sport Industry is going to be under presser when it comes to the increased awareness of the effects of a concussion on the individual who acquired due to the fact that new regulations, education programs, as well as the possibility of new sporting gear to increase the safety of the players. Another aspect that may cause controversy within this industry is that of the fact that all of the regulations and programs are going to cost a pretty penny, and then the question is where are all of those funds going to come from? So all in all a lot of money is going to be put forth to put all of these programs into place. As well as these types of regulations and funds are going to take some time in order for them to be put into place and finalized, and with that if it takes years to do so what will the industry do in the meantime Kranjcec 3 while these actions are being put forth? This a very controversial topic due to the fact that no one wants to take away from the games that millions of individuals grew up not only watching but playing. But all in all there needs to be something done to help ensure the safety of our athletes today and the athletes of the future. Even though there is a lot of controversy and change to come regrading this topic both the Sports Industry as well as the doctors and scientists exploring this topic they both want the same thing and that is of the safety and protection of their players. They both want players to be able to have a long lasting career full of many accomplishments so if new regulations are going to help them do so, change is a must. The sports will forever include our favourite sports, they are just going to be altered to help insure the protection of all our athletes around the world. Taking into account all of these aspects compromise needs to be met and the NFL is the first league to make reform when it comes to concussion awareness and protection. The NFL recently implemented The NFL Concussion Settlement which states that the NFL is required to pay 675 million into a monetary award fund that would award money to retired NFL players depending on their diagnosis and at least 75 million for a baseline assessment program that would offer neurological evaluations that would test for and determine any major cognitive deficits. As well as this settlement states that it is going to fund another 10 million to establish an education fund to promote safety and injury prevention to football players, including any potential players entering into the league. Lastly it states that the NFL offered to pay the attorney fees of the players but not to exceed 112.5 million dollars in the total law suit costs. This settlement has not yet been implemented into the NFL but it is estimated that it should be within the next one to two years. This settlement not only helps the players in the league today, but also aims to help future athletes as well as past ones who help make the game it is today. Kranjcec 4 With increased awareness on this issue new legislation is being put into place allowing for the protection of our athletes. Even though there is a lot of controversy regarding this topic the main goal of all the Sports leagues is to protect their players the best they can. Even if that means change has to be made. All individuals want our athletes to have long lasting and successful careers filled with any accomplishments and minimal injuries that we can control. Kranjcec 5 Works Cited Benson, Brian W., et al. A prospective study of concussions among National Hockey League players during regular season games: the NHL-NHLPA Concussion  CMAJ: Canadian Medical Association Journal 2011: 905. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Harris, Jay Barry. Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays After The Approval Of The NFL Concussion  Defense Counsel Journal 83.2 (2016): 156-164. Business Source Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Hudson, Rob1, rhudson@ussa.edu, and Brandon1 Spradley. Concussions: A Sport Ethics  Sport Journal (2016): 1-7. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017.