Meghan Peck Drugan ENC 1102 1 February 2017 Dakota Access Pipeline The Dakota Access Pipeline is a controversial topic that is the cause of protests around the country. On Tuesday, January 24, 2017, President Trump signed the executive orders to push the pipeline forward, after efforts made by the Obama administration to block the pipeline. This decision sparked fierce backlash by opponents of the pipeline including the Sioux tribe represented by Dave Archambault II. The DAPL is mapped out to travel through four states North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa, Illinois that would require drilling underneath Lake Oahe, which is upstream from the Standing Rock tribe border. The Sioux tribe are concerned about the adverse environmental impacts this pipeline will create especially on their water supply and sacred sites. Also, the pipeline is being constructed without the consent of the people it will ultimately affect. The Trump administration believes that the pipeline will create jobs and affordable energy that will benefit all Americans. The main source of drinking water for the Sioux people comes from the Mississippi River, which connects to Lake Oahe where major protests have occurred. The major concerns is the threat to water safety the pipeline poses and the potential damage to sacred sites. If the pipeline could be rerouted into less risky territory, where it poses a lesser threat to water contamination and is located further from the Sioux border, it would benefit both the Sioux and the Trump Administration. Dave Archaumbalt II, Standing Rock Sioux Chairmen, made a statement regarding decision to streamline the Dakota Access Pipeline on January 24, 2017. Americans know this pipeline was unfairly rerouted towards our nation and without our consent. The existing pipeline route risks infringing on our treaty rights, contaminating our water and the water of 17 million Americans (CNN) 1 . Jan Hasselman, the Standing Rock chief lawyer and attorney for Earthjustice, reviewed the Presidential Memorandum regarding the pipeline and stated that President Trump failed to mention the Sioux tribe and address any of their concerns. 2 The Sioux tribe would likely be on better terms with the pipeline if the Trump administration would have acknowledged their concerns and addressed them accordingly. A compromise to reroute the pipeline away from the major water source and further from their border would be a better alternative from the current route. President Donald Trump and supporters believe that the pipeline would be beneficial for the American economy and for the American people. The Dakota Access Pipeline would generate jobs and an affordable source of energy. After a briefing from the Trump team regarding the construction of the pipeline, North Dakota Senator John Hoeven (R) stated, Trump expressed his support for the Dakota Access pipeline, which has met or exceeded all environmental standards set forth by four states and the Army Corps of (Samantha Page; ThinkProgress) 3. Hoeven goes on to confirm that this administration would work to grow the energy economy and therefore create jobs 3. President Trump, in his official Memorandum, he states, that construction and operation of lawfully permitted pipeline infrastructure serve the national 4 . The Trump administration stand by their decision to streamline the Dakota Access Pipeline because of potential for economic improvement, job creation, and affordable energy production. The Trump administration would benefit from the compromise to reroute the pipeline because in the end, they will have completed their project. Also, they will likely avoid legal action taken by the Sioux tribe. The compromise to reroute the pipeline may make construction longer and more complex, but it will avoid the areas the Sioux rely on for water. Also, the Trump administration should have included the Sioux tribe into the Memorandum and addressed their concerns. If the pipeline is to be constructed near their land, they need to be involved in the planning and zoning. If the current route is to be taken, the Sioux will respond with legal action as well as protests in D.C. In order for both parties to benefit from the pipeline, it should be rerouted to avoid Lake Oahe and the Sioux border. Works Cited 1 Jones, Athena, Diamond, Jeremy, and Krieg, Gregory. Advances Controversial Oil Pipelines with Executive CNN Politics. Cable News Network, 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/24/politics/trump- keystone-xl-dakota-access-pipelines-executive-actions/>. 2 Shogren, Elizabeth. Down Dakota Access High Country News, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.hcn.org/articles/what- trumps-decision-on-dapl-means>. 3 Page, Samantha. Stands with Big Oil, Backs the Dakota Access ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 02 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <https://thinkprogress.org/trump-backs-dapl-450c414e6e7f#.qsmbzy1t1>. 4 Office of Press Secretary. Memorandum Regarding Construction of the Dakota Access The White House. The United States Government, 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press- office/2017/01/24/presidential-memorandum-regarding-construction-dakota- access-pipeline>. Fulton, Deirdre. Administration to Grant DAPL Easement in Power Common Dreams. Common Dreams, 01 Feb. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.commondreams.org/news/2017/02/01/trump-administration-grant- dapl-easement-brazen-power-grab>. Baker, Beter and Davenport, Coral. Revives Keystone Pipeline Rejected by The New York Times Politics. The New York Times, 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/24/us/politics/keystone- dakota-pipeline-trump.html>.