Darrylhi Rodriguez Professor Drugan ENC1102 January 28 2017 Intermediate Draft The United States is the only industrialized country that does not guarantee paid leave for both fathers and mothers after the birth of a child. As the only country that has fallen behind in this area, modern American working families have been forced to suffer between the competing obligations of work and family. The presence of both parents during such an early stage of development in a life is important and necessary. However, the reluctance that many businesses feel towards granting new parents with paid paternal leave is understandable when considering the costs that come with an absence and the money that would be invested in those employees. Still, studies show that by implementing paid leave for both mothers and fathers of newborns, businesses and the economy will benefit overall. To compromise, businesses should provide their employees with parental leave that provides a portion of their usual pay. By doing so, they would be making an investment towards healthier employees, a working environment with improved gender equality, and the more national aspect of an improved economy. At the same time, parents will be able to spend time with their children during a critical developmental stage while still receiving money needed to survive. By administering paid leave to new parents, businesses will benefit from a healthier work environment and happier workers. By allowing paid leave to both mothers and fathers, a business will be able to see improved work ethic, better job satisfaction in employees, and improved gender equity. In America, both California and New Jersey were the first two states to successfully administer paid family leave programs that included both mothers and fathers of newborn children (Skinner, Ochshorn. Paid Family Leave Strengthening Families and Our Future). In these two states, observed benefits included improved family economic security and gender equity within families and the workplace. Since the beginning of such programs, fathers in California and New Jersey have increasingly taken paid paternal leave to bond with their newborn children, encouraging gender equality in families and the workplace. A recent study of New paid leave programs provides evidence that mothers who have the option of taking a paid leave to be with their newborns are more likely to continue their employment with a company farther into the future. This study additionally suggested that these mothers return from their paid leave with stronger labor commitment when given the option of taking a paid leave as opposed to quitting their job in order to take care of a child. If the United States guaranteed paid leave for parents of newborns, employee satisfaction and gender equity promises a better work environment and harder working employees. Offering paid paternal leave to both mothers and fathers significantly benefits the development of newborn children, including their psychological and physical health. For example, two studies have shown an association between the use of parental leave policies and lowered infant mortality rates and increased birth weight among newborns. To conclude, paid leave for both mothers and fathers of newborns provides benefits for both parents and the businesses they work for. By finding a middle ground of leave with reduced pay, parents are able to spend crucial time with their children while continuing to make necessary money and businesses benefit from improved work environments and employee performance. Despite the cost of lowered pay for parents and a period of leave for an employee, the benefits for both parties are substantial and long-lasting.