Emrick 1 Ashley Emrick Professor Drugan ENC1102.72 30 January 2017 WC: Women in Theatre There is a disparity in the number of women in hired for creative roles in theatre and the number of men hired for the same positions. It is a systematic problem in all areas of society, but glaringly so in the world of theatre. In 2014 the Pulitzer Prize for Drama winner and all of the finalist nominees had something in common- they were all women. This is an unfortunately surprising statistic for a field that has a track record of gender inequality in hiring practices. Only 24% of all plays produced in America are written by women (AmericanTheatre.org); and only 40% percent of directors and 30% of set designers are women in Off-Broadway productions (Playbill.com). Even orchestral musicians are effected by the sexism- blind auditions make a woman 50% more likely to be hired. Though the discriminatory hiring practices are a problem that have long existed, recent waves of feminism have brought it back to the attention of theatre professionals and audiences. Performers, writers, directors, and designers are able to join together and fight for equality, as well as share content easily via the internet. Emrick 2 One such group, and one of the shareholders I am discussing, is the League of Professional Theatre Women. The League was created in 1981 by Julia Miles as a way to promote female theatre professionals, help them network, and to raise awareness about gender inequality in theatre. They have since expanded and created programs for mentoring, networking, preserving historical contributions to theatre by women that are often overlooked or erased, and educational trips. Their mission statement reads: advocacy organization with a mission to reinforce the positive image of, promote the visibility of, and increase opportunities for women in the arts and entertainment industries, more particularly professional theatre, with a goal to enrich and infuse our (TheatreWomen.org) The culture of discrimination and misogyny in theatre is rooted in history, as theatre originated with the ancient Greeks and has seen its way through times when women were treated as property with no rights to own property, vote, or even have their own bank accounts. Women allowed to act on stage during time, considered to be immoral if they were in theatre in the 19 th century, and were manipulated and drugged during the Golden Age of Hollywood. The entertainment industry has never been an easy place to be a woman and the metaphorical that refers to the barriers in place of women in their career fields seems to be especially high here. It is, I believe, due to this that gender equality in theatre is difficult to achieve. The other stakeholder that I will introduce will be the theatre industry, focusing on investors, producers, and casting directors as these are the people who make it possible for productions to happen. Unfortunately, the industry caters to the perspective of the straight white Emrick 3 male and judges all others as the not as important or worthy. An article by Melissa Silverstein in The Huffington Post describes how an audit study showed that the same four plays sent out to theatres across America were more likely to be produced when the name was male, as opposed to female. Silverstein states that the play is purported to be written by a woman the scripts are deemed to be of overall lower quality and the characters are perceived as less likable and those plays are perceived to have poorer economic prospects including less chances for The financial aspect is an oft used excuse for why work by women is not produced as often by men, but as this study shows, it is more likely a gender bias that prevents women from getting their work produced. Financial risks are a real issue, with the average cost of a Broadway play ranging three to six million dollars and a Broadway musical can cost anywhere from eight to twelve million dollars- that is a staggering number of tickets to sell in order for investors to be able to recoup their money! (Newmusicaltheatre.com) Investors often fear that new shows will not be successful and that they will end up with a loss, causing them to be conservative in producing new shows or shows of a diverse nature. A compromise that I think would be helpful would be to invest in regional workshop productions of new works in order to be able to further refine and polish them before attempting to put the show on a Broadway stage. A practice occasionally done, production teams will go to universities or smaller regional theatres and use student performers or local talent to workshop new works. This allows a less stressful and more cost-effective way to see what a piece needs, as there is often a lot of re-writing and re-staging once a piece is put its feet. I believe that if this sort of system were to be expanded and used, it would allow for more pieces to be seen and Emrick 4 produced. Investors could see a potential and then move forward with larger production plans, or they could decide to pass on the piece and not have lost copious amounts of money. It would also be helpful if production companies would create programs to help nurture and support diverse artists like the League of Professional Theatre Women does. I believe that there needs to be a shift in mindset in the entertainment industry, which is has already started, but it is a change that will take time to create. Starting off in smaller ways such as this will help make the change needed to make theatre a place of gender equality. . Emrick 5 Works Cited Evans, Suzy. Women Push for Equality On and Off  AMERICAN THEATRE. American Theatre Wing, 15 July 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. History &  History & Background League of Professional Theatre Women. League of Professional Theatre Women, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Crompton, Sarah. Sexism on the Stage Meet the Women Tearing up the  The Observer. Guardian News and Media, 17 Jan. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Silverstein, Melissa. Gender Bias in Theatre -- Digging a Little  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 31 July 2009. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Rubino-Finn, Olivia. Broadway Budgets 101: Breaking Down the Production  The NewMusicalTheatre.com Green Room. New Musical Theatre, 22 Jan. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.