Chen 1 Annie Chen William Sayers Drugan Enc 1101 2pm-3:15pm 29 January 2017 Testing Cause the Risk of Animal Population In many regions around the world, animal has suffered intensely in the laboratory for various purpose of testing. Animals such as rodent species have always been the most popular testing subject in the laboratory, and that triggered concerns from the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) organization and research scientists. As these laboratory animals sacrifice their life for testing use, the percent population of some species has reached the peak of endangerment as of result the PETA organization and the research scientists are coming together for compromise solutions in saving the life of laboratory animals by providing them a healthy and safe living environment and living style. When animals are put into the laboratory, their situation can be compared to when criminals are sent to jail. They have no control over anything happening in and around their surroundings, such as mistreatment and emotional satisfactory will not be considered by others. Evidently, the website, Physiological Society states that scientists favor in using animal as subject in research laboratory to test for treatment for disease and illness because the scientists easily control the environment around the animal diet, temperature, and researchers can test new medicine on animals before giving it to humans for curing disease. And that is understandable, because against the law to forcefully test any kind of medication on human beings (freedom of speech, where people can freely express their opinion). Chen 2 Therefore, as a replacement for humans, laboratory animals are subjected with disease or illness and then test them with the new invented medicine to treat disease. This is when the researchers keep notes for any allergy, long term effect, and symptoms that could possibly also be occurring on humans. Researchers favor in using animal for testing related to human because biologically, animals and people have the greatest similarity in the functions of the inner body system and many non-artificial diseases that can infect our health. Laboratory animals have no clue of what distress moment will happen in the next second and no clue how their life will end. Based on the article from APS website, some scientists also try to reduce the number of animals being involved in testing, by considering whether not animals are necessary for the procedures, and if so, choose an animal species that have a lower endangerment. It may seem like role in the laboratory is a sample subject involved in tests that brings beneficiary to human beings; however, these tests and procedures are not only completed to cure human beings but also done to test for treatment against diseases or illnesses that some population of animal species are encountering. Another situation that medical researchers must use animals for testing is when the infective disease is originally caused by animal and caused human to be ill. Disease could be spread by transmitting bacteria from the animal body to the human body. Referring to the website, New York Times, the article Health Guide Plague, states is caused by the Yersinia pestis. Rodents, such as rats, carry the disease. It is spread by their fleas . . . exposure to rodents, especially rabbits, squirrels, or prairie dogs, or scratches or bites from infected domestic The plague is contagious by both physical interaction and germ transmitting through sneezing, coughing, a blood interaction. Antibiotics used to treat plague was tested by putting the original caused of infection animals into the laboratory and introduce different combination of medicines onto their ill body until Chen 3 there is a definite solution, safe for people to insert and recover. In detail, laboratory animals are 24 hours prepared to suffer pain from any procedure process, loss of mental clarity and physical rejection ability; therefor, the only things these animals can do is obey. Overall, PETA is a global organization that rescues, provides support, and cares for all animals. According to main website, animals---including mice, rats, frogs, dogs, cats, killed in the U.S. laboratories for biology lessons, medical training, curiosity-driven experimental, and For instance, in middle school science teacher ordered dead animals body such as frogs and piglets, as a class activity for students to become familiar with animal inner parts. As the procedures of the activity, students cut open the body into pieces and identify their organs. And yet, at this young age not all students know how to respect the animal for sacrificing their body for our educational purpose. In contrast, some teachers respect the animal enough thought of a solution which is to only use one subject for the whole class to digest and discover, rather than one subject for each student. Even though this solution still revolves killing and disrespectful toward the body, but it does reduce the amount of body being destroyed after death. As of result, both PETA organization and research scientists should come together to compromise a solution in saving the lives of laboratory animals. In terms of PETA organization, they can help rebuild habitats for the animals, establish safer and healthier living community. The scientists can also assist by constructing research an environment best suited for some endangered animals and help the animal reproduce at a higher rate in other words, when the scientists are using a certain animal for testing, the scientists could also help that species reproductive system to produce more offspring; therefore, that species will not be extinct. Once the animals have a home, the number of homeless animals being captured either by testing or Chen 4 others torturing mistreatments will decrease. In addition, establish a law that speaks for the animals could also reduce the amount of death in the laboratory, such as if scientists must use animal species in the laboratory then they are also responsible for curing or healing the tested animal. Rather than using a healthy animal for testing, seek for animals that are soon reaching its peak in life as the subject for testing. Everyone should have higher expectations in taking care of an animal that spends time entertaining human beings and species that have similar biological aspects of inner connection with humanity. If any animal survived in the laboratory and is healthy enough to be sent back into nature, PETA and scientists should have protection and assisting animals to find their new home. Also, both PETA and the research scientists should corporate in providing an annual wellness check- up for those animals that once taken away from their natural habitat and into the laboratory. Keeping track of health, preventing any negative symptom after experiencing their time tortured in the laboratory. PETA and the scientists that are using animal as their research subject should often keep in touch discussing about, in other words, few PETA member should also have a role in the laboratory to keep note of any updates of the health and then refer the information to PETA to be prepare for any rescue. For instance, after being tested for a laboratory experience the animal is still alive but injured, this is when PETA comes into place of send this animal to a vet that is mostly specialize in this animal type, expecting a higher chance of saving their life. In conclusion, animals risk their life as a way of supporting the scientists and the more advanced human medical discovery. Yet, these laboratory animals are lack of ability in protecting and speaking for themselves; therefore, we human, including the PETA organization and research scientists, have the responsibility and obligation of restoring the originality life style Chen 5 of the animal. PETA and researcher should compromise solutions that help reduces the death of laboratory animals. When animals have save habitat where they can meet mates and reproduce offspring, and that will decrease the rate of animal endangering. Chen 6 Work Cited People for The Ethical Treatment of Animals. PETA, 2017, http://www.peta.org. Assessed 28 January 2017. Why do scientists use animals in research? American Physiological Society, 2001, http://www.theps.org/mm/SciencePolicy/AnimalResearch/Publications/animals/quest1.ht ml. Assessed 27 January 2017. Animal Testing and the Law. Animal Legal Defense Fund, 2012, http://aldf.org/resources/when- you-witness-animal-cruelty/animal-testing-and-the-law/. Assessed 28 January 2017. Health Guide Plague. The New York Times, June 09, 2011, http://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/plague/overview.html. Assessed 30 January 2017.