Rose 1 Kathryn Rose Harley Campbell ENC 1102 13 February 2017 Sex Education in the Public School System In the United States today, sexual education within the public school system is a controversial topic. While most public schools teach a government-mandated abstinence only program, some organizations argue that comprehensive sexual health information will prepare children better. Advocates for Youth (AFY) believes in relaying honest sexual health information to young people. On the other side, many value abstinence education to teach children sexual risk avoidance. The Medical Institute for Sexual Health (MISH) sees an abstinence centered educational approach to promote optimal health and wellness. These two organizations may seem at odds, but the truth is, they have more in common than they know. In order to better serve adolescents in America, decrease the risk of STIs, and avoid unplanned pregnancies, these two organizations need to integrate their programs by teaching comprehensive sex education and simultaneously stressing the psychological benefits of increased age of sexual debut. Founded in 1980, AFY has aimed to provide and promote adolescent sexual health programs and policies in the United States. They have also established the International Clearinghouse on Adolescent Fertility, founded the first resource for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender youth website, and are the cofounders of the Future of Sex Education Initiative Rose 2 (FoSE), which is collaboration to promote comprehensive sexuality education in public AFY centers itself around In summary, have the inalienable right to honest sexual health information; youth deserve respect. Valuing young people means authentically involving them in the design, implementation, and evaluation of programs and policies that affect their health and well-being, [and society has the responsibility to provide young people with all of the tools they need to safeguard their sexual health, and finally, young people have the responsibility to protect AFY employs research to support their stance on comprehensive sexual health information. They provide information that identifies comprehensive sex education and HIV prevention programs as positive health In Sexuality Research and Social Policy, Douglas B. Kirby conducted a study on Impact of Abstinence and Comprehensive Sex and STD/HIV Education Programs on Adolescent Sexual In his research, Kirby states that two thirds of comprehensive programs showed strong evidence that they positively affected young sexual behavior, including both delaying the initiation of sex and increasing condom and contraceptive use among important groups of In contrast, most abstinence programs were shown to not delay initiation of sex, with only 3 of 9 having any significant implications (Douglas, 18). On the other hand, MISH was founded in 1992 by Joe Mclhaney, an OB/GYN. MISH is committed to providing medically sound, research based sexual health information to all walks of life, including care professionals, educators, policy makers, parents, and Some of their goals include: increasing the age of sexual debut, decreasing STIs, promoting healthy families, and lowering the amount of sexual partners throughout Rose 3 lifetime. MISH aims to accomplish these goals by educating adolescents and college age students as well as parents. MISH believes an abstinence-based approach to sexual education is the most effective, and that teens that engage in sexual activity early on are more prone to ill effects. In an article entitled, Risk Avoidance Education Program Successfully Reduces Sexual MISH claims that initiation of sexual activity in adolescents is associated with consequences that include unintended pregnancies, sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and increased sexual risk behaviors such as multiple sexual Risk Avoidance Education Program Successfully Reduces Sexual This gives us insight to why they feel that with out abstinence centered approach, there can be damaging consequences. In their mission statement, MISH tells us that dedicated to aligning and disseminating scientific data that promotes optimal health and and On the same note, the US National Library of Medicine published a study in 2007, conducted by TG Sandfort, exploring how health is related to the age of sexual debut and how abstinence until marriage has benefits. Sandfort and team analyzed a cross sectional study of the US population; compared sexual health outcomes among individuals who had initiated sexual activity at an early or late age versus a normative age. We also compared individuals whose first sexual intercourse had occurred before versus after They concluded that the early sexual initiation is with various sexual risk factors, including increased numbers of sexual partners and recent sexual intercourse under the influence of Consequently, the study found that increased age of initiation yielded (Sandfort, 155). For these reasons, MISH strongly encourages youth to postpone sexual intercourse until marriage. Rose 4 Although both stakeholders share similar goals such as reducing the risk of STIs and unplanned pregnancy, they have not come to a resolution. The reason seems to be different approaches to these problems. On one hand, AFY feels comprehensive sex education gives young people the best tools to be successful, while MISH sees an abstinence only approach as the safest most effective way to ensure the welfare of adolescents. Another point of contention resides with government policy. According to Guttmacher Institute, a total of 37 states require that information on abstinence be provided, 26 mandate that it be stressed, and 19 promote sex within a marital setting and HIV These facts provide even more insight as to why a consensus has not been reached. So how can a compromise take place that equally benefits not only both stakeholders, but most importantly, youth in America? I propose that these organizations collaborate to assemble a program that takes the most effective elements from their individual methods. The course would include the comprehensive sexual health information AFY provides, while also stressing the consequences of premature sex. The program would also need to cover the psychological benefits of abstinence until marriage, as MISH states. In addition, since both MISH and AFY have some government involvement, their merge would only increase the likelihood of their policies being passed. The most difficult part of this compromise lies in the religious sector. Many religious groups, such as The Family Research Council argue that an abstinence-based approach is the only option and Sexual To convince them, it must first be made known that many parents support comprehensive sex education. For example, in a study conducted among 1306 parents in North Carolina, support comprehensive sexuality Secondly, is it important to note that there is already promising evidence of this being done. Research conducted on African-American Church: A Potential Rose 5 Forum for Adolescent Comprehensive Sexuality says this compromise is valid. With the assumption that core values remain at the forefront of such education, African American Clergy men were open to including a more comprehensive sexuality education program into their churches and This demonstrates that even religious groups can remain true to their core values such as abstinence until marriage, and still be an arena of effective sex education. Furthermore, this compromise would be only applicable to the public school system. Since private organizations are free to run their programs how they feel works best, this program could only be implemented in the public sector. In this way, both messages are being heard and communicated. AFY, stays true to their beliefs by putting forward their comprehensive education methods, and giving way to a respectful, responsible, and rightfully deserved educational experience. At the same time, MISH will be enabled to bring form their studies on the benefits of increased sexual debut, psychological and physiological benefits of delaying sex until marriage, and giving youth the tools to make smart decisions that encourage their optimal health and wellness. By integrating these educational methods a thorough and honest story on sexual will be able to be received by youth, parents, and the government alike. Rose 6 Works Cited: Advocatesforyouth.org. Advocates for youth, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. A Risk Avoidance Education Program Successfully Reduces Sexual Initiation/Experience. Medical Institute for Sexual  Medical Institute for Sexual Health RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Coyne-Beasley, Tamera, and Victor J Schoenbach. African-American church: A Potential Forum for Adolescent Comprehensive Sexuality Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 26, no. 4, 2000, pp. doi:10.1016/s1054-139x(99)00097-x. Research Family Research Council, www.frc.org/abstinence-and-sexual- health. Kirby, Douglas B. The Impact of Abstinence and Comprehensive Sex and STD/HIV Education Programs on Adolescent Sexual  Journal of Adolescent Health, N.p., n.d. Web. 2017. Sandfort, TG. Health Correlates of Timing of Sexual Debut: Results From a National US American journal of public health., U.S. National Library of Medicine, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18048793. Rose 7 Sarles, R.m. Opinion of Sexuality Education in a State with Mandated Abstinence Education: Does Policy Match Parental Yearbook of Psychiatry and Applied Mental Health, vol. 2008, 2008, pp. doi:10.1016/s0084-3970(08)70639-x. and HIV Guttmacher Institute, 3 Jan. 2017, www.guttmacher.org/state- policy/explore/sex-and-hiv-education.