1 Davison ENC-1102-085 With limited resources comes difficult decisions. Even though this is a truth that governments of all nations know the United government goes through own cycles of two very different political parties. And like every other department, The Democratic and Republican Party have two opposing views on how big the military budget should be. According to an article titled Views on Military by Republicanviews.org, sequestration that the Obama administration proposed would leave America with the smallest ground force it has seen since 1940, the smallest number of ships it has seen since 1915, and the smallest Air Force in Of course this would be excellent for other departments in the United States because all the budget cuts would then feed into areas of the country such as education and veterans affairs. To accurately display the side of the argument another article from Republicanviews.org titled Views of Military proclaims, Republican Party adamantly opposes these cuts, stating, sequestration the Obama administration has Would be a disaster for national security, imperiling the safety of our servicemen and women, accelerating the decline of our defense industrial base, and resulting in the layoff of more than 1 million skilled The overall consensus from the Republican Party is that cutting the size on such a tremendous scale would cause severe threats to national security. The most effective compromise for the two parties would be to make budget cuts in Medicare, then as a result healthcare providers, and begin selling oil from the petroleum reserves in order to increase the military budget in favor of the Republicans as well as have more money to fund the departments that the Democrats want to. Even though both stakeholders support a strong military the Democratic Party supports the most cuts to the budget. The intentions are to put the extra money they cut from the 2 Davison ENC-1102-085 military into more peaceful means. As stated by the Democrats, pay must continue to increase. We need to further reform the military retirement system and improve housing, health care, and childcare benefits to support the competitiveness of military careers during a period of prosperity. While the number of soldiers on food stamps is down by two-thirds over the past decade, it is unacceptable that any member of our armed forces should have to rely on food (Democratic Views On Military Spending) Based off of this statement the party wishes to apply the budget in a different way. The money would still benefit the military to the extent that the veterans and current professionals would be better taken care of financially but from a war perspective the overall military would be weaker. The main argument is that the United States is outdated when it comes to the way the defense budget is used. They related it to the Cold War-era in the fact that nuclear weapon technology is still being funded. These cuts are not only to the financial support, but also to the staff. The analogy used to explain the Obama rational is, have to always keep your institution prepared, but you carry a large land-war Defense Department when there is no large land (Democratic Views On Military Spending) Which completely makes sense when no major wars occurring at the present time. The other stakeholder, the Republican Party, would rather make sure the United States does not drop guard even though no major land wars are occurring. They would much rather increase the amount of money invested into the military and think that the only way to the health of a defense industry weakened by a combination of neglect and misguided (Republican Views On Military Spending) The idea is that decreasing the size of the military budget would figuratively leave the door wide open for a threat to national security. The Republicans even see keeping the budget the same size as a mistake because of the rate that Iran, 3 Davison ENC-1102-085 China, Russia, and other potential enemy countries are advancing their weapon systems and military forces. According to the Republicans the United current armed forces have had a decreased moral and are less fit to handle future threats and as they noted, US military faces growing problems in readiness, morale, and its ability to prepare for the threats of the (Republican Views On Military Spending) They believe this is due to (Democrat) budget reductions during his presidency. A fluctuation of high and low military spending is seen throughout the history of the United presidencies depending upon which stakeholder, party, that president is affiliated with. This makes it seem as though the military budget naturally balances out every four or eight years. Even though this can be seen as a form of compromise it is hardly so. For example, one stakeholder follows through with their ideals then passes control off to the other stakeholder to do the same and so on making an inefficient system. This holds the country back from true potential because one political party recedes the policy in order to pass their own in a constant cycle of nothingness. A better compromise would be to make budget cuts in health providers to then be able to reduce Medicare funds. This extra money will be used along with the income of selling oil from the petroleum reserves for the benefit of both parties. Based on the article Strikes a Budget Deal with by New York Times an agreement like this would raise spending by $80 billion over two years. The Republicans can increase military funding and the Democrats can invest to support the competitiveness of military careers or invest in other nonmilitary programs. This way the service men and women have more of an incentive to lay their lives on the line for United States when given better benefits and higher income. This plan could also bring an increase in the amount of people that want to enlist, therefore strengthening the military further. If this compromise is seen as biased 4 Davison ENC-1102-085 towards the Republicans then it can be easily balanced. Funding for nuclear weapons could be cut off to provide more resources for other operations. The Democrats and Republicans have extremely conflicting views, but ultimately want the best for their country and their people. The Democrats want a reduction to military spending while the Republicans want an increase in the spending. The rationale behind the Democratic Party is that a large land army is not needed when a large land war is not occurring. Then all the extra money cut from the military budget can be used toward veteran benefits and other improvements to military careers. The Republican Party want to increase the budget as to prevent harmful risks to national security. When looking at both parties and their ideals in relation to time it can be seen that the Democrats wish to improve the lives of citizens in military careers and those not in the military at a present date whereas the Republicans wish to prevent unfortunate events from occurring at a future date in relation to the enemies of the United States. The compromise proposed between the two increased the budget in both of their desired areas at the short term expense of healthcare providers and the long term expense of the United States petroleum reserves. 5 Davison ENC-1102-085 Works Cited Herszenhorn, David M. Congress Strikes a Budget Deal with  The New York Times. N.p., 25 Oct. 2015. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Justin T. 5 Bad Arguments for Cutting U.S. Defense  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., 25 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. RepublicanViews.org. Democratic Views On Military  Republican Views. N.p., 01 Mar. 2015. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. RepublicanViews.org. Republican Views on Military  Republican Views. N.p., 01 Mar. 2015. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Salmon, Diem N. A Proposal for the FY 2016 Defense  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., 30 Jan. 2015. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Taylor, Adam, and Laris Karklis. This remarkable chart shows how U.S. defense spending dwarfs the rest of the  The Washington Post. WP Company, 09 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.