Bora 1 Marcel Bora Professor Drugan ENC 1102-085 15 February 2017 Final Draft Fight for Their Right Zoos are a great source of entertainment for many people. They create memories and the wild and exotic animals strike awe into the hearts of those that gaze upon them. Recently though, some people have seen that keeping wild animals in captivity is immoral and bad for the animals. These people that wish to help the animals create animal rights groups and fight the corporations that own the zoos. The zoo owners, not wishing to close their places of business, fight back and it creates a struggle. To end this struggle, a compromise may be proposed that does not solely benefit one party. Each of these stakeholders will need to see that this compromise will far benefit them more than to continuously fight and argue and get nowhere. The first stake holder is the animal rights group PETA or The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. It is the largest animal rights organization in the world and has more than 5 million supporters 1). The organization focuses on the and utter end of all senseless death and 1) of animals. One of the goals of this organization is to close and/or defund all zoos betterment of the animals because it is believed that zoos use and exploit animals for money and entertainment. Even conservation in zoos is wrong to the organization because they believe that the zoos are doing it incorrectly and still just doing it as a way to make more money. PETA is all for conservation but in their opinions, zoos are doing it incorrectly by taking away the freedoms. As Keulartz states in his essay, Bora 2 consider infringing an right to freedom for the sake of the preservation of the species as morally (Keulartz 338). Another view could be, is the point of preserving animals if they are having miserable (Keulartz 340). Although PETA is uncompromising, surely the organization will see the benefit of compromising rather than continuously fighting and not getting anyway. It could be seen as a step in the right direction instead of staying still. The other stakeholders can be viewed as the people owning the zoos. The zoo owners obviously wish to keep the zoos open for their business and because some enjoy their jobs. Each zoo is owned by a person and sometimes it is split up between several people meaning that these people have complete control over the lives. These people see that the efforts of the zoo to create a conservation effort actually do help animals and that the number of endangered species has dwindled with zoos helping the populations. Zoos could also be viewed as bringing awareness to the public by having live animals right in front of them rather than viewing that animal on a television or computer. Many of these stakeholders see that people tend to protect what they value, zoo experiences can and do provide new generations of (Skibins & Powell). A compromise can be reached between these two stakeholders. Harsher restrictions on zoos and for the owners and caretakers to take care of the animals better would be a start. For each animal a minimum amount of space must be reached to ensure the good health and mental state of the animals. For example, elephants walk about 18 hours every day and while an exhibit cannot fully provide that space, it should be as close as possible. An exhibit could be, instead of 1 acre like Tampa own Busch Gardens, several acres and added to the roaming animals Bora 3 such as the giraffes and gazelle. There should also be an effort into making sure the animals are comfortable, so no more concrete floors for the animals once they go into an enclosure. The zoos would also not be able to buy and trade animals with high stress levels and to ensure that if an animal can be returned to the natural habitat where it belongs, that it should. The zoos should focus on conservation and helping the animals rather than focus on entertainment. Animals can still be bred but the focus will be on actual endangered species and the public will know that a local zoo is helping to save species so there be much of a customer loss. Social animals such as apes should not be separated because this does more harm than good and it severely affects the mental health. This benefits both of the stakeholders because even though it seems to lean towards PETA, the zoo owners are gaining from this too. Creating a more animal friendly zoo will draw in more customers as they will want to see happy animals and those that are coming back from the brink of extinction. PETA will stand to gain because even though there are still zoos, they will be changed from places of entertainment into places for the conservation of endangered animals and animals that need help such as exotic pets that have been turned away. By accepting this compromise, both parties will see that even a little step forward is progress and that progress only stands to benefit everyone. Bora 4 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/>. Cohn, Jeffrey P. Do Elephants Belong In  Bioscience 56.9 (2006): 714-717. Guide Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Keulartz, Jozef, J.Keulartz@science.ru.nl. Captivity For Conservation? Zoos At A  Journal Of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics 28.2 (2015): 335- 351. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Skibins, Jeffrey C., and Robert B. Powell. Conservation Caring: Measuring The Influence Of Zoo Connection To Wildlife On Pro-Conservation  Zoo Biology 32.5 (2013): 528-540. PsycINFO. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Zoos: An Idea Whose Time Has Come and  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/zoos/>. Links: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/10.1002/zoo.21086/full http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?vid=9&sid=add01a3a- fca0-483a-b137- ea1240a9b2fa%40sessionmgr4007&hid=4202&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d##AN= 504221156&db=rgm http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=074e819b- 9711-4581-90ac-df145901c25f%40sessionmgr120&vid=4&hid=117