Pennell 1 Melissa Pennell Professor Drugan ENC 1102-072 12 February 2017 Sex Work or Butt Hurt? Prostitution is a form of work that involves sex in exchange for money or other favorable items. According to a website that discusses the statistics of sex-crime related laws in the United States, of prostitutes throughout the world have contracted the HIV virus [and the murder rate 204 for every 100,000 (1). In the United States, prostitution and sex trafficking is a serious crime that has consequences for both ends of the exchange (i.e. the person buying the service and the person performing the service). As a result, prostitutes (or sex workers) tend to avoid the government and the police, which leads to sex workers being abused, drugged and controlled by pimps without the help of the authorities. the government continues to be against prostitution due to the increase in sexually transmitted infections (STI) rate, and trafficking of minors. Furthermore, the stigma around prostitution is related to religion, because the United States was founded on free religion. This in turn led to the beliefs that were integrated into the government. A way that prostitutes could contribute to the compromise is to offer an insight into sex trafficking of minors, drug deals and other illegal crimes while the government could offer protection, healthcare and a salary. Therefore, the government should legalize prostitution and sex workers should help law enforcement to come to an agreement. Prostitution is illegal in the United States, and the government offers little protection to people who are sold into this kind of work. Often, when given the chance, these people do not Pennell 2 seek police help due to the harsh repercussions if they were to fail to discretely report what had happened to them. According to Dr. Melanie Reid, is no doubt that deadly violence against sex workers is a recurring social Sex workers often feel helpless due to the stigma around their profession and the legality of it all. According to Margaret Boittin, and pimps coerce them into prostitution. Clients rape and murder them. The police extort bribes from them, and beat them in Many believe that sex is a sin, especially before marriage or outside of marriage, so people either do not talk about it or shun someone when they do. This is evident today with the help of the government. However, if the government were to legalize prostitution then sex workers could help convict more criminals and in return help churches in crime filled neighborhoods. The government of the United States has continued to make prostitution illegal to support the decline in HIV, and crime rates. According to Michael Shively, Kristina Kliorys, Kristin Wheeler, and Dana Hunt prostitution opponents point to drug abuse, community deterioration, and ancillary crime that invariably accompany street prostitution as evidence supporting (9). By making prostitution illegal, the government is ensuring that drugs and other criminal activity is viewed as socially unacceptable. This could also lead to people thinking that sex work is a profession that people should want to go into and that the government is corrupting children. However, by making prostitution illegal it has allowed for racism. As a result, it is evident when it comes to the United States where racial profiling is prominent. People may be targeted for looking a certain way and in mayorally instituted and police-enforced Prostitution Free Zones in Washington, DC, serve as a tool of nation-state disciplinary, wherein many transgender women of color, viewed as ideologically suspect, are profiled as facing police harassment and (Edelman 1). Pennell 3 Prostitutes are often banned from entering certain establishments which increases police profiling of certain people who seem like they are sex workers. This is similar to racial profiling in America today watching African Americans when they walk into a store. Furthermore, this could be influenced by racial profiling. If the government legalizes prostitution, it helps defer the emphasis on profiling of prostitutes. According to Michael Shively, Kristina Kliorys, Kristin Wheeler, and Dana Hunt supporting legalization argue that these same dysfunctions are driven not by prostitution itself, but by the criminal status of the enterprise, much like alcohol prohibition fosters black markets, organized crime, and street (9). With that being said, it is human nature to rebel against whatever force is opposing them; it is evident throughout history and continues to be. By legalizing prostitution, the government opens a new way to convict drug users or criminals and the sex workers gain a new sense of freedom and protection. The government will also employ millions of people and manage a huge market that is currently dominantly run by pimps and drug cartels. After employing millions of people, the government will have a network and a way to be on the inside. Furthermore, sex workers face tremendous pressure to keep their lives secret and away from the police. Matt Lopez states in his article that one wants to legalize coercion, violence, or fraud in the sex industry, or the use of sex workers who are not adults. But some organizations campaigning against trafficking have come to an understanding that when sex work is illegal, it is much riskier for sex workers to complain to the authorities when they are enslaved, beaten, or (1). However, if prostitution was legalized, then sex workers could seek help for any situation they have that requires assistance. They would also have protection Pennell 4 and a sense of comfort knowing they could go to someone. The authorities are responsible for everyone and should provide justice to those who need it regardless of their profession. One of the main reasons why people do not get STD or STI tested is that they do not have access to available services or do not want to disclose their sexual activities especially if it comes to abuse (CDC 1). Most people who are aware of their status with STDs, STIs, or HIV tend to mistrust the health care system or feel they would get cheated from the government (CDC 1). If the government were to ensure that access to healthcare without penalty would be available, then it could work between the prostitutes. Moreover, the steps that need to be taken to ensure the compromise runs smoothly is to remove the stigma around sex workers and make sure that both sides understand the circumstances of the agreement. According to a study in Indonesia, accepting the idea of fairness for all regardless of gender, social status and position, such as that championed by the social contract approach, Nussbaum critiques the lack of cultural understanding and demographic awareness among those where the approach may be (Riswanda, Corcoran-Nantes, and McIntyre-Mills, 520). Furthermore, the study provides information for the benefits of legalizing prostitution. In America, the government can legalize prostitution, while providing protection and access to healthcare. In return, the prostitutes can help convict criminals and protect minors who are illegally sold and held captive. Legalizing prostitution does not translate to legalizing sex trafficking as well as pimping. This proposition may not work because it may seem that the government is supporting prostitution by legalizing it. There would be massive protests from religious groups and it would create a division between people who had opposing views about the situation. One side may not agree or feel as if they are sacrificing too much for the other. Prostitutes may double cross police, Pennell 5 or the government will not oblige to the terms of agreement. Dr. Mary Sullivan stated in her report that, other workplace has to cover the range of health and safety issues ... rape and unwanted pregnancies are recognized occupational health and safety risks within the prostitution industry. This does not change because prostitution is Another reason is that other people who have what are considered professions may not have health insurance and may experience verbal abuse in their workplace. This proposition will work due to the harsh conditions that sex workers face today. The limited resources and the mental and physical abuse outweighs the thought of falling through on the compromise or double crossing the police. Religious groups will see a decrease in sex trafficking because sex workers will help in catching these criminals. Also, crime rates will drop and the government will have more control of the people within the country. Countries in Europe have implemented the legalization of prostitution. In conclusion, if the government and sex workers came to this compromise of legalizing prostitution and providing a network to catch criminals then each one could benefit from each other. The government could create jobs, healthcare and protection for prostitutes. Prostitutes could create a new way to catch criminals, remove the stigma around women having sex, and they can help prevent sex trafficking. Although, there are flaws to the compromise this will work with the expansion of the government and the creation of new jobs will be enough for a compromise. (WC 1498) Pennell 6 Works Cited Boittin, Margaret. Perspectives from the Oldest Profession: Abuse and the Legal Consciousness of Sex Workers in Wiley Online Libray. 1 May 2013. Web. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/10.1111/lasr.12016/full Edelman, Elijah. Area Has Been Declared a Prostitution Free Discursive Formations of Space, the States, and Trans 08 July 2011. Web. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1080/00918369.2011.581928 Risk Among Persons Who Exchange Sex for Money or Nonmonetary CDC. https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/group/sexworkers.html Lopez, Matt. Case to Legalize University Times. 7 December 2016. Web. http://csulauniversitytimes.com/8576/lifestyle/the-case-to-legalize-prostitution/ Moloney, Katherine. Legislation: Toward an Ethical Christian University of South Florida. 1 September 2014. Web. Reid, Melanie. ProCon.org. 16, May 2008. Web. http://prostitution.procon.org/view.answers.php?questionID=000120 Riswanda, Corcoran-Nantes, Yvonne, McIntyre-Mills, Janet. Prostitution in Indonesia: A Critical Systemic 05 May 2016. Web PDF. Scott, Michael. COPS. Web. Shively, Michael, Kliorys, Kristina, Wheeler, Krisitn, Hunt Dana. National Overview of Prostitution and Sex Trafficking Demand Reduction ABT Associates. 30 April Pennell 7 2012. Web. https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/238796.pdf Prostitution Statistics You Have To LAWS. 10 Feb. 2017. Web. http://sex-crimes.laws.com/prostitution/prostitution-statistics