Rhoads 1 Alex Rhoads Drugan ENC 1102-85 15 February 2017 Fourth and Goal: Time is Running Out In the year 1932, the football team The Boston Braves were born, The Braves played five seasons in Boston before relocating to Washington D.C. and changing the team name to The Redskins. The team has used this name for eighty years and it has been under the spotlight recently for its derogatory meaning. Native Americans around the United States have dealt with the struggles resulting from such racist representation from many forms of athletics. The times have changed, and the name needs to be dealt with and there needs to be a compromise between the Redskins and the offended parties in the United States. A recent analysis of The Washington Redskins name has revealed that times have changed and the degrading name cannot remain. The solution is to change the name so it is no longer demeaning but able to represent the heritage of the Redskins franchise respectfully. In 1937, the team moved to Washington and became The Washington Redskins (King 17). Dating back to the Native Americans were an oppressed group. At the time, the name was not under as much scrutiny, because the name was supposed to honor Native American coach William Dietz. In 1967, the organization was granted a trademark for the Redskins name, which was then challenged in 1992 by seven Native Americans. 1992, Suzan Harjo and six other Native Americans petitioned to cancel the *340 trademarks, arguing that the trademarks disparaged Native Americans and cast Native Americans into contempt and disrepute in violation of the 1946 Lanham Trademark (Rasul 4). Several Native Americans had been passionately sharing their discomfort with the name. By 2014, there Rhoads 2 had been several cases brought to court by Native Americans trying to cancel the registrations for the Redskins trademarks. Specifically, in June of 2014, The Trademark Trial and Appeal Board cancelled the Redskins trademarks and determined the marks were disparaging towards the Native Americans. During this hearing, the board leaned heavily on a resolution passed by the National Congress of American Indians that found the marks were disparaging (Rasul 10). Although Native Americans have had recent success with the Board, the Redskins are still ahead of the game, because owner Daniel Snyder has refused to comply and has yet to consider a name change. Native Americans have faced much adversity since the beginning of the United States and the abuses date back to Christopher Columbus coming to America. The neglect is less prevalent but Native Americans still face adversity and some of the biggest examples of disrespect may be athletic and university names and logos. The most obvious is The Washington Redskins, which uses a Native American as the logo and a demeaning term as the name. The racial slur had quite benign origins long before it was recognized as a derogatory and dehumanizing term (King 17). The Washington Redskins and other demeaning terms have had serious impacts on Native Americans psychological health. a brief filed in 2004, the original petitioners argued that the correlation between demeaning names and mascots and psychological harm to Native American people is clear, as Indians have the United highest rates of alcohol-related deaths and (Rasul 12). Native Americans have largely been affected mentally by offensive names and logos. Further research drives home the point. an Oneida Indian Nation symposium, psychologist Dr. Friedman agreed with the assertion that epithets, such as the one used by the Washington Redskins, result in real mental health consequences. Psychologists trace the history of Native American caricatures back to the 1950s, Rhoads 3 when there was a distinct separation between Native Americans and the rest of American (Rasul 13). A research study conducted by the Washington Post exposes the names downfall, a sixteen-question quiz revealed that readers had trouble deciphering between statements that defend the confederate flag and statements about the name of the Washington football team (Wise 9). This shows that the name is very much degrading. The mental damage has also been tied to mass marketing/ advertising and other minority groups. Psychologists argue that the marketing and advertising of a national figure like the Redskins creates a greater risk of mental issues. Evidence from studies of obese, homosexual, Latino, Asian, and other groups populations show that stereotypes and prejudice lead to psychological issues (Rasul 14). Many groups have been affected and Native Americans are struggling with these issues. impact of prejudice on Native Americans has been found consistent with the impact on the aforementioned groups, as evidenced by Native Americans having the highest suicide rates in the country. Indeed, the American Psychological Association has acknowledged this harm towards Native Americans, and in 2005, urged the banning of all Native American mascots for sports (Rasul 14). This quotation shows that the effect on mental health is a huge issue and can cause serious harm. The Washington Redskins and Native Americans have butted heads throughout the years about the Redskins name, and now is a time for a compromise and a change. The issue remains that the Washington organization does not want to change their name, and the Native Americans have had enough of the derogatory term and the petty compensation offers. Many compromises have been considered, such as keeping the name and paying a higher compensation, and having native Americans embrace the name and promote the term as the Washington heritage instead of a demeaning and derogatory term. The common ground that is the most feasible is a Redskins Rhoads 4 name change. The recent momentum gained with the board hearings has inevitably started a trend that has caused a positive reaction which has reduced the amount of Native American mascots from approximately three thousand to fewer than nine hundred (King 135). This quote puts pressure on the Redskins organization because many other groups and organizations are realizing the harm that symbols like the Redskins can have on an individual. In order for a name change to happen, each party has to lose something to in order to gain in the end. The Redskins organization needs to give up the demeaning name, and the Native Americans will need to accept the issues in the past and lose the compensation that has been received from the Washington NFL team owner Daniel Snyder. Daniel Snyder created a foundation for Native American support contributing $3.7 million in its first year, the foundation provided items such as vans, computers, and winter coats to more than twenty tribes (Cox 1). Many teams at the college and professional level have names, logos and mascots that represent and often offend Native Americans. Another big name team that shares similar issues with the Redskins is the Cleveland Indians. The Indians have been under scrutiny because of the long time image of Chief Wahoo, who depicts a Native American as a cartoon figure with red skin. The Indians face some of the same backlash that the Redskins have, but the Indians have begun reducing the use of Chief Wahoo on their merchandise, jerseys and advertisements (Tayler 4). The Indians owners have been more accepting to Native American requests, unfortunately Daniel Snyder wont budge. There are many names in consideration for a change and the goal is to find the best one that represents the heritage of the team but is no longer derogatory in nature. The first replacement in consideration for a name change is the This is a simple change that just cuts out the first three letters of the current name and keeps the tradition without too much of a change. It also makes the name no longer derogatory (Chase 3). This simple change is very easy and smooth, Rhoads 5 but happens to be relatively weak. The next name consideration is the Washington Warriors which is a very strong alternative because the team could keep the logo and heritage by representing the Native Americans fighting for their freedom (Chase 8). This change would satisfy the Native Americans, but the Washington organization still may not be on board. The final and best solution to the name controversy would be to not change the name at all and just drop the name completely to become The Washington Football Club. Washington Football Club would be a trailblazing name for a major American sports team. All other teams have nicknames. Washington would be the first to go that route. It sounds cool, even if it has the stuffy pretentiousness of soccer. It also alienate the many fans who will be upset at the change, the same fans who have spent thousands of dollars over the past few decades accumulating Redskins gear. In eyes, it could allow the name to live on, if only in (Chase 13). The Washington Football club makes the most sense when it comes to satisfying both parties. A recent analysis of The Washington Redskins name has uncovered a recent change and the derogatory name cannot remain, the solution is to change the name so it is no longer derogatory but able to represent the heritage of the Redskins franchise. Native Americans have faced much adversity in the United States and the Redskins derogatory name is one thing that no longer needs to unfairly represent the Native Americans. Both parties presented their concerns, the Redskins organization would rather not change the name and the Native Americans no longer want to be falsely represented. The ultimate middle ground would be to drop the name and have the team represented as the Washington Football Club. Rhoads 6 Works Cited Chase, Chris Ranking the 13 best nicknames to replace  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 18 June 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Cox, John Woodrow. Redskins foundation gave $3.7 million to more than 20 tribes, the team  The Washington Post. WP Company, 15 Jan. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. King, Richard C. Braves on the Warpath! Fight for old : The R*dskins and Racialized Masculinities  Reconstruction: Studies in Contemporary Culture (2013): n. pag. Humanities Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. King, Richard C. Looking Back to a Future  Reflections on the Symposium on Racist Stereotypes in American Sport at the National Museum of the American Indian 2nd ser. 31 (2014): n. pag. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Rasul, Hammad . FOURTH AND LONG: THE TIME IS NOW FOR THE TO PUNT THE  University of Maryland Law Journal of Race, Religion, Gender and Class (2014): n. pag. Thomson Reuters Westlaw. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Tayler, Jon. Time for Indians, MLB to get rid of ridiculous and offensive Chief  Sports Illustrated . N.p., 26 Oct. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Wise, Mike, The Undefeated senior writer. Daniel Snyder see that the future is  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 24 Sept. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.