Li 1 Runmin Li William Drugan ENC 1102.072 February 18, 2017 The Benefits of Biofuel between Corporations and Environmentalists in USA It has been a consideration for a long time regarding the relationship between sustainability and massive production. With increasing mass-production, living standards have risen, and we continuously pursuit more satisfactions. Since the great industrial revolution started in the 1800s, human consumption has been increasing exponentially. No- one would refuse the desires of our high living standards by using those natural resources, like petroleum, via technology. Although the economy has been dramatically increased and the population has increased as well, the environment, was not considered at that time, has been confronting serious problems. Consequent factors, such as global warming and various pollution wreak havoc on the environment. Especially, transportation corporation, like Boeing company, contributes the majority of greenhouse gas emission, with water and air pollution derived from it. Then the rise of environmental awareness, such as the Air Transport Action Group organization (ATAG), has led to an increasing effort to reduce emissions created from the petroleum industry. However, human development is driven by the economy, and mass-production brings higher quality of life and creates numerous job opportunities. Also, mass-production accelerates technology progress by providing sufficient supplies and tools. The companies will not stop maximized maximizing production; and, they will continue utilizing natural resources at an alarming rate. Therefore, there are always Li 2 controversial perspectives on petroleum between the two groups, but a renewable resource has been invented recently, biofuel; This alternative provides an abundance of benefits, such as lower greenhouse emission and reduce various pollution, and satisfies both the Boeing company and the ATAG organization. The Boeing company wants to raise the annual aircraft production to 900 in 2020, they have already built 720 airplanes in 2015 to reach the demand (Norris). With the increasing quantity of aircraft, the Boeing corporation can gain many economic benefits and accelerate the corporation improvement and expansion. Also, more aircraft could make flight prices, airline services, and sub-markets cheaper and more efficient for people to improve their lives. massive production can increase economic growth and accelerate human development; In contrast, this can also cause many environmental problems, such as greenhouse gas emission, and air and water pollution. According to the article, How much fuel does an international plane use for a , a Boeing 747 burns approximately 36,000 gallons of aviation fuel over a course of a 10-hour flight. This activity would increase the carbon dioxide emission and worsen the global warming condition. Therefore, it is important for the Boeing company to find an alternative way or fuel to solve the environmental problems without hurting the economy. The ATAG organization, a not-for-profit organization that estimates the emission of all the aviation industries and airplane and try to find an alternative way to improve the environment without hurting the economy. The ATAG organization is trying to convince those aviation companies to limit their productivity and carbon dioxide emission. However, Aviation produced almost 12% of carbon dioxide emission from all transports sources based Li 3 on the ATAG data, which it is still a contribute a large amount of emission to the environment Facts & ). Also, the aviation fuel is a high-quality petroleum- based fuel used for aircraft, which it consumes plenty of nonrenewable resources. Furthermore, the petroleum itself contains dangerous chemicals and petroleum-based products containing very toxic chemicals too, which it causes various pollution and global warming that have a huge negative impact on human health and society and the ecosystem, like sea creatures and other species according to the article Fortunately, the ATAG organization finds out a renewable resource, biofuel-jet biofuel, that can help to solve the shortage of petroleum and reduce the environmental problems. Also, jet biofuel is made from animal fat, vegetable oil, and recycling cook grease, and alcohol, and this kind of fuel does not contain any of very dangerous toxins and does not release toxic chemical into the environment after burning It can maintain or improve the productivity and satisfy the demand of the Boeing company to maximize their production for more profit. Besides, it emits 74% less greenhouse gas than petroleum, which it reduces the impact of global warming and climate changes Biodiesel Benefits and ). The common ground for the ATAG organization and the Boeing company is to use jet biofuel instead of petroleum-based aviation fuel. However, the compromise is more complicated because the price of biojet fuel is 20% to 50% higher than regular petroleum-based fuel and the regular engine is not proper for burning jet biofuel due to the low efficiency; so, A new biofuel-design engine is needed and the price of the engine is also higher than regular engines Biodiesel Benefits and ). Based on the high price of jet biofuel and engines, the Boeing company refuses to sacrifice its Li 4 profits to make the environmental-friendly changes. Therefore, the ATAG organization assists the government to give incentives for aviation industries and aviation companies to use jet biofuel and limit the greenhouse emission. The ATAG published the Guild to Aviation Biofuel, an interpretation of benefits of biofuel and its sustainability, to all the Aviation field SUSTAINABLE AVIATION ). Also, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has made a plan for aircraft emission and alternative resource based on the statement that Office of Environment and Research and Development (R&D) Program supports Destination 2025 Strategic Plan (PDF) and the United States Aviation Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Plan Environment and Energy Research & ). The government make a compensate for those aviation companies who use jet biofuel and a penalty for those aviation companies whose emission exceeding the standard amount. Thus, both ATAG organization and the Boeing company are satisfied with the compromise. In conclusion, the industrial revolution leaded the mass production and caused some severe environmental issues. This makes the Boeing company and the ATAG organization have two different and controversial perspectives on petroleum-based products, maximized production and sustainability. Fortunately, however, the ATAG organization has found a compromise to fulfill both groups by using jet biofuel, which can completely take the place of petroleum-based products and reach both maximized production and sustainability due to its renewability and naturality. Also, the government enforced regulations and programs to encourage aviation companies to engage the environmental activity. Hence, the economy and sustainability have reached a balance and can interactively grow with each other. Li 5 Work Cited Biodiesel Benefits and  Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy. U.S. Department of Clean Cities program, 21 Sept. 2016. Web. Accessed on 25 Jan. 2017. Biofuls  National Renewable Energy Laboratory. U.S. Department of Energy, n.d. Web. Accessed on 29 Jan. 2017. Environment and Energy Research &  Faa.gov. U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration, 04 Apr. 2016. Web. Accessed on 18 Feb. 2017. Fuel  Energy.gov. The U.S. Department of Clean Cities program, Dec. 2016. Web. Accessed on 18 Feb. 2017. Facts &  Atag.org. Air Transport Action Group, May 2016. Web. Accessed on 17 Feb. 2017. How much fuel does an international plane use for a  HOWSTUFFWORKS SINCE. HowStuffWorks, n.d. Web. Accessed on 12 Feb. 2017. Norris, Guy. Boeing To Push To 900 Deliveries Per  AviationWeek. Aviation Daily, 22 Jan. 2015. Web. Accessed on 12 Feb. 2017.  Pollution Issues. Pollution Issues, n.d. Web. Accessed on 25 Jan. 2017. SUSTAINABLE AVIATION  Atag.org. Air Transport Action Group, n.d. Web. Accessed on 18 Feb. 2017.