Serene Fields William Drugan ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Within the United States of America, recent studies have shown that the evolution of performance, and the arts, are currently facing a depletion of resources due to lack of interest and support from the public. Though the administration and its people attempt to address the issue openly, apart from American culture the topic may lack substantial relevance to the general public and also carries an overcrowd of opinion in politics. The primary argument seems to stand between the accredited agencies that govern public funding for the arts and the tax payers within this government that are opposed to spending their wages on matters that are not directly tied to our economic expansion. The resources we are provided to express freedom of life and speech is a critical component of in our everchanging democracy. With the National Endowment of the arts receiving extreme budget alterations yearly, and public investors attempting to overlook the subject, I believe a shift in perspective is needed and compromise between the two factions is long overdue if our goal is to remain the diverse and integrated nation that we claim to be. Many individuals would suggest that the funding for projects of local artists should be paid for solely by those who create the work and the others who benefit from its production. Through theater, drama, dance, instrumentation, and various departments that fall under the creative arts these works are primarily funded through grants and scholarships that are provided through the accumulation of taxes. It has come to the attention of the public that those who support the National Endowment of the cause to support artistic excellence may be extremely biased and uninformed about what is actually at stake if we lose the support of federal funding. Recent studies have shown that individual American taxpayer contributes about 65 cents a year to support the arts, which is 50 times lower than that of major industrial nations such as Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Japan, France or the United Though some may claim that each of these countries vary vastly in their economic standpoints compared to our American melting-pot, the idea of a United States without the intricate mix of cultures to unite us then there would be little to no attraction to those who see the arts as a prime reference to our humanity. Contributing to the arts in more ways than one the, not only has the NEA consistently provided for the elite establishments and urban institutions within the field, but according to researcher William Craig Rice it also covers the privately-owned business and organizations that hold valid reputation and propose positive impact for the spending of our fairly non-existent budget. Some may complain that the arts produce little to no profit when compared to our other means of trade and financial stability but according to the National Assembly of Local Arts Agencies, the arts nationwide constitute a $37 billion industry employing 1.3 million people, or 1.5 percent of the work force, and generating tax revenues of $3.4  Rather than subsisting primarily on  the nonprofit arts industry actually generates 60 percent of its budget with cash  and has a measurable, positive impact on the federal, state and local treasuries. Which ultimately means that the arts has the proven potential to generate more funds than it needs to flourish. Given these recent studies and credible solutions, some people believe that solely funding the small businesses that grow into the ensembles, dance festivals museum that are alive and growing today is rational solution to the issue at hand. Despite this idea others feel that we should stop wasting our funds on handouts to the public altogether. In light of both proposals I think the investment that would prove to be most beneficial would be for citizens to continue paying taxes to the government and allowing the NEA to continue making its desired impact. Alongside these long-standing traditions, I also encourage the administration to split the budget in a way that increases financial freedom within county high schools and colleges. With this solution, not only will the small businesses that are primarily from ideas of the upcoming youth receive monetary means of creating art history and culture, but tax payers also receive closure knowing that they are investing into our educational system and future generations of innovators.