Shabbir 1 Moiz Shabbir William Drugan ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Mercy Killing: Euthanasia in the States According to the principle of the world, every life has mortality. Every second we get older and every second we come closer to the death. Death also has its kind. Some people experience sudden deaths like heart attack, death in accident and murder however, some people experience slow painful death like death due to cancer, brain disorder or other incurable diseases. There is a term use in medical science for legal killing called euthanasia. Euthanasia means the practice of killing someone who is very sick or injured in order to prevent suffering. When someone comes closer to the end of their lives, certain organs stop performing and in some case a person is so badly injured that he went to coma for long span of time or cannot live without ventilation machine. In that case, some doctor, physicians and families prefers to practice euthanasia because patient become burdensome, worthless and required assistance in every matter of his life. This essay reflects the legalization and practice of euthanasia in United States of America and introduce the circumstances and position under which patient, family, physicians and different states practice euthanasia. Incurable diseases such as cardiovascular disease, brain disorder and cancer are more common now. These terminal sicknesses remain last long in life and continue for several months or years with multiple hospitalizations before terminal death (Miljkovic, Milos, Jones, Miller 438). According to the End-of-life in the United States, in 1949, 50% of all deaths occurred in hospitals and nursing homes; by 1980, that figure increased to approximately 80% (Miljkovic, Milos, Jones, Miller 438). These figured indicated that in older times euthanasia was very common practice to prevent painful suffering but, as medical Shabbir 2 advances have conquered the world science, the figure has now decreased but that still, this practice is very common in most part of the world. The withdrawal or withholding of life- prolonging treatment to death is legal and consider normal medical practice in many countries. In addition, several countries, including the United States, allow patients the right to refuse aggressive medical treatment such states are California, Washington, Oregon, Vermont, and Colorado (Verbakel and Jaspers 109) In religious-based argument, earlier research has found that religious people are more opposed to euthanasia than nonreligious people because they believe that life is god gifted and only he has the right to end the person life (Verbakel and Jaspers 112). All religions condemn the practice of euthanasia. Islam strongly opposes euthanasia and categorically forbids all actions that could induce death (Verbakel and Jaspers 112). The Eastern Orthodox and Catholic Church both take a very strict position as well, declaring that euthanasia and all other forms of ending life should be considered murder. At the same time, however, the Eastern Orthodox Church has no ultimate authority that forbids it and the Catholic Church acknowledges that it is undesirable to prolong life in a way that is burdensome when there is no chance of recovery, and that one may refuse heroic treatments if death is inevitable (Verbakel and Jaspers 112). While, the supporters of euthanasia believe that people have their own rights to their life and death and It is believed that the pain welcomes the patient towards end of the life. Once a religious priest and atheist was interviewed about euthanasia and suitable condition they it would prefers practicing euthanasia, so, both has different views about of euthanasia. According to religious priest, he strictly opposed euthanasia and shared that it is a killing of person with a poisonous injection or any other similar way just because suffering is unbearable. He also said, a person life should not be ended even if he wishes to die. While a freethinker atheist accepts active euthanasia, and share his view that nobody owns us, and because we can always commit suicide we should have die through euthanasia Shabbir 3 361). In summation, god has gifted a very beautiful life and as per religious point of view ending life without will is totally opposed in every religion and forbids its practice. Secondly, politics have different views for euthanasia in the United States of America. Out of fifty state in USA, only five state completely legalized practice on euthanasia and there are several court cases which demands the legal rights of patient to practice active euthanasia in United States of America. In 1983, California had a case of barber versus Superior Court, two physicians had honoured a family request to withdraw respiratory, feeding tubes and hydration tubes from patient. The physicians were charged with murder, despite the fact, they were doing what the family wanted. Later, the court withheld the charges because the court realised that the treatment had been ineffective and burdensome (Steven 1). Another case occurred, this was 32-years old women in a critical state after motor vehicle incident. Her parent petition the court for the right to withdraw life support, which took 7-year court battle. It was US supreme court upheld Missouri Supreme decision that Ms. Cruzan had right to refuse tube feeding but in December the same year, the US supreme court authorized removal of the tube feeding, and she later died that month (Miljkovic, Milos, Jones, Miller 438). For instance, those who feel like they are not in control over their lives or are not valuable contributors to society, such as inactive elderly patient who has no partner or children to give them assistance are likely become target of involuntary euthanasia (Verbakel and Jaspers 112). In that case, if the government not allow to practice euthanasia and patient suffering of pain experience his worst nightmare into a reality. Should patient have his own right of life and death or government is responsible to decide? Government involvement in euthanasia is most argumentative and debatable topic in court room and still it is not solely legalized the practice of euthanasia in United States of America. Shabbir 4 To compromise on both stakeholder, it should be own responsible and right to take decision of practicing euthanasia. A constitution should be sign and video evidence should be taken by patient (responsive patient) or by close relative that they agree to perform this act under religious affiliation and the patient is solely responsible for the action. As far as USA government is concern, certain policies should be introduced to perform euthanasia such as patient should have terminal illness and having treatment for about a certain period. Doctors and physicians must show the proof of ineffective and burdensome treatment of patient. There should be department controlling the Life-sustaining act in which the department should try to give all facilities by which a person can overcome his pain and get relief from highly expensive and ineffective treatment. There should be certain requirement assign by the government to practice euthanasia and nation policies and other nation circumstances could reduce individual difference. To conclude, this article addresses the ways in which different religious and nonreligious people view euthanasia in the United States and it also throw glance on social and families view onto the practice of euthanasia. The interview and qualitative analysis shows the different meaning and views of different people in concept of euthanasia. Mostly intellectual people supports the idea of euthanasia and they believe, it is better to assist life to come end than to suffer the dreadful pain. The study also shows the government contribution and hurdles the practice of euthanasia in USA. Thus, this study reflects the social value and knowledge to define the merciful act of killing. Although majority opposed the idea of euthanasia and considered it as suicide and murder but, on other hand, proponent believes that it has to be patient right to decide whether he should suffer pain or practice euthanasia. Shabbir 5 Work Cited Leila, et al. Descriptions Of Euthanasia As Social Representations: Comparing The Views Of Finnish Physicians And Religious  Sociology Of Health & Illness 36.3 (2014): 354-368. CINAHL. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Miljkovic, Milos D, Barbara L Jones, and Kenneth Miller. From The Euthanasia Society To Physician Orders For Life-Sustaining Treatment: End-Of-Life Care In The United  Cancer Journal 19.5 (2013): 438-443. CINAHL. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Post, Steven (1 January 1999). Euthanasia and Sustaining . Bioethics for Students: How Do We Know Right?. 1. Retrieved 31 March 2013 Verbakel, Ellen, and Eva Jaspers. A Comparative Study On Permissiveness Toward  Public Opinion Quarterly 74.1 (2010): 109-139. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.