Serene Fields William Drugan ENC 1102 19 February 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft Within the United States of America, recent studies have shown that the arts, are currently facing a depletion of resources. This is due to an ongoing lack of interest and support from our public communities. Yearly, the National Endowment of the Arts receives extreme budget alterations while public investors attempt to overlook the subject. Though those who govern education and the arts attempt to address the issue openly, the topic seems to lack substantial relevance to the public. The primary argument stands between the federal agencies that govern public funding for the arts and the tax payers within this government that pay for artists to thrive and profit out of pocket. The resources our population is provided to express freedom of life and speech is a critical component of in our everchanging democracy. If the goal is to remain the diverse and integrated nation that our constitutional right strive for, then a shift in perspective is long overdue and compromise is needed between the two factions of the government and its people. by Congress in 1965, the National Endowment for the Arts is an independent federal agency whose funding and support gives Americans the opportunity to participate in the arts, exercise their imaginations, and develop their creative (NEA). Contributing to the arts in many ways, not only has the NEA consistently provided for the elite establishments and urban institutions within the field, but it also covers the privately-owned business and organizations that hold valid reputation and propose positive impact for the spending of our non-existent budget year to year. When artists wish to share their projects, these works are primarily funded through grants and scholarships that are budgeted through accumulation of taxes. Many individuals, such as taxpayers and sponsors of the local art communities, would suggest that the funding for artists and their projects would be better off paid solely by the ones who directly associate themselves with its development. This consists of those who create the work and the others who openly decide enjoy it or benefit from its production. Due to this disagreement, recent studies have shown that individual American taxpayer contributes about 65 cents a year to support the arts, which is 50 times lower than that of major industrial nations such as Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Japan, France or the United (Harold). Though some may claim that each of these countries vary vastly in their economic standpoints compared to our American melting-pot, the idea of a United States without the intricate mix of cultures to unite us is national government and their agencies, such as the NEA, helped nurture and sustain cultural activity throughout (AAA). Theater, drama, dance, instrumentation, are only a few of various departments that fall under the creative arts, within the United States. Data has been collected suggesting that Americans are only contributing a bare-minimum of their income through taxes compared to the five or six dollars they would be willing to set aside as provision for the arts. Some state that the arts produce little to no profit when compared to our other means of trade and financial stability. They argue that solely funding the small businesses that grow into the music-ensembles, dance festivals and museum exhibitions that are alive and growing today, is rational solution to the issue at hand. In response, per the National Assembly of Local Arts Agencies, research has shown that the arts (nationwide) constitute a $37 billion industry employing 1.3 million [in generating tax revenues of $3.4 billion. Rather than subsisting primarily on  the nonprofit arts industry has a measurable, positive impact on the federal, state and local (Harold). Given these recent studies and credible solutions, this ultimately means that the arts have the proven potential to generate more funds than it needs to flourish. Considering both proposals, the investment that would prove to be most beneficial would be for our government to slightly increase the amount of taxes citizens paying to the government. This will allow the NEA to access a greater supply of finances to continue making its desired impact. Alongside these long-standing traditions, one would encourage the administration to split the budget in a way that increases financial freedom within county high schools and colleges. By providing county schools with the resources to build and maintain quality magnet programs then it the States would not only be using the funds to build awareness of the arts and its impact on this culture, but doing so would also increase in profit by encouraging the production and consumption of art in our society when targeting the youth. partnerships with state arts agencies, local leaders, other federal agencies, and the philanthropic sector, the NEA supports arts learning, affirms, and celebrates rich and diverse cultural heritage, and extends its work to promote equal access to the arts in every community across (NEA). Therefore, with this solution, not only will the federal government receive monetary means of integrating both art-history and culture, but doing so will allow tax payers to receive closure by knowing that they are investing into our educational system and future generations of innovators. Works Cited (5) Alliance, American Arts. Federal Funding of the Arts Should Not  Free Speech, edited by Scott Barbour, Greenhaven Press, 2000. Current Controversies. Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Originally published as Dispelling Myths About National Support of the Arts and . 26 June 1998. Jaffe, Harold. Government Funding of the Arts Is  Censorship, edited by Tamara L. Roleff, Greenhaven Press, 2002. Opposing Viewpoints. Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Accessed 21 Feb. 2017. Originally published as Art, Mortality, and American  San Diego Union-Tribune, 6 Oct. 1999. National Endowment for the  NEA. Web. Asccessed 19 Feb. 2017.