Shabbir 1 Moiz Shabbir William Drugan ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Mercy Killing: Euthanasia Advances in medical care and increasing prevalence of noncommunicable illnesses such as cardiovascular disease and cancer have raised concern about respecting the dying wishes. Euthanasia means the practice of killing someone who is very sick or injured in order to prevent suffering. This term is used in medical sciences for legal killing. When someone comes closer to the end of their lives, certain organs stop performing and in some case, a person is so badly injured that he went to a coma for a long span of time or cannot live without ventilation machine. In that case, some physicians, and families prefer to practice euthanasia because patient becomes burdensome, worthless and required assistance in every matter of his life. Euthanasia means the practice of killing someone who is very sick or injured in order to prevent suffering. This is a term use in medical science for legal killing. Euthanasia has many complexities in its meaning. Almost every religion forbids the practice of euthanasia and most views on euthanasia are dependent on their religious faith. While the government of California supports the right to prevent incurable pain and practice euthanasia. Therefore, taking into consideration of the different views on euthanasia, there should be right of choice to practice euthanasia under certain conditions and legal limits. The United States, allow patients the right to die with dignity such states are California, Washington, Oregon, Vermont, and Colorado (Verbakel and Jaspers 109). California is set to become the sixth American state to approve euthanasia, due to a controversial issue in the United Shabbir 2 States fuelled by the recent suicide of a woman suffering from terminal cancer. Senator Bill Monning is a historic step forward for Californians with terminal illnesses who have been looking to the legislature for the option to determine the quality of their final days of life should base on their own personal Government involvement in euthanasia is most argumentative and debatable topic in the courtroom and there are several court cases which demand the legal rights of the patient to practice active euthanasia in the United States of America. In 1983, California had a case of barber versus Superior Court, two physicians had honored a family request to withdraw respiratory, feeding tubes and hydration tubes from the patient. The physicians were charged with murder, despite the fact, they were doing what the family wanted. Later, the court withheld the charges because the court realized that the treatment had been ineffective and burdensome (Steven 1). ). For instance, those who feel like they are not in control over their lives or are not valuable contributors to society, such as an inactive elderly patient who has no partner or children to give them assistance are likely to become the target of involuntary euthanasia (Verbakel and Jaspers 112). In religious-based argument, earlier research has found that religious people are more opposed to euthanasia than nonreligious people because they believe that life is god gifted and only he has the right to end the person life (Verbakel and Jaspers 112). The Eastern Orthodox and Catholic Church both take a very strict position as well, declaring that euthanasia and all other forms of ending life should be considered murder. At the same time, however, the Eastern Orthodox Church has no ultimate authority that forbids it and the Catholic Church acknowledges that it is undesirable to prolong life in a way that is burdensome when there is no chance of recovery, and that one may refuse heroic treatments if death is inevitable (Verbakel and Jaspers 112). Once a Christian priest and atheist were interviewed about euthanasia and suitable Shabbir 3 condition they would prefer practicing euthanasia, so, both has different views about of euthanasia. According to a Christain priest, he strictly opposed euthanasia and shared that it is a killing of a person with a poisonous injection or any other similar way just because suffering is unbearable. He also said a person life should not be ended even if he wishes to die. While a freethinker atheist accepts active euthanasia, and share his view that nobody owns us, and because we can always commit suicide we should have died through euthanasia 361). So Christianity believes that euthanasia is murder, while most people perception about euthanasia is a way to prevent patients incurable pain and to die with dignity. To make a compromise between both of the stakeholder, A person should have the legal right to choose to decide to practice the act to end the life. There should be mechanisms with which patient can express their end-of-life wishes. He should have proper signed legal documents to practice euthanasia or by delegating the decision-making to a third party, family member, friend or through the institution of health care agent. In some case, are not in a condition to communicate and speak so, video evidence should be taken by the patient (responsive patient) or by a close relative that they agree to perform this act under religious affiliation and the patient is solely responsible for the action. As far as USA government is a concern, certain policies should be introduced to perform euthanasia such as patient should have a terminal illness and have treatment for about a certain period. The Patient Self-Determination Act is a federal law passed by the congress in 1991 that requires providers to inform all adult patients about their rights to accept or refuse medical or surgical treatment and right to execute euthanasia (Miljkovic, Milos, Jones, Miller 438). Provide a clear and precise statement of limitations to the patient and his relatives about executing euthanasia. Shabbir 4 There should be department controlling the Life-sustaining act in which the department should try to give all facilities by which a person can overcome his pain and get relief from highly expensive and ineffective treatment. The health care professional should initiate a discussion with the patient or his/her surrogate about key treatment options in light of the current condition. This is a contrast to living wills, which concentrate future care. A video aid should devise that would inform the patients and surrogates on the goals of care in advanced cancer. The videos depict life-prolonging care images such as an ICU with a ventilated patient, a simulated code illustrating CPR and intubation, and various intravenous medications. They also show comfort measures such as a patient on home care receiving pain medication, a patient with a nasal cannula comfortable on oxygen at home, and a medical attendant assisting a patient with self-care. Patients with advanced cancer who viewed these videos should give a survey that they were comfortable watching them and that they had increased their knowledge of the end of life care planning. Under certain cases, the patient does not recognize the offer of life-prolonging treatment and still want to go for active euthanasia then he/she should propose the legal documentation of practicing euthanasia and agree all the circumstances and involving religious belief about euthanasia. The government should have to implement strict rule and conditions to practice euthanasia otherwise, suicide has become common in the name of euthanasia. To conclude, this article addresses the ways in which different religious and nonreligious people view euthanasia in the United States and it also throws a glance on social and family view onto the practice of euthanasia. Thus, euthanasia should only be legalized under certain conditions because legalizing it without any specific limitations will give rise to many other concerns that were not even there on the first place. Thus, limiting the euthanasia law will Shabbir 5 resolve the arguments that are put up by the people who are against it as they will not be able to misuse the euthanasia law anymore. Moreover, and perspective is also very important to consider while making decision about euthanasia, which is, euthanasia should only be legalized under certain conditions. As they are the ones who are going to practice it on the ill patient. Shabbir 6 Work Cited Leila, et al. Descriptions Of Euthanasia As Social Representations: Comparing The Views Of Finnish Physicians And Religious  Sociology Of Health & Illness 36.3 (2014): 354-368. CINAHL. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Miljkovic, Milos D, Barbara L Jones, and Kenneth Miller. From The Euthanasia Society To Physician Orders For Life-Sustaining Treatment: End-Of-Life Care In The United  Cancer Journal 19.5 (2013): 438-443. CINAHL. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Post, Steven (1 January 1999). Euthanasia and Sustaining . Bioethics for Students: How Do We Know Right?. 1. Retrieved 31 March 2013 Verbakel, Ellen, and Eva Jaspers. A Comparative Study On Permissiveness Toward  Public Opinion Quarterly 74.1 (2010): 109-139. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.