Abedini !1 Ava Abedini Professor William Drugan ENC1102 01/29/2017 Gun control in the United States Gun control has been an issue in the united states for many years that has signified many arguments on how to solve it. The right to bear arms has been a law in America since its inception. After the American revolutionary war in 1791 the US constitution was established and part of it was The Second Amendment which states well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be (US Constitution) Americans have had the right to own guns without any limitations for many years. In more recent decades gun control laws were passed with the purpose of lowering gun violence and keeping guns out of the wrong hands. Two laws in particular which were passed in 1994 sparked the gun control debate between the democratic and republican party, bringing the issue to a whole new stage. Republicans believe in the 2nd Amendment and they believe that every American has the right to own a gun without any limitation. Democrats however believe that while Americans do have the right to own guns but that this should not be without restriction. Both Republicans and Democrats believe in the 2nd amendment and share a common goal of keeping Americans safe, though they have different views both can compromise and close the loopholes that currently allow for guns to end up in the wrong hands and not add any more restrictions on what type of guns can be purchased by citizens. Abedini !2 The republican party has never supported gun control laws. They believe in the full text of the 2nd amendment and the right of every American to be able to purchase guns and protect themselves. The party believes that gun violence will not be reduced if peoples access to guns is restricted but that this would actually have the opposite effect; If everyone is allowed to have guns then the chance that someone can use it against another citizen is lower. They believe in the American citizens right to purchase ammunition without any check or registration and the right to purchase any type of gun. Republicans have fought to expand gun purchasing options and safety programs for US citizens and their right to purchase any type of gun to be used for self- defense, hunting, or sports. This view is overwhelmingly shared by a large percentage of Americans. 2013, gun owners overwhelmingly said having a gun in their household makes them feel safer fully 79% expressed this view. Yet about as many (78%) said having a gun was something they (Fingerhut 2016) Republicans have also fought against any gun control legislation that aims to restrict gun purchase through more strict background checks and the registration of licensing of gun purchases. This has been said to be a violation of the 2nd amendment and that gun violence should be dealt with after a crime has been committed with a gun and not at the point of gun purchase. The Democratic party in contrast to republicans have been big advocates of passing restrict gun control laws to protect US citizens. The amount of violence committed by guns purchased legally every year is staggering. Democrats aim to lower gun violence by adding additional gun control laws that require stricter background checks and closing the loop holes that allow people to purchase guns on the internet and at gun shows without any checks which is constant with popular opinion on the subject in the US recently. July, 85% of the public Abedini !3 including large majorities of both Republicans (79%) and Democrats (88%) favored making private gun sales and sales at gun shows subject to background (Fingerhut 2016) Democrats believe in strictly enforcing the current gun control laws as well as bringing back the law that limits the type of guns that private citizens are allowed to purchase. Democrats have fought for and passed stricter gun prosecution laws that has reduced the rate of gun gun violence significantly in recent years. Another area of concern for democrats is putting in place measures to reduce accidental gun discharge that kills many people each year and limiting access to guns for the mentally ill. While the democratic party believes in the 2nd amendment they do not feel that it should be without restriction and are adamant about keeping guns out of the hands of criminals and terrorists that intend to harm the American people. American right to bear arms is a law and fact that at its basis both the democrats and republicans can agree on. Both parties have a common goal to protect the American people and the American citizens right to protect themselves. While republicans do not believe that restrictions should be placed on gun purchasing and democrats believe that many restrictions should be placed on gun purchasing, politicians on both sides of the isle can admit that the current laws do not do enough to protect the American people. Both parties have different approaches and solutions on how to solve the issue of gun safety and gun control. In order to pass any gun control laws a willingness to listen on bot sides is required to reach a compromise solution that benefits both parties and protect the rights of the American people. There are many studies and statistics done in recent years that show the percentage of gun violence committed by mentally unstable people and criminals who were able to purchase guns legally. Passing stricter background checks and laws to close the loopholes that allow people to purchase guns on the Abedini !4 internet and at gun shows without passing through the right channels can significantly reduce the violence that is being caused by not having the laws in place now. Democrats need to gather enough evidence to convince the other side with data that the current system does not work and why and how putting in better background checks and closing the loop holes on purchasing guns will have an effect on lowering the amount of gun violence committed with legally purchased weapons. Both parties will have benefited from passing this law by keeping guns out of the wrong peoples hands and keeping Americans safe. Gun control has been a topic of national discussion for many years. The republican and democratic party have both lobbied on different sides of the isle for and against passing stricter gun control laws. Though some in both parties can admit the issues with current laws, the general policy that is supported by republicans is often not supported by democrats who support stricter gun control laws and vise versa. Both parties have a common goal which means that they can find a compromised solution that can benefit both. Passing stricter background checks and closing current loopholes that allow the purchase of guns through the internet and at gun shows is a policy that both parties can benefit from as it will keep guns out of the hands of criminals which in turn keeps American people safe. Abedini !5 Works Cited Sevastopulo, Demetri. Democrats end two-day House protest about gun control  The Financial Times 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Barrett, Paul M., and Michael C. Bender. Like It Or Not, Americans Like Guns-And The  Bloomberg Businessweek 4312 (2013): 26. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Fungerhut, Hannah. 5 facts about guns in the United  Pew Research Center RSS. N.p., 26 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2016/01/05/5-facts- about-guns-in-the-united-states/>.