Diess 1 Carly Diess Prof. Drugan English Comp II 12 February 2017 PETA vs. Ethical Zoos Throughout the past couple of years there has been controversy about whether or not a zoo is a safe/healthy place for animals. Many people have distinctive ways of looking at this situation, but there could be something done to satisfy both parties. Two specific stakeholders that have completely different views are PETA, which stands for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, and ethical zoos or zoo that cares and keeps its records current and provides consistent veterinary care, which the AZA says should at the very least involve twice monthly inspections (Actman). They are in conflict with each other about whether or not the environment of a zoo, that animals are forced to live in, are safe and healthy. Both goals are to look out for the animals, but while zoos are also focused on their profit and customers as well, PETA is mainly concentrated strictly on the preservation and well-being. Since PETA and zoos both share the same overall intention, caring for the animals and putting them first, they can form a compromise to achieve both of their overall goals while coming together and making both businesses stronger. One way both stakeholders can make an arrangement is, ethical zoos can try to make each exhibit more like habitats in the wild. They can show more care for the animals like feeding them the right food and making them feel more at home. PETA can come a certain amount of times a year to observe and inspect each display to see if they are following the rules and they are up to standards. By doing so, this will help both companies because customers at each zoo will give them more business knowing Diess 2 PETA supports the way they treat their animals while PETA will feel satisfied that they made a difference. The first stakeholder, PETA, mainly focuses its attention on the suffering of animals in the food industry, clothing trade, laboratories, and the entertainment industry such as zoos (PETA). This goal is to make a difference by constructing a way where every organization that involves animals, is treating them with care and respect. opposes zoos because cages and cramped enclosures at zoos deprive animals of the opportunity to satisfy their most basic (PETA). This company is completely against zoos because of how the employees/owners treat the animals. They believe that zoos care about the relationships organisms have made in their habitat or if they grow out of the stage where they look they just send them somewhere else if they fulfill their obligations by bringing them business. Zoos and wildlife parks prevent natural behavior, such as flying, swimming, running, hunting, etc. which may lead to abnormal behavior, such as incessant pacing, bar-biting, and self-mutilation (PETA). If animals are eventually released into the wild after being in a zoo exhibit for many years, they very rarely know how to survive. captive-bred animals to the wild is, in most cases, impossible because animals who are reared in zoos are denied the opportunity to learn survival skills, can transmit diseases to their wild counterparts, and often have no natural habitat left to return to because of human (PETA). PETA is explaining how if the animal was born and raised in a zoo and then released into the wild for the first time, they will have no idea what to do to survive since they were in an exhibit their entire lives. This stakeholder basically believes that there are other ways to protect habitats and animals by supporting other organizations. Diess 3 In contrast, proper zoos, believe they care for and protect animals from the dangerous wild environment while keeping their customers satisfied. Many zoos play a critical role in protecting endangered species from extinction because they are safe in an exhibit. year, good zoos contribute $350 million directly to (Zoos Victoria). The zookeepers feed them healthy food and keep them safe, so that they do not become extinct. The conservation of good zoos is growing and have helped species such as the Eastern Barred Bandicoot, Helmeted Honeyeater, Southern Corroboree, etc. not be extinct (Zoos Victoria). Good zoos also educate visitors and attract the best employees by seeking amazing connections with wildlife and teaching customers about the importance of conservation. employ specialists to design our conservation education programs such as influencing people to help the wildlife, for example, more than 131,000 people have donated mobile phones to help raise more than $228,000 for gorilla (Zoos Victoria). Zoos that are ethical teach the public about reintroduction to the wild and conservation status. Employees who work at these zoos usually are interested because they love animals and want to see species safe and in a wholesome environment. These higher quality zoos meet more than just the basic food needs, standard sized cages, fresh water, and certain exposer to light. They go beyond the bare necessities offering enrichment activities or stimulating that could mean hiding treats in a container that tigers would have to rip open, for (Actman). These superior zoos make animals more intelligent by motivating them. Instead of them just being there for people to look at, they are also learning new tricks and ideas. If all zoos could be like this, many of the corrupt stereotypical thoughts people have will change. Since there are more and more species becoming endangered or extinct, zoos are becoming extremely important and need all the support they can get. Diess 4 Even though these two stakeholders have many different views and are completely against one another, they both have the same overall goal which is to protect animals and provide the best possible outcomes for them. By having that same intention, both organizations can put their separate views aside and instead of fighting over the same issue, they can resolve it by communicating. PETA believes that zoos preclude animals from being themselves and care about the relationships made within the habitat. To solve this issue, zoos can change the atmosphere of the exhibits so it is more like their environments in the wild. They can also vow to keep the animals until they grow old and pass away, therefore they will not be let into the wild inexperienced and can keep the strong relationships made. Getting thrown into the wild after living in a zoo for their entire life, is not ethical and is harmful for the animal. They do not have the right mindset or survival skills to make it in the wild, let alone form completely new relationships. As they do this, the certain zoos will be able to continue to conserve animals and protect them from being endangered or extinct. As long as animals are provided with more than just the basic needs, endangered species will not only be safer, they will also be more intellectual. Zoos that are ethical take it up a notch by striving past the bare necessities and treat the animals like they an exhibit in a museum. The zookeepers make it their goal to be sure every animal is supplied with the best care. They also make it their priority to teach the animals and make them smarter by challenging them. By working with PETA, wholesome zoos will also have more business considering customers will see that they are working together for the sake of the animals. People who are strong supporters of safety and how they are treated will now visit certain zoos because PETA supports it. and to give them the best environment and safety. To make sure these changes are pursued, PETA employees can visit zoos the zoos they support a couple of times per year. These workers will make sure ethical zoos Diess 5 are up to standards by making sure they are caring for the animals and continuing the compromise. By forming this settlement, certain zoos will have more business and PETA will gain more supporters, but more importantly it will keep the animals safe and healthy. Through these two stakeholders making a compromise, this will not only help save more animals and keep them healthy, but it will also teach the public to look at this situation from both sides. Both PETA and honorable zoos care for every animal and want the best for them, therefore they can put their differences aside and cooperate to help not only each other, but also the animals. Both stakeholders will reach more people and make a bigger impact for animals by coming together. PETA and zoos around the world should work together and save animals lives by protecting them one agreement at a time. Diess 6 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Animal Rights Uncompromised:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Five Facts about Good  Five Facts about Good Zoos Zoos Victoria. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Death Raises Question: What Makes a Good  National Geographic. National Geographic Society, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.