1 Daniel Harely Campbell English Composition II 13 February, 2017 Looking into the future, it is easy to follow the and rationale when predicting the long term ramifications of pollution on Earth, just as you would in understanding how not cleaning your teeth could lead to cavities and gum disease. But now, we do not have our mother to continue yelling at us if we choose to pollute our planet and would otherwise suffer toxic air and extreme storm damage. But is that what it would take? A mother figure to invoke knowledge on these cause and effect relationships with pollution and provide consequences or even rewards based on our actions could help us grow out of our childish ways of not taking care for ourselves and our planet. Enercon, who produces energy using green techniques, and Shell, who burns fossil fuels, are two organizations with different views on how energy should be generated to benefit themselves, their consumers, and the planet. We, the massive body of energy consumers, should enable such a policy as a compromise over these two effective, yet opposing, ways to make electrical energy better for the Earth. Here, politicians, representing the true interests of the people, should now act as a parental mediator over Enercon and Shell by enforcing a tax on pollution that will fund advancements in energy overall efficiency and sustainability for our planet. As one of the top wind turbine manufacturer in the world, Enercon has soared with the wind across the planet, perching itself in more and more countries in hopes to recruit them into 2 its flock of green energy users (Lauren Tyler). Along with their progress in engineering and distributing wind turbines, Enercon also extends their capabilities to other fields of energy such as solar and nuclear. From this, Enercon understands the encompassing difficulties that come with pursuing and managing a green power plan, especially when competitors and society still labels them as an source ). As Enercon continues research to become even more environmentally friendly and improving their energy production efficiency, it still, at times, is crippled by the lack of outside funding and a more public market of consumers which contributes to the large success of fossil fuel industries. In this contrast, Enercon and many other green energy producers often get criticized for their work not being more financially efficient, even though it is environmentally efficient and regards pollution as a true cost. At this short-term obstacle of funding the initial costs for green energy, fossil fuel industries, like Shell, take the lead on production. Shell is known worldwide as a top energy producer and takes pride in its use of natural gas. While having other focuses such as deep water oil, Shell profits most from its natural gas distributions and energy plants Energy Future ). Working with simpler energy generation techniques than those of some green energy producers by burning fuel, Shell can initially produce electrical energy at a cheaper rate. This is more attractive for consumers, which is especially important as Shell can profit more by using their greater access to the public market compared to Enercon. In this hand, Shell understands its capability towards a healthier future as it argues that natural gas is less potent to the environment than burning other fossil fuels natural gas ). Yet Shell and many other fossil fuel industries do not regard pollution as enough of a substantial cost to adjust their energy production methods as it is not 3 bounded to an actual financial cost. Here, the line on what is truly efficient for all when it comes to energy production starts to get blurry from a and point of view. Stepping into the question on true efficiency, it seems to be tethered by the stings of environmental efficiency, economic efficiency, and financial efficiency. Each of these are being pulled in different directions based on the interests of both Enercon and Shell, as well as their resource factors. With these shifts, defining how to make energy production truly efficient for both companies becomes difficult, which partially represents why previous discussions and actions on this topic were not too successful. Some steps were made by implementing regulations on energy producers, like proper waste disposal and structural safety guidelines. With 97% of climate scientists, who are actively publishing research on this, reporting that climate change is not only man-made but should also be addressed as a global crisis, I would agree that more than just picket-fence regulations needs to be done now to help protect and rehabilitate our planet from our fatale pollution (Tenenbaum, Laura). Yet even today, there are some people in power who disapprove of the relationship and implicit trust between the public and environmental scientists; one that should be like the trust you have with your doctor who has decades of experience in care and saying that you have a disease that will soon become fatal if left untreated. But with the public standing together, we can show how much these politicians should act on reforming consumer energy production. Citizens and homeowners represent a big portion of electricity consumers and as 79% of the American population acknowledges that the climate is changing (Cary Funk and Brian Kennedy). With this, I believe that the side that energy production should lean towards is that of Earth. As a compromise for both Enercon and Shell, 4 efficiency for the environment, finances, and economy can all be achieved by producing sustainable energy. Sustainable energy is unknowingly used interchangeably with energy or energy. Although they are related, there is a difference between and energy production. As Mercedes Martty, an architectural journalist from Buenos Aires University of Architecture, explains, sustainable energy has potential for long-term maintenance of well-being, which in turn depends on the well-being of the natural world and the responsible use of natural This is different than just a alternative, because sustainability accounts for more factors to the overall process than just addressing the application of one substance as opposed to another. Mercedes also provides an excellent example with bamboo flooring by saying that product made from a renewable resource is green, but most bamboo flooring is made in China and transported by ships and trucks to different countries all around the world. The air pollution caused and the fuel used to transport the material turn it into the opposite of a sustainable material, since it contributes to global climate This can be connected to how Shell and other fossil fuel industries provide and produce their energy. Although the use of natural gas is cheaper and less toxic to the environment than crude oil and coal, the company makes up for this by spending a lot of resources continuously shipping gas and energy containers to their many clients. On the other hand, Enercon needs very little maintenance with their wind turbines because they are dependent on the everlasting flow of the wind, but they are still costly and unable to expand enough to lower their costs because of the lack in funding. So, as we aim towards a sustainable energy plan, the policy in need would be one that provides a financial consequence to producing pollutants, which would incentivize Shell 5 to shift their methods of energy generation, and help expand greener energy producers, like Enercon, to become more affordable to the public while assisting the overall economy. Electrical power over the past few decades have turned more into an essential resource for the community rather than a business good to provide. Because of this dependence on electrical energy, I believe that this power should be generated as efficiently as possible while accounting for the responsibility we have to keep the Earth healthy. With this, we should produce energy at a cheaper rate, using fossil fuels with Shell, and appropriately tax them on environmental damages, which presently have little to no financial consequences, then use the tax to fund greener energy projects, like the wind power provided by Enercon, so they may grow to become financially efficient and create more jobs for the economy with a given priority in hiring past fossil fuel workers. Sustainable energy will help our community and the Earth. 6 Work Cited 1. Tenenbaum, Laura. consensus: climate is warming. Earth Science Communications Team, January 28, 2017. . Accessed January 29, 2017. 2. Funk, Cary, and Brian Kennedy. views on climate change and climate scientists. The Politics of Climate, October 4, 2016. http://www.pewinternet.org/2016/10/04/public-views-on-climate-change-and-climate-sci . Accessed January 29, 2017. 3. Compliance. Enercon, 2017, . Accessed January 29, 2017. 4. Transforming natural gas . Shell, 2016, . Accessed January 29, 2017. 5. Pellet Power. Wood pellet association of Canada, 2015, . January 29, 2017. 6. Martty, Mercedes. Difference Between Green and Sourceable, October 6th, 2015. Web. January 29, 2017. 7. Tyler, Lauren. 10 Wind Turbine Makers For 2015: Year Of American Windpower.com. Zackin Publications Inc., February 23, 2016. Web. January 29, 2017. 8. Energy . Shell, 2016. Web. January 29, 2017.