Cabal 1 Manuel Cabal January 28, 2017 ENC 1102 Best for Her? One of the most controversial topics in America is one whether or not abortion should be legal or not. The biggest stakeholders on each side of the topic are the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. The Republican Party is one the side of which is the side wanting to get rid of abortion. The Democratic Party is on the side of this is the side that wants to give the mothers of the unborn child a chance to choice whether or not she wants to keep the child. Republicans think for the most part that abortion is murder and should be completely illegal. Although they view it as Republicans state that oppose abortion, but our pro-life agenda does not include punitive action against women who have an according to the Republican National Platform. The Democratic Party as a whole is a strong believer in the choice of whether or not a woman can have an abortion, according to the Democratic Party Platform. Both parties can agree that in the end they want the mother healthy and safe whether having the abortion or having a safe nine month pregnancy. A comprise can be as simple as having more education on safe sex and having more availability for birth control as well as only allowing abortions in extreme cases, such as rape or if the pregnancy is putting the mother at risk. The Republican views on the topic of abortion are firm and to the point, they believe that the unborn child has rights and should not have its life taken away by the mother because she practice safe sex. views on abortion are rooted firmly in the Cabal 2 belief that an unborn child, like any individual in this country, has an individual right to life that should not be infringed upon by this is a direct quote from the Views on article. The Republican Party also believes that it goes against the Fourteenth Amendment of the United States of America constitution, which states persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. Nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the They also want to get rid of using public clinics preforming abortions as well as taking away health care that covers the operation. Republicans know that there are some circumstances where the pregnancy is hurting or causing problems for the mother and in these cases they have come to the conclusion that they want to provide care for the pregnant mother as long as it harm the unborn child or go against the Fourteenth Amendment. Other belief is there is no exception in the cases of birth defects or rape for an abortion to be considered the thing to On the other side of the spectrum is the Democratic Party, which is on the side. In 1973, there was a case called Roe versus Wade which was are whether or not abortion should be legalized in the first trimester of pregnancy. The Democratic Party was a strong believer and supporter when it came to the Roe versus Wade case; wanting women to be able to have safe operations whether or not they had the ability to pay for the abortion. According to the Democratic Party Platform it stated, strongly and unequivocally support a decision to have a child by providing affordable health care and ensuring Cabal 3 the availability of and access to programs that help women during pregnancy and after the birth of a child, including caring adoption The stakeholders in this issue have one main common goal, which is to make sure that the pregnant mother is healthy and well. Both the Democratic Party and Republican Party can compromise to figure out what is best for the mother and meets both parties in the middle. A simple compromise that can meet the Republican wants and goals can be to make more accessible to younger women as well as educate young adults in schools across the national about safe sex and how to prevent unwanted pregnancies. To satisfy the Democratic wants towards the issues of abortion would be to not get rid of abortion completely but to make abortion legal in only extreme cases such as rape or if the pregnant health is at risk and the only way to save her is to have the operation. Both these compromises can satisfy but not give either party more than the other in this case. This will allow both and to have some of their core beliefs implemented in this compromise. In conclusion, given that both the Democratic Party and the Republican Party are on different sides of the abortion issue, the Democratic Party being on the side that allows mothers to choice whether or not she wants to go through a nine month pregnancy. On the other side of the spectrum you have the Republican Party that is completely against the discussion of abortion and anything that is involved with the operation. For example as stated before in the essay the Republican Party wants to get rid having abortions in public clinics as well as taking abortions coverages off of health insurance plans. Both the Democratic Party and the Republican Party have one simple goal they have in common with each other and that is to insure that the pregnant mother is safe and health. The compromise that I proposed Cabal 4 where both parties can have some of each of their core believes such as having a limitation on the reason why you should have a pregnancy such as in a case of rape or where the mother is at risk of losing her life due to pregnancy complications. The other part of the compromise is implementing more education towards safer sex and awareness on unwanted pregnancies as well as make contraceptives more available for women. Hopefully in the near future both Parties can come together and make this compromise possible so women in some cases can still can do best for her. Cabal 5 Cabal 6 Citations Cabal 7 - Party Position on . Euthanasia.com. N. p., 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. - Party on Abortion . Ontheissues.org. N. p., 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. - Republican Views On Abortion Republican . Republicanviews.org. N. p., 2014. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. - 14Th . LII / Legal Information Institute. N. p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.