Ella Bojanic Professor Drugan ENC 1102 29 January 2017 War on GMOs Both passionate and divisive, the ongoing debate concerning genetically modified foods encompasses various complex issues, and varying organizations and companies share opposing views on the topic. Genetically modified organisms, otherwise known as GMOs, are the result of crossbreeding DNA from different organisms to create new ones with desired traits. Currently, this technology pervades the agriculture business, exposing the significance of further research into the issue. Despite argument, the Center for Food and Safety reveals that approximately 75% of processed foods in the United States have genetically modified ingredients, and a staggering 92% of US corn is genetically engineered. With these numbers, the cause for both concern and support linger within values of different groups, two of them being Physicians of Social Responsibility (PSR) and Monsanto. Physicians of Social Responsibility firmly support the labeling of GMOs, and argue about threats GMOs create towards human health. On the other hand, Monsanto is a global agricultural business that utilizes genetic engineering to grow many of their crops, advocating for their benefits in resisting pests and producing more sustainability. In order to preserve consumer health and trust while still maintaining business growth and sustainability, genetically modified foods should be labeled, and companies should provide access to more information for the public concerning their use of GMOs. While working together in compromise, these two groups can model a platform that helps both consumers and companies understand more about the nature and effects of the GMO product. The first organization, Physicians for Social Responsibility was founded in 1961, where their main objective was to inform the public on the dangers of nuclear war, which eventually helped them earn a Nobel Peace Prize in 1985. Years later in 1992, PSR started to get involved with more environmental issues such as climate change, pollution, and use of toxins. The organization teamed up with many prominent research universities, including the Harvard School of Public health and MIT, in order to educate the population about health and the environment. PSR focuses largely on climate change and environmental toxins, and they have taken an active stand opposed to GMOs. In their supporting reasons against GMOs, PSR mentions in their claim that GMOs have led to increased use of pesticides, health hazards, and financial losses to farmers. In addition, PSR mentions that the FDA, or US Food and Drug Administration, fails to conduct safety tests on genetically modified products. (PSR) The first claim, stating that GMOs produce an increased usage of pesticides, is supported by Chuck Benbrook, an agricultural economist and former research professor at the Center for Sustaining Agriculture and Natural Resources at Washington State University. In his research, herbicide resistant crops led to a 527 million pound increase in herbicide use in the United States between 1996 and  In a nutshell, the use of pesticides has increased by 7%, despite popular claims and beliefs. (Benbrook, 2012) Following that, Carey Gilliam, an investigative journalist specializing in food and agriculture, explains that there were 200 cases of crop contamination in the last 10 years. (Gilliam, 2008) This contamination, occurring in crops that were genetically engineered, can eventually cause financial losses to farmers, who rely on those GMOs to resist pests. In addition, the European Network of Scientists for Social and Environmental Responsibility proclaims that there is no scientific consensus on GMOS , raising concerns for consumers globally. organization exposes the differences in research found about GM foods and GM fed animals. The network reveals that independent studies have shown toxic effects in GM-fed animals. The organization criticizes researchers for dismissing these findings in major reviews, and urges the European Union and French government to investigate the long term health impacts of GM food consumption in the light of uncertainties raised by animal feeding  (ENSSER, 2017) In the light of all this research, Physicians for Social Responsibility raises valid concerns to the public, urging for mandatory GMO labeling to create more transparency to consumers. Their initiative is driven by their passion to serve public health, and their perspective expands on the complexity of this multifaceted issue. On the other hand, the company Monsanto shares stark differences on the matter, thriving off the use of genetically modified crops. Monsanto is an agricultural business that has 404 facilities across 67 countries. The company scored 37th in The 100 Most Sustainable Companies of 2014, and has its own funds that contributed 31 million dollars to education efforts around the world. (Monsanto, 2017) Unlike some major corporations, Monsanto is open about their use of GMOs in crops, explaining its effectiveness when dealing with external environmental factors. These issues include insects, disease, and climate change. Monsanto explains that GMOs use less water and land than regular crops, promoting more sustainability. Moreover, they highlight that GM seeds have been tested more than any other crop in the history of agriculture- with no evidence of harm to  Their claims are supported by the World Health Organization, which states that GM foods are unlikely to present risks for human  (Monsanto, 2017) Agreeing with this sentiment, the National Academy of Sciences found no cause-and-effect evidence regarding environmental issues created by genetically engineered crops. Other organizations such as The American Medical Association and Royal Society of Medicine, agree that GM crops have shown no ill effects towards human health. innovation can also improve taste and nutrition within their crops, adding versatility to GM foods. The company utilizes a famous case in order to highlight the benefits of GMOs. In the 90s papaya trees in Hawaii suffered from the Papaya Ringspot Virus, until scientists made the papayas resistant while still maintaining their taste and look. Along with GM foods, Monsanto also grows organic and traditional crops and covers multiple issues similar to the Physicians for Social Responsibility, including climate change. In their efforts to help with the problem of climate change, the company has created genetically modified crops that promote the use of no till farming. (Monsanto, 2017) Both Monsanto and the Physicians for Social Responsibility have similar values despite different stances on GMOs. Both work towards educating the public about genetically engineered crops, whether it be good or bad, and both work on helping the public find solutions towards climate change. While GMOs have shown to be beneficial in an environmental sense, many consumers feel as if they cannot trust GM products. A new revolution of consumers chose organic and natural products in order to alleviate their concerns for health and safety. While studies have not compiled enough evidence against the ill health and environmental effects of GMOS, certain organizations want more independent studies to investigate the matter. However, with our growing population the use of GMOs maybe crucial in keeping up with the mass production of crops needed to sustain the population. In order to come to an area of common ground, both PSR and Monsanto should take the best measures for the public. GMO labeling, like previously done in Vermont, provides consumers with more transparency and trust in their products. While the labeling of GMOs in Vermont was overturned by Barack Obama, the president at the time, organizations and protest groups still fight to put labels back on food. (Dinan, 2016) While this may seem as an issue with companies, especially since GMOs have much cultural stigmatization, it can be seen from a different perspective. When companies take the time to provide detailed information about their products, consumers can appreciate this effort, especially if fully advised about GMOs. So in addition to labeling the products, it is crucial for an un-bias program or organization (neither opposed or supportive of GMOs) to provide the public with accurate and insightful information about genetically modified foods. With more access to helpful information, the public can then decide their stance on GMOs and whether or not they should buy them. Overall, the issue on GMOs is far from being over. Yet, with open minded views and consideration for the best route for public health and sustainability initiatives, the war on GMOs can turn more into an open discussion. With careful consideration and compromise, both organizations can accomplish much more than separately opposing each other. Works Cited Benbrook, Charles M. Impacts of Genetically Engineered Crops on Pesticide Use in the U.S. -- the First Sixteen  Environmental Sciences Europe. N.p., 28 June 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://enveurope.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/2190-4715-24-24>. Dinan, Stephen. Obama Signs Bill Overturning GMO Labeling  The Washington Times. The Washington Times, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://m.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/aug/2/obama-signs-bill-overturning-vermonts- gmo-labeling/>. Editorial, Reuters. U.S. Organic Food Industry Fears GMO  Reuters. Reuters, 12 Mar. 2008. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.google.com/amp/mobile.reuters.com/article/amp/idUSN1216250820080312>. No Scientific Consensus on GMO  Environmental Sciences Europe. European Network of Scientists for Social and Environmental Responsibility, 21 Dec. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://enveurope.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s12302-014-0034-1>. Support  Physicians for Social Responsibility Support Labeling of GMO Foods PSR. N.p., 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.psr.org/resources/psr-supports-labeling-gmo- foods.html>. What Are  Discover Monsanto. Monsanto, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://discover.monsanto.com/monsanto-gmo-foods>.