Radliff 1 Haley Radliff Harley Campbell Composition 2 30 January 2017 Sex Education in High Schools The topic of sex education in high schools is one that is highly controversial and has led to debate among parents, educators, law makers, and interest groups. This issue has various perspectives that have differing opinions on how sex education should be taught in schools. Advocates for Youth is an organization that believes in a comprehensive approach towards sex education. This organization believes in teaching adolescents not only about how to have safe sex, but also the dangers that go along with having sex such as STIs and pregnancy. Ascend, formerly known as The National Abstinence Education Association believes in teaching abstinence only for kids. They believe that in doing this they are keeping kids away from risky behaviors. These two organizations clearly do not agree about how this sensitive topic should be taught in schools based on their fundamental beliefs. A compromise that could benefit both groups would be to send home a permission slip to parents with three different options as to what type of sex education program they want their student to sit through. With this compromise the decision of how sex education is taught is left up to the parents, a third party therefore dissipating the conflict between the two groups. Advocates for Youth is an organization that believes in teaching adolescents about the various aspects of sex. They aim to not only teach about the act itself, but the implications of it and how it relates to growing up in world. The organization was established in 1980 as the Center for Population Options but has expanded greatly since then doing work both Radliff 2 domestically and overseas. Their core values include explaining to adolescents that they have rights, that they deserve respect and that society has the responsibility to teach them about sex in order to protect them Their core values show that they just interested in teaching kids about sex, but they want to teach them what it means to grow up and how to find yourself. In teaching a comprehensive approach they also aim to show students the dangers of having sex such as and unplanned pregnancy. A study done at Syracuse University showed that college freshmen knew far less about sex compared to the seniors, showing that the students learned more about sex while in college than in high school (Franklin and Dotger 8). This is important to note because there is a gap between how much kids are being taught in high school versus what they learn in college from experience. It is important for students to be taught about topics relating to sex early on so that they know what to do when they are put in that situation. With permission slips being sent home, parents have the ability to allow their students to learn about these topics early on so that when they are faced with these decisions relating to sex they know what to do and how to protect themselves. Ascend is an organization that aims toward keeping kids safe from sex by teaching abstinence. In teaching abstinence, they believe that students will not engage in risky behaviors that will put them at risk i.e. sex. Ascend supports a program known as Sexual Risk Avoidance which an educational program based on the public health model of primary prevention to empower youth to avoid all the risks of sexual With students practicing abstinence they are protecting themselves from all the risks that go along with having sex. One study involved teaching students an abstinence only program and found that in teaching this program, students were more likely to abstain from sex than those students not in the program (Denny and Young 7). With students taking part in abstinence only course and actually not Radliff 3 having sex after an extended period of time it shows that an abstinence only method has the ability to work. In facing a world where sex education becoming an increasingly bigger issue, it is of significance to note that core beliefs and values play a big role in what kids are taught. Looking at both these stakeholders we can clearly see that their values and approach towards sex education are different. However, we can also see that what they want most is to keep teens safe. Advocates for Youth believes that students have the right to know about sex and the implications that go along with it and growing up. On the other hand, Ascend believes that abstinence only is the only approach that is feasible because it keeps kids away from the implications that go along with having sex. One article mentioned that Advocates for Youth teamed up with Planned Parenthood and made a statement that abstinence only education does not work because it ignores rights to be informed on fundamental parts of health (Kupper). This statement completely goes against what Ascend believes about sex education. They believe that Sexual Risk Avoidance is the proper program to use because it completely discourages youth participating in sexual activities. The risks that students would be taught in schools in a comprehensive sex education program will be completely avoided with abstinence only education. The two organizations clearly oppose one another in their core values, but the most important thing to both is the wellbeing of teens. The compromise that makes the most sense is to put the decision of teaching sex education into the hands of the parents. This allows for a decision to be made based on the core beliefs of the family rather than the beliefs of an outside organization. One study showed that families of different ethnicities, financial standings, and religions had different views as to what and how sex education should be taught in schools (Heller and Johnson 9). To make this happen the schools would have to first create a permission slip which would allow parents to choose Radliff 4 from a variety of options as far as what type of sex education class their student would take. Parents can choose one of three options for their student based on what they believe is best for their student. The first option would be for the student to sit through a comprehensive program in which safe sex and the dangers are talked about, along with more sensitive topics such as abortion, sexuality, etc. The second option would be for a less extensive program that talks about how to have safe sex and the dangers that go along with having sex, without talking about the sensitive topics mentioned in the first program. The final option would be an abstinence only course in which students are taught the benefits of remaining abstinent. A study done in Australia found that all the parents wanted their kids to be taught some sort of sex education program, but they had different beliefs as to how it should be taught (Dyson and Smith 8). This compromise works because no matter how the parents decide the students will still be receiving some sort of knowledge on the subject of sex. This benefits both groups because it allows a third party to decide rather than one group having more control. Both groups are giving up the specific programs that they created for the students, but this compromise seems to be the fairest for both groups. Ascend and Advocates for Youth clearly have opposing views as to how and if sex education should be taught in schools. A compromise that puts the decision into the hands of the parents will avoid the two groups disagreeing over the program. Overall this compromise seems to be one that will work because it gives the power to a third party i.e. the parents rather than favoring one approach over another. The three options that the parents have to choose from all teach sex education in a different way, but no matter what they pick their student will still be learning. This benefits the students in the long run because it allows them to learn based off of what they believe in. Radliff 5 Works Cited Ascend, http://weascend.org/about-us-2/. Accessed 30 January 2017. Advocates for Youth, http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/about-us. Accessed 30 January 2017. Denny, George, and Michael Young. An Evaluation Of An Abstinence-Only Sex Education Curriculum: An 18-Month  Journal Of School Health 76.8 (2006): 414-422. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Dyson, Suzanne, and Elizabeth Smith. Are Lots Of Different Kinds Of Families And Sex Education Styles, Approaches And  Sex Education 12.2 (2012): 219-229. Academic Search Premier. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Franklin, Ruth M., and Sharon Dotger. Sex Education Knowledge Differences Between Freshmen And Senior College  College Student Journal 45.1 (2011): 199-213. ERIC. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Heller, Janet., and Johnson, Helen. Parental Opinion Concerning School Sexuality Education In A Culturally Diverse Population In The  Sex Education 13.5 (2013): 548-559. Education Source. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Kupper, Crystal. the Focus on the Family, http://www.focusonthefamily.com/socialissues/citizen-magazine/changing-the- conversation. Accessed 30 January 2017.