Rogers 1 Quinton Rogers Mr. Drugan ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Healthcare: The Debate for right! For some time now there has been plenty of arguments about how the healthcare should be within the U.S. The cause of these debates was pretty much sparked by the passing of a new healthcare plan in 2010 drafted up by president Obama and company. The plan for the act was to ensure people of America could be covered with health care and it be pocket burning. However, once the act hit congress a few more things were added which created a totally different outcome than what was expected. The new and healthcare document caused controversy between republicans and democrats, liberals and conservatives, and people in general. The main sources of controversy between democrats and republicans could be easily eliminated. Both the introduction of lower healthcare acts (or free healthcare) and elimination of fines for people who choose not to buy healthcare could stop the debating amongst the two parties. There are multiple problems within our healthcare situation which I will lay out in this brief outline. One of the main causes for this split between parties on this subject is the cost for healthcare. Statistics show that the spending on healthcare is expected to increase quite a bit within the next eight years from its current position. Just as an idea of where heading; according to the author of Issue Brief: Health Care, are projected to rise to 25 percent of GDP in 2025. This amount was 48 percent higher than in the next highest spending country Rogers 2 (Miller, pg.1). To add on to the problem, the U.s is doing all of this spending and American people having better health outcomes than people in other developed nations. Another cause for the split is the health care coverage problem we are experiencing. We are one of the three countries that do not have universal healthcare. Back in 2010 almost 50 million people were living without health care. Majority of people living with health care receive it through their employers which ended up being a problem. Many companies that once were health care providers ended up cutting health care due to how expensive it was becoming; and this action by companies causes controversy because without this option to receive health care many families do not have it because too expensive or unavailable. For the Republican Party one of the main arguments against current health care situations is that it goes against the constitution. Another argument is that it will cost the American people a vast amount of money to be implemented. The cost of health care is a general problem for many people in general. For instance, there is a professor at USF that pay for health care because it is too expensive for his salary, but he faces fines during tax season if he have health care. This is a brewing problem for many folks in the similar situations especially if they tend to have a lot of health problems. The current health care does in fact go against the constitution because it basically forces citizens to own some type of health care. something I agree with because no one should be forced to spend money on something they feel that better off without. For Democrats the main mission was to one day have universal health care at low/affordable rates. Their original plan was for the better and wanted everyone to be backed up with care for any health problems. I understand the ideas because everyone should have health care even if they rarely get sick because anything could happen. Also not the worst thing Rogers 3 someone could spend money considering that health care should be in top two priorities. Two things that could bring the two parties together on the health care issue is the lowering of health care options, and the elimination of fees created as consequences to not having healthcare. With the cost of health care being a main issue the lowering of prices could be a resolution. Democrats put a lot of work into making health care affordable for everyone and is still commonly seen as too expensive. Originally I felt that health care should be made free for American people like in other countries. But, the economy would be out of a huge amount of money damaging the country. So it would be better if health care prices were greatly lowered to be considered legit affordable by everyone instead of by a select class of people. The next thing that could serve as a resolution is the elimination of fees created for people living health care free. This solution would eliminate the argument that people are being forced to have health care which goes against the constitution. Also it saves money for families who work hard and expect to see it during tax season. For example, the professor who I spoke about earlier in the paper faces about 200-300 dollars in fines for not having health care which puts him in a situation where he feels like he is being forced into having something he feels he need. The elimination of health care related fines could get rid of similar situations. Rogers 4 Works Cited Miller, Jake. Issue Brief: Health . Cbsnews.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Republican Views On Health Care Republican . Republicanviews.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.