Bojanic 1 Ella Bojanic Professor Drugan ENC 1102 16 February 2017 War on GMOs Both passionate and divisive, the ongoing debate concerning genetically modified foods encompasses various complex issues, where both organizations and companies share opposing views on the topic. Genetically modified organisms, otherwise known as GMOs, are the result of taking and mixing DNA from different organisms to create new ones with desired traits. Currently, this technology pervades the agriculture business, exposing the significance of further research into the issue. Despite argument, the Center for Food and Safety reveals that approximately 75% of processed foods in the United States have genetically modified ingredients, and a staggering 92% of US corn is genetically engineered. With these numbers, the cause for both concern and support linger within values of different groups, two of them being Physicians of Social Responsibility (PSR) and Monsanto. Physicians of Social Responsibility firmly support the labeling of GMOs, and argue that GMOs create threats towards human health. On the other hand, Monsanto is a global agricultural business that utilizes genetic engineering to grow many of their crops, advocating for their benefits in resisting pests and producing more sustainability. In order to preserve consumer health and trust while still maintaining business growth and sustainability, genetically modified foods should be labeled, and companies should provide access to more information for the public concerning their use of GMOS. While working Bojanic 2 together in compromise, these two groups can model a platform that helps both consumers and companies understand more about the nature of the GMO product. The first organization, Physicians for Social Responsibility was founded in 1961, where their main objective was to inform the public on the dangers of nuclear war. Years later in 1992, PSR started to get involved with more environmental issues such as climate change, pollution, and use of toxins and GMOs. In their supporting reasons against GMOs, PSR mentions in their claim that GMOs have led to increased use of pesticides, health hazards, and financial losses to farmers. In addition, PSR mentions that the FDA, or US Food and Drug Administration, fails to conduct safety tests on genetically modified products (PSR). The first claim, stating that GMOs produce an increased usage of pesticides, is supported by Chuck Benbrook, an agricultural economist and former research professor at the Center for Sustaining Agriculture and Natural Resources at Washington State University. In his research, herbicide resistant crops led to a 527 million pound increase in herbicide use in the United States between 1996 and which led to a 7% increase in the use of pesticides (Benbrook). Following that, Carey Gilliam, an investigative journalist specializing in food and agriculture, explains that there were 200 cases of crop contamination in the last 10 years. (Gilliam, 2008) This contamination, occurring in crops that were genetically engineered, can eventually cause financial losses to farmers, who rely on those GMOs to resist pests. In addition, the European Network of Scientists for Social and Environmental Responsibility proclaims that there is no scientific consensus on GMOS , raising concerns for consumers globally. The organization exposes the differences in research found about GM foods and GM fed animals. The network reveals that independent studies have shown toxic effects in GM-fed animals, and criticizes researchers for dismissing these findings in major reviews, urging the European Union Bojanic 3 and French government to investigate the long term health impacts of GM food consumption in the light of uncertainties raised by animal feeding  (ENSSER). In the light of all this research, Physicians for Social Responsibility raises valid concerns to the public, urging for mandatory GMO labeling to create more transparency to consumers. Their initiative is driven by their passion to serve public health, and their perspective expands on the complexity of this multifaceted issue. On an opposing view, Monsanto is a large global agricultural business that utilizes GMO biotechnology to create their seeds and grow many of their crops. Unlike some major corporations, Monsanto is open about their use of GMOs in crops, explaining its effectiveness when dealing with external environmental factors. These issues include insects, disease, and climate change. Monsanto explains that GMOs use less water and land than regular crops, promoting more sustainability. Their GMO crops can also improve taste and nutrition, adding versatility to their products. Moreover, they highlight that GM seeds have been tested more than any other crop in the history of agriculture- with no evidence of harm to  Their claims are supported by the World Health Organization, which states that GM foods are unlikely to present risks for human  (Monsanto). Agreeing with this sentiment, the National Academy of Sciences, The American Medical Association, and Royal Society of Medicine, agree that GM crops have shown no ill effects towards human health. GMO crops feeds a large population at a low cost, revealing their importance to the success and to the people consuming them. In order to protect business growth while being more evident to consumers, both PSR and Monsanto need to reach for middle ground. Bojanic 4 Despite having different stances on genetically modified organisms, both PSR and Monsanto work towards educating the public on the GMO product. With this similarity, both can take measures to further inform the public by advocating for GMOs to be labeled. Currently, a total of 64 countries label genetically modified foods, including China, Russia, Japan, and Brazil. With over a quarter of countries labeling those products, the United States who so heavily relies on GMOs to make a majority of products, needs to follow in their footsteps. According to the National Academy of Sciences, labeling provides the opportunity for consumers to make their own personal risk-benefit (McKay). However, this desire for labeling is not confined to scientific organizations and organic advocate groups. The Center for Food and Safety reveals that 89% of 2016 poll voters favor mandatory labels in the US (Center for Food and Safety). While there is an overwhelming support among consumers, businesses fear that labeling products would decrease sales. Interestingly enough, Jayson Lusk, an economist and Regents Professor in the Department of Agricultural Economics at Oklahoma State, conducted a survey measuring risk perception when labeling GMOs. The research revealed that labeling would reassure a majority of the customers regarding the safety of genetically modified foods, rather than scare them away (Ropeik). Just like calories and ingredients, GMO labels merely offer more leverage for consumers, and help them make informed choices while shopping. Labeling GMOs would increase trust in consumers while still maintaining growth in businesses. However, deciding to label genetically modified organisms encompasses important questions. If the compromise were to be implemented, how will GMOs be labeled? When overturning GMO labeling laws, the Senate agreed that bioengineered products should have a national standard for labeling. Legislation suggested that the instead of an explicit label, the product could be marked with a URL or barcode that leads the customer to a website Bojanic 5 for more information (Morran). While this technically fulfills the requirement of labeling, it does little to provide immediate transparency to the consumer. When shopping for groceries, it may be difficult and time consuming for customers to retrieve this information, especially if they are on a tight schedule or do not have access to the internet. Companies must take the initiative to provide their customers with simple and clear labels, that are easy to understand and access. While Monsanto is eager to share their use of GMOs on their website, they should also transfer that enthusiasm to their market products. In addition to that, agricultural and food companies can provide more information of their GMO products online. This can include how the genetically modified products were made, where they come from, and why they are being utilized. Supplying this information provides customers with a well-rounded understanding of genetically modified organisms, and could possibly decrease some lingering skepticism towards GMOS. Overall, the issue on GMOs is far from being over. Yet, with open minded views and consideration for the best route for public health and sustainability initiatives, the war on GMOs can turn into an open discussion. With careful consideration and compromise, both organizations can accomplish much more than separately opposing each other. Bojanic 6 Works Cited Benbrook, Charles M. Impacts of Genetically Engineered Crops on Pesticide Use in the U.S. -- the First Sixteen  Environmental Sciences Europe. N.p., 28 June 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://enveurope.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/2190-4715-24-24>. Dinan, Stephen. Obama Signs Bill Overturning GMO Labeling  The Washington Times. The Washington Times, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://m.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/aug/2/obama-signs-bill-overturning- vermonts- gmo-labeling/>. Editorial, Reuters. U.S. Organic Food Industry Fears GMO  Reuters. Reuters, 12 Mar. 2008. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McKay, Tom. 64 Countries That Have GM Labeling  Genetic Literacy Project. PolicyMic, 8 July 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2016. Morran, Chris. Senate Approves Bill to Outlaw Vermont GMO Labels, Replace Them With  Consumerist. N.p., July 2018. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. No Scientific Consensus on GMO  Environmental Sciences Europe. European Network of Scientists for Social and Environmental Responsibility, 21 Dec. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Bojanic 7 <https://enveurope.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s12302-014-0034-1>. Ropeik, David. GMO Labels May Encourage Sales, Not Scare Them  Psychology Today, 15 May 2015. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Support  Physicians for Social Responsibility Support Labeling of GMO Foods PSR. N.p., 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.psr.org/resources/psr-supports-labeling- gmo- foods.html>. U.S. Polls on GE Food  Protecting Our Food, Farms, and Environment. Center For Food and Safety, 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. What Are  Discover Monsanto. Monsanto, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://discover.monsanto.com/monsanto-gmo-foods>.