Joseph 1 Torhi Joseph Bill Drugan ENC 1102.085 3 February 2017 Project 1 Final Draft Creation of Appropriate Appropriation Among the undeniable liberties granted to folks living in a democratic society, the right to individualism through artistic expression perhaps ranks as the most celebrated. Art is more than just entertainment. It is a malleable outlet utilized by the artists to mirror the ever-changing landscapes of their environments. This is no different for hip hop music, a relatively new genre originally created to artistically narrate the plights of black men and women in a white dominated America. Since its inception, however, hip hop has grown from its underground niche to what many consider to be a driving force of popular culture, not only in America, but to the entire world. Because of its far-reaching nature, record companies like Warner Music Group have entered hip hop, as they sense the money-making potential of the growing genre. Moreover, many people other than hip original participants have been inspired by this form of art, and have chosen to express themselves in an archetypal hip hop manner. Now within the young genre grows the age-old issue of cultural appropriation, with black artists like Azealia Banks pitting themselves against white counterparts like Iggy Azalea, in a feud for the right to participate in the genre. With Hip Hop continuing to expand, it is important that foreign artists like Iggy Azalea make music that reflects their culture and upbringing, and that Azalea Banks recognizes that the genre cannot be bound by its small niche audience. Joseph 2 Hip hop purists argue that with the growing number of foreigners engaging in the genre, the voice that once represented them is being stifled out of existence. Furthermore, there are cases where aspects of hip hop culture have traditionally been demonized when performed by African Americans, but have been championed when those same aspects are regurgitated by artists of other ethnic origins. African American hip hop artist Azalea Banks feels personally persecuted by this, propelling her to launch a scathing attack on Iggy Azalea, and the Grammys for promoting Iggy Azalea through nominations. Banks believes that Iggy Azalea is a caricature of the culture she loves, and the Grammys nominating her is part of an underlying ploy to keep black voices silenced, and thus black people marginalized (Chang). In an article entitled Owns Hip Hop: Cultural Appropriation Debate Azalea sentiments were supported by a professor of African American studies saying that Iggy Azalea divorces Hip Hop of its context and how she speaks in a way that comes across as patronizing. It comes across as a jive. celebrated for many of the things black women have been derided of for centuries, her physique and her style of speech when she (Ballin). Iggy Azalea makes no attempt to hail hip traditions and instead profits by rapping with a bogus African American accent, and is rewarded despite focusing on topics black people have been chastised for. On the other hand, Iggy Azalea believes that she has no one to answer to, as she is free to express herself in however manner she chooses. In response to Azealia criticism, Iggy Azalea said that issue did not stem from her race, but instead stemmed from own terrible attitude. After being invited to have discourse with one of hip most celebrated icons regarding the issue, Iggy Azalea again refused, claiming that the idea itself was patronizing and that she was already well versed in the genre (Chang). Iggy Azalea is in the position to disregard the feelings of these black artists because she does not need their respect to make Joseph 3 money. Azalea is signed to a large record label, and record companies represent one of many large voices on the issue of cultural appropriation in hip hop music, as they can market their artists to audiences of millions through their vast resources. It is important to note that large record labels in the United States share a similarity with other large American businesses, in that the two entities exist within the confines of the United States of America, a capitalist society where generating profit is not only expected, but celebrated. It should therefore come as no surprise if Warner Music Group decides to promote Iggy Azalea, whose quality of music might not excite fans of pure hip hop, but as a brand is profitable, as she possesses a marketable appearance. After all, maximizing profit is engrained in the American business model. Azalea Banks, whose interest lies in the preservation of the voice hip hop provides her, seem to be at loggerheads with Iggy Azalea, a white, foreign hip hop artist who craves acceptance within the genre that inspired her. Despite their many differences, the two stakeholders have enough in common so that an effective compromise can be reached. Firstly, there needs to be an understanding that because of their feud, the quality of music that either artist releases is the last thing on mind, as they are more entertained by the feud between the artists. This means the feud between the artists destroys both credibility. With these points, there is a commonality that can be drawn between Azalea Banks and Iggy Azalea, in that both artists want to be respected within the genre. This can be achieved by the rappers focusing on themselves and their art, rather than focusing on what other artists do. While this presents a promising negotiation, for this idea to come to fruition, both parties need to make compromises. Iggy Azalea become a popular rapper, but she is almost universally rejected by the core fan base. Part of the reason for this is because of the lack of respect Iggy Azalea shows for hip traditions. By rejecting to have conversation with one of the Joseph 4 most revered hip hop artists, by continuing to present her songs with a fake African American accent with topics incongruent with her Australian upbringing, Iggy Azalea is completely offensive and ostracizes the core fan base by making a mockery of them. As another African American rapper, Eve suggested, Iggy Azalea would be welcomed in the genre if she rapped about her Australian culture, rather than rap about her offensive perception of black culture (Stutz). Azealia Banks, on the other hand, need to realize that art is forever evolving, and that when folks from other ethnic backgrounds engage in their culture, it is also an opportunity to learn about theirs. Steve Patterson, author of an article entitled Progressives Are Wrong to Argue Against Cultural makes a poignant point in questioning cultural appropriation, asking to what end? To preserve the division within people? To preserve cultures for (Patterson). As Patterson rightly states, being too rigid with culture has an ugly side effect of promoting separatism. While Azealia Banks is not wrong for being wary of disingenuous people trying to profit from her culture, it would also benefit her to not be too narrow minded, so that she is not completely isolated from the rest of the world, and her voice remains relevant within the genre. Joseph 5 Works Cited Ballin, Sofiya. Who owns hip-hop?: debate rages  Philly.com. N.p., 12 Feb. 2015. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Chang, Jeff. Azealia Banks, Iggy Azalea and appropriation  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 26 Dec. 2014. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Patterson, Steve. Why Progressives Are Wrong to Argue Against Cultural  Observer. N.p., 20 Nov. 2015. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Stutz, Colin. Iggy Azalea Responds to Jill Scott & Eve: Saying Act More Like How I Stereotype You to  Billboard. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.