Cardenas 1 Christopher Cardenas Professor William Drugan English 1102 29 January 2017 Should Professional Athletes make more money than Doctors? In society, we as Americans consider entertainment to be all about professional athletes. We love to see our favorite athletes perform and with that they make us feel satisfied about ourselves for giving up money to see them. The only problem is with professional athletes is that they are guaranteed to receive millions of dollars every year to just perform at a game. For some, it might sound like an awesome way to live a life, but for others it may become a huge disagreement. On the other hand, dealing with the health professions side, Doctors, who actually save lives every day, keep everyone healthy and even perform surgeries to keep everyone carefree is greatly beneficial as well in society. With that being said, Doctors should be granted so much more pay than professional athletes because with all that doctors do each day of every year, they are ones that should be making millions instead. Between Professional Athletes and Doctors, the money cost between the two is far different from one another and something has to be done to fix this outrageous problem. First of all, from this quote, factor is the time they spend practicing. Athletes often times put their bodies on the line for the game. Athletes shoulder more responsibility than common (Cummins). With this quote, professional athletes do practice tremendously throughout the season and even the offseason as well and with the time given to each of them, they have much to do for themselves because of the amount of work they have to get done for their job for Cardenas 2 which is top priority for their sports career. Another situation to consider is professional athletes do put their bodies on the line for every game they play. The consequences they can endure while performing for excitement is getting hurt real badly like possibly breaking a bone, pulling a muscle, or just feeling really sore on a certain part of the body. The thing is, in the sports industry, there are always some kind of pain medications out there to give to the certain athlete who is injured and with that they are forced to keep on preforming for the fans enjoyable experience for what they paid on watching. Mainly, many small children and younger adults do favorite their certain athletes and with that, athletes become role models for them as they grow up to hopefully achieve their dream job as their own someday. Certain problems can arise from this type of situation because athletes will have to be on their best performance throughout their whole career to be truthful for those who idolized them. With all this information given, professional athletes are possibly worth or may deserve the high paying salaries each year because of all the sacrifices they have to put in day and day out while being in their sports career. Second of all, the way Doctors come about within society is from this quote, of the main reasons that doctors are paid as well as they are is because their services are absolutely essential. They may work long, very busy days and treat a range of people with different needs. Sometimes, a work forces him or her to make life-or-death decisions, and he or she may need to take immediate action in unexpected do Doctors Make so Much With this quote, in the health profession criteria, Doctors have a difficult job on their hands and it causes an abundance amount of hours of working day and day out while being able to treat all kinds of people, like for instance treating athletes per se. Even before becoming a licensed Doctor, there are a lot of obstacles to adventure through like being accepted into Medical School and then eventually passing all the mandatory exams and practices included throughout the Cardenas 3 degree. Also, forget about all the studying every medical student has to do before getting into the real job world as a Doctor. As you can see, the amount of handled pressure and confidence a Doctor needs to have is extremely high in this type of field because they have to make difficult decisions all the time and have to live with the fact of making day or ruining their life forever. In reality, Doctors put forth so much effort in making everyone happy and satisfied about their life and the Doctors who should be making the big dollars in this type of society then professional athletes who just create entrainment for all to see. However, many attributes come between Athletes and pay like Football, or any other professional sport; paid millions of dollars a year to entertain the public. Doctors are medical professionals that save lives, file patient information, and prescribe medication to those who are sick, in pain, or have other problems; most make under (Brain). The debate about the wage differences between Athletes and is still an argument that goes on today because many of Americans today still think that professional athletes deserve to receive millions of dollars instead of Doctors, for which they clearly save countless lives every single day and provide a better future for us. To be clear, the reason why professional Athletes and Doctors have not yet come to a solution between the salary problems is because many of Americans support and watch sports and if they lowered the salary for Athletes then the sport fans accept that kind of commitment due to the love of their sport interest. A possible solution could be by lowering the taxes and fees towards athletes because with that happening, athletes will receive less money in return in their salaries. With the Doctors standpoint, if the amount of their own money is put towards taxes and expenses, it could possibly be lowered and with that we as Cardenas 4 Americans could see a tremendous drop in salaries in Athletes. After all, this solution can be made equal between one another or even be a more reasonable action to follow through within the future. Accordingly, from this quote doctor can only benefit 1 patient at a time, perhaps saving their life or dramatically improving it. A football player can benefit 10M or more people at once. He only has to perform once, and many people can watch. If it takes 2 hours to save life or 2 hours to play a football game, then it *IS* possible to justify (even in a free market), a football player getting paid more than a vs. Doctors, Which is Of course there are differences between one another as you can see, but the way a doctor can be portrayed is they are needed in this life time and without them many people and athletes be able to recuperate back to normal and get back to what they love doing. With Athletes, we all know they only produce entertainment for everyone, but what do we get in return? Yes an excellent time, but that only lasts for a day or such, but be so much beneficial giving up money to receive care from a doctor that will last for a life time. With the other way around, Athletes do benefit a lot to society like by just playing at least one game, it could create a lot of money not only for them, but even for the franchise as well. Also, spreading entertainment to all people can be a great thing to show off because it helps lives by a great amount and far more valuable for many to live through. In conclusion, need doctors, we probably need more (a lot more) than what we have now and the fact is we need a single baseball/hockey player in the world. It is much harder to find a player who can consistently hit a 95-mph fastball at the highest level of competition than it is to find a potential Pro Athletes Really With this quote, the overall compromise is considering to make the salaries drop for athletes and making doctors a more considerable amount of money that can benefit one another to an agreement. It will cause a lot of Cardenas 5 debate, but in the end be worth it. Even with these two topics, they both pull off a lot of hard work and dedication to get to where they are now and with both positons set aside, something needs be done with the salary cap to make everyone happy and satisfied with their life time jobs. Cardenas 6 Works Cited 1. Cummins, Jamal E.M. Athletes Deserves Their Gigare lifestyle magazine. http://gigarelifestyle.com/sports/professional-athletes-deserve-their-pay-jamal-e-m- cummins. Accessed 29 January 2017. 2. do Doctors Make so Much WiseGeek. http://www.wisegeek.org/why-do- doctors-make-so-much-money.htm. Accessed 29 January 2017. 3. Brain, Peter. Vs Athletevsdoctorpay.blogspot. http://athletevsdoctorpay.blogspot.com/search?updated-min=2013-01-01T00:00:00- 08:00&updated-max=2014-01-01T00:00:00-08:00&max-results=2. Accessed 29 January 2017. 4. vs. Doctors, Which is Guide To Reality. http://fskrealityguide.blogspot.com/2008/08/athletes-vs-doctors-which-is-overpaid.html. Accessed 29 January 2017. 5. do Athletes get paid more than Tornoto+Sports Blog. https://tdotsports1.wordpress.com/tag/why-do-athletes-get-paid-more-than-doctors/. Accessed 29 January 2017.