Xie 1 Mingxuan Xie William Drugan ENC1102.085S17 12 February 2017 The Environment Problem in China This research is about environmental pollution problem in China. As people know, China became the fastest developing country today, through achievements in technology and science. However, this country dynamic, has a huge and important problem still to be solved, the environment. The high speed of development makes China wealthy, but backward modes of production cause the pollution, such as polluted air, water, and soil; because for the Chinese travel demand has been increasing dramatically; emissions from motor vehicles have been found as one main source of air pollution in China (He and Qiu 2016). Unfortunately, the pollution makes people unhealthy. During these years, the Chinese government and people have tried to find a way to solve this problem, by either stopping the polluted source, or insulating the affected area; they faced the success and failed time after time; however, China never stopped trying to solve the problem. As the most important stakeholders, the Chinese government and the Chinese people, they have common conflict and compromise. Although the government have solve the pollution problem energetically, but more people still complain the government that they have not do anything to solve the environment polluted, but Xie 2 the people do not understand that solve the problem is a difficulty work, this is why the government and people are stakeholders but they have misunderstanding each other. That people can find including books, websites, and the news about the China environment pollution in everywhere, include the book, and the website; after 2010s, the news about polluted begin increase, the most known by everybody is the is mean the Atmospheric particulate matter, the source from industrial, especially chemical industry, if use the fossil fuel, it will affect the air environment, and increase the particulate inhalation in air; the consistence increase, the air polluted is more serious. In 2010, a serious, persistent fog weather Beijing, after several months, the number of news account about the respiratory disease started to increase, because people began notice this new health danger, and the government also noticed the venomous fog (Casey 2016). However, because for this is first time face to this serious polluted, they find a good way to solve the environment issues. Although there more news about the pollution in China has been made public after 2010s; however, the problem has occurred before this time. More chemical fertilizer used in agriculture caused water and soil to be polluted. The factory discharge of waste gas with excessive and cause the air polluted. Because for the pollution is no to serious, the polluted only in some industrial city, so the government notice this problem. This is a bad influence and makes the environment problem spread to whole nation. Xie 3 In China, the air pollution is main source that because the environment polluted, the other polluted sources are also dangerous and serious, such as the soil and the water polluted. What is the reason that China is natural environment became so seriously polluted? In the 21 st century, industrial growth depends on coal, this is a plentiful energy source; although it is very convenient, but as a sacrifice, it is a pollutant. Experts once thought China might overtake the United States as the leading producer of greenhouse gases by 2010, possibly later. Today, China had already passed that level (Kahn and Yardley 2007). The water polluted also is serious environment problem in China, according to one 2012 report, to 40 percent of rivers were seriously and percent were so polluted their water quality was rated too toxic even to come into contact Economy 2013). So serious water polluted in China main river, because for most number of the important city be built near the main river, although the China Government has promulgate a decree about the pollutant disposal; however, some factory illegal the law, and put the pollutant into the river without the any disposal, these companies include some foreign enterprise in China; the water polluted directly cause the soil polluted. The misunderstand cause, and the people have conflict to the government, more people think that government do nothing to the polluted and make the environment become bad, the Chinese government decide use more radical method to solve the problem. To solving the polluted problem, the Chinese Government and Chinese people to think about that together. For make the people satisfied, the government start uses Xie 4 huge number of money to support new energy technology industry. The Chinese Government founded a science organization; their objective is to find the new, clear energy. Up to now, they found the combustible ice and the shale oil, they still do the research that how to business extract the new energy; and most of factory give up the coal and to use the natural gas which import from Russia; the government also support a new energy auto company named BYD, they use the electric and replace the petrol; the Chinese government declare that make the sustainable development as a national policy, support the environment economic developing. Chinese people also found some way to defense themselves in the polluted environment; the breathing mask which can protect the lung, is sell hot this time, people can use this mask breath as usual. The act carbon water purification unit also sells hot, this equipment can clean the water, let the people to drink the health water; in countryside, the farmer refuse use the chemical fertilizer, they start decrease the using times or start to use the natural fertilizer. Although to solve the problem is a hard way, during these years, the Chinese government and people found a way to solve this problem, by either stopping the polluted source, or insulating the affected area. They faced success and failure several times. However, they never stopped trying to solve the problem. In world, China is not only one country that be trouble by environment polluted; India, and south America countries, they also have this problem, in India, the air and river be polluted by factory; in Brazil, the tropical rain forest be destroy in speed that 6 football field every minute. For the most serious polluted nations, the Xie 5 environmental and economic impact must be publicized as the Chinese as well as the global environment must be taken care of and handled delicately. Pollution is a common problem which can occur in developing or industrialized countries. For instance, to solve the of problems of the mid-19th to 20th centuries, the British government took nearly one century to solve the environment problem until finally successful. The pollution is not terribly bad anymore in urban China; polluted levels have started to decrease, depending on the sustainable environmental economic policy used, China has begun to solve their environmental pollution problems, at this area, the Chinese government have make a explain to the people about the polluted problem, what the problem solve schedule plan that the government have made, and make the environment problem solve as a achievements in official career to the local government, because for the polluted problem is solving, the people believe the government; the government make a compromise to the people, use more money to solve the environment problem, and force some high pollution industry make a rectify and reform; the people also know what the government doing, so they choose compromise to the government, support and understand the government. Xie 6 Work Cited HE, Ling-Yun., and QIU, Lu-Yi. Transport demand, harmful emissions, environment and health co-benefits in China. Elsevier Ltd, In Energy Policy October 2016 97:267-275. Watters, Casey. Blue Skies Over Beijing: Economic Growth and the Environment in China. Library Journals, LLC, June 1, 2016, Vol. 141 Issue 10, p103, 1 p. Joseph, Kahn., and Jim, Yardley. As China Roars, Pollution Reaches Deadly Extremes. August 26, 2007. Web. October 16, 2016. Elizabeth, C, Economy. Water Pollution Crisis. January 22, 2013. Web. October 16, 2016.