Torres 1 Carlos Torres Prof. William Drugan ENC 1102 16 February 2017 Project 2 Final Draft Technology: Helping or Hurting? In world of technology, many schools across the nation are switching their educational methods to online learning programs. Online homework, tests, and study programs are being assigned to students of all ages as years progress. One of the biggest industries in schools for the past few decades is the business of selling textbooks from large corporations. In the past few years, public budgets have decreased drastically and left them with very little money for new textbooks every year. One of the most common solutions to this issue was to go completely paperless and only use online resources. However, much controversy has arisen between public schools and textbook companies such as Pearson, McGraw Hill, and Scholastic, as they both as they both wish to do anything that will benefit their organization. In this case, the schools wish to provide their students with an abundance of resources that will not only keep them up to date with technology, but allow them to remain below the budget they are given. On the other hand, the textbooks companies focus on keeping their products up to date and continue selling them to schools. Neither of the stakeholders are wrong in the situation, and they can both come to a compromise by respecting the decisions of the consumers when presented the new plan. The main goal of the first stakeholder is to provide students with a well-balanced, high quality education that will last a lifetime. A primary purpose is make sure that a child Torres 2 learns the proper material before advancing to the next level, and this must be done with the proper equipment. While supplying children with the necessary tools needed to be successful in their academics, it is important that a budget is kept by every school across the nation. By introducing all electronic textbooks in their classrooms, schools would be saving thousands of dollars each year that can go towards other important resources for students. Not only are the schools trying to save money, but the switch to an electronic classroom would provide a plethora of resources for students. As stated in Robert F. essay Notes: Paper or Pixels? An Inquiry into How Students Adapt to Online paper pales in comparison when hyperlinks can lead the reader to extensive supplemental information, simulations, tutorials, glossaries, dictionaries, tests, and other resources in a few mouse (Vernon 417) Vernon is attempting to accentuate the importance of all the other resources that are available on the internet via online textbooks. In choosing which method they will carry out, schools must realize that the decision will have an effect on all of the students in the school. The opposite stakeholders, being the all of the current text companies partnered with schools across the nation will argue to keep their business going by continuing the usage of hard cover textbooks in the classroom. Companies such as Pearson, McGraw Hill, Houghton, and Scholastic are all examples of corporations that have partnered with schools for decades to provide them with books for students. As their prices continues to rise, it has been tough to continue to offer reasonable prices to sell books. This can be an issue that goes all the way up to the college level, as many students pay hundreds of dollars per semester to rent and buy low quality books. For most students this method can be rather easy, as it keeps them from getting sidetracked and letting the internet distract them. It has come to many minds the goal of e-books is turning out to be more of a and way to read instead of a more Torres 3 helpful and innovative way. In their essay, Investigation of Reading Rate Patterns and Retrieval Outcomes of Elementary School Students with Tsung-Ho Liang and Yueh- Min Huang conclude that e-book industry is currently more focused on how to render the printed books electronically, rather than developing and using new technologies that actually facilitate It is easy to see where this may be true when looking at how e-readers have developed into multipurpose tablets that are used for much more than just reading. Large textbooks companies can sometimes get lost in the business perspective, and only pay attention to the financial aspect of the industry. The ultimate goal is to help the children who use the books to help them reach their ultimate educational goal. There are more opinions to consider rather than just the two stakeholders. Teachers and parents play a crucial role in a education and are far more familiar with which learning style is better for their student. Depending on the type of teacher asked, a large percentage of still prefer a traditional paper textbook in the classroom over electronic copies. This provides them with a more hands-on style of teaching and keeps their students free of distractions. Parents would also agree with this method because this method allows them to monitor their child at home and stay aware of what the child is doing at all times. On the contrary, some school teachers will prefer online text, as this is the new innovative way to teach and learn. This can be a much faster way for students to access school resources at any place at any time. Educators have been pushed to integrate more technology in the classroom and show students how to properly utilize the web. Some parents of students would also be aboard with the online method of learning because it can be more beneficial financially. Studies have shown that adults would prefer their children to use online resources to get them prepared for their higher education. Torres 4 Both stakeholders can eventually unite and help each other by reaching a compromise that will benefit both ends of the spectrum. Taking into account the opinions of both stakeholders, students, teachers, and parents, the simplest solution would be to choose the option that would directly benefit each student the most. As soon as a school year begins, every student enrolled in school are surveyed along with their parents to figure out which method of learning would be most beneficial to them. Both stakeholders will explain the benefits of their methods to the students in order to help choose their desired option. Ultimately, the student will be asked if they are comfortable with the method that has been agreed upon, to ensure that their needs are not overlooked. According to the article Do Students Rate Textbooks? A Review of Research and Ongoing Challenges for Textbook Research and Textbook Petr Knecht and Veronika Najvarova state that students constitute the largest group of textbook users, their needs tend to be underrated both in the process of textbook production and in education Knecht and Najvarova highlight an essential point, considering the importance of a preference when it comes to textbook production. As a result, to ensure that students will have their input taken into account, when the final choice is made both stakeholders must agree to allow the decision, as they are both focused on one goal, helping the student succeed academically. With students using both online resources and physical textbooks, most would say it can be rather difficult to handle in a classroom. To avoid any confusion in the classroom, students will be separated evenly into different classrooms depending on their preference. This way, students and teachers will benefit by having all of the same group in one location for the best learning experience. In this compromise, both stakeholders will help students across the country choose the most helpful way for them learn in school. This solution can easily be implemented across the Torres 5 nation and immediately begin to help students, educators, and parents whether it be academically or financially. Not only will the students benefit from these choices, but both stakeholders will have successfully guided students down the right path in a peaceful manner. Torres 6 Works Cited Knecht, Petr, and Veronika Do Students Rate Textbooks? A Review of Research and Ongoing Challenges for Textbook Research and Textbook Journal of Educational Media, Memory & Society, vol. 2, no. 1, 2010, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/43049337. Tsung-Ho Liang, and Yueh-Min Huang. Investigation of Reading Rate Patterns and Retrieval Outcomes of Elementary School Students with Journal of Educational Technology & Society, vol. 17, no. 1, 2014, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/jeductechsoci.17.1.218. Vernon, Robert F. Notes: Paper or Pixels? An Inquiry into How Students Adapt to Online Journal of Social Work Education, vol. 42, no. 2, 2006, pp.