Pennell 1 Melissa Pennell Professor Drugan ENC 1102-072 29 January 2017 Prostitution Prostitution is a form of work that involves sex in exchange for money or other favorable items. In the United States, prostitution and sex trafficking is a serious crime that has consequences for both ends of the exchange (i.e. the person buying the service and the person performing the service). As a result, prostitutes (or sex workers) tend to avoid the government or the police which leads to sex workers being abused, drugged and controlled by pimps without aid. However, prostitution is viewed as a demeaning and dangerous profession and anyone who is associated with it will end up being less of a person. The government continues to be against prostitution due to the increase in STI rate and trafficking of minors. Furthermore, the stigma around prostitution is related to religion and since the United States was founded on free religion the beliefs were integrated into the government. Prostitutes could offer an insight into sex trafficking of minors, drug deals and other illegal crimes while the government could offer protection, healthcare and a salary. Therefore, the government and prostitutes should come to a compromise that benefits them both. Prostitution is illegal in the United States and the government offers little protection to people who are sold into this kind of work. Often, when given the chance women do not seek police help due to the harsh repercussions if they were to fail to discretely report what had happened to them. According to Dr. Melanie Reid, is no doubt that deadly violence Pennell 2 against sex workers is a recurring social Sex workers often feel helpless especially since sex in general, more so for women is frowned According to Margaret Boittin, and pimps coerce them into prostitution. Clients rape and murder them. The police extort bribes from them, and beat them in Many believe that sex is a sin especially before marriage or outside of marriage so people either do not talk about it or shun someone when they do. The government of the United States has continued to make prostitution illegal to support the decline in HIV and crime rates. According to Michael Shively, Kristina Kliorys, Kristin Wheeler, and Dana Hunt opponents point to drug abuse, community deterioration, and ancillary crime that invariably accompany street prostitution as evidence supporting (9). By making prostitution illegal, the government is ensuring that drugs and other criminal activity is viewed as socially unacceptable. This could also lead to people thinking that sex work is a profession that people should want to go into and that the government is corrupting children. However, by making prostitution illegal it has allowed for racism. This is especially true when it comes to the United States where racial profiling is prominent mayorally instituted and police-enforced Prostitution Free Zones in Washington, DC, serve as a tool of nation-state disciplinary, wherein many transgender women of color, viewed as ideologically suspect, are profiled as facing police harassment and (Edelman 1). Sex workers are banned from entering certain establishments if they are convicted which means that police high profile people who seem like they would be convicted of sex work. Pennell 3 According to Michael Shively, Kristina Kliorys, Kristin Wheeler, and Dana Hunt supporting legalization argue that these same dysfunctions are driven not by prostitution itself, but by the criminal status of the enterprise, much like alcohol prohibition fosters black markets, organized crime, and street (9). With that being said, it is human nature to rebel against whatever force is opposing them; it is evident throughout history and continues to be. By legalizing prostitution, the government opens a new way to convict drug users or criminals and the sex workers gain a new sense of freedom and protection. The government will also employ millions of people and manage a huge market that is dominantly run by pimps and drug cartels. Furthermore, sex workers face tremendous pressure to keep their lives secret and away from the police. Matt Lopez states in his article that one wants to legalize coercion, violence, or fraud in the sex industry, or the use of sex workers who are not adults. But some organizations campaigning against trafficking have come to an understanding that when sex work is illegal, it is much riskier for sex workers to complain to the authorities when they are enslaved, beaten, or (1). However, if prostitution was legalized then sex workers could seek help for any situation they have that requires assistance. They would also have protection and a sense of comfort knowing they could go to someone. The authorities are responsible for everyone and should provide justice to those who need it regardless of their profession. One of the main reasons why people do not get STD or STI tested is that they do not have access to available services or do not want to disclose their sexual activities (especially if it comes to abuse) (CDC 1). Most people who are aware of their status with STDs, STIs, or HIV tend to mistrust the health care system or feel they would get cheated from the government (CDC 1). If the government were to ensure that access to healthcare without penalty would be available, then it could work between the prostitutes. Pennell 4 Moreover, the steps that need to be taken to ensure the compromise runs smoothly is to remove the stigma around sex workers. According to Riswanda, Yvonne Corcoran-Nantes, and Janet McIntyre-Mills stated in their study that accepting the idea of fairness for all regardless of gender, social status and position, such as that championed by the social contract approach, Nussbaum critiques the lack of cultural understanding and demographic awareness among those where the approach may be (520). and make sure that both sides understand the circumstances of the agreement. The government will legalize prostitution while providing protection and access to healthcare. In return, the prostitutes will help convict criminals and protect minors who are sex trafficked. Legalizing prostitution does not translate to legalizing sex trafficking as well as pimping. This proposition may not work due to the fact that it may seem that the government is supporting prostitution by legalizing it. There would be massive protests from religious groups and it would create a division between people who had opposing views about the situation. One side may not agree or feels as if they are sacrificing too much for the other. Prostitutes may double cross police or the government will not oblige to the terms of agreement. Dr. Mary Sullivan stated in her report that other workplace has to cover the range of health and safety issues rape and unwanted pregnancies are recognized occupational health and safety risks within the prostitution industry. This does not change because prostitution is Another reason is that other people who have what are considered professions may not health insurance and my experience verbal abuse in their workplace. Other people may revolt against the legalization and these reasons. In conclusion, if the government and sex workers came to the compromise then each one could benefit from each other. The government could create jobs, healthcare and protection for Pennell 5 prostitutes. Prostitutes could create a new way to catch criminals, remove the stigma around women having sex and they can help prevent sex trafficking. Although, there are flaws to the compromise if one side disagrees and does not put forth the effort; it can still be successful. Pennell 6 Works Cited Boittin, Margaret. Perspectives from the Oldest Profession: Abuse and the Legal Consciousness of Sex Workers in Wiley Online Libray. 1 May 2013. Web. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/10.1111/lasr.12016/full Edelman, Elijah. Area Has Been Declared a Prostitution Free Discursive Formations of Space, the States, and Trans 08 July 2011. Web. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1080/00918369.2011.581928 Risk Among Persons Who Exchange Sex for Money or Nonmonetary CDC. https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/group/sexworkers.html Lopez, Matt. Case to Legalize University Times. 7 December 2016. Web. http://csulauniversitytimes.com/8576/lifestyle/the-case-to-legalize-prostitution/ Moloney, Katherine. Legislation: Toward an Ethical Christian University of South Florida. 1 September 2014. Web. Reid, Melanie. ProCon.org. 16, May 2008. Web. http://prostitution.procon.org/view.answers.php?questionID=000120 Riswanda, Corcoran-Nantes, Yvonne, McIntyre-Mills, Janet. Prostitution in Indonesia: A Critical Systemic 05 May 2016. Web PDF. Scott, Michael. COPS. Web. Shively, Michael, Kliorys, Kristina, Wheeler, Krisitn, Hunt Dana. National Overview of Prostitution and Sex Trafficking Demand Reduction ABT Associates. 30 April Pennell 7 2012. Web. https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/238796.pdf