Guvercin 1 Melinda Guvercin Professor Drugan ENC 1102-085 January 29, 2017 Battle of the Wages The 1890s marked a period in history the world would never forget- the decade of motion pictures. With the up rise of the phenomenal film industry, came recognition to certain people who performed roles in these movies, such as: James Dean, Audrey Hepburn, Marilyn Monroe, or in our day and age Leonardo DiCaprio, Jennifer Lawrence and Meryl Steep; just to name a few. However with this recognition came the issue of higher pay per movie role. Male actors demanded higher wages if they were to even consider working with certain industry professionals and in time got paid generously for this time on set. Female actors however when demanding higher wages were often shot down and earn significantly less then their male co-stars even if their part was just as prominent. Alternatively, the film industry feels they are being more then generous with their female movie stars, when they risk as much or are as well known as their male counterparts. Today, by examining the Hollywood workplace, it still shows female versus industry when deals are struck and negotiated dealing with pay. They need to work together and see that if a role is at equilibrium with their male co-star, they must be paid equally. after three Oscar wins I still get paid less than my male (Berg) argues the muliti academy award winner Meryl Streep. the Sony hack happened, I found out how much less I was getting paid then the lucky people with (Berg) Guvercin 2 stated world-renowned actress Jennifer Lawrence in an interview. Equal pay has become such a hot topic in the film industry amongst women since 1963 when the Equal Pay Act came to existence. Women were finding their voice in all accounts of life, politics, educationally, and most importantly in their workplace. However, during this time they still received backlash in the form of sexism. Although the majority of the industry has long grown from the issue of sexism, actresses still have to fight tirelessly for industry professionals to take them seriously. Jessica Chastain in the film The Martian got paid a whilst Matt Damon was paid (Adamczyk) an obvious wage gap. Moreover, Scarlett Johnson was only paid million for the role of Black in Avengers Age of Ultron while her male co-star Robert Downey Jr. was paid a very generous million for the role of Iron (Adamczyk). These payment gaps have been a pressing issue for so long, that the females of Hollywood have decided time to play hardball, which can at times have produced great success, and at times produce their replacement on set. According to Peter Sealy, the former head of marketing at Columbia Pictures, when calculating actors versus actresses pay, it all comes down to calculus you go through on each (Safo). Ever since Sony Studios was hacked in late 2014 industry professionals have been attacked more and more by actresses on record, accusing them of unfair pay. The thing about film industry that many people forget however is that many female actresses are willing to do a lot more work for less. Amy Pascal a former studio chief at Sony Pictures simply stated, run a business. People want to work for less money; pay them less I call them up and say: want some (Safo). In addition to that, behind the scene film professionals also argue that often times Guvercin 3 when it comes to male versus female roles, male roles tend to greater (Hobbes). Statistically around of workplace (Hobbes) are of the male talent on set. Thus, they hike up their male hires pay as they see fit. Although film industry and female actresses have this very heated feud, both which are backed up with great reason, both do have to work together at the end of the day. The female actress if wanting to continue on screen must work and find ways to work for and with the industry professionals not against them. For example, an actress could sit down with an industry professional in charge of a film she had in mind and negotiate out ways to get fair pay even if she an A list celebrity like her male counterpart. She could make valid arguments like have an equal amount of screen (Seetoodeh) what he gets paid I get paid. Additionally, if they both have the same amount of verbal lines on screen, again she could argue what he gets paid I get paid. Lastly, a very valid argument any female actress could bring up is if a role like that of Mr. & Mrs. Smith presents itself to her, where it is clearly shown that both sexes have the same power and dangers faced in the stunts that they will be performing, she should receive equal compensation. This would be a great solution for both parties considering the film industry wants only the most talented actors/actresses in their productions and the actress would feel she being waged unfairly and feels equal to her fellow actor. Moreover, if the issue were handled in this way, it would only build esteem between the parties. It would be a push to go even further with the role the actor has in mind, and in turn could produce higher revenue for the film itself. From 1890 to 2017 the film industry has been finding and producing some of most talented and attractive actors. With the level of recognition that comes Guvercin 4 along with the films produced, comes the backlash from what female actresses feel they deserve to be paid- that is equal to their male coworkers. In addition the Sony Studios hack scandal help when the way the company paid their actors versus actresses was broadcasted for the entire world to see. Be that as it may, film industry and female actors just have to sit down and negotiate like grown adults. The female actor in question must sit down and show them the facts, that either their lines equate to the same amount if not more then their male co-star, their screen time is equivalent, or they both have the same amount of action, which requires higher pay. With this the film industry must give them their fair pay. This solution would not only create a more nurturing workplace for the both of them, but also create respect for both parties towards both parties. Guvercin 5 Works Cited Page Hobbes, Thomas. The Reason Female Actors Get Paid Less That Nobody Wants To Talk  Return Of Kings. N.p. 29 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Berg, Madeline. Everything You Need To Know About The Hollywood Pay  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 26 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Adamczyk, Alicia. Why You Should Care About the Hollywood Wage  Time. Time, 26 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Safo, Nova. How film pay gets  Marketplace. 10 Apr. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Setoodeh, Ramin. Equal Pay Revolution: How Top Actresses Are Finally Fighting  Variety. Variety, 10 Nov. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.