Saleem 1 Usama Saleem Ms. Penuliar ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Standardized Testing Colleges and universities rely heavily on standardized test scores to screen students during the admission process. In most cases, these scores decide the fate of many students in the United States when it comes to pursuing higher education. There has been a lot of debate about the use of high stakes standardized testing in determining the eligibility of students to attend a university. Many people believe that standardized testing is not an effective tool to measure learning and intellect. Organizations like Fairtest have been formed that aim to fight the misuse of standardized tests in American Education System. On the other hand, the administrators of standardized tests like Collegeboard view test scores as a vital piece of information for colleges to assess the caliber of students. Both parties have conflicting views on standardized testing. However, the goal of each party is to promote student success and advance quality learning. As a result, FairTest and Collegeboard should collaborate in persuading universities to lay more emphasis on performance based assessments, a type of assessment that yields better learning and focuses on practical skills, to ensure that the college admission process is a holistic evaluation of skills. The organization aims to promote quality education with a major focus on equal opportunities for students coming from all sorts of backgrounds. As mentioned on their website, one of their key objectives is with other groups in Testing Resistance and Reform Spring to help local activists build their campaigns and link up with one and Saleem 2 Testing Resistance and Reform Spring are other prominent organizations that aim to end the misuse of standardized tests in the American education system. Fairtest does not believe in the validity of college entrance exams in order to assess learning. This is apparent in one of their other objectives that focuses on the bias, misuses and coachability of the SAT, ACT and similar college entrance Fairtest calls for a decrease in the number of standardized tests and greater emphasis on alternative forms of assessment like project based learning in classrooms to promote actual learning. There is a lot of scholarly evidence that backs stance on standardized tests. In 2000, Alfie Kohn wrote a book titled case against standardized testing: raising the scores, ruining the Kohn is an American author and an expert in the field of education and behavioral psychology. He earned is B.A from the prestigious Brown University in 1979 where he took various courses in social sciences and psychology. He then got his M.A in social sciences from the esteemed University of Chicago in 1980. Alfie Kohn has written many books about the issues with modern education like homework, standardized tests, and grading. In the book mentioned above, Kohn explored the negative effects of high stakes testing on the intellectual development of young individuals. He says that modern American Education system now lays more emphasis on standardized testing than ever before (Kohn 1). Kohn criticizes this trend by saying that of discourse about education has been reduced to a crude series of monosyllables: Test scores are too low. Make them go A major reason for the popularity of standardized tests is that to a layman aspect of learning (or life) that appears in numerical form seems reassuringly (Kohn 2). It is hard for many people to grasp the concept of learning and intellectual growth as opposed to understanding numerical figures like sales and votes. Kohn then claims that standardized tests including the SATs and ACTs are Saleem 3 very effective as predictors of future academic performance, even in the freshman year of college, much less as predictors of professional (4). He says that the verbal portion of these tests is inherently a vocabulary test, something that has no link to practical learning. It also puts students to disadvantage whose first language is not English. They have no alternative but to take the same tests if they wish to attend a good college in the United States. Hence the SAT or the ACT is not an effective tool to measure the of someone whose first language is Spanish or Vietnamese. The author highlights that high-stakes testing has had a negative impact on the kind of instructions that students are given in American schools, stating that to the has become a prominent part of the educational landscape (Kohn 22). The other main stakeholder in the issue of standardized testing is Collegeboard, a non- profit organization formed in 1899 by the name of College Entrance Examination Board (CEEB). main goal was to help high school students transition to higher education. Collegeboard administers the Standardized Aptitude Test, also known as the SAT, one of the most popular college entrance exams in the United States. Many colleges outside the United States like Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) in Pakistan also require their applicants to take the SAT as a part of their application procedure. Collegeboard also runs an association that consists of over 6000 colleges and educational organizations. Their website states that rigorous instruction, meaningful assessment and access to opportunity inside and outside of the classroom, we are committed to ensuring students are ready for college and The SAT is certainly the major thing that Collegeboard is known for by many students and teachers, making it one of the key organizations that support standardized testing. Saleem 4 Scholarly evidence for the benefits of standardized testing can also be found that defends stance on the matter. In 2005, Dr. Richard P. Phelps, who is a testing scholar and an economist, wrote a book titled Standardized Dr. Phelps holds a Ph.D in Public Policy from the revered Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. As the title implies, the aim of writing this book was to counter the abundant negative criticism about standardized testing and shed some light on its unnoticed benefits. One of the major things that Dr. Phelps talks about in his book is that people ask questions about the tests, but they frequently ask the wrong (111). He then says that most people criticize these tests without having any proper information about strengths and limitations of (Phelps 111). Dr. Phelps points out the irony that standardized tests are demonized for being unfair and biased, given that the main purpose of standardized testing is to promote fairness. He says that tests are designed to provide a level playing (Phelps 113). By ensuring that all candidates take the tests under equivalent conditions, the test administrators ensure that no candidate gets an unfair advantage over the other. Dr. Phelps also writes that tests can produce at least three benefits: improved diagnosis (of strengths and weaknesses); improved prediction and selection (for college scholarships or employment) and; most controversial, improved (15). He elaborates the last part by saying that standardized test scores become a source of motivation for the students to work hard in their school curriculum, since better learning of the material would automatically lead to improved test scores which would result in better college admissions. In the end, the author tries to persuade the readers to look past the exaggerated criticism of standardized tests and focus on their unappreciated benefits in enhancing student learning and performance. Saleem 5 In order to reach a compromise, both parties need to convince colleges to lay greater emphasis on performance-based assessments and other academic achievements instead of heavily relying on a SAT or ACT score. By bringing a reform in the education system that calls for universities to show greater appreciation for the distinctive traits of the college applicants demonstrated through performance-based assessments would advance the ultimate goal of both organizations, which is to advance quality learning and student success. The parties should not call for complete abolishment of standardized tests in the college application system; the main goal of the reform should be to shift the focus of college applications from standardized tests to a more well rounded form of student evaluation. Since Collegeboard already runs an association of upto 6000 colleges, it can play a vital role in the implementation of this program. Collegeboard can also design curriculums for high schools across the nation to ensure that students have exposure to an appropriate learning environment that would prepare them for this new form of assessment by colleges. Emphasis should be laid on developing practical skills of students like effective communication that would help them in real life. By going down this road, both organizations will be able to reach a settlement that would ensure the best interests of both parties while ensuring that no party gets an unfair advantage over the other. The standardized tests will no longer be which would advance agenda. At the same time, Collegeboard will continue to administer the SAT and devise curriculums for high schools to prepare students for the performance-based assessments that include activities like group projects and oral presentations. Such activities will polish important skills like teamwork and public- speaking among students. A similar educational reform had been introduced in Israeli education system during the last decade. In 2003, Dr. Yehudit J. Dori, who is a visiting scholar at the Center for Educational Saleem 6 Computing Initiatives at the reputable Massachusetts Institute of Technology, wrote a research journal titled Nationwide Standardized Testing to School-Based Alternative Embedded Assessment in Israel: Performance in the Matriculation 2000 Dr. Dori holds a Ph.D in science teaching from the Wiezmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel. The Matriculation 2000 project was aimed at shifting the focus of high school education from high- stakes standardized tests to (Dori 34). Dr. Dori states that choice items and standardized test scores have been supplemented with new methods, such as portfolios, hands-on, performance assessment, and (Dori 34). The form of assessment that schools implemented was a collection of information on outcomes while learning is taking place (formative assessment) or after the completion of task (summative (Dori 35). Students were also evaluated on their ability to employ their classroom knowledge for solving creative problems. Hence huge emphasis was laid on the development of high-order critical thinking. The students of the schools that took part in the Matriculation 2000 study were made to study Honors chemistry and Honors biology. The objective of the study was to analyze the impact of this project on performance in these subjects. The findings of the study showed that the students who took part in Matriculation 2000 performed a lot better than their peers in a control group when each group took the set of biology and chemistry exams that were set up by the researchers. In the biology high level assessment, the mean relative score of the experimental group was 64 whereas that of the control group was 56 (Dori 45). Similarly in chemistry, the mean relative score for the experimental group was 82.7 and that of the control group was 63.5 (Dori 45). Thus, the study confirmed that the implementation of project Matriculation 2000, which included greater emphasis on of students, improved the standard of learning among students. Saleem 7 Fairtest and Collegeboard have opposing stances on the use of standardized testing in the college application procedure. However, a compromise between both parties is certainly within reach. The implementation of an educational reform that lays more emphasis on performance based evaluations would best suit the interests of both organizations. Students will no longer be at a disadvantage for not performing well on the SAT or ACT. At the same time, Collegeboard will be able to help design curriculums to prepare students for the various performance based assessments that will be introduced in high schools. Most importantly, as confirmed by the study performed in Israel, the proposed compromise would improve the quality of learning among American high school students in the long run. Saleem 8 Works Cited Dori, Yehudit J. Nationwide Standardized Testing to School-Based Alternative Embedded Assessment in Journal of Applied Research in Science Teaching, vol. 40, no. 1, 2003, pp. 34-52. Kohn, Alfie. The case against standardized testing: raising the scores, ruining the schools. Portsmouth, NH, 2000. Phelps, Richard P. Defending Standardized Testing. Mahwah, NJ, 2005. Fairtest, n.d, http://www.fairtest.org/about. Accessed 26 January 2017. Collegeboard, n.d, https://www.collegeboard.org/about?navId=gf-abt. Accessed 25 January 2017.