Nauert 1 Mark Nauert Emil Smith Composition 1 29 January 2017 Life During and After a Career in the NFL The National Football League is where all football players hope to be one day. It is the pinnacle of sports leagues, and the best of the best end up playing every Sunday. However, as time went on, many have begun to look into how damaging the game can be to a body over a career of playing football. The NFL is still extremely successful today, but over the last 10 years the league has continued to be questioned over how safe they are really keeping their players. Recently, players have started to voice their opinions over the issue. While some seem to care about discussing the issue, others are quite aware of the dangers. Players often decide to retire early now, or even talk about shortening their careers in the long run. Many doctors have conducted research on what effect the constant hits to the head have on a player, and the results are astonishing. The two sides that are mainly involved in the situation are obviously the NFL, and also the NFL Players Association. The two are currently still discussing the problems with the game and what can be done to make sure the players are kept safe. The NFL is very confident in their concussion protocol, but a lot still needs to be discussed. For instance, what exactly are the effects of a long career of playing in the NFL and how could this affect the League as a whole? Nauert 2 Karaim, Reed . NFL  CQ Researcher by CQ Press. 4 Sept. 2015. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The article Can Pro Football remain the No. 1 Sport? written by Reed Karaim discusses whether or not the NFL can stay ahead of all the emerging sports in the United States. Currently the NFL is by far the leader. This article dives into TV ratings over the past years and looked into how much money the NFL is making compared to other sports leagues in the United States. It was found that in fall of 2014, the NFL was one of the most watched shows on television accounting for 45 of the top 50 viewed shows. Also, the NFL makes the most money per year of any sports league in the United States. These statistics alone prove that the popularity is still there. So what could if anything could slow down the NFL? This article points out that soccer while a world sports is becoming more and more popular in the United States. However, for this to happen the NFL would need to take a loss in some area. This is where the article begins to discuss the issues of head injuries in the NFL. There is scientific evidence that playing football increases a risk of having a long term brain injury. The article points out that many people believe that Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the NFL, has not responded properly to the information that is coming out. Within the article is results regarding a study done by Boston school of Medicine on brain damage in former players. Much of the research focused on CTE a disease associated with memory loss, confusion, and impaired judgement. Boston University found that 59 of 62 deceased former NFL players tested positive for the disease. What is even more scary is that CTE has been found in many former NFL players that committed suicide. This source has plenty of detailed information regarding the television success, and its struggle with head injuries becoming more and more prominent. Each stat has exact Nauert 3 numbers, and when discussing recent discoveries of long term effects of football they site where they got this information. The source sites studies from Boston school of medicine which establishes its credibility. For these reasons the article is a credible source the topic. Belson, Ken. N.F.L. Introduces New Rules to Back Its Concussion  The New York Times. The New York Times, 25 July 2016. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In Ken article N.F.L. Introduces New Rules to Back Concussion Protocol, he writes about what changes the NFL decided to make to their concussion protocol. The change is that teams in the league will be fined thousands of dollars or even lose draft picks if they do not take a player out of the game after enduring a concussion. The NFLPA was in accordance with this as they did agree to the penalties that could come from it. This article also reveals that the NFL plans to spend millions of dollars in law suits, and for developing new safer equipment. What is interesting is that before this new change, teams were not fined one cent for not following the concussion protocol. That is not keeping your players safe. This article provides many examples and figures to prove its credibility. There are real examples of teams that did not follow protocol in the past. The NFL in on constant pressure to make the game better and safer for their players. This change that came in the summer of 2016 seems like a good one. The author points out that it takes a long time before the NFL decides to make a change in their protocol. This needs to be looked at closely. Injury, pain, and prescription opioid among former National Football League  Sciencedirect.com. N.p., July 2011. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Nauert 4 This next article focuses on the medicine that players are taking because of football related injuries, including concussions. It involves many numbers and statistics that show just how many different meds these players are taking. Opioids are very prevalent among NFL players as over half have said that they have taken them. Also, many of these players have reported to misuse the drug which can lead to a numerous amount of health issues. Misuse of opioids is a major issue in general not just sports alone. It often causes physical and mental impairment, or even death. This relates back to whether or not the NFL is doing everything in their power to make the game safer. Many players said they took opioids because of concussions. Plus, to make matters worse, many even said that a lot of those concussions they sustained were undiagnosed. This brings up the point of the NFL concussion protocol. The league must make sure that all players are checked for concussions after taking a big hit. It is so important that the misuse of drugs becomes something that is not associated at all with the NFL. Players still have a life after retirement, and this article displays how a life during their career takes a toll on them in the long run. Awtrey, Stan. Report Disputes NFL on  Business Insights. 31 May 2007. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The next article titled Report disputes NFL on Concussions writes about a correlation found between depression and concussions. Many players in the NFL suffer from clinical depression. A study by the University of Connecticut shows the correlation between the two. The University had a general health survey of over 2,000 retired NFL players. This again relates back to the effect concussions are having on players after retirement. Players today see these statistics Nauert 5 and have to decide whether to alter the length of their career or not. Some of the biggest names in the game have decided to retire very early, including Calvin Johnson who retired just this past year. Fans became very disappointed with this news, but It is hard to blame the guy when these statistics are presented. This source shows exact numbers and says who exactly found these numbers to prove that it is a credible source. The source clearly states that the University of North Center for the Study of Retired Athletes is who conducted the survey. They stated their findings of a correlation between clinical depression and concussions in retired football players, and added how many players were asked. Post-Dispatch, Jim Thomas St. Louis. Bulger hopes concussion issue change core of NFL  Stltoday.com. 28 July 2016. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article is very interesting because it centers around the thoughts of a long time starting quarterback in the NFL. Marc Bulger played 11 years in the NFL and has his own thoughts on the concussion issue. Bulger states that he is all for putting more money into research for how to prevent more concussions, but he also want the game to change as a whole. He is very bothered by the fact that some retired players say they know how much a long career in the NFL can effect someone. Bulger believes the players should understand that the game is dangerous, and that there are chances of long term effects. He even said that there need to be any fundamental changes to the game. It is an interesting take as many people would argue the opposite. This source is extremely reliable for the topic because these opinions are coming from a person who actually played in the NFL. Many of the sources before discuss what can happen to a Nauert 6 football player after a concussion, but this gives the viewpoint of an actual retired player. Marc Bulger was a starting quarterback that suffered multiple concussions throughout his career, and he is still adamant about the game not being completely changed. Other retired NFL players would have much different thoughts which would create a very good discussion. Sullivan, Jerry. NFL players, families coming to grips of the dangers of repeat  The Buffalo News. 26 Jan. 2017. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the players being worried for their own families when it comes to long term effects of playing in the NFL. Many players want to be able to have great lives with their families after football is over, but as the other sources show, concussions can cause problems for these players. Memory loss and depression are just a couple of the dangers that could happen to these players. These players even state that their families are extremely worried for them every time they step on the field. This clashes with the opinion of Marc Bulger in the previous source who want the game to change. Players have different opinions and the NFL must view both sides, and try to find a balance between them. This source is again filled with quotes from NFL players. This time it is from current NFL players. This is clearly a credible source as the players are currently going through these issues. The most important information comes from the players as they are dealing with the thoughts of long term injuries every time they play on Sunday. Nauert 7