Davison 1 Neckodemos Davison Professor William Drugan ENC-1102-085 16 February 2017 A Nation at War With Itself With limited resources comes difficult decisions. Even though this is a truth that governments of all nations know the United government goes through own cycles of two very different political parties. And like every other topic, The Democratic and Republican Party have two opposing views on how big the military budget should be. According to an article titled Views on Military by Republicanviews.org, sequestration that the Obama administration proposed would leave America with the smallest ground force it has seen since 1940, the smallest number of ships it has seen since 1915, and the smallest Air Force in Of course, this would be excellent for other departments in the United States, because all the budget cuts would then feed into areas of the country such as education and veterans affairs. To accurately display the side of the argument, another article from Republicanviews.org titled Views of Military proclaims, Republican Party adamantly opposes these cuts, stating, sequestration the Obama administration has Would be a disaster for national security, imperiling the safety of our servicemen and women, accelerating the decline of our defense industrial base, and resulting in the layoff of more than 1 million skilled The overall consensus from the Republican Party is that cutting the size on such a tremendous scale would cause severe threats to national security. The most effective compromise for the two parties would be to make budget cuts in Davison 2 Medicare in order to increase the military budget in favor of the Republicans as well as have more money to fund the nonmilitary organizations and projects that the Democrats support. Even though both stakeholders support a strong military the Democratic Party supports the most cuts to the budget. The intentions are to put the extra money they cut from the military into more peaceful means. As stated by the Democrats, pay must continue to increase. We need to further reform the military retirement system and improve housing, health care, and childcare benefits to support the competitiveness of military careers during a period of prosperity. While the number of soldiers on food stamps is down by two-thirds over the past decade, it is unacceptable that any member of our armed forces should have to rely on food (Democratic Views On Military Spending) Based off of this statement, the party wishes to apply the budget in a different way. The money would still benefit the military to the extent that the veterans and current professionals would be better taken care of financially, but in the case of national security the overall military would be weaker. The Democrats main argument is that the United States is outdated in how the defense budget is used. They related it to the Cold War-era in the fact that there is still a significant amount of funding that goes towards nuclear weapon technology. These cuts are not only to the financial support, but also to the staff. The analogy used to explain the Obama rational is, have to always keep your institution prepared, but you carry a large land-war Defense Department when there is no large land (Democratic Views On Military Spending). The other stakeholder, the Republican Party, would rather make sure the United States does not drop its guard even though no major land wars are occurring. They would much rather increase the amount of money that is invested into the military in hopes to the health of a defense industry weakened by a combination of neglect and misguided (Republican Views On Davison 3 Military Spending). The idea is that decreasing the size of the military budget would figuratively leave the door wide open for a threat to national security. The Republicans even believe keeping military spending constant is a mistake due to the rate at which Iran, China, Russia, and other potential enemy countries are advancing their weapon systems and military force. According to the Republicans, the United current armed forces have had a decreased moral and are less fit to handle future threats, as they noted, US military faces growing problems in readiness, morale, and its ability to prepare for the threats of the (Republican Views On Military Spending). They believe this is due to a Democrat, budget reductions during his presidency. A fluctuation of a high and low military budget is seen throughout the history of the United depending upon which stakeholder that president is affiliated. This makes it seem as though the military budget naturally balances out every four or eight years. Even though this can be seen as a form of compromise, it is hardly so. For example, one stakeholder may follow through with their ideals then pass control off to the other stakeholder to do the same. While in power, each stakeholder repeals policies set in place from the opposing stakeholder and this results in no net progress. A better compromise would be to make a larger budget that can ultimately be split amongst the two stakeholders. The budget would initially come from a cut in Medicare and the marketing of the petroleum reserves. Based on the article Strikes a Budget Deal with by New York Times an agreement like this would raise spending by $80 billion over two years. The Republicans can increase military funding and the Democrats can invest to support the competitiveness of military careers or invest in other nonmilitary programs. This way, the service men and women in the armed forces can be better repaid for their sacrifice. Due to the better benefits granted to the military, this plan could also bring an increase in the Davison 4 amount of people that want to enlist, therefore strengthening the military further. If this compromise is seen as biased towards the Republicans, then it can be easily balanced. Funding for nuclear weapons could be cut off to provide more resources for other operations. The Democrats and Republicans have extremely conflicting views, but ultimately want the best for their country and their people. The Democrats want a reduction to military spending, while the Republicans want an increase in the spending. The rationale behind the Democratic Party is that a large land army is not needed when a large land war is not occurring. Then all the extra money cut from the military budget can be used toward veteran benefits and other improvements to military careers. The Republican Party wants to increase the budget as to prevent harmful risks to national security. When looking at both parties and their ideals in relation to time, it can be seen that the Democrats wish to improve both the lives of military workers and civilians at a present date whereas the Republicans wish to prevent unfortunate events from occurring in the future, such as an attack from the enemies of the United States. The compromise proposed between the two increased the budget in both of their desired areas at the short term expense of healthcare providers and the long term expense of the United States petroleum reserves. Davison 5 Works Cited Herszenhorn, David M. Congress Strikes a Budget Deal with  The New York Times. N.p., 25 Oct. 2015. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Justin T. 5 Bad Arguments for Cutting U.S. Defense  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., 25 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. RepublicanViews.org. Democratic Views On Military  Republican Views. N.p., 01 Mar. 2015. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. RepublicanViews.org. Republican Views on Military  Republican Views. N.p., 01 Mar. 2015. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Salmon, Diem N. A Proposal for the FY 2016 Defense  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., 30 Jan. 2015. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Taylor, Adam, and Laris Karklis. This remarkable chart shows how U.S. defense spending dwarfs the rest of the  The Washington Post. WP Company, 09 Feb. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.