Bissette 1 Kylee Bissette Professor Drugan ENC 1105 29 January 2017 Concussions: Doctors Vs. Athletes Concussions are arguably the most dangerous and most talked about injuries sustained today in the National Football League (NFL). There have been many debates regarding the return to play time frame of some players who were recovering from a concussion with whether or not they were really ready to be put back out on the field or not. Many people butt heads on this topic; two specific groups that most certainly do not agree with each other are the athletes who have sustained the injury themselves and the doctors and physicians. The doctors want athletes to return to play at all after several concussions, but the athletes want to even be taken off the field at all. The NFL has rules and regulations for return to play from concussions, but they need to be stricter to really allow the brain to heal because one week is not long enough. According to the Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology, Volume 38, Issue 5, the second most common cause of a traumatic brain injury is from a sports-related injury, with Males ages 10-19 years of age having higher documentation of a sports related concussion. High school and college football players alone have between five to ten percent chance of sustaining a concussion injury, with the risk being greater during a game rather than a practice (Wright). Of the documented concussions sustained from football players in the high school and Bissette 2 collegiate level, 6.5% of them had received another concussion within the same season. Once a person has been concussed once, it is easier for them to become concussed again. In most cases, concussions heal within about a week. However, once a person has sustained their first concussion, their second or third and so on could have a longer recovery time. In an experiment reported by the Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology, they tested forty retired NFL players who had been retired for approximately twenty years who received one or several concussions in their career. The retired players who had sustained three or more concussions were approximately eight times more likely to experiment major memory decline (Wright). The athletes that sustained a greater number of concussions had cognitive impairment and chronic effects on their cognitive abilities (Wright). With so many players getting more than one concussion, what is the policy and how do they enforce it? The current policy starts during preseason where the athletes are educated on concussions and are required to take a preliminary concussion test. This gives a basis of what the memory, balance, and more are at when the athlete is healthy to compare the results to when the player may be concussed. During the season, each team has their own physicians on site for every practice and game. As of today, at every single NFL game there are at least twenty-nine medical professionals on stand-by ready to assess the players in their field of expertise. In a game, if a player shows any signs or symptoms of a concussion, they must be pulled from the game and receive a full concussion evaluation. According to the Madden rule, player who has been diagnosed with a concussion must leave the field and immediately be escorted to a locker room or Bissette 3 training room. That player is not permitted to return until medically (Flynn). After the game is over, the player that was found to be concussed is daily and may not return to football activities until he has returned to his baseline cognitive function. Then the team doctor and an independent neurological consultant must both clear him for return to according to the NFL protocol (Flynn). If this protocol is not followed, the players and coaches are subject to hefty fines and loss of draft picks (Maske). It is imperative that the protocol is followed. The football player that was found to be concussed is not going to want to sit out any longer than he is forced to. The athlete is going to want to go right back in the game or practice. Most of the time, the athlete is more concerned with playing football and not letting his team down than his own health. He would rather continue playing and deal with the injury later. The football player is going to try his best to down play his injury and act like he is fine and healthy. Sometimes, players can hide their concussions, but other times it is so severe that they cannot. The main goal is to get back out on the field. To him, this is a major inconvenience. A football player will not pull himself out of a practice or a game and tell someone they think they have a concussion. Someone else will notice the signs and make the player get off the field. Athletes are very stubborn when it comes to injuries and playing. An athlete will go as long as they can playing injured just because of the love of the game. Football players are taught to tackle using their shoulders versus their heads to avoid a head injury. Even though they are taught this, they still get hit in the head almost every day in their sport. Yes, they wear Bissette 4 helmets, but sometimes their helmets get too old before they are replaced and their padding is minimal. In some cases when a football player sustains too many concussions, a doctor will tell them they cannot return to play and are therefore forced to retire. A doctor tells an athlete very often that they cannot play their sport again because of their health. The only thing on the brain is to continue to play their sport. Football players especially are exposed to head injury very often. Some football players have even said that they have played their best games with a concussion. The doctors are concerned with the football health. The doctor wants to give the brain the most time possible for it to heal. The doctor will think about the long-term affects of a brain injury whereas the football player is just thinking about the present and playing football. The doctor is thinking about the bigger picture. Brain injuries are very serious and can cause long-term damage. Even if the player is released after a week, the brain still might have recovering to do. It is said that the brain can take up to 45 days or longer to be fully healed from a concussion (Wright), making the brain very vulnerable to sustaining another concussion in this time frame. The doctor can do an MRI and make sure there is no more serious damage that they may have missed in the original diagnosis of a concussion to ensure they are treating the correct diagnosis The athlete and doctor can reach a reasonable conclusion. The doctor can hear the player out and listen to his concerns about his playing time. The athlete also needs to listen to the professional opinion and they need to come up with a plan that gets the player back in practice and games. Most players who Bissette 5 sustain a concussion are back out on the field in about a week. This is very short. The brain is the most important and complex organ in the human body and we still do not know everything we need to know about how the brain works. With a brain injury, one week is not a long enough recovery time. The athletes and doctors need to change this and make sure that the brain is 100% healed. The plan may suggest that the player sits out of all physical activity for at least two weeks, but this may need to be longer depending upon the person until his headaches are gone. After the two weeks are up, he may gradually start low to moderate exercise again. Then following being released for exercise, the player can be cleared for no-contact practice for a week, and then the next step could be full contact practice and then games. Step one would be two weeks in length, then the rest of the steps would be one week each. This plan would make the athlete be in recovery for at least five weeks. This is a much better recovery system than the NFL currently has in place. The athlete needs to keep his health in mind and not push himself too much. He needs to remember the more he listens to the doctor, the faster his recovery will be and the faster he can return to play. The doctor tell the player that he cannot play again; rather he can work on steps to get back on the field. The doctor and athlete need to be on the same page and work together rather than against each other. Bissette 6 Works Cited Flynn, Erin. What Is the Concussion  SI.com. Sports Illustrated, 16 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.si.com/nfl/nfl-concussion- protocol-policy-history>. Maske, Mark. NFL could issue fines, loss of picks in new policy regarding concussion  The Washington Post 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wright, Mathew J., et al. An Index Predictive Of Cognitive Outcome In Retired Professional American Football Players With A History Of Sports  Journal Of Clinical And Experimental Neuropsychology 38.5 (2016): 561-571. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.