Cardenas 1 Christopher Cardenas Professor William Drugan English 1102-085 27 February 2017 Project 1: Finding Common Ground Debate between the Tampa Bay Rays and the St. Petersburg City Council Since 1998, the Tampa Bay Rays have been located in the city of St. Petersburg. From the start of this franchise, the attendance for each game were surprisingly low. Set aside, the whole team itself doing that well either by finishing last in the AL East for six consecutive seasons. Although this may come by as a shock to the them, the biggest concern though is the Owner of the Tampa Bay Rays, Stuart Sternberg, wants to relocate the stadium out of St. Petersburg due to the lack of attendance and revenue from each of the games. While sticking to his decision, he hopes to get in return a greater fan base and even receive more money for the franchise as well. To disagree with this decision is the St. Petersburg City Council. They will would surely like for the Tampa Bay Rays to stay in St. Pete rather than moving elsewhere because during the Tampa Bay Rays season, they generate a tremendous amount of money for not only the city but for the businesses close by the stadium as well. If the Rays actually agree upon moving, a lot of money will be lost from the city and even the fans who live in St. Pete will be devastated with seeing this kind of sudden movement change. All in all, between the Tampa Bay Rays Owner, Stuart Sternberg and the St. Petersburg City Council, they need to reach an agreement with one another by settling out their differences for creating a better future for them both. Cardenas 2 To begin, sports argument really get any more commonsensical. Tampa Bay finished 30th of 30 teams last year in terms of ticket sales, with an average of just over 18,000 fans attending each home game. Since the birth in the late routinely seen about half of its seats go empty on an annual (Mann). The Tampa Bay Rays franchise have seen a tremendous drop in attendances year after year and by dealing with this ongoing problem, the owner of the Rays, Stuart Sternberg wants to consider the decision of moving out St. Petersburg because while moving his team elsewhere, it would make economic sense for the future of his team. While thinking about why the Tampa Bay Rays are receiving such a small amount of attendance for each home game is having to do with the stadiums location. Throughout some time now, fans been going to many of their home games throughout the season and that may have to do with the fact because their favorite team doing well or it could actually have to do with the time and commitment of driving to the stadium from where they live. Even since the birth in the late half the seats in the stadium seems to be always empty, but whenever the Rays are playing a more recognized team like the New York Yankees, the Boston Red Sox, and even the Toronto Blue Jays, the seats are always sold out by the other teams fans for which is embarrassing for the Tampa Bay Rays franchise and the fans as well to see. With the statistics given, the Owner, Stuart Sternberg has a reasonable reason of potentially moving the team out of St. Pete to another location because if having to stay in St. Pete, the franchise will crumble from the lack of money loss and fan base as well. Meanwhile, the way the St. Petersburg City Council feels about the decision of moving out is City Council of St. Petersburg has denied a deal that would allow the Rays to look outside the city of St. Petersburg for a new stadium location. Councilman Gerdes noted the Rays must be confident they can be successful in Tropicana Field to stay, that a tenant must want to live where Cardenas 3 the rent. Mayor Rick Kriseman agreed, and noted any business person would reasonably want to explore all options before returning to St. Petersburg, but to shut the team out now would cause them to never want to (Russell). Within the Council of St. Petersburg denying the Rays to move was a great decision for them to make because if the Rays were able to move then all the money being earned for the city and businesses nearby the stadium would drop tremendously and jeopardize the income of wealth most likely. Even with what Mayor Rick Kriseman said, important to have the to search for other locations with an open mind, but with not having a plan at all afterwards with the options given, the output of all of this will be a waste by causing the team to make the decision of possibly not wanting to return to St. Pete. Also, having a healthy relationship with the Rays will be extremely key in making them want to stay in St. Petersburg because by having the Rays organization by their side, it would benefit them both instead from going their separate ways if a problem came about between the two. Even between all the people living in St. Pete as well, the Rays franchise forget about all the fans that live around this city and if the people were to see their favorite team move elsewhere, it would be really devastating for them to accept by not being able to watch their team play live in front of them. With seeing all the problems that arise with the Tampa Bay Rays wanting to move out, it will have a huge impact for not only the city itself but for the citizens that live there as well. Furthermore, with the Rays wanting to move out earlier than expected is depends on when they leave. If the Rays left in 2010, the team could owe the city $50 million in primary bond debt for the construction of the Trop. If the Rays waited and leave until 2017, then that debt drops to $0. In 2017, the team could still owe about $13 million in secondary bond (Sickler). Even with all the money issues, the Rays could potentially just move out already but technically Cardenas 4 their contract with St. Petersburg end until 2027 and if the Rays planned on getting out of their contract then the city could possibly sue and force the Rays to pay for damages, but that could be argued because the city could recover losses by selling the Trop site to developers. Also, for the owner of the Rays Stuart Sternberg, his decision of moving out of St. Pete will help the team reach more in attendance and will defiantly have less problems with St. Petersburg about worrying about the issue of money loss. The thing is though many developers offered $60 million dollars to buy the Trop and if the Rays leave the stadium site then the Trop would be put back on tax roll, which means the city of St. Petersburg will gain about $7 million a year and if bonded out, it could be supported to $90 million to $100 million in new spending. Overall, St. Pete will be getting a great deal out of this and the Tampa Bay Rays organization could leave happily without any commotion from the St. Petersburg City Council. Accordingly, seeking the options for the Rays stadium and finding an agreement with the city of St. Pete, years of stagnating attendance at the Trop, St. Petersburg Mayor Rick Kriseman reportedly wants an agreement with the Rays by the end of the year that would allow a regionwide stadium search in exchange for compensation if the team moves before the lease expires in (Nohlgren, Danielson, and Thalji). good faith, Kennedy then made a motion for the Council to schedule a workshop to discuss building a new stadium within the city of St. (Russell). Between the two, they have the chance of being committed of making both of their futures worth seeking for because the Rays will be able to search for new stadium sites and St. Petersburg can hopefully look for a new stadium within the city of St. Pete but if the Rays decline that offer and move elsewhere, the city will be gaining a lot of money from the deals of the developers wanting to buy that site from where the Trop is. Mainly, there are many issues with Cardenas 5 one another, but with a beneficial compromise given, it will set aside all the differences and make the future of both a smoother ride to ride through. In conclusion, is a good step that could help change the focus from which city stands to gain to what the region stands to lose. And it would continue to put pressure on Foster to step up on an issue that is fast leaving him (Moving the needle on Rays talks). The overall compromise is between the Tampa Bay Rays Owner, Stuart Sternberg and the St. Petersburg City Council, they needed to reach an agreement with one another by settling out their differences for creating a better future for them both. With the effective compromise given with the Rays being able to search for a new stadium site and the city of St. Petersburg receiving a lot of money in return, if the Rays plan to move has made both parties excited and committed in making one another satisfied in having a better future, but many discussions will come about with finalizing these proposals by making it fair and concise as possible for them both to walk out happy. Cardenas 6 Works Cited Page Mann, Jake. Moving the Tampa Bay Rays Makes Economic The Motley Fool. https://www.fool.com/investing/general/2013/11/20/why-moving- the- tampa-bay-rays-makes-economic-sense.aspx. Web. 20 Nov. 2013. Accessed 27 February 2017. Russell, Daniel. Petersburg City Council votes to deny stadium DRaysBay. http://www.draysbay.com/2014/12/18/7417857/rays- stadium- search-deny-St-petersburg-city-council. Web. 18 Dec. 2014. Accessed 27 February 2017. Sickler, Michael Van. the Tampa Bay Rays just leave Tropicana Tampa Bay Times. http://www.tampabay.com/news/localgovernment/why- cant-the-tampa-bay-rays-just-leave-tropicana-field/1104024. Web. 21 Jun. 2010. Accessed 27 February 2017. Nohlgren, Stephen, Danielson, Richard, and Thalji Jamal. for a Rays stadium in Tampa Bay Times. http://www.tampabay.com/news/localgovernment/tampa-officials-search- for-possible-new-rays-stadium-sites/2209260. Web. 6 Dec. 2014. Accessed 27 February 2017. the needle on Rays Tampa Bay Times. Cardenas 7 http://www.tampabay.com/opinion/editorials/moving-the-needle-on-rays- talks/1272830. Web. 29 Jan. 2013. Accessed 27 February 2017.