Betti, 1 Alexandra Betti Drugan ENC1102 1/25/2017 To Eat or Not to Eat: Shopping Organically or Affordably The controversy between whether to eat foods grown with pesticides and hormones in them or not has grown exponentially. To eat foods that are made organically and free of chemicals means saving our health in the long run and ensuring that our bodies, as well as our are safe from toxins. But the reality of eating cleanly is that it gets expensive and most families can not afford to eat organically, especially those of lower incomes. Seven hundred and ninety-five million people in the world are suffering from hunger (World Food Programme, Hunger Statistics), do they care how their food is grown as long as they are being fed? Organic organizations should not expect people to be able to make the financial conform to clean foods, just as much as the FDA should not be feeding people foods grown with chemicals. So where is the compromise? Organizations like Organic Valley and the Cornucopia Institute strive to ensure that Americans are eating healthier now than ever. They push for consumers to buy foods, free of enhancers and pesticides - which is a big problem people are having with chains like McDonalds, Olive Garden, and Taco Bell. All of their their meats are processed and full of preservatives to last longer and sell more. It has already been proven that the hormones used in beef and dairy Betti, 2 products produce cancerous cells in the human body and can increase the rate of child development. Yet the Food and Drug Administration continues to approve of the chemicals used in food production, and those that are health conscious about their food can not figure out why. When we take a look into the world of why consumers choose to not eat organically, we find that most people are either misinformed or are unaware of how detrimental these hormones actually are. Nihan Ozguven writes in her article Organic Foods Motivation Factors for Consumers that in a research project conducted back in 2012, consumers thought that the only organically grown foods were dairy products, fruits, and vegetables. One of the chemicals found in dairy products like butter is the preservative Benzoate, it helps keep the food from going sour and bad. But in turn it causes disruptions in estrogen levels, asthma, and of course cancer. Most of these people were unaware that these toxins were in their meats as well and even some of their drinks. Bromated Vegetable Oil can be found in fruity drinks or sodas. It adds color and sweeter flavors to these drinks but increases cholesterol levels and ultimately can ruin liver and kidneys. She went on to interview twenty-nine different grocery shoppers and found that most of them bought their foods based on quality and brands and less than half of them picked the foods they ate because of health reasons (Ozguven, 664). Though organizations and brands such as Kashi aim for foods free of toxins and for people to make smarter choices when picking what they put into their bodies, they neglect to take into consideration that most people can not afford to buy organically; and that there is a reason people chose a special over an additive free meal. As stated earlier, fast food chains though popular, make their meals mostly if not entirely from chemicals. These foods are easier for low income families to buy to feed their children, rather than buying organically grown ones because it saves on money (Hungry in America). A Betti, 3 one-person meal of an organically grown chicken breast is double the price of a chicken breast grown with hormones. Though people are against foods produced in such unhealthy ways they can not deny that those foods are cheaper at the end of the day, and that eating only organic foods is expensive. When there are seven hundred and ninety-five million people in the world that go hungry every day, how can one complain about having any type of food at all. The way the Food and Drug Association sees it, they are making bigger quantities of food for cheaper prices, which not only attempts to feed a larger amount of people more than brands like Bolthouse Farms does, but it also produces more revenue and money. Where would our economy be if it was free of fast food chains? In Perceived Value and Willingness to Purchase Organic Food the authors state in their research study that consumers buy organic less because they presume that the prices will be too high. In the same study, they found that there is not a lot of access to organic foods as well, they are not stocked as much as regular foods, nor are they advertised as much. Systematic Review of Factors Influencing Market Use Overall and among Low-Income Populations expands on why people do not have access to fresh foods which is why people buy food approved by the Food and Drug Association, especially families living in urbanized cities like Louisville, San Antonio, and/or Norfolk. markets can not flourish if there are not a lot of people shopping at them and more likely than not people are just going to go to a fast food restaurant to get their dinner. Though it seems that people have a choice in eating organically or not the reality is that most of them do not and they have to stay within their budget while try to feed themselves and their children. A task that is much easier said than done nowadays. Though there is no easy compromise but there is the possibility of bridging the gap between being able to eat cleanly and cheaply. If organic companies begin growing just as much Betti, 4 food quantities as farms that use enhancers can and sell them for the same price as their competitor, then more people will eat foods less likely to negatively affect their health. The difficulty in trying to grow more food to keep up with an adversary who grows large portions of food in large amounts with the help of hormones and enhancements is that they take up less land and time in doing so. But there is no realistic or plausible way that consumers will pay more money for smaller portions of food, particularly if the majority of the population has kids to feed. In turn though, the Food and Drug Association needs to stop producing foods that can harm consumers in the long run for the sake of making more money. There is no ethics or morals in allowing foods to be injected with acids and poisons, knowing the general population will consume it. The complications caused in taking away these foods are that now there is less food to sell, which means a larger population suffering from hunger and less money from not selling as much food. Inevitably causing economic troubles because of the smaller amounts of trade and exporting occurring. When it comes to compromises like this one there is never going to be security there ensuring that every thing and every person will be positively affected by the outcome. However, if each company, organization, and/or brand can do the best they can to help consumers eat healthy then maybe the population suffering from the side affects of growth hormones and pesticides will shrink. And people will live happier, healthier, and longer lives. Betti, 5 Work Cited Cascio, M Ariel; Flocke, Susan; Freedman, Darcy A.; Ohri-Vachaspati, Punam; Schneider, Christine; Taggart, Morgan; Trapl, Erika; Vaudrin, Nicole; Walsh, Colleen. Review of Factors Influencing Market Use Overall and among Low-Income Journal of the Academy of Nutrition & Dietetics, July 2016. Francescon, Silvia. Impact of GMOs on Poor A Threat to the Achievement of the Millennium Development Goals?, 2006. Kennedy, Stacy. Chemicals That Turn Our Food Reboot with Joe, 1 July 2013, http://www.rebootwithjoe.com/5-chemicals-that-turn-our-food-toxic-and-how-to-avoid- them/comment-page-1/#comments. Accessed 20 January 2017. Lee, Hyun-Joo; Yun, Zee-Sun. perceptions of organic food attributes and cognitive and affective attitudes as determinants of their purchase intentions toward organic Food Quality and Preference, January 2015. Lim, Weng Marc; Suryadi, Kherina;Yong, Juliette Li Shuang. Perceived Value and Willingness to Purchase Organic Journal of Global Marketing, November/December 2014. Betti, 6 Marks, Tod. cost of organic Consumer Reports, 19 March 2015, http://www.consumerreports.org/cro/news/2015/03/cost-of-organic-food/index.htm. Accessed 20 January 2017. Ozguven, Nihan. Foods Motivations Factors for World Conference on Business, Economics and Management, October 2012. Food Hunger Statistics, 2017. Accessed 10 February 2017. Hungry in America. Dir. Zac Adams. Skydive Films, 2014. Film. Accessed 10 February 2017.