Joseph 1 Torhi Joseph Bill Drugan ENC 1102 3 February 2017 Creation of Appropriate Appropriation Among the undeniable liberties granted to folks living in a democratic society, the right to individualism perhaps ranks as the most celebrated, particularly through artistic expression. Art is more than just entertainment. It is a malleable outlet utilized by the artists to mirror the ever-changing landscapes of their environments. This is no different for Hip Hop music, a young genre originally created to artistically narrate the plights of black men and women in a white dominated America. Since its inception, however, Hip Hop has grown from its underground niche to what many consider to be the driving force of popular culture, not only in America, but to the entire world. Because of its far-reaching nature, record companies like RCA Records and Warner Music Group have infiltrated Hip Hop, as they sense the money-making potential of the growing genre. Moreover, many people other than those the genre was created by, have been inspired by this form of art, and have chosen to express themselves in an archetypal Hip Hop manner. This has been met by the core audience with varying emotions, ranging from adulation for artists like Eminem, to complete disdain for acts such as Iggy Azalea, who listeners believe is a perpetrator of cultural appropriation. With Hip Hop continuing to expand, it is important that large record companies make the effort to promote genuine art above easily marketable faces, and that fans appreciate that all forms of artistic expression are rooted in other predating forms of art. Joseph 2 Record companies like Warner Music Group represent one of many large voices on the issue of cultural appropriation in Hip Hop music, as they have the ability to market their artists to audiences of millions through their vast resources. On their official website, the company stated in relation to its artists, that they have been an industry-leading force in providing a world- class array of services designed to help artists and labels grow their careers and their (Warner, 2017). Warner Music Group has stated that their main focus is allowing for the growth of their artists. It is also important to note that the company does not exclude business from this statement, as this aspect of the issue is often times forgotten when discussions of cultural appropriation arise. Large record labels in the United States share a similarity with other large American businesses, in that the two entities exist within the confines of the United States of America, a capitalist society where generating profit is not only expected, but celebrated. It should therefore come as no surprise if Warner Music Group decides to promote an artist whose quality of music might not excite fans of pure Hip Hop, but is popular amongst a larger, more profitable audience. After all, engrained in the American business model is to maximize profit while limiting spending. It seems in a record best interest to promote easier, more digestible art, rather than appealing to a smaller core audience. On the other hand, Hip Hop purists argue that with the growing number of foreigners engaging in the genre, the voice that once represented them is being stifled out of existence. Furthermore, there are cases where aspects of Hip Hop culture have traditionally been demonized when performed by African Americans, but when those same aspects are regurgitated by artists of other ethnic origins, they have been celebrated. In an article entitled Owns Hip Hop: Cultural Appropriation Debate author Sofiya Ballin uses quotes by Timothy Welbeck, a professor of African American studies, who in relation to white Australian rapper Joseph 3 Iggy Azalea, said that divorces Hip Hop of its context and how she speaks in a way that comes across as patronizing. It comes across as a jive. celebrated for many of the things black women have been derided of for centuries, her physique and her style of speech when she (Ballin, 2015). Iggy Azalea makes no attempt to hail Hip traditions and instead profits by rapping with a bogus African American accent, focusing on superficial and stereotypical black topics. These topics are usually seen as vapid when presented by a black artist, but Iggy Azalea is instead rewarded with multiple Grammy nominations when rapping about the same things. Record labels, whose best interest is to acquire as much money as possible, seem to be at loggerheads with Hip core fans, who crave high quality music and representation. Despite their many differences, the two stakeholders have enough in common so that an effective compromise can be reached. Firstly, there needs to be an understanding that high quality product and marketability are not mutually exclusive. In fact, it can be argued that more money could be made from producing constant quality. Secondly, while a record label wants to make as much money as possible, it does not mean that they do not want to be associated with high quality music. With these points there is a commonality that can be drawn between record labels and fans, in that it would be in the interest of both parties if high quality music was produce and marketed. By producing quality, fans would be able to relate to the art presented regardless of the artist presenting it. Record labels will also benefit by not just serving a core audience, but by being able to grow numbers of the core audience into becoming loyal customers. While this presents a promising negotiation, for this idea to come to fruition, both parties need to make compromises. Eminem and Iggy Azalea represent two opposing ends of the spectrum where artists of different ethnic origins have become popular rappers. The difference Joseph 4 between the two come from the reception they receive from fans. Eminem is widely regarded as one of the greatest artists of his generation, while Iggy Azalea is almost universally rejected by the core fan base. Part of the reason for this is because of the respect Eminem shows for Hip traditions, which is evident in the proficiency in which he presents his art. As stated in article, Eminem has contributed back to the community from which Hip Hop is (Ballin, 2015). Because of the respect he has shown to Hip core audience, they have embraced him despite his race. Because of this, Eminem has a sustained legacy which brings in millions of dollars to his parent record label Interscope. Iggy Azalea, on the other hand, while receiving some success, will not be able to provide her parent record label nearly as much money, as she did not work to be embraced by the core audience. It would therefore be in the best interest to promote genuine acts. Fans, on the other hand, need to realize that art is forever evolving, and that when folks from other ethnic backgrounds engage in their culture, it is also an opportunity to learn about theirs. Steve Patterson, author of an article entitled Progressives Are Wrong to Argue Against Cultural makes a poignant point in questioning cultural appropriation, asking to what end? To preserve the division within people? To preserve cultures for (Patterson, 2015). As Patterson rightly states, being too rigid with culture has an ugly side effect of promoting separatism. While fans of Hip Hop should be wary of disingenuous people trying to profit from their culture, they must also not be too narrow minded so as to not be completely isolated from the rest of the world. Joseph 5 Works Cited Ballin, Sofiya. Who owns hip-hop?: debate rages  Philly.com. N.p., 12 Feb. 2015. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Patterson, Steve. Why Progressives Are Wrong to Argue Against Cultural  Observer. N.p., 20 Nov. 2015. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. <http://observer.com/2015/11/why- progressives-are-wrong-to-argue-against-cultural-appropriation/>. Warner Music Group Official  Warner Music Group Official Website. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. <http://www.wmg.com/>.