Rogers 1 Quinton Rogers Mr. Drugan ENC 1102 28 January 2017 Healthcare: The Debate for right! For some time now there have been plenty of arguments about how healthcare should be distributed within the United States. The cause of these debates were pretty much sparked by the passing of a new healthcare plan in 2010, drafted up by President Obama. The plan for the act was to ensure people of America would be covered with health care and it would not be pocket burning. However, once the act hit congress a few changes were made which created a totally different outcome than what was expected. The new and healthcare document caused controversy between republicans and democrats, liberals and conservatives, and people in general. The main sources of controversy between democrats and republicans could be easily eliminated. Both the introduction of lower healthcare acts and elimination of fines for people who choose not to buy healthcare could stop the debating amongst the two parties. There are multiple problems within our healthcare situation which will be discussed in this brief outline. One of the main causes for this split between parties on this subject is the cost for healthcare. Statistics show that the spending on healthcare is expected to increase quite a bit within the next eight years from its current position. Just as an idea of where it is heading; according to the author of Issue Brief: Health Care, are projected to rise to 25 percent of GDP in 2025. This amount was 48 percent higher than in the next highest spending country Rogers 2 To add on to the problem, the U.S is doing plenty spending and the American people are not obtaining better health outcomes than people in other developing nations. Another cause for the split is the health care coverage problem we are experiencing; we are one of the three countries in the world that do not have universal healthcare. Back in 2010 almost 50 million people were living without health care. The majority of people living with health care receive it through their employers which ended up being a problem. Many companies that once were health care providers ended up cutting health care due to how expensive it was becoming. This action by companies cause controversy, because without this option to receive health care many families do not have it because too expensive or unavailable. For the Republican party, one of the main arguments against current health care situations is that it goes against the constitution. Another argument is that the current health care situation in years to come will cost the American people a vast amount of money to be implemented. The cost of health care is a general problem for many people in general. For instance, there are many people who do not pay for health care because it is too expensive for their salary, but they face fines during tax season if they do not have health care. This is a brewing problem for many folks in similar situations, especially if they tend to have a lot of health problems. The current health care does in fact go against the Constitution because it basically forces citizens to own some type of health care. something one would agree with, because no one should be forced to spend money on something they feel that better off without. For Democrats, the main mission was to one day have universal health care at low/affordable rates. Their original plan was for the better, and wanted everyone to be backed up with care for any health problems. Most people understand the ideas because everyone should have health care, even if they rarely get sick, because anything could happen. The Democratic Rogers 3 healthcare plan ended up being a success over the years after the plan initially started to take effect. Showing the success of Obamacare Oberlander stated, ACA has had remarkable success in reducing the uninsured population from 48.6 million in 2010 to 27.3 million in 2016, according to the National Health Interview Obamacare to Hillarycare Health Care Reform Agenda).The one thing knocking the Democratic Party is the fact that deductibles for healthcare are steep for most families. Oberlander suggested such actions when he stated, average annual deductible increased from $303 in 2006 to $646 in 2010 and $1,077 in Obamacare to Hillarycare Health Care Reform Agenda). Even with that being said, health care the worst thing someone could spend money on, considering that health care could be something that could become a need for individuals or families at any time. Two things that could bring the two parties together on the health care issue is the lowering of health care options, and the elimination of fees created as consequences of not having healthcare. With the cost of health care being a main issue the lowering of prices could be a resolution. Democrats put a lot of work into making health care affordable for everyone and is still commonly seen as too expensive. Originally there was a common belief that health care should be made free for American people like in other countries. Unfortunately, that idea work out because the economy would be out of a huge amount of money damaging the country. So it would be better if health care prices were greatly lowered to be considered legit affordable by everyone instead of by a select class of people. The next thing that could serve as a resolution is the elimination of fees created for people living without health care. This solution would eliminate the argument that people are being forced to have health care which goes against The Constitution. Also it saves money for families who work hard and expect to see it Rogers 4 during tax season. For example, the people who I mentioned earlier in the paper face about 200- 300 dollars in fines for not having health care which put them in a situation where he feels like he is being forced into having something he feels he need. The elimination of health care related fines could get rid of similar situations. As stated before, the Republican party opposes the idea of the new healthcare policy forcing citizens into buying healthcare. The current healthcare act put state governors, who identified as Republican, in tough situation on whether or not to accept the act or not when first introduced. The author of the article Long March to suggests such actions when he says, Republican governors between a rock and a hard place. They want to implement a key feature of a law they oppose, but also like the feds big footing the insurance marketplace on their (Woodward, Cal. I Long March to  Http://www.cmaj.ca/content/185/1/E7.short). The elimination of fees would prevent from authorities from stepping in and basically forcing people to make a decision on healthcare. Also, it go against The Constitution which is one of the main reason the Republican party is against our healthcare situation. Eliminating fees would work for democrats also because these fees are acting as penalties for living without healthcare. Without the fees in place, more people would feel comfortable buying healthcare which in turn would help the U.S move toward the goal of being universally secured with healthcare. Rogers 5 Works Cited - bMiller, Jake. Issue Brief: Health . Cbsnews.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Republican Views On Health Care Republican . Republicanviews.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. -Woodward, Cal. I Long March to  Http://www.cmaj.ca/content/185/1/E7.short. N.p., 8 Jan. 2013. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. -Oberlander, Jonathann. The Future of  Http://www.nejm.org. N.p., 6 Dec. 2012. Web. 19 Feb. 2017 -Oberlander, Jonathan. From Obamacare to Hillarycare Health Care Reform  Http://www.nejm.org. N.p., 6 Oct. 2016. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.