Heiden 1 Connor Heiden Professor Campbell ENC 1102 14 Feb 2017 Chicken Nugget Crisis: McDonalds Vs. PETA Fried golden white piece of perfection. how id describe a chicken nugget. chicken nugget was invented in the 1950s by Robert C. Baker, a food science professor at Cornell University, and published as unpatented academic work. Dr. innovations made it possible to form chicken nuggets in any (Chicken) One of the leading innovators of the chicken nugget is McDonalds. recipe was created on commission from by Tyson Foods in 1979 and the product was sold beginning in McDonalds did switch it up however by changing the name of their product to Chicken nuggets have been a stable menu item for decades now with no signs of slowing up at all. PETA which stands for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals was created and founded in March 1980. The organization was essentially created to help fight animal abuse worldwide. slogan is animals are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other way. Both companies have stakes in one item and chickens! PETA wants to make sure that all chickens are raised and cared for properly throughout their life time whereas McDonalds is looking to move their home raised chickens as fast as possible to make the ever good tasting Chicken McNuggets. Both companies are concerned with how their chickens/livestock are being raised, slaughtered. One compromise can be CAK or controlled atmosphere killing which is much more humane. An agreement on making sure chickens are Heiden 2 raised and taken care of properly while also maintaining McDonalds chicken McNuggets craze can be done. Where do you go when you need a quick bite and your short on time, and money? First thing that comes to my mind is McDonalds! McDonalds Whether a 50-piece Chicken McNugget box or a large Big Mac has it all when it comes to a quick meal on the go. is an American burger retail joint found all over the world. All you have to do is go down the street to find one. literally one on every corner! They are famously known for their golden arches. is one of the largest restaurant chains, serving approximately 68 million customers daily in 119 countries across approximately 36,615 One of their most popular items on the menu is the Chicken McNuggets. tender, juicy Chicken McNuggets are made with 100% white meat chicken and no artificial colors, flavors and now no artificial (Product). Their food is great everyone enjoys it. As you can see McDonalds has always tried to better off their livestock for example fast-food chain with more than 14,000 restaurants in the United States has pledged to phase out the use of chickens treated with antibiotics by March Phasing out antibiotics is huge for McDonalds. More than 23,000 died from antibiotic resistant illnesses and McDonalds makes up about 3% of all the chickens bought within the US. This is just one of the steps McDonalds has took to make there chickens healthier and making sure there properly cared for.As you can tell is a pretty accomplished company in the food business. PETA which stands for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animal was created in March 1980. PETA has always been known to be a nonprofit corporation. PETA announced to have upwards of 300 employees and millions of followers worldwide. It is considered to be the largest animal rights group on the earth. PITAs main job is to make sure that animals are not abused in Heiden 3 anyway whatsoever. It reads in their slogan pretty clear. PETA has many accomplishes behind its name. in March 1980 they helped fight the experimentation on 17 Silver Spring Monkeys. The case became major open triggering an amendment to be created. It was called Animal Welfare Act. PETA is a very influential group that cares about what they believe in. it focuses on four core to factory farming, fur farming, animal testing, and animals in entertainment. It also campaigns against eating meat, fishing, the killing of animals regarded as pests, the keeping of chained backyard dogs, cock fighting, dog fighting, and (People). PETA has also recently fought hard for chicken animal rights. Recently in California PETA filed a lawsuit against California about the inhumane slaughtering laws they have in place. For example, for the Ethical Treatment of Animals also seeks to end the practice of using electrical current to stun chickens before they are killed, saying that up to a third of the birds are conscious and sensitive to pain when their throats are (PETA Sues) PETA has always fought for animal rights and they will stop at nothing until the job is finished. This is where the line is drawn in the sand though. As we all know now PETA is all about animals that abused or tortured. PETA has opened up a campaign against the golden arc giants of PETA calls it PETA states that the slaughterhouses of U.S. and Canadian chicken suppliers, birds are dumped out of their transport crates and hung upside down in metal shackles, which can result in broken bones, extreme bruising, and hemorrhaging. Workers have the opportunity to abuse live birds, and birds have their throats cut while they are still conscious. Many birds are immersed in tanks of scalding-hot water while they are still alive and able to feel (Why) however has responded with its own claims. McDonalds has recently undergone an update on certain aspects of their food quality and philosophy. March of 2015, committed to source chickens not Heiden 4 treated with antibiotics important to human medicine* in two time and McDonalds is proud of their commitment to only source cage-free eggs by 2025 in the US and Canada, a commitment that has had a ripple effect throughout the industry. Today, USA already purchases more than 13 million cage-free eggs each year, some of which are used in our freshly-cracked not only do there Chicken Nuggets taste great but they are also taking what seems to be extra precautions to the way your food is prepped and handled. Both companies are standing on similar ground. PETA wants all animals to be properly cared and treated for before they are slaughtered and McDonalds agrees with that as well but McDonalds is also worried about production numbers and making sure their product is moved and sold in a timely fashion. This situation is easily fixable. PETA and should sit down and have a meeting to discuss the cruelty happening to their chickens and how they can fix it while not ruining reputation or production numbers. One method that farmers could pick up include CAK or also known as controlled atmosphere killing. This method is much more humane for the chickens. To further explain CAK it is slaughter method PETA prefers which involves locking chickens in a room before removing all the oxygen in the air and waiting for the birds to (Josh Funk) According to PETA less cruel, USDA-approved method of chicken slaughter called controlled-atmosphere  or CAK, is now being used in the U.S., and it would cost nothing to demand that its suppliers adopt it. CAK would eliminate the worst abuses currently suffered by chickens killed for In fact, a 2005 study about CAK produced by concluded that it is far better for animals than the current slaughter (About) This would not hurt production numbers or product needs but would help them improve their chicken/animal facilities which in turn will Heiden 5 drive up sales similar to the situation where they removed antibiotics from there chickens. The company say a major increase in sales. On the other hand, PETA gets what been looking for all along. The chickens are now humanely killed. PETA would likely send out advisors to inspect the farms to make sure everything is following protocol. McDonalds would have a grace period of 5 years to completely wipe there outdated slaughtering systems. a win-win for both parties if you ask me. To Conclude, PETA wants stricter rules put into the poultry industry of whereas McDonalds mind upgrading their facilities to fit PITAS needs but they still need to worry about production and getting product out. Both stakeholders must get together and come up with a plan to change the way chickens are handled on a daily basis at McDonalds participating farms. The one condition that has would be to have to add a longer time table. A perfect example would be the cage free eggs by 2025 mark. about a 10-year period mark from right now and is perfect for production and product needs. It gives them time to slowly transition into a safer and cleaner environment for the chickens without messing up production numbers. This will also fill PITAs needs to help stop the abuse of chickens. Heiden 6 Work Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Chicken  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Commitment to Quality  Commitment to Quality N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Editorial, Mercury News. Mercury News Editorial: Limits Antibiotic Use in Chickens, and  The Mercury News. The Mercury News, 12 Aug. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. JOSH FUNK / The Associated Press. ConAgra Urges Suppliers to Consider New Method to Kill  JournalStar.com. N.p., 09 July 2006. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. PETA Sues California over Poultry Slaughter  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017.  Chicken N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Heiden 7 Why Is PETA Targeting  Why Is PETA Targeting McCruelty.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.