Buck 1 Alicia Buck Professor Campbell ENC 1102 February 13, 2017 The National School Lunch Program: Creating a Compromise The National School Lunch Program is a federally funded lunch service aimed at providing healthy lunches to over 100,000 schools around the country (Gurley 390). The supporters of the National School Lunch Program (NSLP) believe this system is essential to improving nutrition. On the other side, the proponents of the system believe the system is costly. Among the supporters is the founder of the program, The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). The USDA is a federal government agency committed to providing leadership and education on food and nutrition. The USDA feels that, due to childhood obesity rising rapidly, the NSLP should receive more funding to ensure students meet the nutritional standards outlined in the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. To contrast, a major proponent of the NSLP receiving more funding is Republican Congress. Republicans aim to loosen nutritional standards in order to cut down spending and balance the national budget. These parties both aim to serve the overall health and wellness of the American youth population. Considering this common ground, a compromise is achievable. The USDA and Republican Congress must work together to invest less in healthier school lunches and shift spending towards introducing nutrition lessons in schools. The United States Department of Agriculture has a long history assisting American farmers, protecting food safety and providing needed food assistance and nutritional education (Wallechinsky). The commitment to provide food assistance and nutritional Buck 2 education dates back to early to mid-nineteen hundred. During this time in history, America was experiencing widespread unemployment due to The Great Depression. According to the USDA this left of school children to pay for their school lunches, and limited family resources to provide meals at Therefore, in 1935, the USDA composed a deal with farmers to buy their surplus crops at a cheaper price and in return distribute them to schools to feed malnourished students. It was not until 1946 that a widespread, organized, and better funded system was devised under The National School Lunch Act. The mission as defined by the USDA was safeguard the health and well-being of the This message still holds true today as the USDA fights to increase funding and improve the nutritional standards in school systems. The USDA firmly believes nutritious school lunches lead to lower childhood obesity, increased focus in school, and overall a greater understanding of health and wellness. According to researchers from the University of Alberta, who ate an adequate amount of fruit, vegetables, protein and fiber, with less calorie intake from fat, did better on their literacy tests than those eating foods high in salt and saturated (Capano). Building upon this, a study performed by nutritionists at The School Nutrition Organization found the NSLP provided lunches that contained significantly more protein, calcium, iron, and vitamin C compared to previous school (Bergman 7). This research proves the NSLP is effective in improving nutrition standards and making a difference in lives. For these reasons the USDA strives to increase funding set aside for healthier lunches and increase nutrition standards. On the other side of the debate concerning the National School Lunch Program is the Republican members of Congress. These members are fiscally conservative and are against taking action that will cost tax payers more and increase the national debt (Lincoln). Therefore, Republican members of Congress are largely in favor of scaling back funding and nutrition Buck 3 standards of the NSLP. According to Republican member of Congress John Kline, reforms in this legislation will allow states and schools to better serve their students and families, while also ensuring taxpayer dollars are spent effectively and (Education and The Workforce). Furthermore, Congress believes the USDA should alter its nutrition standards to accommodate increased school expenses (Gurly 584). To validate this claim the School Nutrition Association (SNA), an organization of nutrition professionals, found nutritional standards were harmful to the health of school lunch programs. According to the SNA seven of every ten say that the standards have been harmful to their financial Overall, members of Republican congress are against increasing funding for healthier school lunches as it increases taxpayer spending, national debt, and places a burden on school systems. Moving forward, the USDA and Republican Congress both value the overall health and wellness of the American youth population yet, both have different views on how to do so. As already established the USDA believes in order to accomplish this goal, more funding for healthier school lunches should be mandated. On the opposing side, Republican congress believes nutritional standards should be loosened in order to allot state and local school systems economic relief when creating the lunch menu and less federal funding should be given. As polar opposite as these views may seem, there has been a long history of successful compromise between these two parties. In 2004, both parties devised a comprise to increase the nutritious quality of lunches served in schools (Gurly 393). In this compromise required schools to issue school wellness policies and provide meals for students that these requirements by authorizing the USDA to promulgate nutrition standards that schools would have to meet in order to receive federal reimbursement (Gurly 393). Or in simpler terms Congress Buck 4 allowed the USDA to create nutrition standards that schools must follow in order to receive federal reimbursement. An even larger attempt of compromise occurred in 2010 when The Healthy Hunger-Free Kids Act (HHFKA) was implemented by Congress giving the USDA the power to update fifteen-year old nutrition standards. While the act was largely accepted by Democrats in Congress, Republicans fought to oppose the HHFKA. To expand, Republicans opposed the legislations as it more, grows the federal government, and expands federal (Lincoln 1). As a result of this opposition changes were made issuing a final rule in 2012 that to reduce the cost rather than increase or maintain the (Gurley 395). Therefore, further efforts must be made to create a solution to strengthen child nutrition programs that is accepted by both groups. Building upon past attempts of compromise, one can see that a new compromise is possible. The USDA and Republican Congress were able to make great strides to improving school lunch programs as both fundamentally support the health and wellbeing of American youth. This is shown as Republican Senator Blanche Lincoln wrote Republicans support fiscally responsible solutions to strengthen nutrition (Blanche 1). This reiterates Republicans are budget conscious however support efforts to assist the health and wellness of youth. Therefore, it is clear the core of the lack of compromise is centered on spending. A viable compromise in this situation would not be an agreement to spend more or spend less as neither party would benefit. Instead spending should shift to focus on devising a system that would promote child nutrition in the classroom. In this way students would have a better understanding of nutrition and be more likely to apply this in the lunchroom and at home. Moving forward, a practical compromise is shifting spending to focusing on educating students on nutrition. This program would only be issued in public schools as private schools Buck 5 have independent interests and are not funded by the federal government. Furthermore, the system would be federally mandated requiring full compliance by the states. This would be a fair compromise because Republican Congress would agree with shifting the burden of spending away from the federal government. Likewise, the USDA would be satisfied with increased promotion and education of child nutrition in schools. In order for this compromise to be achieved, Republican Congress needs to give the USDA the power to mandate nutrition education just as they allowed them to fix nutrition standards. In continuation both groups would work together by allocating funding to employ nutrition teachers and build a curriculum. Likewise, this new system would mirror aspects employed in the HHFKA as the federal government would reimburse schools who utilize the nutrition education system. A similar nutrition education program is already being utilized in Greece and has yielded good results. According to Dina Zota, a researcher at the Institute of Preventative Medicine, there is strong correlation between educational programs on nutrition and school nutrition and health (Zota 583). In the study, participating in the nutrition education group displayed 25% higher odds of increasing the weekly consumption of milk/yoghurt and fruits and 61% higher odds of improving BMI from overweight/obese to (Zota 590). Overall, this proves a nutrition education system can be effective in reinforcing nutrition and health if applied to American schools. To conclude, both the USDA and the Republican members of Congress value the greater health of American youth. Past attempts of compromise, such as the HHFKA, have been unsuccessful in satisfying both goals effectively. Therefore, a new compromise must be devised to invest less in healthier school lunches and shift spending towards introducing nutrition lessons in schools. This compromise would benefit both parties as kids would take what Buck 6 they have learned at school about healthy eating and put it into practice in the cafeteria and at home. In the long run this compromise will strengthen nutrition and health while remaining economically sustainable. Buck 7 Works Cited Bergman, Ethan. Lunch Before and After Implementation of the Healthy Hunger-Free Kids School Nutrition Association. SNA, 2014. onHealthyHungerFreeKidsAct.pdf. Acessed 10 Feb. 2017 Education and The Workforce. Introduces Bill to Reauthorize, Reform Child Nutrition Education and The Workforce. www.edworkforce.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=400618. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017 Gurley, Kristie. For The Health Of It: How The Quantified Health Benefits Of The USDA Nutrition Standards Justify Reauthorization And Increased Funding For School Meal  Harvard Journal On Legislation 53.1 (2016): 387-415. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Acessed 24 Jan. 2017. Jalonick, Mary. bill would scale back number of free school PBS, www.pbs.org/newshour/rundown/fewer-kids-could-receive-free-school-meals-under- house-bill/. Accessed 27 January 2017. Lincoln, Blanche, Sen. The Republican  Cloakroom RSS. The Republican Cloakroom.http://repcloakroom.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=216 500 1 Dec. 2010. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017 National School Lunch Program  National School Lunch Program (NSLP) Food and Nutrition https://www.fns.usda.gov/nslp/national-school-lunch-program-nslp. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Buck 8 School Nutrition Association. Trends School Nutrition Association. SNA, 2015, www.schoolnutrition.org/uploadedFiles/Resources /SNA2015TrendsSummary.pdf. Acessed 28 Jan. 2017 Wallechinsky, David. on The U.S. Department of Department of Agriculture.http://www.allgov.com/departments/department-of- agriculture?detailsDepartmentID=568. Accessed 28 January 2017. Zota, Dina, et al. Promotion Of Healthy Nutrition Among Students Participating In A School Food Aid Program: A Randomized  International Journal Of Public Health 61.5 (2016): 583-592. PsycINFO. Acessed 29 Jan. 2017.