Nir !1 Ben Nir Harley Campbell ENC 1102 15 February 2017 Away from Captivity: Animal Rights One major topic of discussion in todays generation encompasses around animal rights and/or the ethical treatment of animals. Questions such as rights should animals and they have equal rights for their arise when talking about this controversial issue, and have been answered by many different organizations. Beginning in the middle of the 20th century, animal rights and conservation acts such as the Animal Rights Movement established many new methods of raising awareness about inhumane acts against animals. Soon enough large organizations such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) were founded and have contributed to this movement ever since. PETA has become the largest animal rights organization in the nation promoting awareness and information on the mistreatment of animals. On the other side of the conflict lies the entertainment/amusement park known as SeaWorld. SeaWorld has become a large attraction to many people around the world having multiple parks in the United States. These entertainment parks rescue and raise the wildlife as well as trains and hosts a variety of acts with these diverse species of animals. While both of these organizations, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and SeaWorld, take roles that are on opposing sides of the debate regarding the captivity of wildlife, it is possible that both organizations can settle upon creating healthier and more sanitary places for the wildlife to live while still having both groups remain satisfied. Nir !2 Beginning in 1980, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), has become the largest animal rights organization with supporters from all around the globe. PETA focuses its awareness on four main areas, one of which is the entertainment industry. The organization continually states that (parks) can most accurately be described as of interesting animals than as actual havens or because there are prevented and restricted from doing things they would in a natural habitat Pitiful In addition, The Wall Street journal had reported that in the early that of the zoos and parks are facing and are relocating and removing their older, and unwanted animals (Barnes 1). With that in mind, they stress the fact that zoos and parks would rather allocate funds to gift shops, refreshment stands etc. than to more humane environments and better conditions for the animals living there. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) allocates lots of its attention and efforts on successfully pursuing organizations/companies that contravene with legislation that has been established to protect and conserve animal rights. The organization has already came to many victories within the entertainment and amusement park businesses. In 2011, PETA sued SeaWorld for violating the Orcas constitutional rights by placing the wild- caught animals in small concrete tanks and violently taking them from the ocean as babies. This lawsuit additionally addressed that this type of captivity was slavery and the opportunity for the orcas to make conscious choices and to practice their cultural vocal, social, and foraging traditions, and are compelled to perform meaningless tricks for a reward of dead With the recent passing of the famous SeaWorld orca Tilikum, this has become a more controversial topic and has been touched upon with high regards. Although there are lots of other examples of inhumane acts of the treatment of animals around the world, Nir !3 PETA has progressively been using a peaceful and rational manner to manage their group that has proven to be successful. On the other side of the conflict lies SeaWorld, a successful chain of entertainment and amusement parks in the United States that hosts a variety of different species ranging from marine mammals to land mammals. This park not only offers the incredible acts from the close bonds the trainers and animals have together, but also rescues and provides rehabilitation centers for animals that have been stranded, injured, or sick in the wild. Additionally, the entertainment/ amusement park offers extraordinary experiences by seeing these mammals from behind glass and through hands on activities (petting etc.). As stated in their mission statement, the park basic physiological research efforts and state-of-the-art reproductive technology towards wildlife species management and Mission They perform a variety of research methods to gain an understanding of certain reproductive behaviors, learn about the social environments, as well as develop and apply conservation strategies. SeaWorld has continuously shared the commitment of for an injured animal, teaching a child about the world around them, celebrating life, in all of its magnificent and powerful and has established a home for many animals and people Our SeaWorld additionally took a large downfall after the release of the film presenting the mistreatment of their animals in captivity. In a recent article published by author, Cathleen Chen, it was stated that began moving away from its captive breeding program in (1) and has contributed to some improvements in the ways they treat and hold the animals. Nir !4 While both the organizations, PETA and SeaWorld, are at odds and seem to present different viewpoints on wildlife preservation and conservation, they still have plenty of common grounds where a compromise can be met. Both PETA and SeaWorld share similar values of protecting earths wildlife, and they have had multiple times where conflict had taken place resulting from holding these animals in captive environments. SeaWorld has already taken the initiative by stating that they increase our focus on rescue operations so that the thousands of stranded marine mammals like dolphins and sea lions that cannot be released back to the wild will have a place to (Chen 1). This not only releases some tensions between both the organizations but processes one step closer for the park to become a more humane place for animals. Although SeaWorld has taken this step forward they still have the ongoing issues of keeping many of their marine mammals in harsh environments of captivity (ex. small concrete tanks). PETA has continuously stressed this issue and has had groups and advertisements peacefully protesting against these conditions. In order for PETA to be an active supporter of SeaWorld, the entertainment park would need to allocate funds to create a larger, healthier and more sanitary place for the animals to stay. Not only would the mammals feel more comfortable, but they would also have less pressure from the environment resulting in a significant amount of stress on the animals. In turn PETA, could potentially donate to the action and form a bond with the entertainment park to further enforce acts of preservation and conservation of the wildlife around us, not only by teaching children about the wildlife around us but how WE can change and create a humane environment for all forms of life. In order for this compromise to actually occur there would be a couple steps that need to take place in advance. First off, PETA and SeaWorld would both need to sign a legal Nir !5 agreement stating that both organizations would abide by the compromise at hand. Then, SeaWorld would to do more with building bigger (Fry 1) and seek to eventually breeding orcas and start fighting other animal welfare (Fry 1). While PETA would help donate and promote this cause and ensure that the organization taking on a large downfall, as it is now. The benefits would most definitely outweigh the negatives due to the facts that after all the incidents of the wildlife deaths occurring at the park, SeaWorld has 34% of its revenues as compared to its last (Fry 1). Both PETA and SeaWorld should agree to collaborate to ensure the overall hope of promoting a humane environment for animals as well as increasing revenue to the parks as well as to animal rights. Although wildlife preservation and animal rights has a long way to go from being perfect, I believe that the compromise I proposed between the organizations, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and SeaWorld Entertainment Parks, is beneficial and presents positive outcomes for both positions. Both organizations would be effectively working together to preserve and protect animal rights while having a greater impact on the community surrounding them. Even though the compromise seems genuine and logical, there can surely be issues that persist within it between the organizations. A settlement between both organizations that is at the most basic standards is still a step in a positive direction for animal rights. Nir !6 Works Cited All About  PETA. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/learn-about- peta/>. Brooks Barnes, A Bear Market for The Wall Street Journal. 15 Feb. 2017. Chen, Cathaleen. In double win for activists, SeaWorld ends orca breeding, boosts animal  The Christian Science Monitor 2016: Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. Mission  MindComet, Inc. - Http:// www.mindcomet.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. Our  MindComet, Inc. - Http:// www.mindcomet.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Fry, Erika. Swimming  Fortune 174.4 (2016): 160-167. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. PETA Sues SeaWorld for Violating Constitutional  PETA. N.p., 14 Oct. 2013. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Zoos: Pitiful  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.