Cole 1 Rachel Cole Professor Campbell ENC 1102.089 26 January 2017 College Entry Exam Standardized testing has become a way to separate students based off their testing abilities. Standardized testing began in 1845 when Horace Mann designed and administered the first standardized test in the Boston public school district (Maranto 1). Standardized testing began to grow in popularity through the nineteenth century. 1918 and 1932 the number of standardized tests available for school use grew from 100 to more than (Maranto 3). Now standardized tests are given out every year for admission to colleges, certifications, end of course testing, advanced placement, and more. The Educational Testing Service (ETS) is a nonprofit organization designed to make and distribute tests such as the SAT, PSAT, GRE, AP and more. They believe that standardized tests should all be relatively the same to provide fair and reliable results. The National Education Association (NEA) represents teachers, faculty, and staff to ensure that public education continues to exceed. They believe that school districts should use locally developed tests instead of statewide-standardized tests. Both of these powerful organizations have one thing in common; they both want students to succeed. To resolve this issue of standardized testing, the ETS and the NEA need to come together to create a college entry test that students based on their major. A well-known college test to many is the SAT. The SAT is a college placement test that was created by an organization called ETS in 1926 ETS is a nonprofit organization founded in 1947 by three powerful organizations: the American Council on Education, the Cole 2 Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, and the College Entrance Examination Board These three nonprofit organizations came together to create a powerful organization called the ETS. strive to provide innovative and meaningful measurement solutions that improve teaching and learning, expand educational opportunities, and inform (McMahon) . This organization holds a crucial role in standardized testing by making over fifty million tests in 180 countries every year The first standardized test was created and administered in 1845 in response to public concerns about the educational system (Moulthrop 74). Parents were concerned that the teachers and the education system itself were unstructured. Now, centuries later, schools still require students to take a standardized test before being admitted to a college, for advanced placement, and in order to graduate high school. Each president presented his own version of school reform (Maranto 3). Nation at proposed by President Ronald Reagan stated that standardized tests are a critical step for evaluating the progress of students. Also, Child Left Behind and to the are all examples of presidents supporting standardizing testing (McMahon). McMahon believes that if these presidents all supported standardized testing than we should support it as well. The ETS and the NEA need to come together to create a standardized test that tests students based on their major. The NEA, founded in 1857, believes that tests should be locally produced as opposed to nationwide testing. Nationwide testing encourages teachers to only teach what the students will be tested on (McMahon). The NEA believes that testing every student on the same material is simply not fair. Every person is unique in his or her own way and they should not be punished for being bad at something Continually, Knoester stated, suggests that high-stakes standardized testing has played a negative role in the segregation of children by race Cole 3 and class in (2). Schools with lower than average test scores (typically located in poverty African American neighborhoods) are pressured to teach only the material that will be on the test to try and keep up with other schools (Knoester 3). As a result, this pressure from tests can cause an unfair advantage to low-income schools. Knoester believes that it is prejudicial to test students with the exact same material (3). In summation, each student should be tested on the material they have learned in their community and what they are good at. The NEA believes that, assessments provide better and faster feedback that helps drive real improvements in teaching and With all of that being said, the ETS and the NEA need to come together to create a test that tests students based on what they are good at and not what is considered The ETS and NEA seem to believe in two completely different things. You may wonder if these two stakeholders could ever work together. Surprisingly, they have history of working together. For example, in 2011 the ETS and the NEA posted a twenty-seven-page report on how to increase teacher diversity They are both powerful organizations and although they do not agree about the topic of standardized testing, there is potential that the conflict will be resolved because they have worked together in the past. Their common ground is that they both want students and their organizations to succeed in the long run. If the ETS and the NEA come together to create the CET exam they will accomplish their goal of student success. The ETS and the NEA need to come together to create a college entry test that students based on their major. According to Natasha Bertrand, students do better in sections of the SAT based on their majors (1). For example, 12,934 students that major in mathematics or statistics scored an average of 613 on the math section, but got an average 535 on reading, and an average 533 on writing (Bertrand 1). Colleges should know what the student they are viewing is Cole 4 good at relative to their major. The other scores matter, but that should not be part of their college entry exam. They can call it the new College Entry Test (CET) and the test can be based on five subject fields. The five subjects are: mathematics, reading, writing, science and history. The subjects are broadly based on the students major. If a student is unsure what he or she wants to major in then they can take a standard CET exam. The standard CET exam can tell them what they are good at, which is similar to the SAT test. If they choose a major they can retake the CET exam and send both results to the college. If a student wants to change their major once they have already been admitted, they can retake the CET exam relating to their new major and the college can choose whether they still want that student. Once CET becomes more popular, they can create even more specific tests for the students. The NEA will benefit by having a test more specific to students and the subjects they are good at. The ETS will benefit by increasing its variety of tests. Both the NEA and the ETS will benefit because their organizations will grow and become more popular. However, the ETS and the NEA will have to come up with questions for a new test that will take some time. The NEA will not have tests that are locally developed but they will have tests that are unique to a major. They ETS will not benefit as much from the SAT because the CET will take over. Both stakeholders need to come together to accomplish their ultimate goal: that students will learn and succeed. In conclusion, standardized testing has been around since the nineteenth century and is constantly changing but its idea is out of date. Standardized testing was proposed because it gave teachers a curriculum to teach instead of having no direction to teach students. Standardized testing became very popular and is now used for end of course exams, advanced placement tests, and college entry tests. The ETS and the NEA feel it has become out of hand and that teachers were only teaching what would be on the test. Now they need to steer towards CET exams Cole 5 instead of other college placement exams. With the new CET exam, teachers will all teach as much as know and students can take their specific test. The NEA and ETS can come together and compromise for the sake about standardized testing. If the ETS were to create subject tests for students it would fix the issue of students taking tests that are not meant for their unique abilities. This will change the way students study throughout their years of schooling. They only really need to focus on the subject that they are good at. Cole 6 Works Cited Bertrand, Natasha. the Average SAT Score for Every College Business Insider, 24 Oct. 2014, accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Knoester, Matthew and Wayne Au. Standardized testing and school segregation: like tinder for Race Ethnicity and Education, Jan. 2017. Vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 1-14, accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Maranto, Julie. Effect of Standardized Testing on Historical Literacy and Educational Reform in the ERIC, 2015. Vol. 3, pp.1-8, accessed 23 Jan. 2017. McMahon, Issitt. Salem Press Encyclopedia, Jan. 2016, accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Moulthrop, Robert. Issues and Peabody Journal of Education, Jan. 1981. Vol. 58, no.2, pp. 72-83, accessed 23 Jan.2017. ETS. https://www.ets.org/about/who/heritage/, 2017. of Standardized ETS. 2017. NEA. http://www.nea.org/home/59488.htm, 2015.