Rob del Castillo ENC 1102 2/21/17 Mariama Changamire Analyzing Stakeholder Imagery The main objective between both advertisement photos is that Monsanto wants to implement the idea of biotechnology and this can be seen within both pictures. Monsanto is an organization that attempts to deregulate as much biotechnology as possible. The first picture includes a picture of a mom playing with her baby and this may appear to have no concern for agriculture what so ever, yet Monsanto wants to further public support of biotechnology and they attempt this by showing that human society is in their best interest as well as the future generations to come(child). Through inductive reasoning, Monsanto is a biotechnological organization and through agriculture poverty is something that is in the back of minds. Their slogan dream is not a Monsanto idea but the depiction of the whole idea and they also choose to include the sub text that chooses to explain St. Louis agriculture and how their agriculture is only improved thanks to Monsanto; to improve our world for better for the most part. In the picture both the mom and baby are smiling and playing, showing that they are both unworried and the woman can raise her kid comfortably in an environment Monsanto assists in, through this idea biotechnology is subconsciously implemented into the minds of the public that this is the byproduct of biotechnology. This picture also has the architectural arc in the image showing that the health is at concern. There are also lots of trees and green plants included in this picture to show that Monsanto means no harm to nature, they simply just want to improve it. The image is saying that with the use of biotechnology the plants will thrive and prosper without harm to bio life and the architecture will remain. Monsanto supports their argument to the farmers of St. Louis that biotechnology is best for society through visual imagery of happy, healthy families portrayed in the beautiful, intact city of St. Louis. In both images a yellow filter is added to change the overall coloring of both images. Yellow is associated with feelings of with the power of knowledge, it is also associated with the left side of the brain, more specifically the logical side. Yellow also stimulates our mental faculties and creates mental agility and perception. Monsanto purposefully choses this yellow filter to inflict mental thought within the viewer. Through this yellow filter, the viewer is overwhelmed with a plethora of emotion. The best combination with this yellow filter that inflicts emotion are the citizens in both pictures appearing to smile and laugh. This successful transfer their emotion to the viewer using a yellow filter. Also, Monsanto wants their best interest (which is biotechnology) to appear as the smartest agricultural option possible. Yellow induces the thought that biotechnology is a smart choice on behalf. Monsanto wants people to view their ad and think through use of the yellow filter. They want viewer to think the biotechnology is logically a good option through the visuals they choose to include; more specifically positivity endorsing this organization. The filter yellow also endorses mental perception and Monsanto really wants the viewer to think logically about biotechnology instead of feel, because the idea of biotechnology is easier accept once it is though as a logical option rather than something that just emotional fitting. Within image two the argument made by Monsanto is that Monsanto is a company that works together in collaboration with society. The slogan they chose to use was work together and the fine print under explains how Monsanto devotes their time and funding towards helping the farmers of St. Louis whenever they can; which is in turn supporting families that are independent and providing a large sum of agriculture to St. Louis. In the image, it shows a pregnant woman harvesting crops and another man and a woman helping with the harvesting of the crops. The idea of a pregnant lady harvesting crops is a difficult concept to grasp since those who are pregnant should not be laboring but the visual implication has much further meaning. The fact that A woman is smiling while pregnant during harvesting of agriculture shows her upmost trust within the crops to feed her the nutrients for her child. This implies that biotechnology will always be invested in the health of society as they proceed with biotechnology. Monsanto is saying through this that they will never overdo biotechnology to the point where it can harm pregnant women and their babies within their womb. For both pictures, it has the phrase at the bottom St. Louis grown. Monsanto wants to appear to be at the side of the independent farmers of St. Louis and the way they classify their products is by labeling them as St. Louis grown. Monsanto attempts to persuade the appeal of independent farmers that uses seeds that are not patented by Monsanto. Monsanto attempts to become friends with their only enemies, the farmers that do not use patented seeds. In the picture, all citizens harvesting the crops have a smile on their face showing that they are pleased to help each other out and more importantly, harvesting of crops is something done in happy manner. The guy wears a hat in attempt to be a physical representation of the organization of Monsanto itself, depicting the Monsanto is an organization that makes harvesting of agriculture simpler, and that they are pleased to extend a helping hand. In the background of the picture there are the buildings of St. Louis shows that the picture was taken in St. Louis; the area of primary concern. The more important note to this is people logically know that agriculture is not done this close to the city. But it provides subtle hinting that a large majority. There are also lots of green plants in shot which shows that agriculture interest is to leave the environment unharmed and through use of bioengineering different plants can survive. Overall, these photos graze the idea the Monsanto has the best interest of St. Louis agriculture in a very positive way which intern helps back main goal which is gain support for biotechnology. Both photos that Monsanto use as their advertisements are shot in tilt-shift photography style. The use of tilt-shift photography is to implement selective focus or more often for the use of capturing or simulating a miniature scene. Through use of a tilt- shift capture because Monsanto wants to encompass multiple aspects of the photo for example the green plants within the shot, the happy faces on the families and volunteers faces, as well as the infrastructure within St. Louis. Monsanto displays citizens happily engaged with their environment with lots of plant life surrounding them, as well as containing St. well known areas and architecture that helps identify St. Louis by occupying much up of the shot. It almost seems as if Monsanto is trying to un antagonize themselves, by trying to make them seem like a good organization that society can trust. Monsanto wants us to trust all agriculture in their hands and even if that means heavy bioengineering within the foods we trust to provide our nutrients.