Leguizamon 1 Sebastian Leguizamon Adam Phillips ENC1102-022 25 February 2017 Quest for Liberty and Justice for All The words Liberty and Justice for which are uttered by millions of Americans everyday, represents the foundation of the ideals by which our nation was founded upon, the idea that Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness can be achieved by all who live within the borders of this nation. However, MALDEF, an organization created to protect the rights of immigrants, specifically Latino immigrants, believes that there are immigrants in this nation who are not getting the treatment that those powerful words promise. Through the use of several rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, and pathos, MALDEF is able to persuade and inform the audience about what they stand for and how they intent to achieve their goals in two images found on their website. The first image shows the MALDEF logo being surrounded by hands of different races, as if uniting around the organization itself. On the bottom of the image, it says the words And Justice for The second image is an advertisement for members who are running for an elected position, as well as their endorsements for the ballot in the state of California. MALDEF was founded in 1968, a time in which civil rights were at the forefront of American politics. It was established to promote social change and equality for Latino immigrants. Sometimes called law firm of the Latino (para 1) their strategy is to take a legal approach to achieve their goals. MALDEF strives to bring the issues facing the Leguizamon 2 Latino community to mainstream of American political and socio-economic (MALDEF para 2). Also, referred to as of the most influential Hispanic advocacy groups in the United they have had their influence in several important legal cases, none bigger than the 2006 U.S. Supreme court case of Plyer v. Doe. With the help of lawyers, the Supreme Court ruled to strike down on a Texas law that made parents of undocumented children pay for public education. This victory ensured that the doors of schools all throughout the nation would remain open to all children regardless of their legal status in this country. MALDEF is currently ran by President Antonia Hernandez, Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund a Mexican American who handles a budget of 5 millions dollars and a staff of 75 people. She holds the responsibility of promoting the rights of close to million Latinos living in the United Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund  Ethos refers to the credibility or trustworthiness of the speaker. In the first image, MALDEF uses a quote from the pledge of allegiance. JUSTICE FOR (image 1) The adding of this quote may not seem like a huge deal, but in reality, it shows their seriousness to their goal of protecting the rights of all who seek their legal help. All the while showing respect to the very values that this country was founded upon. And considering they mainly work as a law firm of sorts, the fact that they abide and respect the law of the land attracts immigrants who may not be very knowledgeable about their rights in this country. The second image is an advertisement put out by MALDEF stating that they have announced and endorsements on California ballot (image 2) If they wanted to build up their credibility to their target audience, this is the way to do so. With the announcement that some their members are running for positions on the ballot for California and their endorsements, once Leguizamon 3 again shows that they are serious about achieving their goal. They do not just preach about change and equality, but they act upon it and put in effort to make a difference by getting involved in politics, actually making a change. Not only do they establish themselves as a credibly enough organization that their endorsements should be acknowledged by people, but they are serious contenders to get someone from their organization elected into office in the largest and most powerful state in the nation. Pathos refers to the feelings that are evoked by the images. The first image shows a visual of the MALDEF logo surrounded by hands of people. These hands are from people of different races, uniting around the MALDEF logo. If the hands were all one color, the image would send a different message. But since they are from different races, it clearly states that anyone from any race or background can rally around MALDEF and the values that they stand for. This makes the audience feel a certain unity and that MALDEF is fighting for a cause that anyone could get behind. Unlike other organizations who try to be divisive and hateful in their rhetoric, MALDEF shows that they want the complete opposite from that with that image. Logos refers to the logical appeal of the images. The first image builds its logic by combining the quote from the Pledge of Allegiance, and the image of the hands surrounding their logo. It is only logical the support, or at least respect an organization that advocates and fights for the unity and fair treatment of people regardless of legal status or background (Image of hands surrounding logo), and that follows and respects the basic values set forth by our founding fathers (Quote from the Pledge). The second image implements logos by arguing once again that it is only logical to take them seriously since they are a respected organization. An organization with credibility is a logical one to go to or to trust. By showing that they have members of MALDEF that are running for office in California, and that they have their endorsements set, Leguizamon 4 MALDEF indirectly shows that they are a logical choice by building up their credibility to the public. In their advertisements found on their website, MALDEF uses rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, and logos to convey their message and show people that they are a serious, and caring organization. The idea that all men are created equal shows the values by which this nation was built on. An idea that promotes unity, equality, and the fair treatment of all who live within the borders of this nation. According to MALDEF however, the immigrant portion of the population faces injustices that go against the values that our founding fathers had intended for all of us. MALDEF is an organization founded in 1968 with the intentions of putting the grievances and injustices that immigrants go through, in the forefront of American politics by using a legal approach to tackle the injustices that they face on a daily basis. With a concentration in the Latino community, they have become a voice for many people who would usually not have one. Since their conception, they have prided themselves with fighting for the immigrants in the court room and have built a reputation of winning. Leguizamon 5 Works Cited Discover the Networks. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mission  MALDEF: Mission Statement. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund  The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Leguizamon 6