Chen 1 Qile Chen ENC1102. 908S17 Mariama M. Changamire 3/1/17 Immigration in the US The issue of immigration can be defined to serve as one of the pressing the US crises. Cases of immigration are in most cases triggered by different factors such as political instability, the need to access better support services as well as increased cases of insecurity. This led to the contradiction between the immigrant and the American people. The American Immigration Council (AIC) serves the role of creating awareness as well as facilitating collaboration activities centered at addressing the issue (Center). AIC refers to a non-profitable organization that was established in 1987 to help ensure that all immigrants receive justice. One of the significant contributions has been highlighting ways through which immigrants can positively contribute to making US great again. The paper will feature two visual impressions show that the US immigrants helped US economy a lot, but they get their due, the status. In the first image, AIC creates the impression that the immigrants can contribute to the improvement of the economic development of the USA. The images feature states such as California, Texas, Florida, New York and Illinois and highlight the amount of revenue generated by each state. However, it is worth to note that the source of income Chen 2 is from undocumented immigrant households during the year 2010. From the figures, the highest tax collection was recorded in the state of California. It is imperative noting that such revenues could be used to improve the delivery of social amenity services as well as to finance development programs in the region. Also, they always use blue as the background, it makes people feel they are very professional and convincing. In the second picture, here we can see they still use blue as the background. All percentages are magnified, shows the power of the data, make people believe that they do a lot of research. the AIC organization aims to create an impression of the setting of the American individuals in Utah. The image indicates that Utah provides a home to 236, 954 people. 8.2 % of the total number of people in Utah comprises foreigners while 15.6% of the populations living in Utah are either of Asian or Latino origin. The image features elements such as the number of entrepreneurs in Utah, the number of potential voters in the region, the number of parents as well the economic contributors in the area. It implies that the image seeks to give an illustration of ways through which the immigrants have assumed different important roles in the region. It is thus incorrect to argue that immigrants are a liability to the American economy. From the featured elements, they can also help to propel the economic development of the USA. Chen 3 The image has the effect of appealing to the concerned government agencies to reduce cases of discrimination or biases on the immigrants (Dixon, 2016). The message is passed through highlighting the positive contribution of the immigrants in different primary states. Elements of Pathos are indicated by highlighting the real instances of contributions of the immigrants. Through such setting, the audiences can evaluate the stereotypes or acts leveled against the immigrants in contrast to their economic contribution to the highlighted states. Some states are recorded to have total revenue generation of more than $2.7 million dollars. It would thus be unfair to subject the immigrants to cases of discriminations since they can contribute in nation building activities. It is important to offer equal opportunities just like it is the case with other groups in the USA. Elements of Logos tend to make an appeal to both logic and reason. It implies that the arguments that immigrants are an economic burden to the country are ill-informed. From the featured figures, it indicates that immigrants can fuel economic developments in a country as well as facilitate the delivery of social amenity services. Elements of Kairos are incorporated through leaving some of the states unaccounted. It brings the perception that the government ought to make quick changes to help improve levels of revenue generation in other areas. Other than the listed states, there is also the likelihood that other states in the USA would contribute to the income generation activities. Harnessing the contributions of the immigrants in different parts of the USA would thus serve to improve the rate of economic and social developments. It is such measures that would trigger improved quality of life among all Americans. The second picture has featured ethos in its content. The image gives an impression of all the sensitive areas and the number of immigrants contributing to such areas. The implication of the presentation is that it intrigues the mind of the audiences and government agencies to be Chen 4 responsible for the matters relating to immigrants as well as treat them in human conditions. There is the credibility of the argument as immigrants are painted to be involved in activities such as voting processes, business activities and other areas. Under pathos, the positive contribution of the immigrants as featured in the image has the effect of appealing to the emotions of the concerned individuals. Rather than discriminating on the immigrants, there are given the view that immigrants may also be of great aid to the country. The third element is logos. It is evident that the image has considerably featured logics and facts that seek to address the held stereotypes. The image indicates that Utah would lose more than $2.3 billion in cases where undocumented immigrants were removed. Having such facts make the concerned authorities to weight the impact of their moves (James, 2014). The next important element is alludes to the timelines of the information featured in the images. Under the concept, the image highlights the need to respond to the issue of immigrants with great urgency. Failure to have such changes is painted to have significant implications on the economic and social structures of the country. The images offer a contract of the contribution by immigrants versus the widely-held views. One of the widely-held beliefs is that immigrants are unskilled and less committed to engaging in national activities. The argument is contradicted by highlighting some of the positive performances and participation in national activities such as elections. From the featured images, it is evident that AIC has substantially integrated its mission in the contents of the images. The mission of the organization to improve the life of the immigrants through offering and ensuring that their access justice. The group has equally engaged in numerous campaigns that seek to indicate that immigrants can equally contribute towards the development of the economic structures in the USA. Doing so has the benefit of minimizing the Chen 5 preference of stereotypes that are issued against the group (Dixon, 2016). From the indicated features, the AIC has played a significant role in fighting for the rights of the immigrants. Although there exists the central role to protect national values as well as boost security structures, it is vital to be sensitive to challenges affecting immigrants. In a setting where the group is availed with the necessary support structures, it is possible to register improved developments. Based on their past performances, the group does not lead to increased dependency ratio. On the contrary, it has resulted in increased revenue generation and greater participation in national activities. In short, it is vital to support the undertakings of the organization to protect the rights of the immigrants, immigrants should get the identity, because they paid a lot. Chen 6 Worked Cites Center, Immigration Policy. American Immigration Council.  Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Provides Protections for Immigrant Women and Victims of Crime. Retrieved March 20 (2012). Dixon, Timothy W. An Examination of the Myths Surrounding Undocumented Peoples in America, and the Ethics of Immigration Reform in the US  (2016). Hollifield, James, Philip Martin, and Pia Orrenius. Controlling immigration: A global perspective. Stanford University Press, 2014.