Jones 1 Kiemon Jones Prof. Mariama Changamire ENC 1102. 1 st March 2017 Should Marijuana be Legalised? Although Marijuana was dubbed as a drug which is detrimental to health in previous years the plant is recently becoming accepted as a medicinal herb with a lot of major benefits. This newfound acceptance has created the opportunity for legalization and integration in many places across the world, including here in the United States. The organization, NORML (National Organisation for the Reform of Marijuana Laws) is strongly in support of the legalisation of Marijuana for adults (ages 21+). The mission is to move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and affordable. NORML was founded in the 1970 and during the 1970s, NORML led the successful efforts to decriminalize minor marijuana offenses in 11 states and significantly lower marijuana penalties in all others.(www.norml.org) The organisation uses many different forms of advertising including radio ads, print ads and outdoor ads. The three forms of advertising mentioned help appeal to different types of audiences who may read or listen to the information provided by NORML. Information includes offers to help join with NORML in the for legalization as well as promotion of marijuana benefits. The two images used are print ads created by NORML are advertising the positives of marijuana as well as trying to persuade people who read them to have a positive opinion on the plant if it positive before. The pictures try to evoke a sense of empathy in persons who do not know how marijuana smokers are treated. Even if the aspect of evoking empathy is not successful it enables people to think about issue and can Jones 2 therefore develop and opinion on the topic whether positive or negative. NORML aims to effectively gain support on the legalization of marijuana by incorporating two visual images implying the criminalization of marijuana as injustice and yet still prevalently used by prestigious individuals. The first image seen above was found on the website (www.norml.org) and also includes the logo. The image depicts a person behind prison bars dressed in green while the background is in the hue of the United flag. The color green, relates to the fact that the poster is about a marijuana, which associates him with the plant and the colors of the flag try to create the impression that an American has been jailed which is ironic because natives of the United States dub their country as land of the The image also attempts to make users feel sympathetic towards marijuana users who are imprisoned for using the drug. The photo can also cause people to question morality on the basis of the reasoning of why the substance is banned in the first place since people (like the person depicted in the picture) claim to be victims of injustice. According to the Drug Policy Alliance, the number of people arrested for a marijuana law violation in 2015 was 643,121. As well as the number of those charged with marijuana law violations who were arrested for possession only was 574,641 (89%). (www.drugpolicy.org) Jones 3 For readers whom did not know that marijuana was not legal in most places, the poster above, can inform users of this fact and also have people contemplate on whether the reasoning for the plant being illegal is logical or not. The image also uses a rhetorical question, you get involved in the drug war who this can educate readers that a drug war is on-going and can help them establish an opinion on the topic. According to the Drug Policy Alliance, the number of states that allow medical uses for marijuana includes 28 as well as the District of Columbia. (www.drugpolicy.org) This statistic proves the drug war statement to be true as only 28 states out of 50 have the herb legalised for medical uses only which means mission is far from completed. Additionally, the rhetorical question used in this image, you get involved in the drug war who creates the impression that readers need to develop an opinion on the issue because this is a pressing topic in the society at the present moment in time. The fact that the image depicts a person in jail for the drug also emphasizes the aspect and can therefore make readers immediately think about the topic at hand. Since jail/prison is one of the most common punishments for violating governmental law this makes the issue relatable because most people who have been to jail most likely do not want to return as well as people generally do not want to go to jail. The fact that the smoker also feels he is innocent can speak on the terms of morality because no one would like to be unfairly punished. Jones 4 The second image uses an image of a politician to endorse their agenda to readers. The image also has the words bet I did and I enjoyed coming from the mouth to clarify the politician condones marijuana use and in fact is a user himself. This can then influence non-users to create a positive opinion on the plant or even to start using the plant because of the prestige of the person endorsing the herb. The use of color blue also evokes a sense of trustworthiness to the reader. While the use of green in the background of the photo of the helps to associate him with the use of plant which is in fact green. The photo is of the CEO Michael Bloomberg whom is the founder, CEO, and owner of Bloomberg L.P., the financial software, data, and media giant as well as three-term mayor of New York City. This endorsement by such a highly successful and prestigious individual can make people question the proposed limitations of the drug as well as the general stigma that it has. This can also highlight the acronym, NORML as the pronounciation sounds the same as which can imply that it is normal to use marijuana. It is also argued that marijuana does not cause any harm to a brain in comparison to alcohol. As well as the fact that they have been no deaths because of the use of marijuana or none due to overdose of marijuana as opposed to alcohol. (www.mpp.org) The comparison to alcohol Jones 5 draws the question as to why the drug has been criminalized because of its harm while a legalized substance has much more severe as well as fatal side effects. In conclusion, the two images attempt to imply as well as encorporate the organization, mission statement as well as its goals in a visual form. It has been found that all of what can be physically seen in the images all translate from the same agenda which is to question the fact that marijuana has not been legalized. While one of the images mainly targets the injustice perspective of the topic the other speaks to the reasoning of the basis of why it has been banned but both successfully encompass the goals. (1219 words) Jones 6 Works Cited http://norml.org/about/intro http://www.drugpolicy.org/drug-war-statistics http://www.alternet.org/drugs/seven-successful-ceos-smoke-pot https://www.mpp.org/marijuana-is-safer/