Professor Roth ENC 1101 1/25/17 Prison: Punish or Perfect? Today we face a crisis not many people are talking about. Over 67% of criminals reoffend three years after they are released back into society, and 76% reoffend after five years. (Nation Institute of Justice) If significantly more than half of the criminals getting convicted and sentenced to prisons are just ending right back up in there after they are released, the system must be broken. This is strictly an American problem, which is what makes me believe that the issue is the way our prison system runs. In Norway, the recidivism rate, or lack thereof, is just shocking. At just 20% Norway holds the title of having the lowest recidivism rate in the world. (Business insider) This is because the Norwegian government was completely aware that most of the crimes being committed were being committed by the same people repeatedly, and they decided to take action. Finland turned around their prison system entirely. During the 1960s it had one of the highest incarceration rates in the world. They dropped the reoffending rate by 20% by changing to an open prison system. (PRI) In an open prison system, inmates are under minimal supervision, and sometimes even allowed to have job. (dictionary.com) The governments of Finland and Norway decided that focusing on rehabilitation of the prisoners as opposed to being a merely punitive institution would be more fruitful, and a change the United States made years ago. This raises the question, why is the United States still using the same flawed, ineffective system? Langelid, Torfinn. Journal of Correctional  Ways of Building Bridges With the Community: Prison Education in Norway 7 (2000): 119-24. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This journal discusses the previous issues with the Norwegian prison system. Their system was previously almost identical to ours. A huge emphasis on punishment, and almost none on reform. It also focuses on the positive impact when Norway made the switch to reformative prisons. The statistics about recidivism rates after making the change to a less punitive prison system are truly staggering. Just another reason America needs to change as well. Reed, Austin, and Caleb Smith. The life and the adventures of a haunted convict. New York: Random House, 2016. Print. This book details the experience of an African American man in prison. The story begins in his childhood when he gets locked up inside The House of Refuge, first juvenile detention center. It then goes into his adulthood and about the many ways he was tortured in prison as an adult. Austin prison experience took place in the 1840s-60s. Even then the American prison system was flawed and in desperate need of reformation. Prisoners were whipped, beaten, and then thrown in solitary confinement. At some points our Author was chained up and whipped to the point of blacking out. The issue is, after been through all this not afraid to go back. Which just raises one question, if it work, why are we still doing it? Durose, Matthew R., Alexia D. Cooper, and Howard N. Snyder.  National Institute of Justice. N.p., 17 June 2014. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. This article lists many eye-opening statistics about the American prison system and abysmally high rates of recidivism. It discusses the issues with the prisons in this country and the study is of 405,000 prison inmates across 30 states. This article is relevant because the statistics set up the research question, and the entire argument in general. Sterbenz, Christina. Why prison system is so  Business Insider. Business Insider, 11 Dec. 2014. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the Norwegian prison system, how and why it works, and lists statistics about the low recidivism rates in Norway compared to America, which has one of the highest recidivism rates in the world. This article is relevant because it conveys the point this paper is bringing up. Open  Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. This is where I got the definition for an open prison