Jonah Devoy Sara Roth ENC1101 2/19/2017 Funding of planned parenthood Out of our global population, half are comprised of women. In the entity of politics however, less than twenty percent serve in the United States Congress, Senate, and house of representatives. Woman play an important role in our society that most Americans fail to see. For centuries, the role of the female has been to marry a man, and be a stay home mom that takes care of the kids and household chores. However, this is not the case for many. They have contributed to being the driving force of our economy and society, allowing for a safe and productive country. Even so, they are still looked down upon by many men. The number of people who think they have a say over what woman should do with their lives and bodies are astonishing. According to CNN, up to fifty-eight Americans oppose abortion, and forty percent want to see planned parenthood defunded. The problem with this is the amount of good planned parenthood does for women. Those who want it to be defunded tend to speak out of ignorance and understand the purpose of planned parenthood. Its purpose is not to just serve women a safe way to go through with abortions, planned parenthood also provides health care, and they educate women on how to live healthy lives. Now I ask the million-dollar question, should planned parenthood continue to be funded? For adolescent girls worldwide, unsafe and complications during pregnancy is the leading cause of death. Nearly 70,000 deaths occur annually for these poor girls in undeveloped countries. According to the World Health Organization, 47,000 adolescent teens pass each year from unsafe abortion practices. a total of 117,000 easily preventable deaths each year. To put into perspective, the city of Cape Coral, Florida has a population of roughly 100,000. So, in terms, if the population was full of adolescent girls, every single person would be dead, and then another 17,000, which is the size of a small town. These unsafe pregnancies and abortions are caused by either ignorance with religious practices, or the unavailable funding to proceed with safe practices, which mainly take place in underdeveloped countries. However, Planned Parenthood has been on a mission for forty years to provide safe contraceptives for women and provide care for women in situations where they need help or treatment in childbirth or abortions. So now we ask the question, should Planned Parenthood be defunded? Should the 725,00 women in undeveloped countries each year who Planned Parenthood helps each year not receive help and risk their lives with unsafe practices? For the uneducated or ignorant, how can you argue against the facts? Weighing out the cost and benefits of Planned Parenthood, it obvious that funding should be continued. Parenthood, Planned. Abortion Information What are your  Information What are your Options? N.p., 07 July 2016. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. There are many options when an abortion is needed, and planned parenthood provides ethical decisions for women in need. Something that most people understand is that three out of ten women have an abortion by the time they are forty-five. Planned parenthood also provides two optional methods of abortion, an in-clinic procedure or an abortion pill. Because some teens are under eighteen when they become impregnated they are unable to get an abortion if they have at least one or both parents consent, they mandate an order from a judge to continue. With restrictions under the new presidency, defunding planned parenthood wont enable struggling teens or women to get the abortion that they need. The three tenths however, also account for the needed abortions in third world countries where women receive unsafe abortions. Because they will receive these unsafe abortions and contraceptive practices, their chances of death are raised dramatically; the result of planned parenthood being prevented from taking action. Get Facts About the Procedure and  EMedicineHealth. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Up until 1965, abortion was still an illegal practice within the United States. When realized in early 1965 however that 256 women died of illegal abortions alone, and 20% of pregnancy complications in California and New York were caused by abortions, it was taken to the supreme court in Griswold v Connecticut. Prior to the decision of the case to allow women to receive an abortion by their healthcare professional, several questions had to be asked. These involved the subjects of rape victims, public funding, and the age of the women pleading for an abortion. They made the decision that the ethical and moral thing to do was to allow these women in need to make the choice for themselves, to keep the fetus, or have it safely removed. Now jump to 2017; fifty-two years later and planned parenthood is under attack and is in the process of being abolished by ignorant and unjust politicians with crooked prospects. Years of support and work done by doctors whom help women attain safe contraceptive practices will be dust in the wind, forgotten as a wave of unsafe abortions and other procedures are performed under unqualified individuals that have the high possibility of posing a threat to a health or life. The decision to allow abortion to be practiced in the United States has been only beneficial, and hopefully the fifty-two years it was accepted, will grow on to fifty-three. World Health  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. A study by the WHO and Guttmacher Institute, it was recorded that eighty-eight percent of all abortions take place in developing countries. This clearly means that abortion needs to be a continually funded project. The amount of abortions provided in the United States has fallen slightly over the past seven years, where as the number of abortions in developing countries has risen, and is projected to only rise. There still needs to be assistance in the U.S. even though there is a decline of the need for abortions, and with the rise of needed abortions in developing countries, Planned Parenthood need to give them the help that they need. There has been an incline of unplanned pregnancies in these countries that result in unsafe abortions due to reasons such as unsafe sex, rape, and poor knowledge on highly needed medical procedures. These problems are another incentive to keep Planned Parenthood funded. Just because there is a decline of needed abortions in the United States, does not mean to stop safe abortions from reaching those in need. Abortion Just  Abortion Just Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. There are two schools of thought involving abortion. The two are expressed as pro-life or pro- choice. Individuals whom are pro-life want to abolish abortions, and usually Planned Parenthood altogether. They also use terms such as or when the correct word is fetus or embryo. An interesting tidbit given by the article is how it tells in the ruling of Row v Wade, the Democratic party stance was in favor of providing women with tax payer funded abortions, as stated, supports a decision to have a child by ensuring access to and availability of programs for pre- and post-natal health care, parenting skills, income support, and caring adoption Whereas the Republican stance was totally against abortion and removal of the fetus, as stated, all have a moral obligation to assist, not to penalize, women struggling with the challenges of an unplanned pregnancy. Every effort should be made to work with women considering abortion to enable and empower them to choose I find both sides interesting because the Democratic side is absolutely for abortion, (presumably Planned Parenthood) and encourages to fund it fully with money. The Republican stance however is to not remove the unborn child and cause its death because they want every person to have a chance at life, but almost disregard the notion that the female also has precious life and should have the liberty to make decisions involving her conception completely up to her. One more reason Planned Parenthood needs to be continued to be funded. They make the attempt to educate all parties on making the safe and right choice. Abortion Incidence and Service Availability In the United States,  Guttmacher Institute. N.p., 07 Feb. 2017. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In 2014, an astounding 926,200 abortions were performed in the United States alone. almost 2,537 abortions performed every day for a year. That said, between the years 2008 and 2011, there was a thirteen percent drop in abortions. Reasoning may be the use of protection and heightened education of younger women on pregnancies and safe sexual practices. It also has to do with the decrease in funding of institutions that provide abortions to women. When you have a decrease in the ability to provide abortions and other types of medial help for women in that area, women are less prone to getting the procedure done causing a rise in population in well developed countries because its shown that women just keep the child, regardless of how the child was conceived. In undeveloped countries, unsafe practices will continue to be done. Its already shown that the lack of help in these areas, primarily in South American and Indonesian villages, young women are more affected by the decline of assistance and are forced to have unsafe contraceptive practices. Planned Parenthood, with more funding, would be able to get to all the areas of need to give proper medical assistance to young pregnant women. Slick, Matt. Christian Apologetics & Research  CARM Christian Apologetics & Research Ministry. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. viewed all points to why as safe abortions should be widely accepted and practiced, what about the opposing view? According to Christian author Matt Slick, primary reason abortion is wrong is that God said we are not to The baby in the womb has not yet sinned, so why should the innocent child be put to death? We look down upon the Nazis in Germany for the mass genocide to the innocent Jews, why should we not look down upon mothers who kill their innocent babies? Why are they unworthy of life and why should they have their chance to breath stripped from their undeveloped hands before they get the chance to make decisions on their own? Well Matt Slick, you make an interesting point. God may have said not to murder, but if the female dies in the process of giving birth to a child, life holds more value? God also said gluttony is a sin, but the demand for overweight people to be persecuted is not even seen as a rational thought in society, so having a double-sided argument about abortions and Planned Parenthood is almost a funny thing. Visiting the Planned Parenthood website will help you understand its purpose and helpful mission, but it will be unattainable if defunding continues to happen.