Raymond 1 Joel Raymond Professor K. Luce ENC 1101 2/11/2017 The Cost of Higher Education The cost of higher education has been a regarded issue for many aspiring college graduates in recent years and deserves the attention of action or explanation. There are many supplementary factors to the gradual increase in tuition, a strive to provide more for students in some cases and poor fiscal uses and planning in others. Historically state colleges were meant to be an affordable means of higher education with an appraisal anywhere from $200-$5000 yearly only 3 decades ago regardless of residency, now as many post-secondary students are aware this number has been drastically amplified. We can attest this amplification to other historical events that caused this inflation, the question now is how do we reduce this price rise and return to an affordable quote for state universities? Graglia, Lino. High Costs And  Academic Questions 24.2 (2009): 181. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 18 Jan. 2017. A detailed account of the rise in student tuition and its causes as it pertains to well known law schools across the nation. The article begins with a personal example of how costs were more affordable a generation ago and continues by establishing several reasons for this surge in price, some more reasonable than others. The author goes on to contribute more of this cost to a colleges need to stay financially relevant as an employer, providing a salary that is competitive to real world field occupations in order to attract the very best educators. As the article comes to a close it narrows its focus to law schools specifically and how lawmakers and the American Bar Association attribute to the inflated rates of becoming a lawyer. This article gives us a detailed analysis of the reasons that universities are now charging such a high price for their services and education. With this information we can begin to understand where this Raymond 2 increase in cost came from and what we can reverse to reduce them. This article was produced by Lino A. Graglia, a professor of law at the University of Texas School of Law, giving her a strong understanding of the inter-workings of universities and their asset management. She also pulls relevant information from personal examples of tuition cost for both her and her children as opposed to today. Kelly, Andrew P. The cost of college: it will reduce quality without guaranteeing higher  National Review 2015: 39. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. This work criticizes the idea of in its introduction with a focus on the federal control aspect yet it grants the idea that the college market is flawed because there is little power held by the policymaker. The article continues by recommending that rather than relieving the costs of higher education completely we should concentrate on reducing the costs while still maintaining the value. Throughout the next column and a half is an overview of the suggested democratic alternatives for free tuition coverage that would cost a deep seeded federal expansion within public universities. Following this is a comprehensive list of reasons to not request federal funding, such as weak assumptions that it will better improve the standards upheld by universities but on the contrary, shifting costs from students to taxpayers wont shift universities away from their inefficient structuring. Further expressed in great detail is the impression that federal involvement will lead to a rationing of availability in higher education similar to the United previous free tuition policies that inevitably became rationed and removed to give way to a payment structure for English universities. Ending the article is a proposition that the market-based policies higher education has carried since their inception is a strength and that eliminating it completely would be a mistake. Within The Cost of Free College is peppered the differing political policies that have been suggested by presidential candidates in recent years on the idea of free college, yet the author has deduced that this form of higher educational reform is not the answer. The article does suggest however Raymond 3 that non-federal reforms should be encouraged and therefor allows for a basis in which to build an argument for the reduction of the costs of higher education through non-federal reforms. The author of The Cost of Free College, Andrew P. Kelly, is the director of the Center on Higher Education Reform at the American Enterprise Institute giving him a persuasive professional credibility. Making college cost less; Higher  The Economist, 5 Apr. 2014, p. 11(US). Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA363785932&it =r&asid=dda80cf4eb50b21af74ab2945aa76f07. Accessed 18 Jan. 2017. The article begins with a few paraphrased quotations that describe the importance of education and continues with a detailed description of how different levels of education can expect to perform financially after college and how much it actually costs them. Furthermore, the article provides a statistical analogy for the inflation rate of college tuition as opposed to the US economy and how much faster it is growing (fourfold). The author contributes the next portion to efforts put forth against rising educational costs, such as a default rates on student loans that if passed have severe repercussions for the university but they continue by suggesting that this is not enough and rather than having a school step in if students hit a certain point they should have actual liabilities for unpaid student debts. The author closes by posing the idea that taking this step toward higher education is the first large decision in a young life and the government should do everything to make sure it is the proper decision. This article, from The Economist, is written with several references to studies and policies that are extremely relevant to the topic at hand such as reports by research firms and federal policies. The author gives background to the underlining question posed in this paper, how do we reduce the cost of higher education? It first discusses what is already taking place to reduce the burden of collegiate costs on students but then goes a step further and expresses the authors opinions as to what other policies should take place in order to reduce these fees. Raymond 4 Reindl, Travis J. To Lift The Veil: New College Cost Studies And The Quest For The Perfect  New Directions For Institutional Research 2000.106 (2000): 89. Education Source. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. To Lift the Veil: New College Cost Studies and the Quest for the Perfect Formula is an editorial on new college cost studies, or more clearly congressionally formed organizations dedicated to developing an answer to the effects of increased tuition for higher education. The first page imparts the idea that there is an ominous vail that shrouds the reasoning behind these surges in price. The second page goes in depth on one of the college studies conducted in the late by a federal organization in response to the rapid increases associated with the cost of higher education, a few of their recommendations proposed a strengthening of institutional cost control, improving public accountability and information, as well as (on the federal side) a deregulation of higher education. The next several pages express what data these organization were collecting and how they aimed to utilize it. One theory presented in this work is that increasing costs of higher education as opposed to other commodities is due productivity failing to maintain a pace similar to the resources necessary for higher education. The paper concludes by stating that the analysis of the cost of higher education is a process in which new discoveries come to light at each visitation of the problem and that policy makers should recognize each of these lessons as they present themselves. The content of this text references several federal organizations created in the late to better understand the rapid inflation rates of higher education such as the NCCHE, CCP, and CCS. The relevance in this paper to the research question is that it introduces the present framework surrounding institutional overheads. This document familiarizes its readers with current or recent legislation regarding financial policies of universities. Travis J. Reindl is the Director of State Policy Analysis at the American Association of State Colleges and Universities giving him an undeniable credibility in the topic. Raymond 5 He has a Bachelor of Arts in government from Notre Dame and a Master of Public Policy in Finance, Management, and Leadership from the University of Maryland College Park. Thelin, John. Why Did College Cost So Little? Affordability And Higher Education A Century  Society 52.6 (2015): 585-589. Academic Search Premier. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. The article first addresses the historical research question: Why did college cost so little? In order to answer that question the editorial introduces a piece of literature that comprises the financial summaries of institutions in the year 1910: Great American Universities, by Edwin Slosson. The author gathered information from this literary piece and was able to assess the cost ratio between students and institutions from 1910. The average student paid the equivalent tuition of $5000 and the average college expense per student was equivalent to nearly $2000 past what tuition covered meaning that colleges of the time were racking up debt by the thousand. The next page went over the drawbacks to the deficit tendencies of low tuition. There were few if any proper advising or studying centers on early campuses and little to no financial aid offered that seen as a loan to be repaid in the future. In continuation the article suggests where universities were able to fund their liabilities, through philanthropic activities, federal grants and legislative policies such as those provided to agricultural colleges for research and experimentation that was able support universities. In conclusion the answer the author poses to the original question of this article is that the reason college costed so little was because they provided so little. The article achieves a deep historical relevance to the subject matter at hand by focusing on the early institutions of America and their financial situations over a century ago. The article also gives context to the reasoning behind the low costs of college and why they have risen as time goes on. This article was authored by John Thelin, a research professor for the University of Kentucky focused in the history of higher education and public policy giving him an outstanding ethos in the subject. John Raymond 6 Thelin has a Doctorate in Education, History and Social Foundations from the University of California, Berkeley. Not only does the author embody his own credibility but he also pulls from another reliable source, the novel Great American Universities by Edwin Slosson that gives a detailed account of the financial situations of several American universities. Willie, Matt. Taxing And Tuition: A Legislative Solution To Growing Endowments And The Rising Costs Of A College  Brigham Young University Law Review 2012.5 (2012): 1665-1704. Academic Search Premier. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. The first page describes the ridiculously high endowments that are enjoyed among the richest schools, all with over $1 billion in returns in the fiscal year of 2011. The paper continues by providing the percentage of increase to tuition over the 2010-2011 school year which ranged from 5% to 8% and a 90% inflation adjusted spike in tuition rates from 2000 to 2010. Following this section is a suggested list of legislative reforms focused on endowment taxation and or distribution. One proposed solution is to link an endowment tax to tuition rates by only increasing the tax on years that the school in question has both increases in endowments and tuition above inflation rates, discouraging tuition hikes without encouraging wasteful spending. The Subsequent section suggests that nearly 90% of the less endowed universities with less than $100 million in donations are scrambling to provide a competitive education comparable to Ivy League which in turn is causing an institutional wealth gap. After an extensive description of intergenerational equity, the article credits another factor as a cause for tuition spikes; presidential salaries that range up to $1 million for private and public institutions alike. Carried on throughout the next several pages is a theorization that universities tax exempt status as an educator and in some instances a non-profit is in question because their ideals and engagements are market oriented, such as commercialization through advertisements. As the article extends it expresses several suggestions for taxation against rich institutions hording their wealth and its Raymond 7 transparency to the public, taxing it at certain points similarly to income tax, yet the work refutes the majority of its suggested ideas because of obvious loopholes. The article eventually comes full circle and advocates for the link between endowment tax and tuition because it encourages institutional spending of a proper form while still leaving room for endowment accumulation. The conclusion emphasizes that a single tax cannot answer the complex question that is the cost of higher education, yet this does not advise that it is not an option. This piece provides a valuable source of information for the spending and savings habits of universities and is a strong comparison of the financial differences between Ivy League schools and lower level institutions. In addition to Matt two publications, one of which being this source, he attended two accredited universities and received to separate degrees including a law degree from Brigham Young University. His article was published through the BYU Law Review riddled with statistical and factual information directly related to legislation and historical context on the topic of higher education and its rising costs.