Jackson 1 Julius Jackson Professor Sara Roth Enc 1101 19 February 2017 Redlining, How the Practice of Residential Segregation in the past still ripples through America Today Redlining is discriminatory practice whereas banks and mortgage lending corporations would unjustly deny minorities loans regardless of their credentials. The roots of redlining in America can be traced back as far as the 1920s. Segregation was the goal and the tactic was relining. Some argue that the practice began during the Great Migration and the Great Depression. Realtors and the government had to find a place to put the displaced and growing black population, while also trying to figure out how to stimulate the housing market. Some blacks chose to live in black communities finding comfort in commonality, but others, regardless of their economic capability, were forced into certain communities with depreciating real estate values, high crime rates, and subpar education facilities. These injustices were brought into public discussion by academic research and journals. After this the government set in motion a series of laws with the intent to make the market fair and just. Today, serval decades after these laws were implemented, equality has still not been made. Hence, white approval ratings are still much higher than that of minorities. Why? To what extent does racial composition affect decision to give out loans, and to what extent is redlining still present in society? Pearcy, Mark, : Teaching About Racial Jackson 2 Residential  Virginia Social Science Journal 50. (2015): 40-50. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article is an editorial piece that seeks to inform the reader on redlining and racial segregation in America. It explains what redlining is and how banks and realtors used it to dictate where a potential buyer could live. Pearcy writes that redlining is essentially a map that shows the high, and low valued real estate. In the early twentieth century minorities were encouraged and forced to live in the lower valued areas regardless of their credit. Also, it is important to mention that if minorities were to move into a highly-valued neighborhood, the neighborhoods market value would decrease. Pearcy mentions an interesting observation where he proposes that the white citizens should be held responsible for this unjust practice. Hence the market value of a neighborhood would decrease because white citizens did not want to live in an interracial neighborhood. The banks and the market was prejudice insofar that the white citizens were prejudice. The article speaks on the overreaching effects this segregation has had on ethnic groups today, which I will use in my argument. This article is credible because the author, Mark Pearcy received his doctorate for social studies education at the University of south Florida and has published numerous works under the interest of social studies. He is credible because he has much experience on the topic. Kuthy, Diane, And Greenlining: Olivia Robinson Investigates Root Causes Of Racial  Art Education 70.1 (2017): 50-57. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Diane argues that the recent increase in social/racial movements and race riots of today are consequences from the racist and discriminative polices of the generations before us. The Jackson 3 author states that riots usually can be traced back to one catalyst, but the riots that we see today are a culmination of anger and distress caused by numerous wrong doings. The article argues that the start of these wrong doings is segregation and systematic discrimination carried out by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), through the process of redlining. The FHA was setup after the great depression with the intent to stimulate and grow the housing market. They did this in part by choosing areas to invest in. How did they decide which neighborhoods they would invest in? Race. They put no money into minority communities and put all the money into white communities. This is like having two children and deciding that you would only feed one of them. Obviously, the child that you feed has a much better future than the latter. The author argues that this caused numerous disparities in healthcare, in the job market, in crime, and in politics. I can use this information to show that white communities were setup to flourish and minorities were left to fend for themselves. This article is credible because Olivia Robinson is an artist who uses her art to bring attention to social topics. She is also a teacher at the Maryland Institute College of Art. Diane Kuthy is a well-recognized art professor at the Maryland Institute of College of Art. Diane has won awards and had her work featured in exhibits on numerous occasions. Mendez, Dara D., Vijaya K. Hogan, and Jennifer Culhane. Institutional Racism And Pregnancy Health: Using Home Mortgage Disclosure Act Data To Develop An Index For Mortgage Discrimination At The Community  Public Health Reports 126. (2011): 102. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. This study argues that redlining falls into the category of institutionalized racism. Racism supported by government policies, and that it may also correlate with health-related disparities and inequalities found in different ethnic groups. Minorities seem to be more prone to certain Jackson 4 illnesses and harmful behaviors insofar that the individuals tend to live in a more stressful environment. The study found that in Philadelphia in the years 1999-2004 black citizens were more likely to be denied a mortgage loan in contrast to white citizens. Blacks were denied twice as much as whites for a mortgage if they already lived in poor areas. The study also maps out redlining in Philadelphia by using the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and the census from 2000. The study found that the areas with high percentage of one ethnic group, and low mortgage approval ratings, had little interactions with other ethnic groups. I can use this evidence to implement the role in redlining. This study is credible because Dara Mendez has a Ph.D. from the university of North Carolina in Maternal and Child care. She has numerous publication on the public health report. Vijaya K. Hogan is a clinical associate professor in maternal and child health at UNC. She also has other publications in the public health report. Finally, Jennifer Culhane has a Ph.D. in public health from temple university, and she has a wide range of publications in the field of health. Ross, Stephen L., and Geoffrey M.B. Tootell. Redlining, The Community Reinvestment Act, And Private Mortgage  Journal Of Urban Economics 55. (2004): 278- 297. ScienceDirect. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. This study finds evidence that race is not the only factor in mortgage inequities. It finds that lenders tend to favor certain communities rather than certain ethnic groups. Wealthy communities and low income communities that hold Private Mortgage Insurance are more likely to be approved for a mortgage than low income communities that do not have Private insurance. Hence mortgage lenders do not discriminate against specific races or ethnic groups but rather the neighborhood as a whole. The mortgage lenders prefer that their applicants have Private Mortgage Insurance because if the borrower defaults on their mortgage the private insurance Jackson 5 covers some of the loss. Lenders preferring their applicants to apply for PRI began with the enforcement of the Community Reinvestment ACT (CRA). This act forced lenders to loan out more mortgages in low income/minority neighborhoods by denying the company certain necessities. This can be used in my annotated bibliography to show that Mortgage lenders discriminate against entire geographic areas. These areas tend to be minority, low income communities. This article is credible because Stephen L. Ross holds a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Syracuse. He is currently an economics professor at the university of Connecticut. He has many publications in scholarly journals, and one of his areas of focus is housing mortgage discrimination. Geoffrey M.B. Tootell holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Harvard University. He is currently the Executive Vice President and Director of Research at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. He has also written other publications on the topic of race in mortgage lending. Silverman, Robert Mark. Redlining In A Majority Black City?: Mortgage Lending And The Racial Composition Of Detroit  Western Journal Of Black Studies 29.1 (2005): 531-541. Humanities Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This research gives a very detailed description of the history of redlining, and the history of scholarly research about redlining. It tells how the practice was popular in the early twentieth century. It was made illegal at the same time segregation was made illegal. The book Color Of brought redlining into the public in 1988. After this redlining got much more attention in scholarly research. With this an argument began, does racial composition of a neighborhood matter, or do other characteristics determine the loan eligibility of the borrowers. This is still argued today with both sides having valid evidence and reasonable opinions. Hence Jackson 6 redlining may not be a problem in all of America, but only in certain cities, just how racism was not as bad across America. The fact that redlining is still a problem in some communities is egregious, and must be dealt with. This article could be used to give historical context in my introduction and gave many other studies that could be used as evidence to support my thesis. This study is credible because Robert Silverman holds a Ph.D. in public studies from the university of Wisconsin. He is currently a professor at the university of Buffalo in the department of urban and regional planning. One of his areas of focus, which he has many if publications, is inequality in inner city housing markets. Coffey, Brian, and J. Clarke Gocker. Racial Disparities in Mortgage Lending: The Example of Urban  Social Justice 1998: 115. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This study was performed to understand the mortgage lending rates of different ethnic groups in urban Ohio has changed after the Community Reinvestment Act was established. It found that a higher percentage of white applicants are approved when compared to black applicants. It found that the white approval ratings were higher in every category when compared to blacks. Blacks living in a predominately white neighborhood are more likely to receive a loan than blacks who live in a predominately black neighborhood. The study concludes that 30 years after the Community Reinvestment Act was implemented in the American Housing Market, the gap between white approval and black approval are still vastly different. Also, the majority of loans approved for black applicants were for houses in predominantly black neighborhoods. This article is credible because Brian Coffey holds a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of California. He is currently an assistant philosophy professor at Grand Valley State Jackson 7 University. J. Clarke Gocker is currently attaining his Ph.D. in sociology at the University of Buffalo.