Williams 1 John Williams Dubois ENC 1102 29 Janurary 2017 Animals in Captivity If one could choose to live their life with everything they could ever need and safety, but it was behind a wall or they could choose to live in the open with freedom, but with the constant threat of danger behind them. Now imagine that you were an animal, would your choice change? The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) is an organization that strives for animal preservation with the assistance of public engagement. While on the other hand, the Captive Protection Society (CAPS) were also formed for the preservation of animals but they believe that no animal should live in a cage and instead live in their natural habitat. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) and the Captive Protection Society (CAPS) were formed for wildlife conservation. However, they differ when it comes to their approaches. Just by themselves, it is almost impossible for both organizations to achieve their goal due to the number of obstacles they face. Nevertheless, if both stakeholders work together they could invent a one of a kind attraction that not only protects the animals from outside factors, but also the presence of freedom. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) is an organization that promotes conservation and preservation through the accreditation of zoos. The AZA states that accreditation is the official recognition and approval of a zoo or aquarium by a group of By doing this they yearn to spread their high standards so they can give their approval to all zoos. Accomplishing this the AZA can achieve their main goal, which is that all people around the world will preserve, value and conserve wildlife and wild Williams 2 So, they push for zoos to expand, grow, and get the involvement. With the involvement, they bring together animals and people, so that the zoos can educate their guest allowing them to fashion an appreciation for animals. This portrayal of seeing animals up close is much more personal than just learning about them from a book/ documentary. This educates the public, motivates them to work together and conserve wildlife. Not only for themselves but also for the animals. The Captive Protection Society (CAPS) that wild animals belong in their natural habitat and should not be caged for our However, like one probably already know there are millions of zoos and aquariums across the world. In their eyes, they see this as millions of animals being mistreated, neglected, and abused by a number of zoos. In their words, zoos are not meeting the social, behavioral, and physical needs that their animals must have and with this they are suffering both mentally and physically. As previously stated, most goal is promoted, enrich, and expand wildlife conservation. CAPS say that this is a lie, they say zoos are promoting conservation, but instead doing the exact opposite, because they that zoos can be damaging to conservation because their thought on preservation are completely different from the ideas of the AZA CAPS dispute the idea that the public engagement can provide for wildlife conservation because of their idea that adequate conservation can only be met when the work being done to the wild ecosystems and protecting the actual animal species. They hope that one day all animals will have the rights to be treated as individuals and zoos fail to see that have their own needs to be met, for their own The topic of animals being in captivity has become a highly controversial topic in the past couple of years. The anti-zoo associations such as CAPS is getting attention and Williams 3 making their voice heard, which is negatively affecting many of zoos and since this topic has been in the light the past few years it is creating a financial burden on many of the zoos. But instead of quitting, the AZA is increasing the standards and performing studies that show zoos are positively affecting society and promoting wildlife conservation awareness within the public. recent study ... is being widely heralded as the first direct evidence that visits to zoos and aquariums produce long-term positive effects on attitudes toward other (Marino 1). This study shows that when people go to zoos, it provokes the idea of wildlife preservation, and by changing the opinion of one person is one step closer to their goal. On the other hand, CAPS are investigating and implementing their own studies to show the negative impacts that zoos have on their animals. The study alleged made a discovery with the between wild and captive animals can be and effort needs to be put into enriching the environments of all zoo animals, not just those destined for 217). This study supports their position on how the animals in zoos suffer and are not receiving the ultimate care like they would get in the wild. They believe that the only way to make change is working in the natural habitat to protect individuals and entire However, the AZA believes that the only way for change is with the involvement because without them they would have no supports, which means no one to stand up and fight for conservation of these animals. Both organizations are extremely dedicated to this cause and if they came together instead of fighting each other, their powers and voice would be tremendous toward the saving wildlife and wild places. Although these two stakeholders seem to be at odds, both organizations share a common goal. The AZA and CAPS are both invested and involved in wildlife protection, awareness, and enrichment. It may seem impossible but it is not, in 2012 The Phoenix Zoo joined forces with the Williams 4 Jane Goodall Institute (Tresz). Their hopes were and still are to improve the quality of animal welfare across the world. Now, besides going around the world improving zoos, that they build a new style of zoo. It would be similar to a wildlife preservation area, however instead of being in the wild it would be a lot closer to home. This would allow the animals to still have the bare necessities they need such as veterinary care, food, and socialization. The world already has zoos similar to this, but they big enough. To enact this change they could build an open zoo with minimal walls, that is the size of a city. This solution is plausible because Disneyworld is so massive it makes up its own city, so the AZA and CAPS could build a zoo that is ultimately the size of a city. In society, we have zoos that are close to being that big, but they have other attractions like roller coasters that take up the majority of the room. Unfortunately, if they agreed to build this zoo a huge setback such as money would stand in their way. To solve the dilemma, these two-massive organization could save or raise money and possibly even team up with some other organizations like P.E.T.A. or associations such as SeaWorld, Busch Gardens, San Diego zoo, etc. But regardless of the money, this new-type of zoo/enclosure would be an effective solution and compromise between these two opposing stakeholders. If these two organization could work together, they could invent this unique zoo. And with all their patrons they would be able to almost accomplish their goal because they would be promoting conservation and encourage the public to make change. Since there would be no other zoo like it, they could raise a huge profit and with that they could donate or invest their proceeds to a wildlife conservation fund that would benefit animals in the wild. Williams 5 Works Cited Accreditation vs.  Accreditation vs. Certification. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Can a More Compassionate Zoo Improve Animal  Wild Welfare. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Marino, Lori, Randy Malamud, Nathan Nobis, Ron Broglio, and Scott O. Lilienfeld. Do Zoos and Aquariums Promote Attitude Change in Visitors? A Critical Evaluation of the American Zoo and Aquarium  Society & Animals 18.2 (2010): 126-38. 2010. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. HANNAH J., and ANDREW C. KITCHENER. The Effects of Captivity on the Morphology of Captive, Domesticated and Feral  Mammal Rev . 2005, Volume 35, No. 3&4, Printed in Singapore . The Effects of Captivity on the Morphology of Captive, Domesticated and Feral Mammals (n.d.): n. pag. 2005. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Strategic  Strategic Plan. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tresz, Hilda. Phoenix Zoo and Jane Goodall Institute Join Forces to Improve Animal Welfare Around the  National Geographic Society (blogs). N.p., 07 Aug. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Zoos  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Williams 6