Zhao 1 Shangshang Zhao Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 01/21/2017 Non - Substitutability of Standardized Testing Nowadays, more and more people, governments and organizations think that they should work hard for changing and reforming the standardized testing. Just like professor Ozturgut thinks that standardized testing let parents paid huge costs, and promote an elitist system, it is not fair to students who come from poor family. However, this people just see the disadvantages of standardized testing, keep their bias of it. Actually, in the American history, because of the Brown v Board of Ed and No Child Left Behind Act , blacks children and poor children have opportunity to enjoy similar education with white children and rich children. And also because of the standardized testing, blacks children and poor children have equal right at least in education, they have a way to change their future and realize their dream. Darling-Hammond thinks that the unfair situation of education is not because of the standardized testing, the most need change is that a country need a good education system to make sure all children can get the similar educational investment and resource. This Annotated Bibliography seeks to answer the question that should American keep this kind of examination system in the future, and what it need to improve. Richard P., Phelps. The Role And Importance Of Standardized Testing In The World Of Teaching And  Nonpartisan Education Review , Vol 4, Iss 3, Pp 1-9 (2008): 1. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 18 Jan. 2017. In this article, Phelps said that most of countries already have a long history for using standardized testing to select the talents, and the standardized testing almost Zhao 2 controlled by government. It also is a very good and important assessment method to help human resource managers to know about other people. Phelps thinks that people always are limited by their experience and observed, and keep their bias to think about others. Phelps indicated that the standardized testing can let people have a chance to make a personal decision without subjective view, it is more fire to all people. This resource explains why some people consider standardized testing is necessary. Phelps thinks that standardized testing system promotes the fair of education. Because of this test system, the talents from poor family can through their abilities to improve their quality of life, and the normal children can through their hard working to change their basic life. This paper was presented at the 15 th Congress of the World Association for Educational Research. At the same time the author is very professional. Richard graduated from the Wharton School of University of Pennsylvania, it is one of the best business school of America. Darling-Hammond, Linda. Restoring Our Schools: The Quest For Equity In The United  Education Canada, 51.5 (2011): ERIC. Web. 18 Jan. 2017 Darling-Hammond thinks that when other countries want to support more educational opportunities, change class, teaching way for supporting more complex and various knowledge to provide for students, American already pay more attention to the standardized testing. The gap of grade between minority and white students become a problem. Even though America has some of the top universities and majors in the world. Darling-Hammond said that people still need some changes in educational system, provide some useful ways to solve unfair situation at education. American need to Zhao 3 rebuild a system to protect all of equal educational rights. Darling-Hammond suggests making a significant investment in child welfare, allowing them to go to the hospital if needed, a house to live in and have healthy food available. It will help students have enough energy and time to pay attention to study. This article mainly talks that what are the problems of American need to change in American educational system, it is not standardized testing. When the American children cannot get the basic protection of lives, how they can learned very well in the school, how they can get very high grade at the standardized testing. If government and society cannot solve this social problems, unfair situation of education will be more serious at future. Standardized testing is the way to help them improve their life quality. This article was published at the Education Canada. The author is the Charles E. Ducommun Professor of Education at the Stanford Graduate School of Education and President and CEO of the Learning Policy Institute. Patrick Cole, SAT tutors score top fees; Nervous parents pay plenty to prep kids for college  The Seattle Times (Seattle, WA), 2005: General OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. In the article, Patrick Cole interviews some of American parents. These parents pay a lot of money for their children to prepare their SAT, let them can get the better grade of SAT. So that they will have powerful competitiveness than other children when they want to apply some great university, such as University of Chicago and Stanford University. This business become more and more popular in parents, and the income of these kind of companies work for that help students to prepare SAT increases in every Zhao 4 year. The parents would like to spend huge price to exchange a high SAT grade and a good offer from university for their children. This article is very helpful to research question, the audiences can know that the most important reason lead to some of the students who from poor family cannot go to the top university is that this part of fee is too high, they cannot afford it. The article supports the specific price of the prepare class for SAT. The article also mention that this kind of price is impossible can be paid by a common family. Patrick Cole is a reporter working for Bloomberg News, and also this article has been published by Seattle Times. Ozturgut, Osman. Learning By Example: Standardized Testing In The Cases Of China, Korea, Japan, And  Academic Leadership (15337812) 9.3 (2011): 1-9. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. In the article, Ozturgut Osman talks about that the educational direction of democratic country should learn from other counties, then according the different culture background to reference and change. The article said that many problems of education of different countries are similar. America is facing the reforming of education, the university more and more pay attention to the standardized testing system. The grade of standardized testing have big powerful effect to children and future. The author uses the examples of four brief history of standardized testing to analysis the standardized advantages and disadvantages, to talk about that the various problem and influence of standardized testing to the different countries. This article need people to understand that what are the specific educational situation Zhao 5 of standardized testing of other countries, it related the research question because it can help to prove that standardized testing is a good way to promote the equality of society. For example, in Chinese thousand years history, standardized testing always be the only way that the students from poor family can go to be a government officer, then change their social status. If Chinese government cancel the standardized testing system in the past, society will not be progress, the class system of country will be stronger and unbreakable. It is not a good thing to a country. The author of this article is Ozturgut, he is a professor in the education department of University of the Incarnate Word. Au, Wayne. Meritocracy 2.0: High-Stakes, Standardized Testing As A Racial Project Of Neoliberal  Educational Policy 30.1 (2016): 39-62. ERIC. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. In this article, Wayne talks about that the real work of the standardized testing in the school to students who come from different race. At the American history, standardized test as a tool to realize the ethnic equality in school. Wayne use the racial  and multiculturalism, to analyze that standardize testing is not only cannot help to eliminate the unfair situation in the school, but also will lead the atmosphere of racism formed in the school. Wayne thinks that if the government keeps the standardized testing as a kind of part in education, it will let the future of the elite to become racialized, and called that as Meritocracy  This article can help people to stand on another angle to think about the problem, the standardize testing will help the forming of racism or not. Wayne Au is a very great scholar at this area, he is a doctor of philosophy from Curriculum & Instruction of Zhao 6 University of Wisconsin, Madison. He has been earned a lot of relative award, such like 2010 Skipping Stones Multicultural Resources Honors Award, Rethinking Multicultural Education Teaching for Racial and Cultural Justice, and 2010 Excellence in Creative and Scholarly Activities Award, California State University, Fullerton. Schifter, Catherine C., and Martha Carey. Addressing Standardized Testing Through A Novel Assesment  International Association For Development Of The Information Society (2014): ERIC. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. In this article, two authors analyze that through a new assessment model to solve the problems from standardized testing. Since the established of Child Left government require school and society support a lot of relative test services for some of students who come from poor family, or they do not have enough educational resources. Two authors think that the economic resource is limited, NCLB cannot help everyone. So they work for developing a science project it calls This project can help students more easily understand the content of textbook in virtual environment, let students can know science knowledge and their study process more. This article tell audiences that there has a scientific way to help students do better in standardized testing, two authors think that standardize testing is good way to help students who come from a poor family have opportunity to change their life. . Catherine C. Schifter is a doctor of philosophy from in Educational Leadership of University of Pennsylvania, she is a professor of the Temple University. She has some relative scholarship, such like Infusing computers into the classroom: Continuous practice improvement (2008), and The distance education evolution: Issues and case Zhao 7 studies (2004). Martha Carey is a doctor of philosophy from urban education of Temple University.