Wombacher 1 Andrew Wombacher Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 15 February 2017 Space Exploration Opinions regarding the exploration of space are constantly evolving. The advancement of technology allows us to see further into space, and holds unprecedented opportunities for mankind. Although, even during the space race where man sought to travel to space and land on the moon, majority of Americans opposed traveling to space. In their eyes, the costs associated with making the Apollo mission were not worth the benefits. They were upset that the money could have been used to feed the starving instead of sending two men up to collect moon rocks. These conflicting opinions have raised the question; what would make space exploration more worth the costs and risks? ISECG. Stemming from Space Nasa, Sept. 2013, www.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/files/Benefits-Stemming-from-Space-Exploration-2013- TAGGED.pdf. This article discusses the benefits of expanding into space, and how making space easily accessible would directly benefit people on earth. The author claimed that space travel would benefit humanity in three ways: innovation, culture and inspiration, and new means to address global challenges. Traveling to space has caused major technological advancements. As the article describes, private sectors are being launched to develop new technologies allowing us to expand our economic sphere. The challenge to reach new regions of the universe requires innovation in technology. These new ideas can then be applied to technology used on Earth. An example of this is the light weight high Wombacher 2 temperature alloys used in jet turbines. Benefits in the cultural and inspiration category are found when we ask the questions is the nature of the and the destiny of humankind bound to As the author says, first moments in space and Neil first step on the Moon truly were leaps for because they expanded our views about the limits of human travel and planted seeds for new thinking about where beyond Earth human existence might be As people search for answers to these big questions, it is inspiring future generations to continue the search. ISECG (International Space Exploration Coordination Group) is a voluntary, non- binding forum consisting of fourteen space agencies whose motivation are to advance global space exploration strategies. The forum publishes annual reports regarding advancements and challenges in space exploration, along with other academic articles, dating as far back as 2007 when the forum was created. Among the 14 organizations who contribute to the forum include NASA, UK Space, and Agenzia Spaziale Italiana. These space agencies collaborate with each other, and all must agree on an article prior to its publication, thus avoiding any bias and including ideas from around the world. This academic journal would answer the research topic space exploration worth the costs and and would explain in detail how space exploration would be beneficial. Longnecker, David E., Ricardo A. Molins, and (U.S.) National Research Council. A Risk Reduction Strategy For Human Exploration Of Space: A Review Of Bioastronautics Roadmap. Washington, D.C.: National Academies Press, 2006. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 18 Jan. 2017. Wombacher 3 This research article was written with the purpose of creating a plan to address risks involved with space travel and exploration by humans. The article is broken into two major parts: considerations of risk factors, and methods on how to combat the risk factors. Once risk factors have been worked out of the equation, space travel will hold the same opportunity with significantly smaller margin of error. Most of the information used in the article comes from the Washington D.C. National Academy Press. Other sources used in the article are also referenced in the appendix. Dr. David Longnecker is currently a director at the AAMC (Association of American Medical Colleges) working with NASA to ensure medical safety of those entering the realm of space. Prior to receiving his current position, he served as President of the American Board of Anesthesiology, President of the Association of University Anesthesiologists, President of the National Resident Matching Program, and the founding president of the W.T.G. Morton Society. Considering all his credentials, Dr. David Longnecker has proven that he is knowledgeable on human health, which is necessary when developing methods of addressing health risks in space. This article would serve as a counterargument, showing that risks associated with space travel are being addressed. Rai, Amelia, et al. Expanded Benefits For Humanity From The International Space  Acta Astronautica 126.Space Flight Safety (2016): 463-474. ScienceDirect. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 This journal discusses how research on the ISS (International Space Station) had expanded our knowledge on several different topics and led to technologic advancements on Earth. One of the largest topics discussed in the journal regards expanded knowledge Wombacher 4 in the field of health. As an example, the Neroarms being developed for surgery are decedents from the Canadarms used to move heavy objects on the ISS. Traveling to space allowed for this type of technology to exist and allow for surgeries to become less fatal. The book is the product of collaboration among several different space agencies around the world. Some of the agencies include NASA, NCA, ESA, JAXA, ASI, and Roscosmos. Since the space agencies are the ones performing the research in space, they would know the information best and can translate their knowledge directly to the book. This avoids commentary third parties would add to the original information. Selding, Peter De. Reusable Falcon 9: What Are the Real Cost Savings for  SpaceNews, 25 Apr. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. http://spacenews.com/spacexs-reusable-falcon-9-what-are-the-real-cost-savings-for- customers/ This article discusses the evolution of the space craft known as Falcon 9, and how it is a breakthrough in regards to sending cargo to space at a cheaper cost. After five failed rockets, SpaceX successfully launch and land a reusable rocket, opening the door to cheaper exportation of cargo to space. The article remains neutral on the topic, and discusses the issues SpaceX must face prior to opening to the commercial market. Two of the issues SpaceX face are insurance implications and worries that a rocket may fail. However, once these issues are resolved, traveling to space will become significantly cheaper. The author Peter B de Selding was the Paris bureau chief for space news and has written numerous articles regarding the development of the current day space program. Wombacher 5 The article he wrote would be valuable to the research paper because it discusses costs associated with sending people to space. Since the cost of traveling to space is going to decrease, it would provide the same amount of opportunity for a smaller price. Billings, Lee. Along For The Ride: Reusable Commercial Rockets Will Soon Be Able To Take Scientists--And Tourists--On Suborbital Spaceflights. Are These Vehicles Vital Research Tools, Or An Expensive Dead  Nature 7345 (2011): 21. Academic OneFile. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 This article provides an overview of costs and discussions regarding space travel. Then it zooms in on costs of space travel and questions the need of sending people into space. While sending man to space seems ideal for performing experiments and collecting samples, the article points out that costs associated with sending man to space is much higher than sending robots, making it more appealing to keep people on earth. Although, as private sectors begin to fund their own space programs, access to space will eventually be open to anyone who can afford a ticket. Principle investigator for New Horizon mission Dr. Stern describes space as the new wild west, where anyone with the funds can make it to space. He believes that sending man to space is important despite the costs associated. This article would be valuable to the research question because it touches on how traveling to space has its benefits along with its drawbacks. It describes both viewpoints on the topic, and provides evidence backing up each side. Having a neutral article as a source avoids any bias regarding the topic. The author Lee Billings has a background in writing about the intersections of science, technology, and culture. He writes for publications including Nature, Nautilus, and New Scientist. He also has written a book Wombacher 6 called Billion Years of which discusses the scientific quest to discover planets like Earth in the universe. Morring, Frank Jr. Harder than it  Aviation Week & Space Technology 2010: 52. Academic OneFile. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 In this periodical, the author Frank Morring provides a brief history of the challenges scientists faced during the development of the space shuttle. He discussed issues involving funding, re-entry of the shuttle, a shuttle launch, and procedures that a shuttle must follow once in space. He describes a space shuttle a of systems all working together in perfect harmony to create a safe flying One of the largest obstacles scientists faced was the re-entry of the shuttle, since it had to endure extreme temperatures while keeping its passengers safe. The shuttle would have to endure temperatures reaching up to while also able to function in in space. This article would be valuable to the research question because it discussed challenges people had to face during the development of the space shuttle. It would highlight how risk factors were considered during the early stages of space travel, and shows how man could overcome these dangers. The article also illustrates the technological innovation involved in the development of the space shuttle. The author Frank Morring is a senior editor and has been a journalist for over forty years. He specializes in writing about aerospace, as he has been writing about it for 20 years.