Tuico 1 Justin Tuico Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 2/23/2017 Tweed for the Legalization of Marijuana The legalization of marijuana has been the prime subject of dispute for many years now. Those who oppose the notion of legalizing marijuana for recreational use believe that nothing good can come out of it and will only lead to substance abuse and addiction. These groups of people base their facts off of common misconceptions about the uses of marijuana. In contrast, there are also many people who fully support the legalization of marijuana. These people argue that the benefits of marijuana far outweigh the drawbacks and strictly view the matter in a positive perspective. Tweed, a marijuana processing organization, strongly encourages the legalization of marijuana. For Tweed, those who are in favor of legalizing marijuana help support the organization. Tweed strives to provide high quality marijuana to consumers, hoping that in the future, people will come to understand their purpose. The organization also makes apparent the fact that they provide marijuana for medical purposes. Through the use of two examples of visual rhetoric, Tweed argues that opinions of those against the legalization of marijuana are wrong by showing the level of care that goes into growing the plants and the overall abundance of their product. To begin, Tweed emphasizes the goodness in marijuana by exemplifying the level of care that goes into growing the plants. For example, in the first image, there is a man in a lab coat with a young marijuana plant in his hands. Here it is obvious that plant care is top priority since the man is holding the plant in a way someone would hold something precious. This has an effect on Tuico 2 emotions, especially to avid marijuana supporters, making them understand that more to marijuana than meets the eye. For some, the way the man is holding the plant gives them even more confidence in their support for the legalization of marijuana and towards argument since they are displaying the man;s cautiousness. In addition to this, the man is also wearing latex gloves and a lab coat, signifying proper handling of the plants. To many, this provides a logical reason as to why the plants are in such great shape and have a lively green color. This confirms that Tweed strives to maintain and provide the highest quality marijuana for their customers. Cleanliness and quality are two of top priorities, but the level of care stop there. has well over 300 quality control checks in place to track production from seed to sale and to ensure everything we provide is of the highest and safest quality and is accurately (Tweed). This statement reveals just how far Tweed will go to ensure that their customers get nothing but the best which further validate their argument. And of course, in order to provide any credibility at all, the first image also exhibits the Tweed logo on the lab coat. Furthermore, in the background of the first image, you can clearly see many more marijuana plants growing nicely, allowing for people to realize that Tweed makes sure that all of their plants are properly maintained. This only helps to provide a better attitude towards making marijuana legal by showing just how far they have come and far they plan on taking it. This first image is contemporary with marijuana laws that are being passed today. In the recent 2016 elections, part of the voting process had a section where you were able to vote for Amendment 2, which provided Florida medical access to marijuana. November 8, 2016, the Florida Medical Marijuana Legalization Initiative was approved, winning This not only provides a sense of timeliness, but it also shows that more and more people are beginning to support marijuana, which in effect helps Tweed in the long run. The second piece of imagery shows a man surrounded by copious amounts of marijuana plants, almost as if he were in a forest. This man, like in the last photograph, is also wearing a lab coat with Tuico 3 not only the logo, but on the left side states, What this signifies is the legitimacy of the organization and that people can sign up to visit the dispensary in order to experience first hand the support for argument. The lab coat also symbolizes the level of professionalism that Tweed is trying to convey. Another feature the second image gives that the first image did not is the face, more notably, his facial expression. He seems to have a fairly happy expression along with wide eyes, indicating is astonishment towards the facility. The facial expression and the fact that he is a visitor may persuade people, and hopefully those who support the legalization of marijuana, to visit a marijuana dispensary and make a new judgment. The shear abundance of the marijuana plants establishes solid support for argument by showing just how far and how much work they have put into this. Compared to the first image, the plants in the background of the second image are presented more prominently, making it certain that people can see the impressive quantity. our best-in-class Care Team, who provides industry-leading support. Then our Production and Distribution Teams who work around the clock, year-round, to make sure our customers receive only the very best cannabis to their door. We could go on, but rather you see for (Tweed). This statement gives people that extra bit of comfort when looking at Tweed and all its accomplishments while simultaneously providing a call to action to those who are still a little unsure about the goals. Similar to the first image, the second image is also connected through the 2016 elections where the amendment to vote on the legalization of medical marijuana was passed. With this sense of timeliness, it should be expected for the profits to increase as the demand for medical marijuana increases. The forest of marijuana plants surrounding the man shows the great deal of dedication that went into creating such a gigantic facility. This dedication allows people to grasp a deeper and perhaps an emotional attitude towards argument, increasing their support. The abundance is also correlated to the support from already existing marijuana enthusiasts. Tuico 4 Logically speaking, in order to get to that level of care and abundance, Tweed has to acquire a very large amount of money. That money most likely came from people who have a very high demand in marijuana. Through the use of two examples of visual rhetoric, Tweed has successfully supported its argument to prove that the opinions of those who are against the legalization of marijuana are wrong. The first image really emphasizes the level of care that goes into growing such healthy plants while the second image focuses on the overall abundance of the marijuana plants. Both images feature a man in a lab coat, one being an employee while the other is just a visitor, and it is apparent that both men support Tweed and their goals. With the legalization of marijuana becoming almost inevitable, the support for Tweed will only increase. Word Count: 1211 Tuico 5 Works Cited Medical Marijuana Legalization, Amendment 2 Ballotpedia. Ballotpedia. 8 Nov. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Asked Tweed. Tweed. 2017. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. <https://www.tweed.com/pages/frequently-asked-questions#oht:lang=en-us> Image 1 https://simcoeholistichealth.com/producers/tweed/ Tuico 6 Image 2 http://www.obj.ca/Local/2015-09-04/article-4267905/Tweed-Marijuana-announces- acquisition-of-MedCannAccess-in-an-all-equity-deal/1