Professor Roth ENC 1101 January 29, 2017 Animals in captivity From the beginning of time humans and animals have shared earth and we have coexisted together since, not interfering with each other. For the past few decades that has changed and humans have intruded many parts were wild animals live, both populating and destroying habitats from the great depths of the pacifist the tallest trees in the jungle, in doing so societies were created to shelter and help these animals in need. Those societies created to help and educate people about animals grew bigger and became major tourist attractions such as zoos, and amusement parks. They became places where tourist could enjoy beautiful shows and thrilling rides while also being able to interact with and enjoy the wide variety of animals. In the same way that people realized how we were affecting animals in the wild people started to bring to light the reality that came with keeping wild animals in unfamiliar confined spaces. The reality is that keeping animals captive no matter how well treated, can be cruel and detrimental to their well-being. Exhibiting abnormal behavioral changes can be taken as a problem and as a possible compromise to the well-being of such animals, these behaviors have to be new unknown behaviors but can be normal behaviors found in the wild but at a higher rate. Behavior like coprophagy which is the ingestion of feces is common among chimpanzees both in captivity and in the wild, but done at higher rates in captivity has cough the attention of scientist and research is now telling us that those increased behaviors are sings of compromise in the wellbeing of these animals. In the same way behaviors that are normal in the wild can be lost and can affect the animal if it is to be released back in the wild, this case occurred with the Hawaiian crow a bird species now only alive in captivity, because of it being in captivity some learnt vocal behaviors like alarm or territorial calls became absent in the captive birds, effecting the possibility of re-introducing them to the wild. another animal that has brought a lot of attention is the killer whale, with recent events that have taking place research on these animals and how they are affected by captivity has arisen, one major point being survival of these whales compared to in the wild, scientist have concluded that killer whale survival in captivity is lower than survival in the wild. These facts bring up the question if captivity even though was initially intended to help animals has negatively effected the quality of life in animals instead of helping? Jett, John, and Jeffrey Ventre. Captive killer whale ( Orcinus orca )  Marine Mammal Science 31.4 (2015): 1362-377. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. the article killer whales focuses on the survival of killer whale that live in three different places; U.S facilities, foreign facilities, and the wild. They take in consideration factors like gender that may affect the life span of these creatures. Many places hold killer whales captive, in the research done it shows that killer whales held in captivity in foreign facilities survival is lower then those of U.S facilities. But compared to wild killer whales both survival rates are lower. These article is relevant to my topic because it goes over how one of the factor of the lower survival rate in foreign facilities is the policies when it comes to dealing with the animals, even though we take better care of them our human error comes into play with the life of the killer whale in captivity. The credibility of this source is that it was from trainers that have had experience with the whales, it was found in the University of South Florida database. Hopper, Lydia M., Hani D. Freeman, and Stephen R. Ross. Reconsidering coprophagy as an indicator of negative welfare for captive  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 176 (2016): 112-19. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. This article focuses on chimpanzees and abnormal behavior that arise from captivity, the research takes normal behaviors and takes them as abnormal when they are done at higher rates that in the wild, some of the behaviors are regurgitation, reingestion and coprophagy. It the focuses on coprophagy and how it is done at higher rates in captivity, connecting to my topic because captivity changes the behavior of chimpanzees and the research concluded that the abnormal behaviors being shown do affect the well-being of the animal. The source is credible because it was found using the University of South Florida database. Tanimoto, Ann M., Patrick J. Hart, Adam A. Pack, Richard Switzer, Paul C. Banko, Donna L. Ball, Esther Lisa Komarczyk, and Miyako H. Warrington. Changes in vocal repertoire of the Hawaiian crow, Corvus hawaiiensis, from past wild to current captive  Animal Behaviour 123 (2017): 427-32. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. This article focuses on the changes in repertoire vocalization of the Hawaiian crow, these species is now only alive in captivity. Scientist took tapes collected of these birds when living in the wild taken in the early and compared then to the vocalizations of the same species in captivity. Results showed that there was great difference in the repertoire of the birds, the wild birds had twice the amount of alarm calls done at higher rates, calls such as territorial calls. Results worried scientist who planned on re introducing the extinct bird to the wild, but with essential alarm calls lost it could have implications in the survival of the birds. The source is credible because it was found using the University of South Florida database.