Christian Garcia Mariama Changamire English 1102 2 March 2017 The Harsh Reality of Animal Treatment in the Food and Clothing Industries As the human population increases, a high demand for products rise alongside it. The production of food and clothing heavily relies on animals that provide fur, skin, and meat got consumers. Many companies within the food and clothing industries support all treatment towards animals, provided that there is a monetary profit. On the other hand, there are many organization that oppose the unjust treatment of animals regardless of what product is being produced. The People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is a reputable, activist organization that protects animal rights including food, clothing, environment, etc. PETA strives to eliminate all unwholesome and unfair methods of animal treatment, especially in the food and clothing industries. These companies include, but are not limited to, fast food restaurants and famous clothing lines that are notorious for immoral methods of production when using animals. For many years, PETA and organizations alike have fought for animal rights and make it a priority to inform consumers about the ways animals are treated. PETA argues that the food industry should eliminate slaughter houses and the clothing industry should stop using animal fur in products by providing two images that portray animal abuse in slaughter houses and the harsh reality of using animal fur for clothing. Animal abuse is scarily prominent in food and clothing industries. Although PETA opposes all cases of animal cruelty, one of their main arguments is against the production of meat in Garcia 2 slaughter houses. In many cases, animals are abused while alive in slaughterhouses. In one incident, after an investigation of the AgriProcessors kosher slaughterhouse in Postville, Iowa, the USDA shut down the house. A video released by PETA showed that at the plant said they had observed animals with their tracheas removed up and walk after being dumped from the kill (Animal Welfare Institute). Image A shows the condition of pigs being killed in slaughter houses whose meat is used in food sold at Burger King. The image depicts the methods of how the pigs are hung upside down with their heads cut off to kill the pigs. This method allows the process to run faster but compromises the morality of how the pigs are killed. The image heavily relies on the use of pathos to make the viewer sympathize for the animals. The image has a Burger King logo that is altered to say Murder  and has a gory texture rather than the clean cut Burger King logo (PETA 2017). The statement on the top of the photo reads Home of the  which again appeals to the pathos rhetoric appeal. The word  has a larger font and a white color which stands out on the red background. It also looks like the lettering one would see in the title of a horror movie with dripping  coming from the letters. The last statement on the bottom reads How much cruelty can you . This poses a question to the reader that makes one question the reality of how slaughter houses are run. These aspects utilize the pathos rhetorical appeal to make the viewer feel disgust for the conditions pigs are in as well as sympathy for how they are treated. Furthermore, PETA stamps their logo on the bottom of Image A. This provides a sense of credibility because they are an official organization providing a solid statement to the reader. This appeal to ethos ensures the viewer that there is in fact a real issue present with use of slaughter houses. PETA also provides a satirical effect by posting the website Garcia 3  at the bottom of the poster to show signs of disgust and mock the methods of how Burger King produces their food. The use of a real-time picture also provides an ethos rhetorical appeal. This picture shows a real factory worker in the process of killing the pigs allowing for a full effect of ethos. Many pictures on the internet or movie titles are produced by the organization posting it. This picture provides a real-time picture not leaving room for question on the reality of slaughter houses. The other main argument that PETA makes is the use of animal fur for clothing. In many cases, animals are tortured so that clothing products can be produced. Animals are tortured mercilessly, especially on Chinese fur farms which were exposed in videos that show the workers begin to cut the skin and fur from the leg, the free limbs kick and (Meredith 2013). These fur farms skin and cut the animal alive and sometimes electrocute or gas them during the process as well. Image B displays a subtle yet significant message to viewers. The image displays Nev Shulman centered in the picture standing naked with five cute furry animals to his sides. Nev Shulman and the animals are all holding signs reading WEAR YOUR OWN  in black, large, and bold letters on a white poster. The white background allows the stars of the picture to stand out. One major aspect within the photo is that all the animals are looking straight ahead at the viewer whilst holding their own signs. This instills a sense of personality in the animals making the viewer feel a connection to them rather than just viewing them as wild animals. The viewer will then think twice when considering whether to buy a product with fur, remembering the eyes of the conscious animal that was killed for the product. Not only do the animals have a sense of personality, they are also standing or sitting up and relatively cute. Garcia 4 PETA uses a bunny and other cute animals that are small and furry. These aspects appeal heavily affect emotion and sympathy by utilizing the pathos rhetorical appeal. The statement on the bottom of the Image B reads the skin in. Let animals keep This is a strong statement telling viewers that it is immoral to use animal fur because it does not belong to humans. PETA also stamps the bottom of the image with their logo and a statement. This provides the ethos rhetorical appeal proving the credibility of the source is from an official organization. In addition, the presence of a celebrity adds a better relation to viewers because it is not just the organization fighting for a cause. Having a celebrity support cause can show viewers that there is support other than the organization itself, which most viewers would view as biased. This allows viewers to relate to the cause more so than if it was just a picture of the animals alone because they can connect to the image. Using images, PETA successfully argues that food industries should stop using slaughter houses and clothing companies should stop using fur in products. The images portray the harsh reality of the methods in which food and clothing are produced. Through these images, PETA informs the public of the immoral treatment of animals that happens behind closed doors. In this sense, the organization successfully spreads their message. Ultimately, their goal is to eliminate animal abuse in all aspects of production. Although this is far from being achieved, they have certainly come a long way just recently closing the Ringling Bros. company for unethical treatment toward circus animals. Word Count: 1211 Garcia 5 Works Cited Inhumane Slaughter and Misconduct Uncovered at Kosher  Inhumane Slaughter and Misconduct Uncovered at Kosher Slaughterhouse Animal Welfare Institute. Animal Welfare Institute, n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Meredith, Charlotte. Animals electrocuted, strangled and skinned alive: The true face of fur  Express.co.uk. Express, 01 Mar. 2013. Web. 02 Mar. 2017.  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Garcia 6 Image A http://www.peta.org/about-peta/milestones/ Garcia 7 Image 2 http://www.peta.org/about-peta/milestones/