Pate 1 Madison Pate Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 January 28, 2017 Standardized Testing Standardized testing is a critical part of the American educational system used for determining student achievement in the areas of reading comprehension, writing, and mathematics. Supporters of standardized testing feel that these tests are a fair and non- discriminatory way to measure whether students are proficient in a given area, and that their high-stakes nature is essential for pushing students to perform to the best of their abilities. However, these tests are becoming outdated and neglect areas of intelligence that are just as important as the ones currently being tested. In the modern workplace, while writing and mathematics are valuable skills in many professions, employers are also looking for creativity, leadership, and proficiency in technology, which these tests are not capable of measuring. When teachers teach strictly to the test, curriculums become rushed in an attempt to prepare students for material that may appear on the test. There is less time to explore and develop these other areas of intelligence, and it becomes more difficult for struggling students to get ahead. Additionally, the high stakes of these tests hurt students and teachers alike by causing unnecessary anxiety and carrying high penalties for failure to meet standards. As testing grows more competitive, many educators are left wondering, these tests cause more harm than Pate 2 Bhattacharyya, Sumita, et al. You Hear Us? Voices Raised against Standardized Testing by Novice Creative Education, 4 , no. 10, 9 Sept. 2013, pp. file.scirp.org/Html/37524.html. This article acknowledges and validates some of the most prevalent concerns regarding standardized role in education. Bhattacharyya believes that standardized testing harms the overall quality of education that students are receiving and that deeper, more dimensional lessons are neglected or even omitted in favor of to the Additionally, the tests are not an accurate way of determining each ability (Bhattacharyya et al., 633). To gain more insight on the issue, eleven teachers who had graduated college and entered the teaching field within the past three years of this publication were interviewed. According to this article, these teachers were selected because new teachers tend to be optimistic and enthusiastic about teaching, not yet jaded towards the profession like some longtime teachers were more likely to become. This would allow for fresh perspectives on the pros and cons of standardized testing. Some of the most notable criticisms, which are discussed in detail in the article, are the following: other subjects are neglected in order to teach reading, math, and occasionally science to the test, standardized tests can carry biases and do not reflect the diverse population of youth, the tests are to individual learning and leave room for teachers to accommodate these learning styles, and some students are just not skilled test takers, meaning that the tests are not an accurate measure of their knowledge (Bhattacharyya et al., 634). In addition to all of this, standardized tests can cause unhealthy amounts of anxiety in teachers just as much as they do in students. The high-stakes pressure of making sure as many students pass these tests as possible in order to keep their jobs drives many teachers to leave the Pate 3 profession early into their careers (Bhattacharyya et al., 636). I plan to use this article to show teacher perspectives on standardized education. As shown in this article, many new teachers are critical of the tests and feel that they carry a lot of negative effects. Sumita Bhattacharyya is a professor in the Department of Teaching Education at Nichols State University and specializes in science education. Mary Junot is the NSU College of Education program coordinator as well as an associate professor and advisor. Hillary Clark is an alumnus of NSU. Cassady, Jerrell C., and Ronald E. Johnson. Cognitive Test Anxiety and Academic  Contemporary Educational Psychology 27.2 (2002): 270-95. ScienceDirect. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. This article shows the relationship between test anxiety and academic performance. It provides accurate and in-depth descriptions of test anxiety, explains common factors that may make some students more likely to experience test anxiety than others, and examines the ways in which test anxiety can negatively impact a exam performance. The article then contains a study in which university students participate in an aptitude test, comparing the scores to self-reported test anxiety questionnaires that they had completed prior to taking the test. I plan to use this information to emphasize ways in which tests affect students emotionally, showing that they do more harm than good for many students. I also will use it to show one of the several external factors that may impact a test performance, meaning that standardized tests are not always accurate measures of student ability. Pate 4 Jerrell Cassady is a professor of educational psychology at Ball State University. He has been in the department for nearly two decades and is best known for studying academia-related anxieties. His work has led him to create and direct the Academic Anxiety Research Consortium. Ronald Johnson was a professor of psychology and education at Purdue University. He was also a member of the American Psychological Association and the Association of Psychological Science. Duncan, Betty A, and Alexandra Stevens. Standardized Testing: Help or Hindrance to Public National Social Science Journal, vol. 36, no. 2, July 2011, pp. EBSCO, This article lists some of the various standardized tests that most public school students living in the 21 st century have to take over the years. It explains the origins and history of standardized tests, and how they changed into the ones we know today. Various pros and cons are discussed. One notable fact is that in Japan, standardized tests are not taken until the students reach high school because of the destructive educational effects on young learners as a result of inefficiencies in the (Duncan and Stevens 37). One major argument that is made is that students who are being to the do not always fully understand the curriculum and are just being taught to memorize information and fill in bubble sheets. One of the counterarguments made is that the tests can identify strengths and weaknesses that may be useful for students to be aware of for future courses. Other various arguments are made, and there is a survey of educators comparing how they feel about high-stakes testing. This survey concluded that most participants (92%) feel that music, arts, physical education, and other Pate 5 courses are being pushed aside in favor of tested courses. More than half of the participants (66%) agreed that test scores are not always accurate measures of student achievement. I plan to use this article to discuss the historical context of standardized testing, to provide counterarguments to my stance, and to show how educators feel about the subject. Betty Duncan is an associate professor of education at Lamar University. She has published several professional articles and other publications. She has been working in education for over 40 years with experience in teaching both public school and university courses. Eppley, Karen. Traps of the Common Core State Journal of Adolescent &Amp; Adult Literacy, vol. 59, no. 2, Sept. 2015, pp. Academic OneFile, In this article, Eppley quotes C. Wright Mills, a famous sociologist, in saying that feel their lives are a series of (Eppley 207). Using this metaphor, Eppley describes the Common Core system, the current standardized public school curriculum currently used in most states, as a series of traps. She feels that the curriculum limits teacher-to-student engagement and the freedom of teachers to incorporate their own values about teaching into their lessons in favor of the U.S. economic (Eppley 207). She then points out seven prominent traps, or flaws that she feels make the Common Core a step backwards in public education. One of the most prominent traps is what Eppley describes as role in the global economy. While the Core is meant to prepare students for contributing to the global economy and finding their place within major corporations, Eppley feels that this approach contradicts the very principles it preaches. She believes that individual values (such as beliefs and community involvement), as well as engagement with others, are being Pate 6 emphasized in favor of teaching testable literacy skills that can be later exchanged on the labor Simply put, she feels that this makes students become just a number in the system and compromises their individuality so they can become profitable goods in a market. It also disadvantages students who struggle with the Common Core and alternate for future careers (Eppley 211-212). I plan to use this article to show some of the flaws in the Common Core curriculum and to show how it focuses on marketable literacy skills at the expense of creativity and individuality. Karen Eppley is an associate professor of curriculum and instruction at Pennsylvania State University. She has many published journal articles and often presents her research at education conferences. Kohn, Alfie. Testing And Its Education Week, vol. 20, no. 4, 27 Sept. 2000, p. 60. EBSCO, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ehost/detail/detail?sid=13fe0212-8896-40fb- 80e13d8b05d9b3e4%40sessionmgr4010&vid=0&hid=4203&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3 QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#AN=3730038&db=aph. In this article, Kohn makes many arguments against standardized testing. He claims that American students must complete more standardized tests than students from any other country in the world (as of the time this article was published), and that no education specialists believe that children should be tested as early as age eight or nine. He also criticizes the fact that schools often put more money into standardized testing at the expense of fine arts programs, recess for elementary-aged children, electives for older students, extracurricular clubs and organizations, Pate 7 and other activities and programs that are critical to a productive learning environment. Like other critics of standardized testing, Kohn also mentions that there are potential biases in the tests, the tests encourage a shallow approach to learning, and the nature of the tests causes neglect to the students who need the most help (Kohn 60). I plan to use this article to show how standardized tests can negatively impact students by removing extracurricular activities and by containing unfair biases against certain groups. Alfie Kohn is best known for his books and lectures on education, parenting, and human behavior. He uses his research in social science-related subjects to challenge the state of role in society. Rothstein, Richard. Our Patience: Standardized Tests Have Their Uses. But Current Federal Law Uses Testing to Destroy The American Prospect, Feb. 2004, pp. Academic OneFile, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=e80ab442- 19b2-4c78-9c36-57f7f3dfed2a%40sessionmgr4007&vid=3&hid=4111. This article was published in 2004, when George W. No Child Left Behind law existed and was still fairly new. Critics of standardized testing, including Rothstein, were already beginning to see some of its negative effects. Rothstein argues that while standardized tests are useful for memorization, applying formulas, and other basic skills, they fall short when it comes to skills that are more difficult to measure, such as creativity, reasoning, and the application of skills to situations that been carefully rehearsed. Schools are evaluated based on the results of standardized testing, but Rothstein believes that this judgment misses the mark in matters in (Rothstein 45). One particular flaw that Rothstein points out is that Pate 8 under NCLB is that some states adjusted their testing standards to make the tests so that more students could pass even if they proficient in the material, or where only a small number of students were passing despite many more having knowledge in the subject (the article uses Texas and Massachusetts as examples, respectively). Rothstein fears that tests will become down to the point where all students can achieve [proficiency on the with little improvement in While the tests are meant to measure student achievement, he believes they are designed to reward the opposite (Rothstein 46). Rothstein also points out that there can be a lot of variance in tests scores based on external factors, and that to accurately determine a performance there should be more done than just an annual standardized tests. As one possible solution to this, he suggests having experts visit schools periodically to evaluate student work and projects, as well as the leadership, resource management, and environment as a whole (Rothstein 47). I plan to use this article to explain some of the most important arguments against standardized testing. These include the inability to measure some important skills (i.e. creativity), the fact that test scores may be inaccurate due to external factors, and that tests may not accurately measure the overall status of a school environment. Richard Rothstein is a research assistant of the Economic Policy Institute known for writing many books on discrimination, education, and social justice. He is also a member of the Thurgood Marshall Institute of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund and the Haas Institute at the University of California.