Forbes 1 Shannon Forbes Mariama Changamire Enc 1102 2nd March 2017 Families USA are pro health care reform Health care reform in the United States has been a topic of interest since as early as the During the Lyndon Johnson, the president at the time established a system of health care that we all know as Since this change in the system, there have been many proposals by different organizations to allow all people the access to health care services that they deserve, even if they are not financially stable. One such organization is Families USA. Families USA is an activist of health care reform and believes that no person should be denied health care coverage. However, there are organizations that do not want change in the health care system, as it is a moneymaking industry and they would prefer to keep it in the hands of the private business sector. Even though it is a difficult system to change, Families USA still pushes forward in the hope that one day it will change for the better. The two images of visual rhetoric released by Families USA are promoting health care access to all. The images are doing this by showing how many people do not have access to health care and that Families USA can help change this if you sign up with them. Families USA argues that one in four people do not have access to medical care in the United States and that they are able to change this if you join their team. In image A, Forbes 2 at the top it says, in This phrase is the largest font on the page and takes on a font style that is very traditional. The large size of the font and its style is stressing the importance of the issue. The number one is in a bright white color while the is in a dull grey. Right below this phrase are the outlines of four people and they are the same size as the words in Similarly to the top, only one of the people is in a bright white color, while the other three are in a dull grey. The color contrast causes the eyes to look at the number 1 and the first outlined person as it draws your attention in. This allows people to see for themselves that lack of health care coverage affects more people than they may have realized. At the bottom of image B it says, up by 1/31 to This statement is written in white except for the which is written in red. This statement is implying that Families USA can offer assistance to people who do not have access to health insurance if they sign up before this date. This will therefore reduce the number of non-covered adults. The organization Families USA uses images A to inform people on the types of medical necessities those non-covered adults do not have access to. In the second half of image A, there is a list of necessary medical services. These services are listed in order of how many non-covered adults have access to them. The first one is tests; treatment or follow-up-care and only 15 percent of the people have access to it. Following that is prescription drugs with 14 percent of people having access to them. Prescription drugs are followed by medical care and only 12 percent of people have access to it. Immediately after is General doctor and 12 percent of non-covered adults have access to it. Lastly, only 11 percent of people are able to seek specialists if it is needed. This indicates to the public that around three quarters of non-covered adults are not fortunate Forbes 3 enough to have basic medical necessities. Families USA uses this image to fight for a change in the health care system. The views of Families USA are aligned with those of the Physicians for a national health program (PNHP). In the mission statement of PNHP they state, believes that access to high-quality health care is a right for all (PNHP). The PNHP also believes that all people deserve health care coverage no matter what their financial situation is. Image B is used as a platform for Families USA to show the public that they are not going to quit fighting for change in the health care system. To the left hand side of image B it says, cannot stop Donald Trump is currently the president of the United States of America; he was inaugurated on the 20 th January 2017. Therefore, by Families USA stating that Trump cannot even stop them, they are indicating that one of the most powerful men in America (the president) cannot make the stop fighting for health care reform in the country. These words were placed in red writing against a light blue background. This was done in order to draw attention to the words and indicate to people that they are serious about health care reform in the country. Image A has small pictures of medical necessities, each with a white in a red bubble on them. One picture is of a syringe, a medicine bottle, a stethoscope, a doctor, a magnifying glass and a first aid kit. These each have an placed on them as it further emphasizes the lack of access to certain necessities and triggers a feeling of empathy in people and causes them to want to join Families USA to fight for health care for all in America. The National physicians alliance agrees with Families USA in wanting all people, no matter what their financial situation is, to have access to medical necessities. In their mission statement they state, national physicians alliance creates research Forbes 4 and education programs that promote and foster active engagement of physicians with their communities to achieve high quality, affordable heath care for In relation to image A emphasizing the need for health care reform, image B is inviting people to join Families USA to become insured for health care. Image B has a large red sign on it with the words, written on it, the words are written in white. The words are written in bold. However, the font size of the word is the largest of the three words. Since it is the largest word on the image, it is the first thing that you look at when you see it. This statement is implying that the organization, Families USA is open and willing to help individuals become covered for health insurance, no matter what situation they are in. Families USA is pro health care reform in America. They plan to continue fighting for what they believe are basic rights. They want all individuals to have access to health care coverage no matter what their financial situation is. They do not believe that any one individual should be denied that right. Families USA used these two pieces of visual rhetoric, images A and B to convince people that health care reform is needed. They used techniques to display how many people do not have access to basic medical necessities. The organization also gave a solution to people who are not covered. They advertised that signing up with them before a certain date can in fact allow individuals to have access to medical insurance. Word count: 1213 Forbes 5 Works Cited page The PNHP, http://www.pnhp.org/about/about-pnhp. Accessed 29 Feb. 2017. Families Families USA, http://familiesusa.org/about. Accessed 29 Feb. 2017. National physicians alliance, http://npalliance.org/about/. Accessed 29 Feb. 2017.