Olivia Stea Professor Roth Final Draft 19 February 2017 Due to the ever-changing economy, more and more companies are offshoring their jobs to other countries for cost effective purposes. American companies are moving their jobs to popular low cost countries like China, India, Indonesia and many others. More and more jobs are being outsourced because it is simply cheaper and more efficient. It is also better for the environment on the United States end of it. Not only is it extremely expensive to import the things needed to run a factory but environmentally the cost of waste being exposed into society is a risk no one wants. To fix the economy, the United States needs to find a way to create more jobs and risk the cost that it will take finally and environmentally to keep their companies abroad. Doing this is simply smarter, more realistic, and could save the economy. Do the lack of jobs in the United States have to do with the fact that more and more companies offshoring their facilities due to cost efficiency? The Changing Nature of Corporate Global Restructuring: The Impact of Production Shifts on Jobs in the US, China, and Around the Globe Bronfenbrenner, Kate, and Stephanie Luce. E Changing Nature of Corporate Global Restructuring: E Impact of Production Shi S on Jobs in the US, China, and Around the  Cornell University ILR School. N.p., 14 Oct. 2004. Web. Every year more and more jobs are being shifted out of the United States and into China, India, and other countries. According to this article, Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) estimate of jobs lost due to the shifting of US jobs out of the country grossly underestimates the total number of jobs lost. While BLS reported 4,633 private sector workers in establishments with 50 or more workers lost their jobs due to global outsourcing in January-March Also out of a statistic of random companies surveyed by the authors of this article, an estimated 32% of companies surveyed are outsourcing from high to low cost countries. This article is extremely relevant to my research question in the sense that it shows statistics on companies considering offshoring for the main argument of y research question that it is pertained through a cheaper functioning alternative. Companies like China and India are able to produce product at a much cheaper cost and also are able to provide workers that are willing to work for a much lower standard of living. There is a lot of arguments on if it is worth it to have a cheaper cost at the life of other people. Humanly, it is wrong but at the same time, people are willing to work for that cost. Offshoring domestic jobs Egger, Hartmut, Udo Kreickemeier, and Jens Wrona. Offshoring Domestic Jobs  Offshoring Domestic Jobs. Science Direct, Sept. 2015. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This article delves into the science behind why it is so much cheaper to offshore jobs into low cost countries. The authors of this article developed a country general equilibrium According to these scientists, the presence of fixed costs for offshoring the most productive firms self-select into offshoring, which leads to a reallocation of domestic labor towards less productive uses if offshoring costs are Basically stating that it is safer to offshore a company because one is able to use fixed costs with lower developed poorer countries rather than dealing with the nightmare that is ever changing minimum wage costs in the US. This article goes more in depth to the science behind my research question. The reasoning behind this corporate revolution is purely cost based. Looking at the two country equilibrium model clearly shows that there is a model to calculate the fixed cost to compare how much it will be to have a factory in one country versus another. Also, this model shows if there would be a change in hard versus soft currency because it is widely known that the US dollar is a hard currency that is reliable to use in other countries where as the rupee in India may not be as reliable of a place for their business. Global competitive conditions driving the manufacturing location decision Tate, Wendy L., Lisa M. Ellram, Tobais Schoenherr, and Kenneth J. Petersen. Global Competitive Conditions Driving the Manufacturing Location  Global Competitive Conditions Driving the Manufacturing Location Decision. Science Direct, June 2014. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This article focuses on the global aspect of location of businesses rather than the cost. Some common factors that go into this are: location, national disasters, currency valuation, labor, transportation costs, and This article also goes into the concepts of not only offshoring but reshoring as well. Reshoring is basically rethinking the ideas about offshoring and reconsidering if it is worth it or not. One other interesting study in this was considering what the customers think about the idea of reshoring. Also if reshoring would ultimately result in an opening of new markets. This source goes more into a HR sense of the companies and their location rather than just the cost aspect of it. Pertaining to the research question questioning about lack of jobs is assessed in this entry talking about reshoring and whether worth it or not. The term reshoring is defined as: practice of transferring a business operation that was moved overseas back to the country from which it was originally This process may have to do with the influx of jobs recently but do not have a large enough impact to bring more jobs back to the United States. Understanding offshoring: A research framework based on disintegration, location and externalization advantages Mukherjee, Debmalya, and Ben L. Kedia. Understanding Offshoring: A Research Framework Based on Disintegration, Location and Externalization  Understanding Offshoring: A Research Framework Based on Disintegration, Location and Externalization Advantages. Science Direct, July 2009. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This book goes more into what it means to offshore and the science behind it rather than just the jobs affected by it. This paper goes into the risks and advantages presented by attempt to relocate their business or company. According to this source, the three advantages are, location-specific resourcing, and This source also delves into government policies, and possible recommendations for companies who are attempting to dive into this idea. In order to defend my research question I must firmly understand offshoring and its policies rather than just a simple definition. This source is imperative for my argument simply for the fact that it shows what happens to a company before and after they attempt to relocate. Recognizing the three advantages is crucial to define in order to understand what the lack of jobs in the United States are justified. Most companies unfortunately, only seem to be concerned with the economic state of their company rather than how it affects United States citizens. However customers do have a large voice in the fate of businesses and could have an affect on whether they reshore or not.