Caban Zavdiel E. Caban Professor Campbell Section 089 27 January 2017 1 A Compromise for a Cleaner and Safer Future Energy is widely used around the world to make lives better and more enjoyable. The current methods of achieving this energy are primarily unclean and are linked as the main cause for climate change. The most common method are coal-fired plants which are being regulated to keep emissions low but still leading to climate change and the global increase of carbon dioxide. Many studies and researchers have confirmed these claims like Helgersen, who said that global emissions of greenhouse gases must be drastically reduced as soon as (Holgersen 512). Researchers like Helgersen have not only supported the claims but also supported the fact that we must reduce our global emissions soon, to stop climate change and global warming. Having this in mind an arrangement can be made with two stakeholders, Greenpeace and Tampa Electric Company (TECO), to deter these problems and be an example for the rest of the world to do the same. Greenpeace is a non-governmental organization that is dedicated in fighting for the environment and informing the public on climate change and pollution. They believe that fossil fuels should stay in the ground and companies should not use them because of the negative impacts to the environment. Next, TECO is a company that mainly uses coal-fired plants to supply energy to its customers and is aware of the environmental impacts it has. The company is currently looking and investing in alternative energy to become a cleaner company but, currently, there are no goals to completely eradicate the coal-fired plants in the future. Even though Greenpeace wants to eradicate the use of fossil fuels and TECO is obligated to use them to meet with the energy demands of its customers, both Caban 2 still want to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases to protect the environment. Having this common ground, an agreement can be made to work together to make a company that uses only clean methods to produce energy for its customers. To begin with, Greenpeace not only wants to eventually reduce emissions but eradicate them, an agreement could still be made between the other stakeholder if in turn it eventually accomplishes this. The history of Greenpeace started in 1971 when a group of committed citizens wanted to protest nuclear testing the U.S. was performing by the coast of Alaska They placed themselves in the middle of harm, showing the world that they will do what it takes to save the environment. In their website, they not only inform against other types of pollution but also provide several research articles supporting their cause. One of their focus is global warming and in their website, it states to fossil fuels in the It in the This shows that their views of fossil fuels are a little radical for time but maybe not for the future. also the only way that they see to end or deter climate change and global warming because they do not mention anything as to what companies should be doing to reduce the emissions. An article by Benedikter shows the conflicts and benefits of keeping fossil fuels in the ground and mentions that some countries are heading in that direction already like Ecuador, which is planning to keep an undeveloped oil field untouched (212). This illustrates that part of the world are trying to become cleaner to keep the environment healthy and deter climate change. It also confirms and validates the stand point that Greenpeace is making because it proves that it is possible and promotes alternative energy. In the same article, it can be inferred that the U.S. is not one of those countries but it mentions that politicians like Bernie Sanders are bringing proposals stop the leasing of U.S. public lands for fossil fuel extractions (Benedikter 213). This is yet another example of how much legitimacy Greenpeace has because they are Caban 3 aware that the U.S. is not currently interfering with fossil fuel extraction and they are protesting to put an end to it. Furthermore, the second partaker of the agreement would be TECO, which presently, needs to use coal to supply energy but are currently investing in alternative energy making it possible for an arrangement to be made with Greenpeace. First and foremost, their mission is to deliver to energy customers, shareholders, team members and and Which mainly explains why they cannot switch energy sources over night because it may not be as effective and upset their customers. Their main method of producing energy, as mentioned in their website, is by natural with high efficiency, state-of-the-art at its coal-fired Culbreath Bayside Power In other words, they use natural gas and technology to reduce the emissions of the coal-fired plants, which makes it apparent that they are interested in reducing the negative impacts it has on the environment. It also shows an interest in other technologies that will clean up the emissions without having to stop the use of coal in their plants. A study was conducted to test the efficiency of different methods of carbon capturing and storage and it was concluded that the ACTmap scenario, a method of carbon capturing, the emissions of greenhouse gases have been to decrease by (Singh 762). This study provides legitimacy to TECO because it does not mention alternative energy sources to replace coal and it also provides a method of carbon capturing that they may use to stop reduce the emissions. It may also be inferred from the study that, at least for now, coal and fossil fuels are more effective because they provide no information on the impacts alternative energy has on the environment. Both stakeholders have different backgrounds and views making it difficult to work together, which could be a reason to why they have not worked together to solve this issue. Both Caban 4 have been independent in reducing emissions instead of working together to achieve a common goal. Greenpeace in one hand, seems completely against the use of fossil fuels and wants them eradicated but in the other hand, they have not seemed to care to work with the energy companies to reduce the use of fossil fuels. To continue, the other stakeholder, TECO, needs to use coal to meet the demands but still seems interested in alternative energy and is investing in it for the future. Even though they are interested in this it also can be concluded that those plans are for the far future than for the near future like Greenpeace is advocating for. These differences can make it difficult for both stakeholders to work together but within all these difference the commonality is still there, both want to have a cleaner future in terms of energy production. TECO is making attempts to have this future and Greenpeace is advocating for this change to happen. This is clearly seen in Greenpeace because the mission of their organization but it may not be as clear for TECO. Having said this, in their website they do have the same goal in mind because it mentions that they and their initiatives include expanding the use of alternative fuel This means that they are looking for alternatives and want to make their energy cleaner for their customers, which makes the commonality, between the two stakeholders, self-evident. Finally, having the common goals clearly defined then a compromise can be made to start working together to create a company or subsidiary that not only does research in new alternative energies but only provides clean energy to its customers. Both parties would have to provide the funds to start this making it and hire those that are highly qualified to start the research for future developments. With this also comes marketing and advertising because they need to make themselves known to the population and establish that their energy is clean, which will attract people to become customers. Next, a decision needs to be made for a location that benefits the Caban 5 first type of alternative energy. This means that if at first they want to provide solar energy they would need to figure out where in the U.S. the sun provides the most energy. At first, this will be an inconvenience but that is why there needs to be more research in finding clean and convenient forms of energy. Greenpeace must be patient with this because it will take time to find that perfect source of energy and TECO must at first use money, lowering profits, but in the long run they will make the same and possibly even more than what they were making. A study was conducted to all possible renewable energy in which is like the compromise because this would be a step to figure out what type of energy source the company will start with. The important aspect of this study is that it shows that a development in Afghanistan plentiful energy and cost effective supplied would be a significant (Rostami 22). In other words, this indicates that sustainable energy, which is considered renewable energy, can lead to plentiful energy that is cost effective. Also, this provides assurance to TECO because it provides evidence that in the long run it will produce profit and possibly even more. The study measures the amount of energy created by wind energy at different speeds and it was shown that the energy created was (13). This means that the amount of energy created was more than was needs, indicating that if TECO were to create this company it will create copious amounts of energy leading to increase profits for the company. It is also later stated that renewable energies could bring poverty, social and political stability, and improving living (22). Bringing these possibilities forth can give TECO and Greenpeace a sense of altruistic purpose because it will overall benefit humanity and the earth. In the end, Greenpeace will achieve to lower the use of fossil fuels and TECO will contribute in deterring climate change, which will enact other companies to follow in their footsteps. Caban 6 Clearly, this agreement can deter climate change and possibly reverse the effects that pollution has caused. The fact is that this is the one of the only ways to stop the use of fossil fuels and its made evident in the article when it is stated that the world will not initially react positive in keeping fossil fuels in the ground and that is where innovations and investment programmes enter the (527). This indicates that this compromise would be a part of the development of a fossil fuel free future because it would lead to other companies to adopt a similar method of producing energy that this proposed company would supply. Caban 7 Work Cited  Greenpeace USA, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/about/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Benedikter, Roland, et al. It In The The Paris Agreement And The Renewal Of The Energy Economy: Toward An Alternative Future For Globalized Resource  Challenge (05775132) vol. 59, no.3, 2016, pp. 205-222, Business Source Premier, doi: 10.1080/05775132.2016.1171665. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017.  Tampa Electric, http://www.tampaelectric.com/company/environment/. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. H.L. Culbreath Bayside Power  Tampa Electric. http://www.tampaelectric.com/company/ourpowersystem/powergeneration/bayside/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Holgersen, Stale, and Rikard Warlenius. Destroy What Destroys The Planet: Steering Creative Destruction In The Dual  Capital & Class 3, 2016, pp 511. Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1177/030981681666742. Accessed. 25 Jan. 2017. Keep It in the  Greenpeace USA, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/global- warming/keep-it-in-the-ground/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Mission and  Tampa Electric, http://www.tampaelectric.com/company/about/culture/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Rostami, Raheleh, et al. An Overview Of Trends Toward Renewable And Sustainable  Renewable And Sustainable Energy Reviews, 2016. ScienceDirect, doi:10.1016/j.rser.2016.11.172. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017.