Mahmoud 1 Mentalla Mahmoud Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 January 21, 2017 Set Your Own Standards Nowadays, standardized testing is playing a major role in crucially picking a student destination. Standardized tests have always been there since the 200 B.C, but what marks the differences between the early times and nowadays is that their ability of evoking strong and crucial reactions have increased. Back then, colleges were linear with scores and it was a much easier process. While the trend of setting high score on admission tests increases, less students are able to accomplish their dream and get into their dream field and university. Although some people believe that standardized tests are created in a way in which it meets the standards of an average student capabilities, yet there are so many external factors as well as internal factors that can have a strong impact on the performance of students in such tests. Also, since the standardized test focus mainly on mathematics and science, it demonstrates inequality and unfairness for students. This is because standardized tests only measure strengths on these two areas thus students who show interest in other areas or subjects probably end up having low grades. And this brings up the question, what makes standardized testing an unfair opportunity for students? Analysis: Pros And Cons Of Standardized Testing In Public Schools And Its Effects On Teaching And Learning. n.p.: National Public Radio, 2000. Literature Resource Center. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Mahmoud 2 This article inform readers not only about the pros and cons of standardized testing but also it analyzes the effects of the situation on both the society and the students. It clarifies the serious consequences that result from having the admission tests a  for colleges admission. This article is helpful because the author argues that admission tests should be optional because not an accurate measurement for the success of a student. The author also mentioned that if students pass these tests, the probability of them dropping education is extremely high which may result in them being poor, homeless and committing crime. Finally the author mentioned that the ministry of education should reconsider this topic and re-evaluate it and take into consideration the consequences seriously. Talk of the Nation was a talk radio program based in Washington D.C.,produced by National Public Radio. It focused on current events and controversial issues. Talk of the nation focused mainly on education issues and addressed all the problems that student and teachers encounter. It also provided solutions to these problems and even sometimes it would have expertise and scientists that would argue about the topic for hours. This article will be helpful for this research paper because it demonstrates the seriousness of the issue by mentioning that the ministry of education should try to get involved and help set an end to this dispute. Nauert, Rick. Standardized Test Score May Not Correlate to Higher  Psych Central News. Oct. 06, 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://psychcentral.com/news/2013/12/12/standardized-test-score-may-not-correlate-to- higher-iq/63200.html>. This article explains that there is no correlation between standardized test score and high IQ scores. It states that such tests are only designed to measure the knowledge and skills that a student acquires in school. Psychologists call this crystalized . Thus, schools or Mahmoud 3 students that gain high scores on standardized testing are missing in someway what is called the fluid , the ability to analyze abstract problems and think logically. The conclusion of this article and its findings is that schools will mostly focus on nourishing the crystalized intelligence in order to perform professionally in standardized tests. As a result, students will graduate having only a specific part of their brain nourished and strengthened while missing other components that will be essential for their future work and study life. Dr. Rick Nauert has over 25 years experience in clinical, administrative and academic healthcare. He is currently an associate professor for Rocky Mountain University of Health Professionals doctoral program in health promotion and wellness. Dr. Nauert began his career as a clinical physical therapist and served as a regional manager for a publicly traded multidisciplinary rehabilitation agency for 12 years.This article can be used in this research paper to show the relationship between standardized scores and IQ scores and to prove that standardized tests does not necessarily measure intelligence and therefore cannot predict future performance. Sievertsen, Hans Henrik, Francesca Gino, and Marco Piovesan. Fatigue Influences Performance on Standardized Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America 113.10 (2016): PMC. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. In this article authors emphasize a concept called Cognitive  ,a feeling of mild to extreme mental exhaustion which can last anywhere from several hours to days and is often felt as a rebound effect after experiences with stimulants. These feelings of exhaustion can potentially include a sustained sense of suppressed mental clarity, emotional instability and agitation alongside of specific subjective effect components such as thought deceleration, Mahmoud 4 information processing suppression, thought disorganization, depression, irritability and anxiety. This article explains the connection between cognitive fatigue and standardized testing by clarifying how tiredness could extremely affect scores. Authors have done this by creating a study to prove that having breaks and untimed tests are two important factors that need to be taken into consideration when assessing a performance on any of the evaluation or standardized tests. Studies results have shown that when students have continuous breaks it enhances their performance and when students are untimed during tests they feel less stressful and thus they perform much better. Hans Henrick was a professor at the Niels Bohr Institute at the University of Copenhagen. He was the founder and subsequently co-editor of the scientific journal Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research . Francesca Gino is a behavioral scientist, she deals primarily with humane action and often seeks to generalize about human behavior in society. Marco Piovesan studied human behavior at University of Copenhagen, an associate Professor in Behavioral and Experimental Economics, he is also the co-director of the Centre for Experimental Economics (CEE) in the University of Copengahen. This article will be helpful in my research paper because it can be used to emphasize some of the factors that affect students while taking the standardized exams such as the cognitive  concept as well as other mental concepts that affects performance. Zwick, Rebecca. Fair Game?: The Use of Standardized Admissions Tests in Higher Education. Routeledge Falmer, 2002. This book clearly demonstrates the true definition of standardized tests and how they have changed over years. Moreover, Zwick stated that neither standardized testing nor academic criteria should be used while making admission decision, she believes that there are so many Mahmoud 5 other factors that could play a role in such decision. This book contains vivid information about arguments regarding banning standardized testing and whether it should be used in college admission. It also discusses issues like ethnicities and how they are related to standardized testing. Zwick, Rebecca, the author of Fair Game?: The Use of Standardized Admissions Tests in Higher  , is a Professor Emeritus in the Department of Education, where she worked from 1996 to 2010. Zwick completed a National Science Foundation project in which her research team developed and evaluated instructional materials to help educators to better interpret standardized test results. She also explored the effect of high school quality on the predictive validity of SAT scores and high school grade-point average. Zwick served on technical advisory committees for the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), the Program in International Student Assessment (PISA), and the SAT. This book will be useful to this research paper because it explains how sometimes these tests could be unfair to students from different ethnicities that come from different background and cultures, unlike USA, that does not stress and give standardized tests importance.