Sierra !1 Emily Sierra Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 February 24, 2017 Technology and its Role in Society Politics and religion for centuries have been regarded as two of the pillars upon which western civilization rests. However these age old influencers within recent years have been accompanied by a new component: technology. In such a short span of time technology has managed to dominate everything spanning from modern medicine and the education system to the individual home. This is due to some of the most brilliant minds since Albert Einstein heading up this war of integrating technology into society. Bill Gates, Steve Jobs, and Mark Zuckerberg to name a few of not only the wealthiest billionaires in the world, but famously some of the greatest innovators within this For most millennials imagining a world without a cell phone that can access google, provide directions, and send instant text messages is unimaginable, but realistically just over ten years ago such a device was nonexistent. It is undeniable that technology is at the forefront of our modern world. While the advancement of technology never will cease various studies have come to suggest that technology may be playing a more negative role in our development as individuals and society at large. By presenting both arguments aimed to convince that technology is entirely good or bad this paper is set out to prove that though both sides have persuasive material the best interest of our society lies within the grey. Meaning, that just like with most things the optimum use and integration of technology within civilization is best used in moderation. Sierra !2 Kumbhakar, Subal C., and Efthymios G. Tsionas. The good, the bad and the technology: Endogeneity in environmental production  Journal of Econometrics 190.2 (2016): 315-27. Science Direct. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. This article talks about how a lot of modern technology and the factories that create it are outputting a lot of pollution into our environment. Though the technology itself is deemed as good by society the pollution and emissions exerted into our world as a result are bad byproducts. The author explains in detail how not only technology in general is creating such negative outputs, but how inefficient technology is doing so as well. It is clear that the desired intention is not to harm the ecosystem, but in some ways has become unavoidable when intertwined with technology. Subal Kumbhakar is a research professor at Binghamton University. Who graduated with a PhD in Economics from the university of Southern California . Described as a renowned expert in productivity and performance measurement, with particular emphasis on the theory of application of stochastic frontier Subal has been working in the field for over twenty five years. Professor Subal C.  Oxera. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. McKnight, Zoe. Why crime is falling so fast: how social media obsession, smartphone addiction, and even violent video games, have made the world a surprisingly safe  Why Crime is Falling so Fast128.31 (2015): Academic OneFile. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. This Canadian Author starts the journal off by introducing the tragic murder of 18 year old Canadian Jeremy Cook who was killed due to a confrontation over his iPhone. The author proceeds to explain though this one event confirmed all skeptics of technologies effects on the Sierra !3 youth, the Canadian crime rate has actually hit an all time low since 1969. Though that statistic is shocking further investigation into statistics provided to the journal from shows that crime of those between 18 to 24 (usually the age group with the highest about of crime associated with it) has dropped from 2009-2013 by between 23 to 31 percent. The author is makes the point that video games are actually a good outlet for troubled teens giving them the opportunity to trouble without actually getting in She also brings up the point that Facebook for most risk youths is the only way they can stay in touch with their families. Zoe McKnight is a journalist at She has written other articles about unpaid interns and rogue geoengeneering experiments to name some of her other work. is a Canadian Magazine full of different political articles. She currently resides in Toronto. Ojeda, Auriana. Technology and society: opposing viewpoints. San Diego, CA: Greenhaven Press, 2002. Print. This book presents both sides to the argument if technology has helped of harmed society. This falls in line with my personal objective for the paper. to physically go into library to look at this book because there is no online edition.. but really want to use this due to the similarity in description and the aim of my paper. Ojeda is a published author and one of her most accredited works is American Culture in She attended University of California for her undergraduate degree. Years later she attended the University of Utah and received a master of Business Administration. Restivo, Sal P. Science, technology, and society: an encyclopedia. Oxford: Oxford U Press, 2005. Print. Sierra !4 This work emphasizes the effects of technology upon society across the globe. The work looks into the effects of society beyond just the person, and looks into its effects upon cultures. Technology, and Society contains over 130 A to Z signed articles written by major scholars and experts from academic and scientific institutions and institutes