Tekelioglu 1 Ali Tekelioglu Professor K. Luce ENC 1101-023 15 February 2017 Can children be addicted to technology? Since technology has become easier to access, children can entertain themselves almost anywhere by taking their tablets or their parents phones. It is common sight to see children sucked into their tablets doing various tasks such as playing games and watching videos. Sometimes, it can be viewed as a form of addiction and children can be seen begging their parents to give them their tablets. In the long run, excess use of technology will do nothing but harm. While many might consider technology as a great educational tool, it is questionable if the benefits outweigh the negatives as there are numerous articles that agree on the idea that technology is a form of addiction because of evidence from studies and analysis of behavioral changes among children. Avramut, Mihaela, MD, PhD. Internet  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2015): Research Starters. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. by Mihaela Avramut mainly focuses on the effects of internet addiction towards children. An example is shown in one page illustrating how internet addiction leads to decreased brain functional connectivity in adolescents. The author than talks about how people with ADHD have a higher chance of developing an addiction to the internet because of the lack of control they have over their actions. The article than moves on to discussing the diagnosis of whether an individual might have an internet addiction. One of these tests are the IA Test which addresses the duration and frequency of online activities, productivity, and ability to form relations online and in the real world. Lastly, the author talks about ways to limit internet use which is vital for children who might face internet addiction. The author suggests that Tekelioglu 2 parents should limit internet usage and that guardians and teachers should also limit internet usage. popular culture. Internet and technology addiction can be a detrimental situation and parents and teachers should do their best to limit children at a young age so that they face issues in the future. Once an individual is addicted to using the internet, trying to get out is quite difficult, especially as one grows older. It is possible for parents to still monitor to their children as they are still young. This article brought up interest because ADHD is a major concern in society and such kids need extra attention, this would be great to use in an upcoming project. The author of Internet Addiction is Dr. Mihaela Avramut who is a pathologist in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania who graduated from the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine. Cooper, Patrick G. Children On The  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Modern technology basically relies on the internet and children tend to mostly do web based tasks. The article known as on the talks about how children spend their time on the internet and the concerns it brings up. According to the author, children can expose themselves to technology at ages as young as two. Cooper mentioned amount of internet children access is (Cooper 1) and children could be doing countless things on the web varying from educational purposes to games and social media. Without parental supervision, children could even float off to content like pornography which can just be a few clicks away. The author mentions that one of the concerns he has for children on the internet is the anonymous interactions with others from services such as chat rooms and social networks. There is no way to tell the age of the person behind the wall and whether they might be trying to gain Tekelioglu 3 access to your account, most children are likely to be too innocent to understand. Another issue is that internet addiction can affect an individual socially, emotionally and physically. Lastly, one of the biggest concerns according to the author is Cyberbullying as it can cause emotional damage at such a young age and even alter the child to take drastic measures such as suicide and self-harm. Parents can take action with what their children might do with their digital resources by monitoring their time, putting web filters and give them items such as a mobile phone at a mature age. Parents should also encourage their children to find other activities to do in leisure time so that they spend all their time consumed in technology. This article was chosen because it specifically talks about some of the activities that children like to perform on the internet. This information would be great to use on the second project to indicate what activities children do today and how things were before internet access. The author of Children on the Internet is Patrick G. Cooper who was Born in North Jersey and Educated in Salem, MA. Aside from writing articles, he writes short fiction novels such as Jawbone and Thuglit. Purdy, Elizabeth Rholetter. Children And  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. This purpose is to show research on how technology can affect children in either positive or negative ways. The author starts out with how children who grow up spending excess time on technology come out to be different. She also talks about how children have slowly moved away from watching TV and to spending more time on the computer. The author than moves onto talking about whether technology can actually become a form of addiction and suggests there is evidence. In the viewpoints, the author talks about some of the groups that have a counterclaim to the authors claim that technology affects children in more positive manners Tekelioglu 4 such as providing them an educational portal. Lastly, the article states some of behaviors exposure to technology might cause for children. For example, technology could even trigger children to act in a violent manner because of the content they experienced on a video game. It is common sight to see current generation adults affected by early exposure to technology, whether it is gaming or just being on social media. What one does growing up usually can end up growing on the individual. This stands as a good piece of information that could be used on an upcoming project to discuss much of the historical context of how technology and addiction relate to internet access. Elizabeth Rholetter Purdy is a general editor who earned her B.A. from Columbus College for political science and her M.A from Emory. She also earned her Ph. D in political science from Georgia State University. Her articles are mainly based on subjects ranging from political science to studies and to economics and Schrock, John Richard, PhD. Computer  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2015): Research Starters. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Computer Addiction by John Richard Shrock is another article that talks about the use of technology and computers in an addictive manner. The author mentioned that such addiction is similar to (Shrock 1) and can cause children to decrease in academic and social skills. The author moves on to the causes of computer addiction by talking about how the Personal Computer reached the common household in the and the slow shift from Television and Videos games to computers. According to survey in 2013 by Nielsen, children under 12 use their technology up to 11 hours per day. The author than moves on to the risk factors and symptoms of technology addiction. Some of the symptoms that computer addiction caused for children are decline in academic areas and change in behavior. According to a survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 51% of heavy users made good grades meanwhile 66% of light Tekelioglu 5 users made good grades. Lastly, the author talks about governmental concern for computer addiction stating the concern for monitoring children are low. Technology can impact children in a negative manner, unfortunately the government of most westernized countries are not concerned so parents need to watch what their children do on the internet and set limits. This article is another great piece of info that could be used on a different project because it provides statistical info from two surveys. The author of is John Richard Schrock grew up in rural Indiana and attended Indiana State University in Terre Haute. Schrock later completed his Ph.D. in entomology working on insect ecology and systematics in the University of Kansas. He also went to Hong Kong to learn Chinese and earn his doctoral foreign language skill. Ward, Victoria. Toddlers Becoming so Addicted to IPads They Require  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 21 Apr. 2013. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. <http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/10008707/Toddlers-becoming-so-addicted-to- iPads-they-require-therapy.html>. This article claims that toddlers spending excess time using technology on items such as tablets might need therapy. According to the article, a girl as young as 4 from the UK had to be treated because she would spend up to four hours on the device and throw tantrums when it was taken. Dr. Graham mentioned that have access to the internet from birth (Ward). Children tend to watch their parents perform tasks on the phone and they usually become attracted to such devices because they see it in their hands. At such a young age, the exposure to technology can be quite devastating according to the author and the problem will only get worse as the children grow older. Such a phenomenon can be called Tekelioglu 6 because they cope when their entertainment is taken away, as a result, they react by screaming and other forms of uncontrollable behavior. (Ward). Therapy might be one of the solutions for heavily impacted children, especially toddlers. If no action is taken, the problem of addiction will worsen for such young children because the physiological impacts become harder to tackle at an older age. This to technology can hinder kids from thriving socially, physiologically, and mentally. It can even be said that technology can be a sort of to them. Parents most likely are tired or busy from their jobs so they just let them use their devices to keep them quiet. Such practices are detrimental and discipline is required to control kids. The article can grasp the attention of a reader since having to go to therapy at the age of four is extremely young, this would be a nice article to use in the second project to talk about how we have access to technology at the youngest age compared to a decade or two ago. Victoria Ward is a general news reporter who writes news stories for The Telegraph. She joined after spending 5 years at the Daily Mirror where she reported from various countries such as Haiti, Zimbabwe, Israel, and etc. She later become the US correspondent for the Press Association based in New York. Game Distributor Sued Over Fox News, Associated Press, 12 May 2006, www.foxnews.com/story/2006/05/12/chinese-warcraft-game-distributor- sued-over-teen-suicide.html. This article talks about one of the worst outcomes of having an addiction to technology, which can be factors that could lead one to commit suicide. On December 27, 2004, a 13-year- old in Beijing China named Zhang Xiaoyi decided to jump out a 24-story building because of his addiction to a game called of According to the Xinhua News Agency, Xiaoyi left a suicide not saying he wanted join the heroes of the game he (Associated Tekelioglu 7 Press). It was mentioned that he played for 36 hours straight at an internet and his grades were starting to drop. Xiaoyi had basically flown off to another world where he was gaining a lot of attention which was just not the same in the real world. Ever since the incident, the Chinese government decided to review the Internet Cafes and make sure they were complying with the rules set on time limits. It is depressing to know that exposure to technology can be so powerful that it can provoke a child to commit suicide. Just in a short matter of time, the child became addicted to the internet game of and his life went downhill from there. Although the internet maybe of blame, parents need to take more action. It was a bit strange that the parents did not contact him in the 36 hours he played nonstop. At the same time, the child was not even at home. Bad parenting can cause addictions to arise as they are unaware whether what they are doing is healthy for them or not. This article would be great to use in an upcoming project as it features a horrific incident that arisen because of an addiction to technology resources. The article was written by The Associated Press which is a nonprofit new agency that is headquartered in New York city which operates as a cooperative, unincorporated association.