Lowman 1 Micaela Lowman Professor Luce Composition 1 15 February 2017 Affirmative Action in College Admissions Affirmative action is a program that is put into place to help those who have been historically discriminated against (for example, women and minorities) so that they have the same access to certain things, such as jobs and higher education, that those who have not been historically discriminated against have. Affirmative action, otherwise known as is an executive order that was created on March 6th, 1961 by president John F. Kennedy. Since then, affirmative has been an extremely controversial subject, especially when it comes to higher education. There are many arguments against affirmative action; the most popular argument is that affirmative action reinforces racist, sexist, and stereotypical ideas. Another argument against affirmative action is that it eliminates meritocracy and instead replaces it with a race system and rewards people based off of their racial identity instead of their achievements. The United States government typically tries to not side with anyone, instead they try to . The most famous affirmative action cases are Fisher v. Texas, Grutter v. Bollinger, and Regents of the University of California v. Bakke. These cases have set certain requirements on affirmative action in higher education, but there are still a lot of disparities on the issue. Affirmative action is involved in many different social issues, such as the work place and higher education, but what is its exact role in college admissions and how does this affect college students? Lowman 2 Industrial & Labor Relations Review. Apr 2005, Vol. 58 Issue 3, p416-434. 19p 5 charts, 3 graphs. The question of this article is whether or not the elimination of affirmative action would affect highly qualified minority applicants. Two professors of Economics, one from the University of California-Berkeley, and the other from Princeton University, wondered whether or not the lack of affirmative action would have an impact on universities. Two states, California and Texas, eliminated the use of affirmative action from 1996-1998. Professors David Card and Alan B. Krueger observed the relationships of the diversity of the school and those who were admitted by studying the SAT scores that were sent into the schools by applicants. From their studies, the two professors found that the amount of minorities that were actually being admitted into these elite schools fell anywhere between 30-50% less than it was before the removing of affirmative action in admissions. Minority representation in the freshman classes at those schools drastically declined. This affects college students because they might be dissuaded from applying to a certain school. A student who is a minority might look at a school and see that it lacks diversity, which will cause that student to not apply. Card and Krueger also observed that the amount of students who were sending their scores before the removal of affirmative action was around the same amount of those who sent their scores after affirmative action was eliminated. Both Card and Krueger are highly qualified in their areas of study. Card taught economics at the University of California, Berkeley. Card also taught at Princeton University from 1983 to 1996. David Card has co-authored and co-edited many books including Myth and Measurement: The New Economics of the Minimum Wage, Small Differences that Matter: Labor Markets and Income Maintenance in Canada and the United States, and The Handbook of Labor Economics. David Card has won many awards, his most recent being the Frisch Medal. Alan B. Lowman 3 Krueger is a professor at Princeton University. There, he was the founding Director of the Princeton University Survey Research Center. Krueger served as chairman for President Council of Economic Advisors in 2011. He also served as Chief Economist for the US Department of Treasury and the US Department of Labor. He has authored several books including Inequality in America: What Role for Human Capital Policies? Krueger has also won many different awards, his most recent being an award he won with David Card called the IZA Prize in Labor Economics. Cegler, Tyler D. Targeted Recruitment of GLBT Students by Colleges and  (2012): n. pag. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. <http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ992984.pdf>. Affirmative action is not just limited to women and racial minorities. Affirmative action is also applied to sexual minorities. This has not always been the case, however. The application of affirmative action to GLBT peoples is a recent trend. Some universities, such as the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Southern California are actively recruiting GLBT applicants. There are also organizations that have recently formed so that more schools are open to the idea of recruiting students based off of their sexual identity. The emergence of this trend is very recent.. Students are not asked on applications to identify their sexual orientation. Most universities try to recruit GLBT students by advertising GLBT friendly school policies and rules. By recruiting GLBT students, higher education institutes are hoping to create an even more diverse student population. The recruitment of GLBT students helps colleges to become more diverse. When universities recruit GLBT students, their student population becomes very unique and special. Having GLBT students at universities makes everything seem more open-minded. Usually, Lowman 4 GLBT students are discriminated against, so for them to be recruited to certain schools is a change from history. Tyler D. Cegler is extremely qualified. Cegler earned his B.A and B.S in History and Education from Montana State University. Currently, he is an admissions counselor at The College of the University of Denver. Since he works in admissions at a university, Cegler definitely knows what colleges are looking for. Review of Economics & Statistics. Long, Mark. Nov2004, Vol. 86 Issue 4, p1020-1033. 14p. 5 Charts, 2 Graphs. This article from 2004 talks about a replacement for affirmative action. Since the program is so controversial, many people have tried to make systems that could replace it but still serve the same purpose. In this article, it talks about the While race can not be the sole factor that decides whether or not someone gets accepted to college, it can certainly play a part in the admissions process. Race can help students get accepted to colleges, but it can not be the only reason the student got accepted. When certain universities eliminated affirmative action policies, many people were searching for a replacement. What they came up with is a system, meaning students in the top whatever percent (usually decided by the school, i.e the top 5% or 10%) would be accepted into the university. This system affected students greatly. Many minorities do not have the same opportunities as caucasian students do, so they were not being accepted into universities with the new system. Students not discriminated against have better circumstances-- they have more opportunities for things like tutoring and money, which help them become successful in school. Because students in the minority did not have the same opportunities, they fell behind in school and eventually were not able to get into the same colleges that they could before the affirmative Lowman 5 action was removed. Without affirmative action at these schools, the student population became less and less diverse. Mark Long received a Ph.D and MA in Economics from the University of Michigan, an MPP from the University of Michigan, a BA from Depauw University, and a secondary teaching credential from UCLA. Long is currently serving as Vice President and Executive Council Member and Policy Council Member of The Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management. research focuses on many different topics with affirmative action being just one. Long specializes in applied econometrics, benefit-cost analysis, economics of education, and labor and public economics. Education Policy Analysis Archives, Moses, Michele S., Yun, John T., Marin, Patricia. v17 n17 Sep 2009. 38 pp. This article talks about affirmative action and whether or not 10 more years of the program is enough. The authors of this article look at past court cases and they determine whether or not affirmative action is still needed based off of the decisions in those court cases. Along with the court cases, they also look at current legislation and the enrollment requirements for certain universities. The Supreme Court in recent years has laid off of the civil rights cases, including those pertaining to affirmative action. This will really affect students and college admissions in the future. Without the affirmative action policy, many students will not be accepted into the very competitive universities. There is still an imbalance between certain groups, and the affirmative action policy helps those discriminated against. Without it, many schools will not be as culturally diverse as they have the potential to be. Lowman 6 All three authors of this article are highly qualified. Each author focuses specifically on policies that are related to the race, gender, and educational opportunities for students. Michele S. Moses is currently a Professor of Educational Foundations, Policy, and Practice at University of Colorado Boulder. John T. Yun is an associate professor at the University of Michigan. His work also focuses on equity in schools. Patricia Marin works at Michigan State University as an assistant professor in the Department of Educational Administration. Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychology, Vol 13(4), Oct, 2007. pp. 285-294. This article talks about the difference in opinions from students in college when it comes to affirmative action. This experiment tested how the opinion of students changed in the four years while they were in college. The change was a positive change, meaning students felt that affirmative action was a good thing. This was consistent among all racial groups and both genders. This is an important source for the Affirmative Action in higher education because it shows that even though some might view it as a bad thing at the beginning of their education, once they start interacting with others, they start to view affirmative action as a positive policy. The author of this journal, Christopher L. Aberson, received his B.A in Psychology from California State University at Northbridge. He then received his Masters and Ph.D from Clarement Graduate University. Dr. Aberson currently focuses on teaching statistics and researching social psychology. Aberson has many published journal articles and one published book, which is titled Applied Power Analysis for the Behavioral Sciences. His research interests include prejudice and stereotypes, sexuality and sexual orientation, and intergroup relations. Journal of the World Universities Forum; 2015, Vol. 8 Issue 3, p1-8, 8p Lowman 7 This journal talks about what would happen if affirmative action policies were eliminated and how it would affect the accessibility of college for minorities. This article is very important for the issue of affirmative action. It shows some major points on why affirmative action is needed. This article argues that without affirmative action policies, minorities are widely misrepresented on college campuses. It also says that as long as there is a misrepresentation, affirmative action policies will continue to exist. The policy has yet to be replaced because it is what works best currently. Taghreed Alhaddab, an international student from Saudi Arabia, is currently working on her Ph.D in Higher Education Research and Assessment. Alhaddab also has a Masters of Arts in Instructional Design and Technology. Currently, she is researching topics such as affirmative action. Her main focus is making sure that all students have an equal opportunity for education regardless of their race, sex, or gender.