Annis 1 Nicholas Wayne Annis Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 2 March 2017 EPA Visual Rhetoric The EPA is a government run organization with the goal of ensuring the protection of both human health and that of the environment. They set out to accomplish these goals through many different processes both at the local and governmental levels of society. They use visuals as a way to help promote their causes and to educate the public on topics they may not already be familiar with. The Environmental Protection Agency seeks to move more towards green energy and uses these two visuals to show how changes can be made on a more local level to live more sustainable lives. These visuals by the EPA help to push forward their agenda and tries to connect to people by relating to things within their lives as well as providing data in an easily understandable format. The first image for the EPA deals more with the industrial side of things giving data as well as an image that has to do with the recent holiday season. The second image that is being focused on is more in relation to the individual level of things and provides the viewer with things that can be easily implemented into life to lead a more sustainable life.. The environmental protection agency wants to lower the amount of hazardous pollutants that are put out into the air from industrial practices. One of the tasks of the EPA is to ensure that Americans are protected from significant risks to human health and the environment where they live, learn and (Our). Because of this it is seen as beneficial to lower pollutants that cause potential harm to human health and that can damage the health of the environment by air Annis 2 pollutants. This image is promoting the use of Smartway for the transportation of packages, it uses a holiday theme to show how the service relates back to people on the individual level as well as the holiday season which has recently come to an end making this much more relevant times wise to people currently rather than just focusing on the industrial freight side. Because of this program 2004, SmartWay partners have saved over 7 billion gallons of fuel, lowered fuel costs by $24.9 billion and reduced carbon emissions by 72.8 million metric (How). This helps push the goals of the EPA because it has successfully lowered the amount of carbon emissions and makes the companies happy since it saves them money. The image provides not only the visual of a truck and packages but also with some data to go along with it. It mentions the percentage of holiday packages delivered by Smartway which gives of sense of its total impact. The fact that they mention holiday packages rather than just packages in general really helps to better relate it to people more on the individual level. This brings it closer to home and helps people to better see how this more so affects them, rather than seeing it from a distance this gives it a more personal touch. Since the main goal of this program is to lower carbon emissions which it has managed to do, the image shows in the background a clear blue sky rather than a polluted one. The EPA wants the people that see this image to think of an environmentally clean program that overall promote sustainability with a more green way of driving this sector of industry. The images manages to present this in a clear cut way by giving a bit of data and with a blue sky to represent cleaner air due to lower carbon emissions. Something that is in direct relation to green energy and sustainability is the products that we buy and use each and every day. The can have a wide variety of potential human health and environmental (why). Which is why the EPA wants to push more towards Annis 3 the use of green environmentally friendly products produced in ways that use more green energy sources. Greener products that are properly recycled results in less mining for raw materials, a process that in itself requires massives amount of energy. This second image that was put out by the EPA deals with the idea buying greener products, sharing, as well as a few forms of recycling. The scene for the image is a backyard with it literally saying the word backyard which makes it much more personal by putting ownership and responsibility of the scenario on that of the viewer of the image. The image is meant to be informative but also a call to action, it does this by giving a link to their website for more information. This is also seen in the way they word a few of the section with the repeated use of the word almost like a passive command that is followed with the different ways one should be buying. They try to empower the reader buy giving some data on the amount that companies spend on marketing to people and how ultimately it is the people who affect what is marketed towards them. The image features bright and vivid colors such as purple, green, orange, red, yellow, and blue for the colors of the bags. These are all relatively calm colors that help to set a relaxed but firm tone. Overall, this image sets out to inform and educate the people that view it on how to shop in a way the promotes a more sustainable lifestyle. It does this by setting a scenario that is meant to relate more to the everyday person and provide information of how to buy in a more sustainable manner. This helps to promote the overall goal set forth by the EPA because greener products in the long run help to reduce the production of products. This means less carbon emissions that are a hazard to both human and environmental health. With the main goal of the EPA being the protection of the Environment and human health this image only helps to further that goal. Annis 4 With the environmental protection agency seeking to make a move more towards that of greener energy, the two images that were put out help to show ways in which steps can be made on both a more personal and widespread level to reach that goal. The main goal being the protection of human health and that of the environment, these images display both programs and methods that ultimately reduce the amount of carbon emissions put out each year on every level of society. The first image being a way to show how an industrial process that has cut down on carbon emissions relates to people on a smaller level. It gives data as well as mention to the holiday season which recently ended. The second image acts as a call to action that promotes a smarter method of buying that leads to lower carbon emissions, methods that can be taken up by just about anyone. They use the image of a backyard and provide ways in which one can accomplish more sustainable buying practices. Overall, these two images are meant to help push towards the goals of the Environmental protection agency by showing how people are involved with the changes that are made to lower carbon emissions as well as providing information on how people are able to further involve themselves in furthering the progression of a greener society. Annis 5 Works Cited SmartWay Advances Sustainable Transportation Supply https://www.epa.gov/smartway/how-smartway-advances-sustainable-transportation-suppl y-chain Accessed 2 March 2017 Mission and what we 2 March 2017. Buy Greener Accessed 2 March 2017 Word Count 1,239 Annis 6