Michael Wilson Changamire ENC 1102 2/28/2017 NASA Going to Mars For decades, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its partners have sent orbiters, landers and rovers to Mars, drastically increasing our knowledge about the Red Planet. NASA has set the goal of sending humans to the Red Planet in the 2030s, a journey that is already under way. Many organizations are against the idea of prioritizing Mars as the next step for human colonization, and instead believe that other celestial bodies should be colonized first. However, NASA sees an importance in expanding presence in the solar system, in that Mars can teach humans about past, present and future (NASA.gov). NASA knows that the journey to Mars is not going to be an easy one, and that it is going to require plenty of human ingenuity and recruitment of more strong minds to accomplish the goal of colonizing the Red Planet. NASA successfully supports this argument that colonizing Mars will be a challenge through two examples of visual rhetoric which explain that getting to the Red Planet is not an easy task. NASA uses two images to explain the fact that more people are needed for the goal of humans reaching Mars to be accomplished. The vision of NASA is to for new height and reveal the unknown for the benefit of humankind (NASA.gov). This vision includes journey to Mars which includes of robotic (NASA.gov), but NASA has been seeking explorers as well for a space mission to (NASA.gov). NASA reaches out to potential astronauts by using image A, which includes an astronaut standing proudly and confidently in a white astronaut suit pointing at the viewer, with the caption at the bottom reading NEED This image is very similar to the posters used to recruit soldiers during World War I and World War II, which is of the most popular personifications of the United (loc.gov). Because of this similarity, this image is an example of kairos appeal, also known as an appeal to time. NASA conducts this similarity because just as the United States government was in dire need of soldiers to fight during the world wars, NASA is in need of recruits who are willing to work for the cause of getting humans to Mars. Another example of kairos appeal used my NASA in image A is the fact that Mars is seen directly behind the astronaut. This makes the viewer think that Mars colonization is much closer to being accomplished than they may have originally thought, and that now may be the best time to join the organization in order for the goal to be accomplished as soon as possible. The astronaut is pointing directly at the reader, insinuating that they have been specifically selected for this important position, which may want the reader to act as soon as possible and join the organization. use of color in both images is used to attract attention to the Red Planet, and NASA makes sure to put Mars as close to Earth as possible in both images, not only to make the goal of reaching it seem easier, but also because red makes time pass slowly (Impact of color on marketing). This is the same principle used by casinos; they use red color lighting to get their customers excited while making them feel that they are not wasting a lot of time (Impact of color on marketing). Furthermore, NASA takes advantage of color usage incorporating blue on the Earth into image B, which is generally seen as a (Impact of color on marketing). This specific use of color is an example of pathos, or appeal to emotion, and makes the reader happy that humans have made many great strides in getting to Mars, and may make the reader want to help in the endeavor. NASA further uses color to convince the reader that Earth and Mars are close together by illustrating Mars almost right behind the Earth, and also by portraying the planet as very red. According to a study, time seems to pass slowly and objects seem larger and heavier under red light (Impact of color on marketing). NASA used this kairos appeal to allow the reader to know that Mars is very large (insinuating that it is very close), and which leads the reader to think that they can do something now to help, since the task is so close to being accomplished. Furthermore, NASA uses the same two images to let the reader know how much human ingenuity it is going to take to accomplish the goal of reaching the Red Planet. Image B explains to the reader all of the qualities that are going to be required by humans to be able to get to Mars. NASA uses the rhetorical appeal logos, or appeal to logic, to explain to the reader in Image B that in order for humans to get to Mars, it is going to take a lot of technology, exploration, and science in order to finish the to Additionally, NASA includes all of the structures that have been used by them in their research as they have been working to get to Mars, and this is what they have accomplished by including all of the orbiters and landers. NASA includes a sort of red spiral starting at Earth and ending on the surface of Mars, hinting that it is going to take all of the human-made technology to work together in order for the goal of reaching Mars to be complete. All of the NASA-made objects included in the image are an example of ethos, because they establish credibility to NASA as an organization that has done extensive work on journeying to Mars. In the image, NASA includes all of the technological advances it has made over the years in progressing the journey to Mars. This has established credibility to the organization, while also visually explaining how much work it has already taken in researching Mars and getting there, and insinuating that it is going to take a lot more science, technology, and exploration. Image A accomplishes ethos in a very similar way, as it includes a confidently standing astronaut, with the NASA logo clearly labeled on his or her left chest. The astronaut is also seen standing directly in front of Mars, with the words NEED printed at the bottom. This establishes credibility to NASA, as one of its astronauts is standing in front of the Red Planet, and lets the reader know that NASA is a credible organization, and that they need more people, because the challenge of getting to Mars will certainly take plenty of human ingenuity. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has effectively illustrated that journeying to Mars will be a very difficult task by showing that it can only be accomplished by recruiting help for the journey and having plenty of human ingenuity. Both of the images make good use of color schemes and rhetorical appeals to illustrate how the journey to Mars will be a very difficult one, and how it can only be accomplished by recruiting qualified individuals who work towards the common goal of putting humans on the Red Planet. NASA can eventually accomplish its goal of getting humans to Mars, and has been making great strides throughout the decades doing so. In 2012, Mars landed the and the rover has already returned much information on whether humans will be able to live on Mars someday (mars.nasa.gov) NASA may eventually get humans to reach the Red Planet, and with technological advances and strong recruitment, the goal can be accomplished by the (nasa.gov). Works Cited Wilson, Jim. Journey to Mars  NASA. NASA, 16 Sept. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. <https://www.nasa.gov/content/journey-to-mars-overview/>. Mars Science  NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <http://mars.nasa.gov/msl/>. Loff, Sarah. About  NASA. NASA, 28 Jan. 2015. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <https://www.nasa.gov/about/index.html>. Singh, Satyendra. Management  Emeraldinsight. N.p., 2006. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/full/10.1108/00251740610673332>. The Most Famous Poster (Memory): American Treasures of the Library of  The Most Famous Poster (Memory): American Treasures of the Library of Congress. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <https://www.loc.gov/exhibits/treasures/trm015.html>. Daines, Gary. Journey to  NASA. NASA, 13 Feb. 2015. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <https://www.nasa.gov/content/nasas-journey-to-mars/>. Mars Explorers Wanted Posters Mars Exploration  NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <http://mars.nasa.gov/multimedia/resources/mars-posters-explorers-wanted/>. Image A Image B :