Crews 1 Zackery K Crews Professor Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 105 National Rifle Association Visual Rhetoric The interpretation of the 2 nd amendment of the United States Constitution varies based on who you ask. It states exactly that well-regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be Most people interpret this as all civilians have the right to bear arms to protect themselves against any enemy, domestic or foreign, though there are quite a few who believe there should be strict gun control laws in place. The National Rifle Association, NRA for short, is a large organization divided into many different departments whose main purpose is to preserve the right to bear arms as detailed under the second amendment. They produce many advertisements, especially during election years, which express their beliefs about the rights Americans have in terms of firearms. Two such advertisements express their distaste towards the Obama and Clinton administrations, both of which are avid gun control pursuers. The NRA believes that taking guns away from law abiding citizens will only endanger more lives because without firearms, defending a home against an armed invader, or defending a school against a crazed gunman becomes impossible before the arrival of law enforcement. In fact, the NRA strongly believes more lives could be saved if the victims involved where armed and capable of defending themselves against an intruder or a crazy killer. The National Rifle Association started back in 1871 to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific due to the lack of ability shown by the troops of that time (NRA Crews 2 About). They first starting promoting marksmanship in New York State by building a rifle range, but political opposition to this forced them out of the state and into New Jersey, where they started promoting shooting sports to youth. They started rifle clubs at major colleges, universities, and military academies, to which today than one million youth participating in NRA shooting sports events and affiliated (NRA About). The NRA tried their best to spread education and training on firearms, even during World War II where they offered the US Government to use the NRA ranges, started developing different training materials for the military and Industrial security, and encouraged its many members to serve as plant and home guard members. (NRA About). Around 1975 though, their focus quickly shifted to the defense of the Second as the NRA formed their Institute for Legislative Action, NRA-ILA for short, which is the lobbying arm of the NRA. The NRA-ILA is to preserving the right of all law-abiding individuals to purchase, possess and use firearms for legitimate purposes as guaranteed by the Second Amendment to the U.S. (NRA-ILA About). This pursuance of preserving the right to bear arms is shown in their advertisements, the first of which is an advertisement against Gun Free Zones. A screenshot of a key picture used in the advertisement, which is Image A, shows Obama standing at a podium with his primary cabinet in front of him, armed guards surrounding the administration, and the words he is just another elitist hypocrite when it comes to a fair share of (NRA Ad 1). The screenshot shows the contrast of the Obama administrations goals of gun free zones to his actual actions in terms of the security of children. The sentence used on the ad is the NRA showing their concern and belief that Obama may not care for their safety and only cares about his own safety, which is why calling him a hypocrite. Crews 3 The second image shows the ending of an advertisement that was against the Hillary Clinton campaign during the 2016 Presidential Election and her beliefs about gun control. In the image, there is what looks to be a crime scene with police and investigators outside a home with the yellow tap lined around the incident. The words let Hillary leave you defenseless are shown next to the NRA seal showing that they are against Hillary Clintons beliefs on gun control (NRA Ad 2). This main goal is to elude that more gun control laws will only disarm law abiding citizens, and keep the criminals armed as they care about the law anyways, which will lead to more civilians getting killed or injured during home invasions. I have no conclusion. Crews 4 Works Cited NRA  NRA.ORG. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://home.nra.org/about-the-nra/>. NRA-ILA. About  NRA-ILA. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://www.nraila.org/about/>. Crews 5 (NRA Ad 1) Crews 6 (NRA Ad 2) https://www.usnews.com/cmsmedia/c8/57/5880df444329b39555da00e222cd/160922- nraad.20.03%20PM.png