Dague 1 Sarah Dague Miss. Campbell ENC 1102 15 February 2017 Creating an Agency: Recreating Vaccinations As one of the biggest controversial topics today, the debate on immunizations deals with diverse opinions on mandating vaccines and the adverse effects associated with them. Vaccinations are injections in the human body that help produce immunity against very serious diseases and thus helping people live longer lives because they are not encountering dangerous diseases. Two major organizations that have different opinions on whether vaccinations should be mandatory or not are the Center for Disease and control, the CDC, and the National Vaccination Information Center, or the NVIC. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention supports vaccinations for all children off the basis that they are the most beneficial and crucial influencing factor on a health. Opposing this view, the National Vaccination Information Center argues that parents should have the right to be able to have a choice about vaccinating their child due to the adverse effects possible. Through bringing these two centers together, a compromise can be made that researches and improves the vaccination schedule that ultimately creates a pathway for both organizations to be able to benefit health in the best possible way. First, founded in 1946, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention advocates mandatory vaccinations to ensure health and safety for children. The CDC website indicates the main reason for their support of vaccinations: is one of the best ways parents can protect infants, children and teens from 16 potentially harmful diseases. Vaccine-preventable Dague 2 diseases can be very for Disease Control and Because vaccines prevent people from encountering very dangerous diseases, vaccinations play a big role in preserving good health for children. Regarding their views on immunizations, this organization conducts research about vaccines and the potential effects they have. Many vaccines have had adverse effects, but the CDC avoids this fact because they are very rare to encounter. Therefore, it is said that the vaccinations protect children from disease more than hurt them. Most states follow the Center for Disease Control and Prevention vaccination schedule, which consists of 14 vaccines, making them mandatory for parents to provide for their children. Furthermore, the mandating of vaccinations is not a federal law, but states require it to assure that parents get them for their children. Aside from this, many public schools require immunizations for children to attend because of the information the CDC releases about vaccines. Parents and organizations like the CDC support vaccines because they protect health and create a safe environment from life-threatening illnesses. Geoboo Song, analysist of the vaccination policy, says that pro- vaccination advocates believe the positives that come from vaccines come before the negative concerns associated with vaccinations: benefits of freedom from infectious diseases, both at the individual and societal level, far outweigh the costs of restricted parental choice or the physical risks posed by (Song 529). Song is saying that when looking at the bigger picture, the fact that vaccinations prevent disease has more importance than having the choice of not allowing vaccines or the fear of vaccine-related injuries. Because of the strong opinion that vaccinations must be mandatory for children from the CDC, a compromise must be made to create a balance between the conflicting views. Next, participating in the anti-vaccination movement starting in 1982, the National Vaccination Information Center was created by upset parents that push for resistance against Dague 3 mandatory vaccines. Because of the need for choice when dealing with vaccines, many parents associated with this organization are in fear of vaccine-related injuries and disease. On the NVIC website, this organization claims that NVIC is dedicated to the prevention of vaccine injuries and deaths through public education and to defending the informed consent and The NVIC believes that it is crucial for parents to have a say in the health of their child when presented with the idea of immunization due to vaccine-related consequences. Many doctors do not ask permission or allow consent about vaccinations because of the need for them, which upsets parents nationally. This organization pushes for the awareness of disease and injuries that occur after receiving vaccinations and creates educational strategies to inform about them. Also, the NVIC and other advocates defend their beliefs by saying that besides a vaccine, creating immunity naturally is the most effective and safest way to prevent disease. Furthermore, certain states that have mandatory vaccinations at birth allow exemptions for certain occasions but many public schools are still allowed to require them before a child attends. To support parents in fear of the correlation between vaccines and adverse effects, medical research shows that harmful side effects come from vaccinations: shows that besides the specific effects, vaccines also have immune-modulating effects that influence host defense to other diseases than the targeted pathogen. The effects are of a magnitude where they have important impact on overall mortality and morbidity (Jensen 378). After researching the safety behind vaccines, adverse effects have been seen that are considered drastic due to the impact they have on overall health and the possibility of hurting them. Because there has been a breakthrough in the discovery of negative effects from vaccinations, concerns have risen. The NVIC tries to educate parents about the risks associated with vaccinations so that they have the knowledge they need when deciding if vaccinations are Dague 4 right for their child. Because of the strong opinions regarding vaccine-related injuries, an agreement needs to be implemented to build a solution for the vaccination controversy that requires these proponents to understand the reasons behind their opinions. Although both organizations have opposing views on vaccinations, they seem to share a concern for the future health of children when examining the outcome of vaccines. As seen, the CDC believes in vaccinations to protect any child from harmful disease that they could encounter throughout their lifetime. Contrastingly, the NVIC wants parents to be wary of the possible effects vaccines could have on their children so that they do not develop a life-threatening disease from them. Both centers have yet to work with each other over the topic, but the NVIC discusses much of the wrong doings on their website. Although it seems that they only have opposite opinions, both stakeholders find common ground by being concerned for the health of children and having a preventive health program to do so. Because each organization supports health and the prevention of diseases, a compromise can be created to join these two communities of people together in coming up with a solution that looks after these issues. Although there is no history of the CDC and NVIC working together regarding their opinions on vaccinations, both the CDC and the NVIC can create an agency that opens a program allowing patients to report on complications and concerns regarding vaccinations. This information would be vital because they could use the incoming information to improve current vaccinations and create a more spaced out vaccination schedule. The board for this agency will consist of an equal number of representatives from both organizations that will work together in hiring professionals and carrying out this plan. Funding will be equally split to ensure a balanced part of both organizations in this agency, and will go to the research and campaigning of the new Dague 5 ideas this agency will create. Allowing parents to openly express their reasoning behind opinions of vaccinations will get this agency through research to create better vaccines for every child. According to a specialized physician, Dr. Spears, of adverse events following vaccination can help identify rare or unexpected complications of immunizations and aid in characterizing potential vaccine safety (Baker 864). Since many people are in fear of vaccine-related complications, having the ability to have their opinions heard and utilized to improve the vaccinations will create a better opinion on them. Since researchers can then assess vaccine concerns and problems through personal complaints and experiences, a new schedule can be created that recommends more spaced out immunizations, requiring the most important vaccines first, and leaving the rest as an option. When choosing which vaccines to not require, Alabama school of medicine says, young people today have never seen a case of measles, mumps, German measles, polio, diphtheria, tetanus, or whooping The list of diseases given can be considered as the vaccinations not as relevant today and thus not needed as much as others since their corresponding diseases have not been seen lately. The goal of this compromise is to ensure health by making sure they get what is necessary for them while also having a choice behind it. Ultimately, the CDC will compromise by revising their strict mandatory schedule the states follow that leaves people in fear of giving children that many shots so fast while the NVIC will compromise by giving children some vaccines for protection while allowing leniency for other vaccines. The pros and cons of vaccinations can be seen throughout the many opinions associated with the vaccines. Many organizations want to take a stance on the issue at hand based off their opinion to get children the health they deserve. Through compromise, the CDC and the NVIC can take their opposing opinions of vaccinations and create a program that allows both sides to Dague 6 be heard and utilized, resulting in proper health and protection from disease. The enhanced research and information regarding vaccinations will leave a lasting impact on the health care, giving everyone a chance to do what they feel is best but in the safest way possible. Dague 7 Works Cited Baker, Meghan A., et al. Advanced Clinical Decision Support for Vaccine Adverse Event Detection and  Clinical Infectious Diseases, vol. 61, no. 6, 2015, pp. 864- 870. Dickson, Jonathan. Vaccine Myths - Vaccines Necessary, UAB - The University of Alabama at Birmingham - Home, www.uab.edu/medicine/avrc/. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Diseases and Vaccines - National Vaccine Information  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Heyworth, Kelley King. Vaccines: The Reality Behind the Debate Parents, 15 July 2015, http://www.parents.com/health/vaccines/controversy/vaccines-the-reality-behind-the- debate/. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Jensen, Kristoffer Jarlov, Christine Stabell Benn, and Reinout van Crevel. Review: Unravelling The Nature Of Non-Specific Effects Of Challenge For Innate  Seminars In Immunology, vol. 28, no. 1, 2016, pp. 377-383. Mission, Role and Pledge, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 14 Apr. 2014, www.cdc.gov/about/organization/mission.htm. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Song, Geoboo, Carol L. Silva, and Hank C. Jenkins-Smith. Cultural Worldview and Preference For Childhood Vaccination  Policy Studies Journal, vol. 42, no. 4, 2014, pp. 528- 554. Dague 8