Perley 1 Monica Perley Kristopher Luce ENC1101 January 21, 2017 Underdeveloped Social Equality Social equality is a wonderful concept and some people might believe it is something modern society has achieved. However, while US history has had waves of social progress it also has had dips of civil regression in social equality, but the definition of social equality can be murky. First, we should define social equality, identify what it includes and does not include. For this paper, social equality is equality among all human beings regardless of socioeconomic status, race, gender, sexual preference, etc.; it is not the distribution of wealth. While the civil rights act is inclusive and it mirrors the standards set by Star Trek, where all living beings are respected equals, society falls short of living and believing in these standards. The ups and downs on this journey to social equality appears to be an underdeveloped society where people are unexposed to sufficient diversity and cannot comprehend equality within the narcissistic framework of their being. History, Art & Archives, U.S. House of Representatives, House and Civil http://history.house.gov/exhibitions-and-publications/civil-rights/ Web (January 19, 2017) The piece on the civil rights website discussed the history of civil rights in America; it documents early America, before the government recognized equality among its citizens. History shows some liberties we practice and celebrate today were hard fought. However, after Perley 2 all the turmoil the desired outcome was achieved, on a legal basis. The original civil rights act has been expanded and now is more inclusive. The information from the history house will be used to show that for something to be made legal there is an undertone that the previous practice was morally unethical. I will also point out how it is both a positive and a negative thing to have an inclusive law created to protect the civil liberties of all Americans no matter color, race, sexual orientation, disability, familial status, etc. The website is a government website and contains well documented history. Abrutyn, Seth, and Michael J. Carter. The Decline in Shared Collective Conscience as Found in the Shifting Norms and Values of Etiquette  Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour 3 (2015): 352. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. This article examines the changes in etiquette over the years and theorizes why these changes may have taken place. The authors assert Emile theory that becomes more generalized and abstract in a society as it becomes more complex and As a part of their research, they review several books on etiquette and most frequently refer to Emily Etiquette and noted volumes from 1922, 1937 and Post, et al., 2011. They point out the difference between the specific vs. generalization, demanding vs. encouraging and extreme vs. moderate sanctions for etiquette violators. One of the major differences is what they define as etiquette; the original version of first volume was quite harsh and definitive, including demanding language. By her 18 th edition her definition had softened, it was more suggestive and was inclusive of all members of modern society. In the conclusion, they propose different reasoning but come full circle to Emile theory. Perley 3 The authors acknowledge, based on the method of their research, they cannot come to a solid conclusion but they feel enough evidence supports the theory. Seth Abrutyn is an Assistant professor at the University of Memphis, he has a PhD in sociology with a specialty in general sociological theory. Michael Carter is a professor at California State University, Northridge. Michael has a PhD in Sociology and researches social psychology. I plan to use their article to examine the changes in etiquette over the years and further review the possible reasons for the changes they identified and investigate the role of etiquette within the frame of social equality. Fourie, Carina, What Is Social Equality? An Analysis of Status Equality As A Strongly Egalitarian  Res Publica (13564765) 18.2 (2012): 107-126. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 20 Jan. 2017. This article defines what social equality in its true meaning is. It aims to separate issues that most people associate with social equality which are quite different, such as social distribution, or a concern of deprivation for those who are impoverished. The article emphasizes distribution of wealth is not an issue covered by social equality. Perception is a major factor in social equality, while some consider a title to indicate social hierarchy others view as a tool to indicate profession and expertise. The negative impact social inequalities have on society are reviewed and while most people would assume the negative impacts are restricted to the poor, that is not the case, it is harmful to privileged as well. The author of the article Carina Fourie, is the Assistant Professor in medical ethics at the Philosophy Department of the University of Washington. The information in this article will Perley 4 help create an understanding of what social equality is and is not. I would also like to include studies she referenced with negative effects of social hierarchy. Grech, Victor. Deicide in Star Trek: The Ultimate Expression of  Foundation: The International Review of Science Fiction 45.123 (2016): 14-23. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the culture of Star Trek as portrayed on television and the altruistic views of its creator, Gene Roddenberry. Star Trek is a science fiction television series originally aired in 1966, at the height of civil rights movement. The series was groundbreaking regarding social equality, it was the first series to ever air a racially diverse cast in a prime-time television slot. The show depicted equality; gender equality, racial equality, cultural equality, etc. For many Americans, it was the very first visual introduction to humanism. Humanism, as defined by Grech, is a result of cultural and educational reform, and constitutes a philosophical and ethical stance that emphasizes the value and agency of human beings, not only individually but also collectively, through rationalism (critical thinking) and empiricism (evidence-based  Gene Roddenberry was the visionary behind the series and while other writers contributed to the show he made sure they did not depart his humanistic views, his affection for the human  is apparent. The author of the article admires the reliance on science and reason, respect for personal beliefs and the search for  portrayed in the Star Trek series and he believes these attributes could lead to the eventual banishment of racism, superstition, conflict and  Victor Grech is an associate professor at the University of Malta, he is one of the organizers of the Star Trek symposium which aimed to gather scientists of all disciplines and Perley 5 corners of the world intended to facilitate and disseminate cross-disciplinary research. I will use this article to set the standard of social equality in my paper. McLeod, Saul Simply Psychology 2015 web. Jan 28, 2017 http://www.simplypsychology.org/piaget.html The page discusses developmental psychology (adolescent psychology of the developing mind) according to Jean Piaget, more specifically the process of learning in children. It talks about the history of work and what inspired him to further study learning in children. The building blocks of learning, or schemata, as termed by notable developmental psychologist Piaget and represented in his cognitive theory are reviewed and the process of learning is explained based on studies. The stages of development are reviewed. The author notes implications in modern education. The page also lists criticism of work (per other researchers); not all people ever achieve the full spectrum of cognitive theory and that later researchers found differences amongst cultures. Saul McLeod is a psychology tutor at the University of Manchester with a BSc in Psychology, Masters in Research, Post Graduate Certificate in teaching and pursuing PhD. While the website does not indicate peer review, the works of Jean Piaget and summary on this site can be cross referenced with other notable sites, articles and textbooks. This article will be used to consider social equality and/or lack thereof. It is important to consider how and what people learn as children and how it affects the person they become, to include their view on social equality. These are especially important factors in understanding human behaviors. Pettijohn, Terry F. II, and Amy S. Walzer. Reducing Racism, Sexism, And Homophobia in Perley 6 College Students by Completing a Psychology of Prejudice  College Student Journal 42.2 (2008): 459-468. Education Source. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. This article discusses prejudice in college students and the effects of education and involvement of diverse student class population and psychological analysis of prejudice. The author refers to definition of prejudice, which is described as a feeling, favorable or unfavorable, toward a person or thing, prior to, or not based on, actual  which cause preconceived notions of groups, if all group members are the  (Pettijohn 459). This article focuses on prejudice reduction techniques and conducts an experiment to see if the study technique is effective. The outcome of the experiment concludes that with increased education and increased involvement prejudice can be reduced. There were areas that had a more significant effect but the authors attribute those results to the mainstream events occurring concurrently with the experiment which compounded the effectiveness of the course. Terry Pettijohn is an associate professor at Coastal Carolina University with a Ph.D. in social psychology. This article will be used to show that prejudice decreases with education, as such social equality is a concept of advanced civilization and education.