Winn 1 John Winn Professor Mariama Changamire Composition 2 1 March 2017 The National Rifle Association is an organization committed to a pro-gun agenda. Since the inception of the National Rifle Association it has been committed to a spreading its pro-gun agenda to the general public. It has recently been spreading its anti-gun control message through two advertisements. The first one is mostly text. There is bold and aggressive lettering that is paired with a large National Rifle Association seal. The second image is a man holding a gun with smaller text over the image. The National Rifle Association is using simple yet intuitive designs in these images to show the National Rifle viewpoint on gun control as the clear and simple answer. The National Rifle Association is a stakeholder organization that is famous for its pro- gun agenda, which has been its foremost mission since its inception. The National Rifle Association has argued that gun control is putting the American lives in danger (NRA, Amendment). It has made the argument that allowing people to be armed could have prevented many mass shootings from happening. It also argues that many of the restrictions placed on things like magazine size and safety lock requirements are a direct violation of the second amendment (NRA-ILA, In fact, the National Rifle Association has been behind a huge effort to educate people on gun safety (NRA, The images the National Rifle Association has put out recently support and advertise Winn 2 their anti-gun control message using several kinds of advertisements and advertisement methods, ranging from aggressive television commercials to relaxed yet visually striking billboards. This first image is mostly monochrome and consists of only a few colors. The black and white used in this image represents that there is a clear binary option, which in the case of this image is to either defend your right or abandon your right. Next to the text is the seal of the National Rifle Association. The placement and size simply an afterthought. The seal is adjacent to the message to show that defending this right is linked directly to the National Rifle Association. The seal is also the only part of this image that is in color. This forces it to the front of the attention and forces them to recognize the sender of the message, as the size of the seal is also the largest single thing on the image. Even the seal being mostly on the light side of the images seems to send the message that the National Rifle views are the of this binary. This image was used as an end slate for an advertisement, and is the last thing a viewer would see. This means it was incredibly important for the National Rifle Winn 3 statement that gun control to be condensed into a small and easy to remember package. This is accomplished by using words of varying sizes, putting words with more importance in a larger size than words that directly tie in with their message. The large and vibrant National Rifle Association seal is also placed there to make it stand out in the mind after the fact, and prevents the image from being washed out and dull. This aggressive language brings the National Rifle viewpoint directly to the front and center of the attention, and show with easy and intuitive design cues that show that their message and beliefs are the obviously correct choice. The second image presents a more relaxed image with less of a call to action and more relaxed emotions. The forefront presents a traditional cowboy silhouette holding what appears to be a hunting rifle. Creating a silhouette figure allows the passing viewer to project themselves onto the cowboy if they desire. The background has a color palette similar to that of a sunset, or Winn 4 potentially a sunrise. The rolling hills and plateaus in the background that this is supposed to be set in the west as well. The message at the bottom of the image suggests that there is an equivalence. By placing responsible gun owner and the National Rifle Association at the end of the same sentence it sends the message that the two are in fact equivalent statements, that the National Rifle Association is full of only responsible gun owners. This uses an almost nostalgic feeling by using the setting of the Wild West, a time where guns were necessary for defense and survival. This image was used in billboards over highways and interstates. Creating a visually striking image is of the utmost importance when grabbing the attention as they pass by. The minimal use of text is also important in these cases, as the passerby still needs to focus on the road in front of them as they read the advertisement. The visual is actually pretty clever in this regard, as the actual sentences are incredibly similar, meaning that someone could read it and very quickly understand what the message is and fill in what the rest of the image to understand the message. This simple and easy to digest language ties ultimately leads the viewer to understand that the agenda and platform is pretty simple to understand. The National Rifle Association is an organization centered around a pro-gun agenda that has been fighting gun control laws every chance they have. The National Rifle Association have been using emotional appeal of both nostalgia and urgency to call people to action or to reassure people about the mission of the National Rifle Association. Using these advertisements can push the message to the forefront of mind. Winn 5 Works Cited NRA. NRA Explore. Accessed 1 Mar. 2017. NRA. NRA.ORG, home.nra.org/about-the-nra/. Accessed 1 Mar. 2017. NRA-ILA. NRA-ILA, www.nraila.org/second-amendment/. Accessed 1 Mar. 2017.