Alvarez 1 Gabriela Alvarez Professor Spencer ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Visual Analysis: Images on Inclusive Sexual Education Over the decades, sexual education has slowly made its way into social normativity and has strayed from being a taboo. People have become more open to discussion and have been trying to inform the public on ways to understand the act and practice it safely. Originally, parents were the ones informing their children about birds and the but as the education system advanced, educators began funding for sexual education courses. At first, these courses paved the way for revolutionized sexual education; the issue would arise in later years. As sexuality became a more open topic, controversy about the depth and inclusiveness of the courses arose. Children were not being properly informed and it was discovered that children with disabilities were being excluded from the curriculums. People had predetermined ideas about people with disabilities not being able to have sexual relations (Szydlowski 1). Advocates for Youth is a group that fights for better sexual education and inclusiveness for students with disabilities (Mission 1). Their Facebook tries to promote their various ideas and strife towards better sexual education through campaigns and pictures. Two visual rhetoric pieces that they have shared with the public clearly display the need for improvement in the curriculum. Both images shared by Advocates for Youth demonstrate the problem with sexual inclusiveness and efficacy amongst teens with disabilities. They try to target the education system in order to resolve this issue and make sexual education courses better through more in depth teaching methods such as hands on experience and worksheets. The images display Alvarez 2 credibility through their crediting of novels/scholarly sources pertaining to the issue. The first image, on top of it being from an accredited foundation, adds to its credibility by citing a novel written by Laura Lindberg called Changes in Receipt of Sex Education (How Are Schools Doing at Teaching About Sex Education 1). It tries to use another scholarly source to back up the point that sexual education is and must improve. The logo in the bottom right corner also adds to the credibility that the image comes directly from the foundation trying to promote this change. The second image they shared was that of a book cover called Sexuality and Relationship Education which is a novel written by Davida Hartman. The novel is written to educate children with autism and other disorders about sexual relations (Sexuality and Relationship Education 1). The issue with this image is that it does not specifically or clearly display that it is affiliated with the organization. One would not be able to tell if it came from another source, thus challenging its effectiveness alongside the campaign. Although, being that it is a published professional work, it would clearly discuss the issue and give professional insight on the importance of sexual education inclusiveness for those with disabilities to allow them to have a better understanding of sex and practice is as effectively and safely as their fellow classmates. To grab the attention, Advocates for Youth must use eye grabbing images to reach their intended audience: young adults and the education system. Pathos, a method of using emotion to gain the interest of your audience, is clearly seen in both images. The first image utilizes harsh words and failing marks to display the negativity of the issue. The second image displays pathos through the feel of comfort and togetherness displayed by the people on the cover of the novel. Their smiling faces allow the reader to feel a sense of welcome to the topic and allows them to feel more comfortable towards learning about it. Alvarez 3 There seem to be any logos in the images other than the ratings mentioned in the first photograph from the Guttmachar Institute. The images would have had more of an impact if they had included some statistics and numbers about the percentage of students who are not receiving the education they deserve. Even though not clearly stated, the first image displays few aspects that pertain to Kairos. The bold red lettering suggests urgency and negativity calling for immediate action for improvement. The red also emphasizes the issue and attempts to stress the viewer to read more about the cause. The inclusion of the words also triggers a sense of urgency, a call to action of sorts. The second issue does not send that urgency as completely as the first image. Subtle key words such as and to inappropriate trigger the viewer that the topic is an issue that needs to be resolved and that this book allows for the audience to help change this and take a stand. They need the help of those viewing it. The group Advocates for Youth is an organization that is trying to promote the improvement of sexual education to increase the inclusiveness toward students with disabilities. The lack of effort to educate those students is harming their ability to carry out sexual relations since they are not being informed well enough about the safety and actions involved. Their organization spreads various images on the issue through social media such as Facebook to get people involved in changing the curriculum. The two images shared clearly set out to get more teens and educators involved in a more structured course that allows for inclusiveness through the rhetoric methods of ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. Alvarez 4 Works Cited How Are Schools Doing At Teaching About Sex Education? 2017. Facebook . Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https://www.facebook.com/Advocates4Youth/photos/a.410396922705.197243.8719981 2705/10152981348667706/?type=3&theater>. Advocates for Youth. Feb 2016. Web. 28 January 2017. <http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/about-us/mission> Sexuality and Relationship Education. N.d. Pinterest. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https://s-media- cacheak0.pinimg.com/736x/68/42/ff/6842ffc80b4c195d3be56d749ec685cf.jpg>. Szydlowski, Mary Beth. Sexual Health Education for Young People with Disabilities Research and Resources for  Advocates for Youth. School Health Equity Advocates for Youth, Feb. 2016. Web. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/publications/publications-a-z/2559>. Alvarez 5