Muhsen 1 Tameem Muhsen Professor Roth ENC1101.020 19 February 2017 Project 1 Final Draft Drugs are present in all societies of the world, and law enforcement agencies globally often recognize that it would be impossible to eliminate them. What can be accomplished however is enforce laws that aim to reduce the distribution and use of drugs. The method in which a country enforces its laws to regulate drugs is very crucial as the well-being and freedom of lives are on the line. Instead of imprisoning drug users, we should instead provide them with aid such as rehab centers, drug teaching centers, license suspension, and probation. For at the end of the day, addicts are medical patients and not animals in a cage. Laws imposed by nations worldwide to combat drugs have caused unnecessary incarnations, deaths, political disputes, and even environmental disasters. Therefore, the strategies, diplomacies, and executive decisions made by nations must be taken carefully and analytically. Such viewpoints pose the question: The United States and the remaining world has been at war with drugs for years, but has this ongoing war proven any success, and are the methods taken justifiable? Alexander, and Giorgos Kallis. Caught In The Middle, War On Drugs And Its Effects On Forest And  Geoforum 46.(2013): 60-78. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article discusses war on drugs- specifically regarding the air fumigation of the prime agricultural business on earth: coca plantations. Starting in 1994, and supported by the US, there have been numerous environmental and social effects due to this policy. Although Muhsen 2 the Colombian government states that the range of coca plantations has be condensed, there remains to be coca activity but now alongside overwhelming social and environmental consequences. Indigenous populations have been displaced from their grounds and biodiverse regions have been deforested due to this policy Such analysis proves the failure of the fumigation policy and the ineffectiveness as a strategy in reducing coca farming. Furthermore, this article concludes that what is essentially being eliminated by war on drugs is not coca, but humans and nature. This article was written by Alexander and Giorgos Kallis. It is affiliated by the Autonomous University of Barcelona, Spain and published by Elsevier Ltd in May 2013. Within this article, the authors examine 1125 Colombian municipalities for the period 2001- 2008, providing dense statistics and analyzations. The heavy statistical analysis in this research delivers quantitative proof to support assertions made by victims of the policy, ethnographic observation, and single case-studies. This source relates to the research question as it addresses clearly success in its war on drugs and whether aerial fumigation is justifiable. Villamor, Felipe, and Richard C. Paddock. 1,800 Killed in 7 Weeks in Philippine Drug  The New York Times 2016: 6. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The principal focus of this newspaper article is the current Philippine drug war. Ever since President Rodrigo Duterte has been sworn into office on June 30, 2016, an all-out war has been waged on drug users. Approximately 1,800 people have been killed by police and vigilantes in the seven weeks of Mr. presidency (Villamor). These staggering numbers are shocking the whole world, especially human rights advocates; raising questions regarding the methods used. Mr. Duterte ordered the police to to when encountering criminals or suspects linked to drug offenses. The article continues to discuss the bashing Mr. Muhsen 3 Duterte has been receiving from international community, mentioning Mr. threat of withdrawing from the United Nations after human rights specialists advised the nation to put an end to the murdering. Due to the threat of the police, almost 600,000 suspects of drug using or dealing turned themselves in to avoid being killed since the war on drugs started (Villamor). The authors of the following article are Felipe Villamor and Richard C. Paddock. Published on August 23, 2016, this is a New York Times article. This article is a bold example of a drug war where their methods are not justifiable. Instead of killing the drug dealers or users, I believe they should be imprisoned, or better yet, put in rehab. London, Robb. Is the War on Drugs  Harvard Law Today. The President and Fellows of Harvard College, 1 July 2005. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. This article measures particularly the success of the war on drugs. It starts off discussing the economic and social costs of the strategy, in which too many people are placed in jails and prisons. Of the two million prisoners in the US, approximately 500,000 are imprisoned for violations of drug laws... Which is greater than all of Western prisoners combined (the US has a 100 million less in population) (London). There is also a discussion regarding how the war has had a minimal effect on the obtainability of drugs. Deeper into the article, the author examines the decriminalizing approach for marijuana abuse; in which less people would go to jail for marijuana use, and instead receive help at rehab centers. The author further reviews the policy by arguing that the issue of substance abuse should be regarded as a public health problem instead of a criminal justice problem. With this article being published by the honored Harvard School of Law, the credibility is highly trustable. Robb London is the author of this article, and the President and Fellows of Harvard College published it on July 1, 2005. This source argues that the success of the Muhsen 4 war on drugs is relatively low, and that the methods taken are not completely justifiable. Alternative approaches are provided. Limits Of Pressure: US Policy Failures In The International War On  Harvard International Review 2 (1998): 38. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article highlights resourceful information as to how the United States has enforced international policies in regards to drug control within its borders. The article elaborates on a policy, implemented in 1986, that requires the president to assess the performance of Latin American nations in the war on drugs- and if the efforts of the drug-producing countries are judged to be insufficient, the US government  that nation and cuts off aid towards the country. Also, this article discusses two cases in which this policy was in use: the Peruvian Case and the Mexican case. This source is related to the research topic as it touches on aspects about the efforts of the United States in regards to drug control. In addition to showing a policy that was inducted to prevent the importation of drugs into the country, it also demonstrates how it has encouraged bordering countries to implement more strict policies within their borders. This article is credible because it is written and published by the Harvard International Relations Council, which offers commentary on global developments in politics, economics, business, science & technology, and culture. Furthermore, it was retrieved from the University of South Florida library and published by a reputable source, thus adding to its credibility. Law-change call after of war on  Western Mail [Cardiff, 16 June 2016: 8. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. According to the title, this source discusses the United failure of the war on drugs and calls for a law change. Two leading organizations in the UK: The Royal Society for Muhsen 5 Public Health (RSPH) and the Faculty of Public Health (FPH) claim that drug use should be decriminalized due to the war on drugs failing in regards to public health. However, the organizations are in support of drug dealers receiving criminal offence, but believe that users should receive medical care. a New Line on a recent UK-wide report (supported by law enforcement officials and several charities) released a poll where 56% of 2,000 interviewed adults believe that drug users should receive medical treatment instead of legal charges Law-change call after of war on ). The FPH also discusses that and incarceration for minor, non-violent offences worsen problems linked to illicit drug use, such as social inequality, violence and Law-change call after of war on ). This article is was written by Jane Kirby and published on Western Mail, a newspaper based in Cardiff, Wales. It was retrieved from Gale Encyclopedia via the University of South Florida library, adding to its credibility. Aside from being credible, this source relates to the research topic as it assesses the war on drugs in the United Kingdom and calls for law changes- addressing drug use as a health issue and not a criminal justice issue. Wild, Joshua D. Epic Failure: The Uncomfortable Truth About The United Role In The Failure Of The Global War On Drugs And How It Is Going To Fix  Suffolk Transnational Law Review 2 (2013): 423. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The following research article deeply examines the United role in the global war on drugs with a viewpoint that the war has been deemed failure. It goes on discussing that the United States has heightened the drug control issue worldwide by imposing prohibitionist ideology onto foreign countries. The article then moves on to stating facts supporting the failure of the war such that the past forty years [the spent over $2.5 trillion dollars fighting Muhsen 6 the war, with little empirical data to support meaningful (Wild). Following the factual report, the solution of recognizing that there is a single current state of International Drug Control is put forth by the author. The author also calls for a reform and the urgent need of a more rational drug control policy instead of the policies imposed by President Nixon nearly forty years ago. The research then steers into the direction of discussing the history of the drug war and how it spiraled from fighting crime into a that affects nations undesirably. This credible source was written by Joshua D. Wild and published by Suffolk University Law School in a volume of the Suffolk Transnational Law Review. The article connects to the research topic and is suitable as it assesses the failure of the global war on drugs with regards to the United involvement.