Sullivan 1 Rory Sullivan Professor L.E. DuBois English 1102 12 February 2017 Greenpeace Versus Peabody Energy Global climate change has been on debate floors for decades now and it has finally come to a consensus. The globally supported idea claims that our use of fossil fuels negatively affects the atmosphere (Shaftel 2017). Although controversy surrounds the idea of climate change and its legitimacy, for the purposes of this paper climate change is occurring and accelerated by humans. The idea to be discussed in this paper is; how do we proceed in a world knowing that our use of fossil fuels will be our undoing? Many organizations believe to have the answers for such a question, such as Greenpeace and Peabody Energy. Although these companies are very separated in their ideologies and goals, they have similar end goals. Greenpeace is an organization devoted to protecting the environment, through sometimes radical means in order to protect humanity. Conversely, Peabody Energy is the largest producer of coal powered energy in the United States with a yearly output of over 175,000,000 short tons or 19.5% of the coal production (U.S. Department of Labor 2015). Both of these organizations share in the pursue for a better tomorrow, however their paths are crossed forcing them to conflict with each other. In order to seek compromise between Greenpeace and Peabody coal, legislative action must be taken to gradually progress Peabody Energy from mainly using coal energy to renewable energies. This compromise Sullivan 2 will maintain the financial assets of Peabody while insuring the impact of coal on our atmosphere will be diminished. The supporting of both mission statements while taking a hold on the problems created by both organizations will allow this compromise to be effective and beneficial. Greenpeace was founded in the wake of a protest against the U.S. nuclear program testing its weapons in Alaska (Greenpeace 2017). Its mission is to provide Earth a voice and protect it from climate change, deforestation, famine, and war. While the organization has been behind more controversial acts of activism, it challenges the law in order to gain publicity toward the agenda. It is a tactic used by many extreme activist groups and has been popularized by television shows such as Whale Wars (Foley 2007). The television show had Greenpeace supported activists climb aboard a Japanese whale vessel illegal. Similarly, Greenpeace activists have been arrested on charges of Trespassing, assault, breaking and entering, and inciting riots (Walker 2013). This type of approach has been used on the fossil fuel industry, vandalizing power plants and stalling construction, however no positive impact has been reaped from their protests. Their practice of launching aggressive protests upon industries that draw their distaste misconstrues their main message. main focus on climate change involves the shift away from fossil fuels and toward renewables. On the website, they contain a specific section highlighting the problems with coal and the need for humanity to coal (Greenpeace 2017). However, the organization has created a solution manual which showcases a scenario at which Earth receives 100% of its energy from renewable energy sources. The Energy Revolution 2015 is a projection of how renewable energy sectors and markets would Sullivan 3 prosper in the future (Greenpeace 2017). Within this manual, the organization provides statistics and data which supports future economic stability and progress using renewable energy. This style peaceful planning of a coal company gradually breaking ties with fossil fuels is different compared to main ideology of aggressive environmental protection, it also allows for a compromise to be more easily derived. Historically renewable energy has been less efficient, for example; solar energy has an energy efficiency of 22% (Northwestern 2017) but coal has an efficiency of 35-42% (IEA 2010). Greenpeace however uses the data of renewable energy efficiency over time, showing a dramatic incline from 10% in 1995 to 22% today (Greenpeace). Although Greenpeace is extreme in their practice of environmental protection their simple goal is to progress energy development away from fossil fuels and toward environmentally friendly sources. Peabody coal is rooted in coal and fossil fuels making their goals seemly opposite from Greenpeace. Peabody Energy, the largest producer of coal power in the United States, is one of the most powerful entities fueling the economy. 33% of the United States energy comes from coal (Harrington 2017) compared to solar which provides 14% of the energy (Bossong 2013). It is known that removing coal from the is impossible without dramatic changes to the consumer/economic standing of the United States. The topic is covered by economist Larry Elliot, who discusses the problems of rapidly switching energies quickly causing failures in trade and or slowly causing the effects of climate change to strangle our (Elliot 2015). Elliot also states that a gradually change from fossil fuels to renewable is much more feasible compared to a rapid transition. The problems of demonizing fossil Sullivan 4 fuel companies and not incorporating them into the solution are explained by Elliot, who highlights the need for cooperation between the companies and domestic countries in order to maintain production. The possible partnership between the legislative body and the energy sector should be progressive and produce a result which companies like Peabody Energy and the U.S. citizen can benefit from. In a hypothetical scenario, if Peabody was to be economically incentivized, it could lead them to cooperate with both the U.S. government and organizations such as Greenpeace. However, this partnership is undermined by the fact that many coal companies have been found funding anti-climate change groups (Goldenberg 2016). The funds lobby congress to support legislation which supports low regulations and low taxes on fossil fuel utilities. The problem with supporting consistency in the fossil fuel industry is the creation of a metaphorical rut which the business willingly does not progress out of but continues to collect revenue until it collapses. Elliot also covers this idea of a self-destroying businesses which creates a routine of profit and rarely enjoys to deviate from this path for fear of economic losses. The compromise which would best suit the needs of both Greenpeace and Peabody coal must be achieved through legislative means. The United States government would install mediate a compromise between environmental activists and coal giants such as Peabody Energy. The government would install a federal carbon tax, and make this tax mandatory for all carbon emitting industries. A carbon tax is a government regulation which forces companies to pay a tax for a percentage of their monthly Carbon Dioxide emissions. However, the government would include an incentive in the law allowing fossil fuel companies to reduce the percentage of the tax if they produce more renewable energy compared to their last financial yearly report. Conversely, the United States would Sullivan 5 install heavy handed punishments for the aggressive protesting which parallels eco- terrorism, allowing fossil fuel industries to be relieved of vandals or threats. legislative regulation of industries such as fossil fuels, incite changes within the industry which ultimately propels its giants to develop the industry out of (Fine 2013). Mr. analysis of nineteenth century energy production concludes with the assessment that regulation leads to progression and development, which are found in this compromise. In the long run the Peabody Energy corporation would benefit from this legislative action because it allowed them to maintain control over a portion of the energy sector, while making profit. Also, this compromise supports initiative by progressing toward a planet fueled by renewable energy. The installment of a gradual pathway to renewable energy allows Greenpeace to fulfill their mission statement, while maintaining a profit for Peabody Energy. Both companies are taxed by this compromise because it reshapes eco-terroristic practices and reconstructs the future plans of Peabody Energy. The major shortcoming of this compromise is the lack of participation from Greenpeace because of their limited power in negotiating the legislation between the U.S. congress and the Peabody Energy corporation. The need for progress toward a future of sustainable and renewable energy, is seen has a necessary change. While companies like Peabody are using fossil fuels in order to maintain a profit and provide energy to the United States, they give an irreplaceable service to community. Greenpeace does not provide a product or service, but rather an ideology, to make the world Although these ideas are competitive and often are seen as opposite ends of spectrum the idea of a compromise is in our time because, our time is the last time it could (Yamasaki 2003) Sullivan 6 Works Cited Bossong, Kenneth. Renewable Energy Provides 14% of US Electrical Generation During First Half of  Renewable Energy World. N.p., 27 Aug. 2013. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Elliott, Larry. Can the World Economy Survive without Fossil Fuels? Larry  The Long Read. Guardian News and Media, 08 Apr. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Fine, Ben. Coal Question: Political Economy and Industrial Change from the nineteenth century to the Present 1st ed. Vol. 1. New York: Routledge, 2013. Print. Ser. 1. Foley, Charley, Elizabeth Bronstien, and Jason Carey, prods. Whale  Whale Wars. Animal Plant. United States, 7 Nov. 2007. Television. Goldenberg, Suzanne, and Helena Bengtsson. Biggest US Coal Company Funded Dozens of Groups Questioning Climate  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 13 June 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Greenpeace History Greenpeace Canada. Greenpeace USA . Greenpeace, Web. 28 Jan 2017. <http://www.greenpeace.org/canada/en/About-us/History/>. Harrington, Skye Gould and Rebecca. One Graphic Shows How Much the US Still Relies on  Business Insider. Business Insider, 11 Mar. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Power  How efficient are solar panels? Northwestern University, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Sullivan 7 Shaftel, Holly. Climate change: How do we  NASA. NASA, 28 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration Why We Must Quit Coal Greenpeace International. Greenpeace International. Greenpeace, Web. 28 Jan 2017 Walker, Shaun. Greenpeace Activists Could Be Charged with Terrorism after Ship The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 11 Sept. 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Yamasaki, Akihiro. An Overview of CO2 Mitigation Options for Global Emphasizing CO2 Sequestration  JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING OF JAPAN 36.4 (2003): 361-65. Web.