Truncale 1 Thomas Truncale Professor Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 - 046 14 February 2017 Standardized Testing Standardized Testing in the United States of America has been an incredibly controversial topic recently, as the scores obtained through them have become an increasingly determinant factor in assessing a academic capability in the future. While it is common knowledge that standardized testing has some sort of an effect on student success, the debate on whether this effect is negative or positive remains an ongoing discussion among scholars. There are many organizations involved in the administering of standardized tests, most notably Pearson, who believe their tests contain the most effective material in assessing student demonstration of comprehension. However, there are also organizations who completely oppose standardized testing and desire its abolition, most notable of these organizations being Fairtest. In determining the nature of the potential academic effects that these tests can have on students, it is imperative that the organizations Fairtest and Pearson, whom have very diverse opinions on the subject, find middle ground to ensure the maximization of student efficiency and education today and in the future. This middle ground can be achieved through a pullback on standardized testing in schools, an increase in Pearson textbook materials in schools, and a continuation of research on the subject in order to find the best possible formula of testing and work for student success. Truncale 2 The National Center for Fair & Open Testing, otherwise known as Fairtest, has a primary goal of eliminating standardized testing from schools, as well as eliminating them from having any importance in determining a students academic capability. (Fairtest) There are studies and articles written every year aimed at determining if their accusations towards these tests are in fact true, which Fairtest publishes across their website. These clusters of information are included in hopes of, from their point of view, educating the population on the dangers of standardized testing and future success in order to effectively eliminate their presence in schools. In addition to the perceived flaws of standardized testing, Fairtest also states that place special emphasis on eliminating the racial, class, gender, and cultural barriers to equal opportunity posed by standardized tests, and preventing their damage to the quality of (Fairtest) Those in the organization of Fairtest believe that not only that standardized testing is toxic to the educational environment, but that it also has established a between certain categories of success with other categories of success. According to Josh Kenworthy of the Christian Science Monitor, after examining documents from the National Assessment of Educational progress, than half of high school seniors are prepared for college Eleven percent of low-income 12th-graders scored at the level, compared with 32 percent of higher income students. Fewer than 10 percent of black and Native American students scored in math, compared with 30 percent of white (Kenworthy 1) After examining this data, it is clear that ideals may have some truth behind them, which should warrant a potential for compromise. Truncale 3 Pearson has an extensive set of goals they wish to accomplish through the content they provide. This content includes activities and coursework for specific subjects, standardized tests and assessments, and material for teachers. According to website, their mission to help people make progress through access to better learning. We believe that learning opens up opportunities, creating fulfilling careers and better (Pearson) For the most part, this mission statement states that their underlying goal is to create the best possible environment for education. In addition to their mission as a company, Pearson is incredibly notable because they are one of the largest providers of standardized testing in the United States of America. (PBS) Due to the fact that Pearson has such extensive roots in the United States educational system, it can be safely said that their presence in the realm of education has played a significant role in the quality of student performance today. However, it is important to accomplish a compromise as there are many people on both sides who simply desire a fair and focused platform for education, for now and the future. While both organizations have incredibly opposing viewpoints, a compromise should be reached as it will profoundly benefit the very people and goals they strive to satisfy and achieve. In order to satisfy both organizations, there should be a reduction in the presence of standardized testing across the United States, and an increase in standard Pearson textbook material for both students and teachers. Therefore Fairtest can see a limit on Standardized testing, and Pearson will make up the money lost from a pullback on standardized testing. While this reduction in testing and increase in material is taking place, there should be extensive studies into the effects of standardized testing on student minds and performance, an examination of potential Truncale 4 replacements or more effective methods of measuring students academic capability, and the disparity of testing success among different cultural and economic backgrounds. As these studies are occurring, both Pearson and Fairtest can meet together in quarterly meetings in order to communicate regarding the methods being researched, research status, etc. If there are frequent correlations found that exemplify what many people fear about standardized testing, Pearson will not face an insurmountable loss of business and academic presence, and Fairtest could see an end to standardized testing or its reduction, as there is a direct line of communication for both organizations to discuss how they can work together to best achieve their individual goals. This type of solution represents many that have occurred between multiple organizations in the past. For example, in 2015, President Obama outlined a plan to limit standardized testing in schools, explaining to counties on potential disagreement, that the tests need to be in smart, (USAToday) While this plan was not effectively implemented, the former President of the United States proved that a compromise can be made to ensure the lasting effectiveness of education. The solution proposed, to limit the amount of standardized testing in schools, while simultaneously conducting studies to see if there is a better way to measure a students academic capability for years to come, should satisfy both organizations as their goals are very similar in increasing the effectiveness of education. While their methods are tremendously different, their stated goals will make it possible for this compromise to happen, as the way to improve education is to consistently study and find the potential flaws in the educational system as a Truncale 5 whole. In addition to the previously mentioned positive aspects of this research, if there is a better way to measure student success, both Fairtest and Pearson will have the ability to capitalize on it, while simultaneously ensuring the continuous success of education in the United States. All in all, both Fairtest and Pearson have very similar goals, and have an opportunity to work together and do what could be best for education in the long run. It is will known that many people find standardized testing to be far too entwined in the education system in the United States of America, and feel that a limitation would greatly benefit the students that already have such immense amounts of work to complete. However, there is also a lot to consider when coming from the other side, such as the fact that standardized testing is so widespread and used for measuring students ability to perform well in academics. Therefore, if standardized testing is to be eliminated after completing thorough research, it is important to have an immediate replacement method of measuring a students academic capability across the United States, which is what could be accomplished through this proposed compromise. Both Fairtest and Pearson agree, ensuring a proper and effective education is of utmost importance. WORKS CITED About  About FairTest FairTest. Fairtest, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kenworthy, Josh. The good news behind bad test  The Christian Science Monitor 2016: Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pearson  Pearson - Always Learning. Pearson, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Testing Big  PBS. PBS, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Doering, Christopher. Obama Plan Limits Standardized Testing to No More than 2% of Class  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 25 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.