Student 1 Student Instructor Lisa DuBois Composition II ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Fight for a Better World The climate of planet Earth has changed a lot since its birth. Humanity has been through ice ages, huge droughts, millennia of But since the first industrial revolution the changes have grown and they do not seem to revert. Today our biggest concern is the increase of the global temperature. Gases like carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and methane (CH4) are produced all over the world and they increase the retention of heat in the atmosphere of the planet. These retentions are responsible for the increase in the temperature, which can lead to damage in all kind of life forms and ecological processes. Greenpeace is an organization that exposes these problems with the environment through peaceful protests and create solutions for those problems. Since its foundation in 1971, Greenpeace has been maintained only by the donations of its members. They have achieved tons of things over this years, some of those achievements are: banning of commercial whaling, the stop of nuclear testing and the protection of Antarctica (Greenpeace online). Greenpeace has many goals and projects going on, but with the use of these images you will see that they are very focused in the global warming issue. The first image presents to the audience the importance of political change in order to stop the issue, while the second image presents to the audience the need to support Greenpeace in their quest to save the world. In image 1, the stakeholder gives the audience a clear and unchangeable message. A huge use of Pathos and Kairos can be seen through the image as well as some uses of Ethos. Pathos is a rhetoric element that makes people experience or sense an emotion Student 2 (McIntyre, Mega, and Alysia Sawchyn 22) as defined by McIntyre, Mega, and Alysia Sawchyn. In image 1 the use of Pathos can be seen when the stakeholder chooses to include the image of a factory emitting gases. These gases give people a sad feeling since they normally do not feel comfortable around dangerous gases. Since the image presents red-oranges colors, people get a feeling that in that place the weather is warm, thus they feel surrounded by the gases and the heat. The addition of a dark palette of colors on top of the warm colors gives the audience a feeling of insecurity and fear. Pathos is being use also in the form of fear towards that person. By exposing all those dark-reddish colors and the images of the factories, the authors infuse fear into the audience when they hear the name of the President of that company. The image also gives the audience a call to action to stop the President of Exxon becoming Secretary of State. This is the most dominant message in the picture and it uses Kairos as rhetoric element. Kairos is defined as a of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right (McIntyre, Mega, and Alysia Sawchyn 25). Because this image was published during the election season, the image was calling upon the U.S. citizens to stop that person while they still had a chance. Combining those rhetorical elements, the image is calling upon people to stop a person before it is too late and to give the audience a sense of need they use the picture of the factory: If you do not stop him, he will turn the world into a huge factory. In image 2 the stakeholder asks for donations in order to maintain the fight for climate change. The stakeholder uses mainly Kairos, but there is presence of the other three elements as well. By telling the audience that the climate cannot wait and that they need donations now, the stakeholder gets the people attention because he relies his petitions in what is happening today. Everybody sees in any news that the climate needs help, thus is a current event and people will know that they can help solve that by donating to this organization. Kairos can also be seen present in the ocean and sky of the picture. Student 3 Oceans and skies are timeless and there are there and they will always be. That concept can be applied to the call to action by saying that if you help them protect the environment the oceans and skies will keep being timeless. In the image the stakeholder also uses Ethos. This rhetoric element is defined as way of establishing trust with his or her (McIntyre, Mega, and Alysia Sawchyn 20). In the image, the name of the organization can be seen in a ship sailing. Anybody can use that name to investigate about the history, achievements, and fights. With that information, people will be able to create a trust relationship with the organization and they will know that the money they donated will not be wasted in projects that do not benefit the environment. The use of Pathos is also very present in image 2. The bright and vivid colors of the picture give the audience a sense of joy and hope when they see it. By placing the ship with the name of the organization in that picture, they ensure that people associate the name Greenpeace with hope and salvation for the environment. With the sum of all these rhetorical elements, the image brings the audience hope, joy, and security if they donate to Greenpeace. They will know that their money is well expended and that the environment will be a little safer. Although Greenpeace is an organization that works in many projects to save the world from our own hands, their primary job is to ensure that global warming stops. Through the images presented in this essay you have seen that they fight to prevent people that negate global warming from taking public offices; and that they ask for money to keep their work up. They use very powerful rhetoric elements to grab the attention of the audience and make them think if it is worth to fight. They fight ignorance, they fight for a better world. (WC: 1078 Words) Student 4 Work Cited Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace USA, n.d., http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/ . Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. McIntyre, Mega, and Alysia Sawchyn. The Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text. Student 5 Image 1 www.greenpeace.org/usa/global-warming/ Student 6 Image 2 www.greenpeace.org/usa/global-warming/