Humphreys 1 Lucelle Humphreys Instructor DuBois ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Mental Illness in America According to the National Alliance on Mental Illness, million adults experience mental illness in a given (National Alliance on Mental Illness). Mental illness is a huge issue in America and the world yet not much is being done to solve it. Mental health issues are something that carry a negative stigma, lack of education and lack of understanding with them. When more than 3000 Americans were surveyed about mental illnesses, schizophrenia was identified by a majority (75%) [as a mental Simple schizophrenia was identified as a mental illness by only 34%, alcoholism, by 29%; anxiety neurosis, by 18%; by 14% and compulsive phobia, by (B G Link). It is clear that many Americans are not well informed about mental illnesses. The National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) is an organization that works daily to support and educate those with these afflictions and raise awareness about this widespread issue. Mental Health America (MHA) is an organization dedicated to identifying these conditions and providing the necessary care for those who are presently dealing with them. Mental illness is an epidemic throughout the nation. NAMI is an organization dedicated to the awareness of such illnesses and MHA is an organization dedicated to providing care for those with it. As a result of these two very different approaches to this issue, these two organizations have never worked together and seem to be in conflict about how this issue needs to be addressed. These two Humphreys 2 organizations need to start a campaign that highlights both of their goals in order to solve this widespread issue. The National Alliance on Mental mission is raise awareness and provide support and education that was not previously available to those in and they are to building better lives for the millions of Americans affected by mental (National Alliance on Mental Illness). This organization focuses on the awareness of mental illness throughout America to support those suffering. This is important because treatment comes after being aware that there is an issue in your mind. NAMI was founded in 1979 and is made up of hundreds of affiliates/volunteers working at the local, state and national level (National Alliance on Mental Illness). The size of the organization is what makes it so successful. With the wide scale of their organization they are able to reach people at the many different levels of society. To accomplish their mission, they focus on four areas; educating, advocating, listening and leading. Their programs ensure hundreds of thousands of families, individuals and educators get the support and information they (National Alliance on Mental Illness). Education is something that is vital to lessening the effects of untreated illnesses. Many Americans are not properly informed about what mental illness is and how to get support if they need it. To advocate shapes national public policy for people with mental illness and their (National Alliance on Mental Illness). NAMI understands that in the United States, there enough public policy to protect the millions of Americans suffering from psychological illnesses. They are working daily to ensure that citizens in the future have the necessary policies and regulations, set up at the state and national level, to receive the necessary help and education they need. To listen, NAMI has a toll-free help line that allows them to personally respond to thousands of calls for help and guidance (National Alliance on Mental Humphreys 3 Illness). This help line is something that people can use when they have no idea where to go to get the help they desperately need. It allows NAMI to give out information about the resources available to the people who are in need of support. To lead, NAMI has awareness events and activities . . . successfully fight stigma and encourage (National Alliance on Mental Illness). NAMI works hard to spread awareness on a large scale for the millions of Americans suffering every day. This area works hand-in-hand with education but on a wider scale, it allows the organization to reach a large audience and show this audience about mental illnesses. goals and missions are something that make them so strong and they show one way to approach this problem in the US. Mental Health mission is promote mental health as a critical part of overall wellness, including prevention services for all, early identification and intervention for those at risk, and integrated care and treatment for those who need it, with recovery as the (Mental Health America). This organization is focused on the treatment of those Americans who are affected by this issue. One of their main principles is that to achieve overall wellness you must treat mental illness and promote mental health. According to Jeffery Human, lack of access to mental health is an issue that has received less attention but that is of great (Human). MHA is trying to do something about the lack of access to mental health care. They have recognized the problem and set up services to combat this. MHA is made up of thousands of affiliates and volunteers throughout the nation (Mental Health America). Their large scale makes it possible for them to accomplish their goals. They are able to work at every necessary level of society to provide the care they wish to achieve. MHA has a philosophy called B4Stage4, they believe health conditions should be treated long before they reach the most critical points in the disease (Mental Health America). They think that mental Humphreys 4 health should be treated just as any other major illness is treated. This philosophy is something that sets Mental Health America apart from other organizations. They want to identify symptoms early, diagnose the illness and set up a plan of action in the early stages of the diseases (Mental Health America). MHA has identified that leaving mental illnesses until they are in later stages contributes to this epidemic. Through this philosophy they show that they are seriously committed to the treatment of psychological diseases, setting them apart from other organizations committed to other aspects of this problem. It is obvious that both of these organizations are dedicated to helping solve the mental illness problem in America. These organizations have approached solving the issue in very different ways. National Alliance on Mental Illness focusing on raising awareness about mental illness in America and supporting individuals and families who suffer with it whereas, Mental Health America is focusing on treatment of these ailments. These two different methods make these organizations not see eye-to-eye. NAMI does not see the necessity in providing the actual care to the patients. They see that there is an issue and they want everyone to be educated about it but fail to confirm that the care for the problem is given or received. MHA understands the importance of confirming the that care is given and received but fails to see that there is much more involved in this problem than just the actual treatment. They recognize the importance of advocacy and education for the issue. These two conflicting ideas impede each organization from making as large of an impact as they could. In order to solve this epidemic, these organizations need to come together for their common goal. Creating a campaign that brings both of their missions together is a great way to start. This campaign will be called and Treat Mental and will bring together B4Stage4 philosophy and dedication to educating the population on mental Humphreys 5 illnesses. This campaign will travel nationwide for multiple months visiting many states. They will host conventions that will offer free mental health screenings, seminars on different types of mental illnesses, classes on the B4Stage4 philosophy and offer a place for many of the doctors and clinics to come together and offer their assistance. Another large part of this campaign will be news and social media coverage along with public service announcements. They will have to make social media accounts so they can spread news about their campaign, advertise the dates of their conventions and inform more people about the statistics of mental health in America. They will contact national and local news companies to inform people of their campaign and conventions. National public service announcements will allow them to educate a large portion of the United States about mental health and remove some of the stigma about metal illnesses. These two things will make a large difference in the large scale effect these organizations can make when they team up. An example of companies with differing goals coming together is with the campaign. In 2012, the Colorado Office of Suicide Prevention collaborated with the Carson J Spencer Foundation and Cactus for this campaign. This focus is on abuse and suicide among (MPH@GW Staff). This campaign is dedicated to education and treatment. They did this by creating a website that men and their families could access. It was a place that those people affected by substance abuse could go to seek guidance and support. This website included a video series that featured a man struggling just the same as many of the visitors on the site. After evaluating the effectiveness of this campaign, the collaborators found that, months after launch, more than 19,000 visitors had accessed crisis information using the site, and nearly 20,000 had used the about resource. Close to 60,000 18-point head inspections were (MPH@GW Staff). Humphreys 6 It is clear that organizations coming together to start campaigns is effective. These campaigns are able to reach a large number of people and actually help the companies involved reach their goals. Mental illness is a huge problem throughout the nation, NAMI is an organization dedicated to the awareness of such illnesses and MHA is an organization dedicated to providing care for those with such diseases. These two organizations need to start a campaign that includes both of their goals in order to solve this widespread issue. Both organizations are dedicated to solving the mental health issue in America but in two very different ways. Through the and Treat Mental campaign these two organizations will be able to come together and fulfill both of their missions. Humphreys 7 Works Cited B G, Link, and J C, Phelan, and M, Bresnahan, and A, Steve, and B A, Pescosolido. Conceptions of Mental Illness: Labels, Causes, Dangerousness, and Social American Journal of Public Health 1999, Vol. 89, No 9, pp. 1328-1329. Accessed January 27, 2017, ajph.aphapublications.org/doi/pdf/10.2105/AJPH.89.9.1328 Human, Jeffery, and Cathy Wasem. Mental Health in American Psychologist. Vol. 46, No 3, pp. 232-239. March 991.Accessed February 8, 2017, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ehost/detail/detail?vid=3&sid=84a2adda-91d3- 49cf-8daa- cc2a281a43ed%40sessionmgr103&hid=117&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d %3d#AN=1991-19431-001&db=pdh Mental Health America. Mental Health America. 2016, www.mentalhealthamerica.net, Accessed January 27, 2017. MPH@GW Staff. Health Campaigns That Change GW Public Health Online, November 08, 2016. publichealthonline.gwu.edu/blog/health-communication-campaigns/ , Accessed January 27, 2017. National Alliance on Mental Illness. National Alliance on Mental Illness. www.nami.org, Accessed January 27,2017.