Kristen Hilsabeck Hilsabeck 1 Professor Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 2 March 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric in Images When we as a country think about Sea World, or something as normalized as eating a burger or fried chicken, we do not consider the feelings of the animals that we use for our own selfish ways. Because of this, the non-profit organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals became popular for being the voices of these animals. Their mission statement, as stated on their home page, reads are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other (PETA). As if this make the purpose more clear, they use images for campaigns that say more about animal cruelty than words ever could. This makes them a definite stakeholder on the issue of rights and issues concerning the endangerment of some species of animals. Using visual rhetoric, PETA uses images to connect entertainment and every-day foods to their message of animal rights and advocacy. In the first image shown, there appears to be a whale in a tank at Sea World. By zooming out of the tank to show the size of the whale compared to the size of the tank, it shows that the whale is obviously too big for the small tank it is held captive in. Also, the whale is circled in red as a way of emphasizing the size of the whale. These are both pathos appeals, because they make the person observing the image feel sympathetic towards the whale. The picture also contains a quote, saying could swim 100 miles per day, is trapped here for 44 (PETA). This quote is placed in white lettering, which is a stark contrast from the blue water and theme park background. As an added Hilsabeck 2 affect, the picture is split and shows the quote over two different angles of the picture. This quote can be used as a logos appeal, because if whales need to roam free to live happy and healthy lives, then logically, the people at Sea World are committing an act of cruelty to this animal who is being wrongfully held. The angles can be used as a tool to show how the whale looks up close to how big it really is from a higher angle. Furthermore, these claims are backed up by a documentary called Blackfish directed by Gabriela Cowperthwaite, which gives these allegations credibility outside of PETA. In the documentary, the whale Tilikum is filmed to show how he lived in conditions like the one photographed. Because of photographs like the one featuring the whale, it is obvious to see that PETA is a stakeholder in the issue of rights and their well-being. For the second photo, the message seems a bit more shocking. The subject of the photo is a young boy, who appears to be around one year of age, holding and smoking a cigar. This is a smart way to get the point across, because by showing a young boy, it appeals to those viewing the picture through pathos. Most people would never let a child smoke, even if it their own child. Another pathos appeal is the way the child is dressed and posed. It makes the child look clean and innocent because he is dressed in a light blue shirt while he reads, which is a typical child activity unlike smoking. This may have been an intentional way to show the act of smoking even more as odd in the picture by placing it side-by-side with a book. As well as the boy, the picture also contains a quote, saying let your child smoke. Like smoking, eating meat increases the risks of heart disease and (PETA). This is a logos appeal because everyone knows that letting a child smoke is detrimental to their developmental health. This claim made by PETA is also supported by the cancer council, which states Council estimates that in 2010, one in six (or 2600) new bowel cancer cases in Australia were associated with consuming too much red meat and processed (Cancer Council). Along with the logo at the bottom, these two factors give the photo an ethos appeal. Joined with the logo Hilsabeck 3 at the bottom of the screen, a call to action is made. In a black box with white lettering, it says (PETA). This gives the photo a kairos appeal because it makes the audience think about how to stop the potential harms that come with consuming meat. Since it is said in mission statement that are not ours to (PETA), their views on animal consumption further show their position as a stakeholder in rights. Though these pictures both belong to PETA and convey similar messages, they are different in as many ways as they are alike. For example, the first photo of the whale shows the animal in a way that should make the viewer feel sympathetic towards it, thus getting their point across. In the second photo, however, there any animals show, yet they get a similar message across with the text included next to the picture of a human child. Another difference between the two is they type of animal rights message they are trying to convey. The first picture is trying to show the use of animals as entertainment in another light, while the second picture is trying to show the consumption of animals in another light. These are only a few of the images PETA has on their website that all convey the same message: that animal lives matter just as much as humans, and their lives are vital to ours as a species. With other shocking images and controversial campaigns such as the Rather Go Naked Than Wear campaign, they show that they want animals to live peacefully and unendangered due to human consumption. With that being the main point of the organization, they also give tips through blog posts on their website that show people how to live a vegan life style and what products to avoid, along with other photos similar to those shown below. This proves they are a perfect stakeholder in the issue of declining populations of animals. In conclusion, these photos would make any onlooker rethink their views on eating a burger or going to Sea World. These photos accurately display position on the rights of animals and the Hilsabeck 4 violations of these rights that are engrained in our everyday culture and are often ignored. In just these two photos, PETA powerfully displays some of the biggest issues regarding human treatment of animals. By using, logos, ethos, Kairos, and pathos appeals, PETA was able to make a point, and solidify their position as a stakeholder in the rights of animals and their views of the treatment and consumption of animals. Works Cited Blackfish. Dir. Gabriela Cowperthwaite. CNN Films, 2013. Netflix. Does Eating Meat Increase My Cancer Risk? I Cancer Council  Cancer Council NSW. N.p., 28 Sept. 2016. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. www.peta.org