Damon 1 William Damon Sarah Roth ENC 1101 19 February 2017 Security Concerns Connected to a Growing Internet of Things Verizon experts have estimated by the year 2020 there will be 5 billion devices connected to the internet (Britton 3). This makes the flow of information easier, creating many possible benefits in our personal lives, but at a huge cost to our security and privacy. The fundamental concern is that the more ways you have to access your information, the more potential security threats exist. Coupled with the fact that many of our devices have outdated software and hardware, we can only be as secure as our most vulnerable device. In an age in which people have their toasters and thermostats connected to the internet and in turn connected to their email accounts and phones, a malicious hacker or thief only needs access to one device to gain control of them all. My research question is, are the security concerns associated with a growing internet of Britton, Katherine. Handling Privacy And Security In The Internet Of  Journal Of Internet Law 19.10 (2016): 3-7. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. article offers insight into the new challenges arising from the internet of things. Britton details specific worries about NFC and RFID devices. Security concerns are addressed from a hardware and software perspective. Further questions about data stored by companies about people are raised as well fundamental problems with massive data collection. Handling Privacy And Security In The Internet Of  will give a very broad insight into the world of technology offering context for more in-depth sources. Britton also quotes many different sources, including regulatory agencies, giving more legitimacy to the article. Katherine Britton is an attorney certified in information privacy and privacy management. Tankard, Colin. Feature: The Security Issues Of The Internet Of  Computer Fraud & Security 2015.(2015): 11-14. ScienceDirect. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Tankard offers a perspective involving benefits and risks associated with the internet of things. Privacy issues, as well as the practicality of updating so many software driven devices, are also examined. Tankard then offers possible solutions to these issues as well as stressing that vigilance is key in keeping security. Damon 2 Colin Tankard is the managing director of Digital Pathways, a company that provides information security solutions to businesses, and is often publishes academic articles relating to information security. article will help to draw a conclusion, in the form of solutions, from the problems of internet security. In addition to more revelations into the issues at hand, Tankard gives possible plans to keep risks to a minimum. Hu, Fei. Security and Privacy in Internet of Things (iots): Models, Algorithms, and Implementations. 2016. Internet resource. full-length book covers all aspects of security and privacy as it relates to the Internet of Things (IoT). Hu draws inspiration and information from the work of multiple colleagues and other security professionals throughout the book. Hu gives in-depth analysis of possible security risks from both hardware and software perspectives. Following this analysis is multiple hypotheses on how devices can be kept secure and how responsible device owners can keep all links of the IoT chain secure. Dr. Fei Hu is a professor at the University of engineering school and studies security, signal and sensors. book will give the quantitative evidence and analysis needed to form a well thought and scientifically backed argument. Hu adds to his credibility by connecting most of his thoughts and ideas to other security professionals. This gives the backbone of hard evidence and a thorough examination of all sides of the issue. Lu, Yan. The Internet of Things: From Rfid to the Next-Generation Pervasive Networked Systems. New York: Auerbach Publications, 2008. Internet resource. Lu gives a comprehensive look at the specific problems dealing with radio-frequency identification (RFID) and how this impacts and will continue to impact security and privacy. Yan develops many possibilities of threats from increasingly pervasive networks that are becoming part of our everyday lives. focus on RFID gives insight into the problems that arise with so many internet connected devices that often record, store, then transmit any data they can access. Lu brings credibility from multiple industry experts from multiple sides of the conversation. Dr. Yan Lu is member of the system integration division of National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Atzori, Luigi, Antonio Iera, and Giacomo Morabito. The Internet Of Things: A  Computer Networks 54.(2010): 2787-2805. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Internet Of Things: A addresses identification and tracking technologies as well as the wired and wireless sensors that will make these technologies possible. Specific attention is given to the future possibilities this will give transportation and healthcare industries. This article also elaborates on the personal and social applications that may be available. Damon 3 Luigi Atzori, Antonio Iera, and Giacomo Morabito are all university professors in Italy that teach varying forms of information technology and information security. Their article will bring an elaborate look at industry specific security concerns involved with the IoT. Chaouchi, Hakima. The Internet Of Things. [Electronic : Connecting Objects To The Web. n.p.: London : ISTE ; Hoboken, NJ : John Wiley & Sons, 2010., 2010. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Internet Of Things: Connecting Objects To The addresses the infrastructure that will be required to have millions of connected devices all communicating through various networks. Security is discussed along with the potential benefits and risks of power line communication (PLC). The history of the IoT is discussed at length as well as the future. Uses for the agriculture, tourism, retail, and supply chain management are examined. Dr. Chaouchi is a professor at the Telecommunication Institute in France who specializes in the security of mobile and wireless networks. This book will provide historical reference to the development of the IoT security over time.