Student 1 Student Lisa Dubois ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Recycling Electronic Devices and Reducing Data Theft Data theft is a horrid thing that occurs more than most would like to believe. When people think of having personal data stolen, they think of hackers. But this is not necessarily the case, many devices that people just throw away still contain valuable data that can be easily accessed by anyone looking for it. Data theft is not the worst thing that occurs from just throwing out old electronic devices; there are other secondary effects that many people do not even consider. These secondary effects include pollution and health effects for the surrounding communities. Urban e-Recycling says that there is a simple fix to this problem, though, simply recycling old electronic devices. There are even free services around the Tampa Bay Area, such as Urban e-Recycling. People usually do not consider this as an alternative to just throwing out the old device, and if it is a business, there can be great fines for having client data not being properly disposed of. Although Urban goals are to electronics down to and to never charge for their services, analyses of the images show that this central focus is exactly on that, their site shows many examples of how they have gone above and beyond for their clients, without even charging them a dime. Urban e-Recycling persuades the customers, and audience, to call them and set up an appointment for them to pick up items that you plan to give them to recycle through image A. In image A, there is a globe, and it has arrows with the process used for the collection and recycling Student 2 of old electronic devices. This is a great example of a couple of the rhetorical appeal such pathos, the appeal to the emotions. As Lane, Lee, McKee, McIntyre, and Pantelides stated, when a writer uses images, songs, and other types of nontextual media, he or she is often attempting to engage a emotions 20). The emotions that the audience feels are happiness and relief because there is a clear and relatively simplistic process that is going on. Most of the time when one recycles let us say a glass bottle, there is no knowing whether it will actually be getting recycled, or just put into the local land fill. Further analysis of image A shows the planet Earth. This is an example of the logos, which is a method of persuasion that the author may use to persuade the audience by demonstrating credibility and authority, according to McKee and McIntyre. The planet shows this company cares for the planet and passing it on to further generations. The Urban e-Recycling company has more of an amusing advertising because it has a more positive effect on the customer, which makes it more memorable. This form of advertisement is important for this type of company due to the fact that they are a small, local company with a small range of customers at this point. Image A also has a rhetorical appeal to kairos, which is an appeal to timeliness, more specifically, in this case, a reference to a current crisis. This current crisis could be foreshadowed as all of the pollutions that we as humans as a whole are producing 41). This year alone, there has been over three million tons of electronic waste just thrown out. This equates to about million tons of it every year. This is equivalent to throwing out 800 laptops every single (The World Counts). On the chalkboard, image B, Urban e-Recycling persuades people that using their business gives you essentially a blank slate. The chalkboard reads Urban E Recycling gives you a GREEN This is an allusion to the Latin phrase which translates to the blank slate. This image actually flows fairly well with image A because of the fact that Student 3 image A was of the Earth and it is viewed as pure when there is no human involvement. This is a belief that when you are born, you are pure and have not been influenced by your environment and other people yet. Image B is an appeal to pathos, which is shown simply through the phrase that is written. Most people have done things they regret in their life, and this advertisement makes it appear almost as if one can make up for this by recycling their old electronic device. The could be referring to starting off with a fresh start on your consumption and elimination of trash. Image B also has a good rhetorical appeal of logos. The logos in this image can be from it making sense logically to recycle your old items so that you just have your junk put into the earth for future generations to have to deal with. Instead, you are continuing to keep this metaphorical slate clean by having old electronics being reused. Thus, Urban e-Recycling uses ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to persuade potential customers to use their electronic recycling services. The audience for these particular images is any adult in Tampa Bay and surrounding areas, although they do have customers in other counties and states across America. Through these visual images, Urban e-Recycling aims to gain more popularity not just for them, but for the safe recycling of electronic devices industry as a whole. The mission statement for Urban e- Recycling is that they believe that people will do the right thing if easy, safe and This company has absolutely no income coming from their customers because they do not charge for their service. Instead, the money they make comes from the selling of the precious metals inside of certain electronics, such as copper from wire or the sapphire in the iPhone (Urban e-Recycling). The organization of the images used by this company includes the rhetorical strategies of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. The main things that they use in their images are pathos and logos, which are the appeals to emotions and logic. These images are Student 4 both for recycling of electronic devices, but they both contain different messages: image A uses a picture of the Earth a connection with their clients while image B is concentrated on the logical appeal of a blank slate and starting fresh (WC 1046). Works Cited Student 5 McIntyre, Megan, and Jessice McKee. Appeals to Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-253. Print. McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee. Appeals to Authority and Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-253. Print. McIntyre, Megan, Kate Pantelides, and Jessica McKee. Appeals to Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-253. Print. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Appeals to Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-253. Print. World The World Counts. The World Counts. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Urban e-Recycling. Urban e-Recycling. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Electronics Secure Electronic Recyclers. Secure Electronic Recyclers. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Student 6 Image A http://secureelectronicsrecyclers.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/07/electronic- recycling.png Image B http://www.urbanerecycling.com/faq/