Student 1 Student L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Treatment of Depression Is The Need to Be Valued Now people are under pressure, and then some people are losing their enthusiasm and motivation to life. Depression has becomes very common, there are many people who commit suicide because of mental illness. Depression is a disease that involves physical, emotional, and mental problems. It affects the diet and sleep, and also affect the feel and think of patients. Depression is not just a temporary emotional problem; it is not a simple problem that can be overcome by encouragement or willpower. If left untreated, the symptoms can last for weeks, months or years and even make brain function degradation and atrophy. However, appropriate treatment for the majority of patients with depression are helpful. Depression is a serious and terrible problem, so ADAA calls people to be concerned about the treatment of depression through images. The ADAA (Anxiety and Depression Association of America) is an organization that specializes in helping and treating depression. They believe practice, education, and research prevention can treat depression, and can improve quality of life for patients with depression. They help patients to find their issue and understand illnesses, because it can effectively find the right treatment and recovery methods. Some patients with depression have to see a doctor and treatment, but then they committed suicide. Consulting the doctor may not be able to effectively solve the problem of patients, so people must understand the depression and their own problems in order to find Student 2 effective methods. ADAA provides some education about the disorders and help people to find effective treatment, resources, and support. The images uses the screen and the text to show that this organization attaches great importance to the treatment of depression and provides help for patients with depression. In image A, the organization persuades the audience to attach importance to the treatment of depression and the courage to face their own problems through the advertising, image A. The background of the picture is a green meadow, and a pair of hands holding the earth in the middle of the picture. The green grass make people have a carefree feeling, and a hand holding the earth makes people feel they have to protect their homes together. This means of expression is using Pathos, or other forms of media, they use images to affect the mood of the Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, and Megan 71). The picture is to make the audience ignite emotions to help the world together. In addition, the organization will dilute the background image to highlight the text; this is clearly what they want to emphasize the importance of the text. The first sentence in the picture is 40 million Americans struggle with anxiety and depression disorders, only about one-third of these individuals receive The organization wants to let people know that many people have depression through this statistic, but the number of patients receiving treatment is small. According to Lee, McKee, and McIntyre said Kairos is knowing what is most appropriate in a given situation; for our purposes, think of it as saying (or writing) the right thing at the right Megan, Kate Pantelides, and Jessica 63). This picture shows a serious problem that many people with depression do not receive treatment. The organization considers understanding their disease and treatment is very Student 3 important, because if the depressed patients do not receive treatment their disease will become more serious and may even die. In addition, the image also clearly indicates goal of ADAA: Engage, Educate, and Empower by the text. To sum up, ADAA wants to remind people the number of people suffering from depression gradually increased, but only a few people attach importance to treatment. They try to let people understand the seriousness of the problem through the image. Through the poster, image B, ADAA persuades people to participate activities of art to relieve stress in their lives. The organization promote music can help people with depression. A man frowned in front of the bed and held a bottle of liqueur in his hand. ADAA promote treatment of music by posters. The organization persuades people to participate activities of art to relieve stress in their lives. According to Pathos: Appeals to Emotion pointed out offers a way for the audience to relate to the subject through commonly held Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, and Megan 70). The eyes show loss and helplessness, and than audiences will be affected by his eyes. People will start thinking about their own lives, work and family, and then different problems and problems will emerge one by one. The details of the picture reveal the pressure of lives, such as neat sheets is like people living in the system, people deviate from the system or the system will be chaotic. Gorgeous carpet is like a social network; people like to use gorgeous text and photos to create a fictional life on the Internet. However, these things unknowingly become pressure, and finally people will be entangled with depression. Moreover, The text in the picture is some information about art, and people can find ways to relieve them through this information. The information of the image were that they create an open Student 4 event about anxiety and depression, Jersey City Hip-Hop and Theatre artist Murdock created and recorded an album about his own personal battles with depression. As McKee, and McIntyre said is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating his own credibility or Megan, and Jessica 66). In image B, ADAA uses ethos, pathos, and kairos rhetoric to convince people face their own pressure, and find a good way to release the pressure. The audience of the images is people who are troubled by depression, and people who want to know about depression. ADAA points to the current problems in society about depression through images, and they hope that everyone can take these issues seriously. They also use a lot of rhetorical in the image to make their message more intense, such as pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. The two pictures also convey different messages; image A uses data to promote people Who has the problem of depression to be treated. Image B provides information about the treatment of depression, the organization push people to participate in activities to relieve stress by this image. Overall, ADAA tries to show people the seriousness of depression and called for the importance of treatment through these two images. (WC. 1107) Student 5 Works Cited Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, https://www.adaa.org/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily, McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee. Logos: Appeals to  Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed. Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Pathos: Appeals to  Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. By Kendra G. Lee. Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee. Ethos: Appeals to Authority and  Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed. Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. McIntyre, Megan, Kate Pantelides, and Jessica McKee. Kairos: Appeals to  Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. Student 6 Figures (2) Image A Image B https://www.facebook.com/AnxietyAndDepressionAssociationOfAmerica/photos/a.458603350859142.131 935.371566686229476/1261967100522759/?type=3&theater