Shanks 1 Mariah Shanks ENC1102 DuBois February 9, 2017 Lush and Revlon: Animal Cruelty and Testing For a number of animal cruelty has been a controversial issue that has surrounded cosmetics. The root of animal cruelty can be subjected to early Greek research, as stated by authors Robert Ross- Fichtner and Daniel Nobe, including Aristotle, Erasistratus and Galen performed animal experiments to advance anatomy, physiology, pathology and (Fichtner & Nobe 16). Lush cosmetics is a company that is wholeheartedly against animal cruelty and believes in not buying any ingredients for their products that are tested on animals (Lush fighting animal testing). In contrast, Revlon has stated that they do not support or partake in animal testing for their cosmetics. But later they share that they still sell and produce their products to countries that test on animals. Which forces them to have to test on animals no matter their apparent oppositions (Revlon Animal Testing Policy). The two companies can come together in the end and ultimately agree that Revlon should start putting labels on their products that point out their participation in animal testing in other countries. Lush would have to teach Revlon in the end how to produce their products without animal testing by sending a representative to show them the ropes. Both companies gain from this but they also lose something out of this compromise. Revlon would ultimately lose customers by putting animal testing labels on their products and Lush would be losing money by hiring a representative to teach Revlon the procedures they need to do. Shanks 2 Lush cosmetics is a company that is very much against animal testing. On the Lush website their mission statement states that they want to show everyone in the world that it is possible for a brand to be able to manufacture and invent many products that tested on helpless animals. This is their own policy which was made unique in their terms called Supplier Specific Boycott (Fighting Animal Testing Lush). The company is mostly known for making bath bombs, soaps, shampoos, lipsticks, etc. For over 30 years Lush had been fighting against animal cruelty in the means of cosmetic testing and more. The line is so dedicated in putting an end to this problem that they came up with the LUSH Prize. The prize rewards $312037.50 to a group or an individual who shows continuous participation and work in the research tied into animal testing (Lush launches 250k). Instead of animal testing, Lush uses a process called XCellR8. Lush awarded XCELLR8 their Lush prize in 2013, which lead Lush to start working with the company. What XCellR8 does can be described, as stated on their website, time established methods in lab for key safety tests including skin and eye irritation, skin sensitization, skin corrosion, genotoxicity and (XCellR8 Our Story). In the end, Lush has continuously showed that they are dedicated to the cause that they support. In contrast to Lush being activists about animal testing, Revlon is the complete opposite. The cosmetic brand of Revlon can be described to be, according to the website, a long-standing reputation as a trendsetter in the world of cosmetics, skin care, fragrance, and personal care. vision is to provide glamour, excitement and innovation through quality products at affordable (Revlon Animal Testing Policy). Though the brand states on their website that they do not partake in animal testing. They stray away from it and state that believe that women should have the opportunity to express themselves through makeup, so we sell our products in many markets around the world and as such, are subject to Shanks 3 local rules and (Revlon Animal Testing Policy). Their main argument is that they are still a cruelty free brand despite the fact that they do still sell their products to countries that still practice animal testing. According to a blog post posted on Peta.org, Revlon sells their products to China. In which, animal testing is required. Peta later states in the post questioning Revlon on if they pay the Chinese secretly to test their products on animals but since the company refuses to answer there really any proof to the matter (Why PETA is seriously ticked off at Revlon). Since Lush and Revlon are so different in how they view testing on animals. There is going to be a present conflict between the two companies. Lush has a conflict with Revlon and any other brand that is not cruelty-free in the way that many protests on their part has been made. Lush has partaken in many protests, one in particular where a human is displayed in a store window in London. She is shown being on like an animal does when being tested with products. This resulted in many bystanders watching the scene unfold which can in turn make the people not want to buy the products that is not cruelty-free (Fighting Animal Testing Campaign). As stated on the Lush website, they believe that their fellow cosmetic industries should be just like them and take their same stance. This is a conflicting view with Revlon since the company still manufactures and sells products to countries that still partake in animal testing. Revlon believes in making money from other countries profits rather than supporting the well-being of an animal that could possibly die from being exposed to their products (Revlon Animal Testing Policy). According to the article titled Gauging Cosmetic History, it states that some countries present in the European Union and China the law on animal testing has been eradicated or made optional (Fitchner & Nobe 17) Lush on the other hand does not care about the profits that they might get from other countries markets. They refuse to take any ingredients from countries that Shanks 4 are still known to test on animals. On the Lush website they showcase an ad in which they state is no excuse or other companies to animal test if we have not needed Lush uses organic and fresh ingredients to make their products so if they have never used animal testing to see if it is safe then many other companies should see this and know that it is cruel to the animals instead of being a way to help see if it is safe for humans (Fighting Animal Testing). Since the companies have such different views on animal testing and cruelty. The compromise that the two can make might be very hard to come to. But one thing that Lush and Revlon can agree on to make both happy would be if Revlon were to start putting labels telling that they partake in animal testing in certain countries on their bottles and cosmetics. By doing this its letting the users of the products know that even though Revlon does not test on animals directly. They often sell their products to countries where it is illegal to not test cosmetics on animals. This compromise was already used with the two companies Loreal and Urban Decay. When Loreal bought Urban decay and other cruelty free cosmetic brands Urban Decay lose the title of being cruelty free. Loreal, being the company that still tests on animals, force Urban Decay to give up the Leaping Bunny sticker present on their cosmetics which has to be renewed every year (Companies that test on animals). The leaping bunny depicts cruelty-free brands under the Coalition for Consumer Information on Cosmetics (About Leaping Bunny). Both of the brands are benefiting in a way since the cruelty free brands still get to stay cruelty free and Loreal still gets profit since the head company. Though the companies merging, Loreal and Urban Decay can still be their own companies and do their own practices. But since Loreal owns Urban Decay, Loreal can in the end see how they produce their products Shanks 5 without animal testing and how much revenue they get. Which can ultimately change Loreal and their practices. By making the compromise with Lush and Revlon, Lush benefits in the way that more people are becoming aware of companies that partake in animal testing and cruelty. Revlon benefits in this by letting its users know that the company does partake in animal testing in other countries rather than their own. The two organizations not only gain something in the transaction but also experience losses. Revlon would ultimately lose customers that care if the products were tested on or not. Lush would experience losses since have to pay extra money by having to send representatives to teach Revlon on how they can have a great product without testing on an animal. In this time there is many countries that are slowly jumping on board with banning animal testing. For example, India has just removed animal tests from its cosmetics. Which has made India the first country in southeast Asia to stop testing on animal on cosmetics all together (Guilt Free Makeup: Testing cosmetics on animals banned). With many countries becoming aware of the backlash of animal testing, soon Revlon might be able to become fully free of having to do so with the countries that still partake in it. Animal cruelty is one of the most controversial topics that has been debated about for a number of years. Some companies are severely against it while others only partake in it because selling their products in countries where it is the law. The cosmetic lines Lush and Revlon have conflicting views on if testing on animals should be an accepted process or not. The two companies can come together in the end and ultimately agree that Revlon should start putting labels on their products that point out their participation in animal testing in other countries. Shanks 6 Works Cited: About Leaping  About Leaping Bunny Leaping Bunny. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Companies That Test On Animals: Should We Boycott Their Cruelty-Free  Cruelty- Free Kitty. N.p., 06 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Guilt-free makeup: Testing cosmetics on animals  The Times of India 2013: General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lush launches 250k [pounds annual prize fund to end animal  Cosmetics International 2012: 13. General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Our Story Providing Cruelty-free Testing  XCellR8. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Revlon Products: Makeup, Fragrances, Hair Color, Nails, Beauty  Revlon. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Still Fighting Against Animal  Still Fighting Against Animal Testing. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Why PETA Is Seriously Ticked Off at Revlon-and You Should Be,  PETA. N.p., 14 Oct. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.