Student 1 Student L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 29 January 2017 NCAA Paying Student-Athletes The NCAA is a $989 million dollar organization that specializes in the sports entertainment business of college sports. Worth almost a billion dollars, this organization benefits from the contributions of college athletes in their respective sports. Since 1910, the NCAA has been around organizing and maintaining athletic events for colleges and universities in the United States and Canada. The NCAA manages athletes from 1,281 institutions, and with an average of 400 student-athletes per institution, the NCAA manages over 500 thousand athletes annually. With all these athletes in over 90 sports, the NCAA constantly has its hands full with organizing sports year-round. As the NCAA prides itself on its student-athletes success due to the athletic scholarships handed out, it has paid over $2.7 billion in athletic scholarships in order to help its athletes pay for school (NCAA). The NCAA promotes images of happy and successful student-athletes on its website in order to help portray the idea that if you play college sports under their brand, that you too can be happy and successful. The first image shows a happy, smiling young lady holding a rifle and the words are thrown at the reader in big letters with the NCAA logo sneaking in in the bottom corner of the word champion. This image tries to portray the idea that if you play sports for the NCAA you will too become a champion and be happy. This image want to give the audience the impression that it is also very credible because the NCAA that approves that can be a message. The smile is supposed to give an appeal to make you smile and to be happy for her and to desire to be happy like her. The colors of the image are very Student 2 soft and not too flamboyant and the background is a dull color in order for the champion word to stand out, as well as for the bright blue NCAA logo to stand out, as well as the young lady in the front, as well. The rifle is there to show that not a normal athlete, like a basketball player, or track athlete, a rifle shooter so that uniqueness in sport means that anyone can be a champion and be happy; no matter what sport you do, the NCAA will help you. Added to this, the fact that a woman add diversity to the message behind this image, which is a sensitive topic in society today, in regards to gender and race. The second image shows the NCAA logo nice and big with many small black and white pictures, surrounding the NCAA logo, in the background. There is also a website link under the logo that says the money in order to show that all the money does not just go to the NCAA and it, but that it goes to other causes. The pictures in the background are all of athletes playing their respective sports, and are either in the middle of action or smiling [and from playing their sport. This image tries to display the idea that all athletes successful in their respective sports and all their success and happiness displayed is thanks to the help of the NCAA. The blue colors on the logo help give the sense that a friendly organization that cares for its athletes and it gives a warm family-like feeling to the audience. The blue color also helps it stand out from the rest of the picture. The main argument with these images is to give the idea that the NCAA cares about its athletes, and thanks to the help of the NCAA and its contributions these athletes are happy and successful. The portrayal of this message is supposed to make the audience feel like they can trust the NCAA and that it would never want to hurt any student-athlete in any way. However, the athletes are the ones that are working hard and putting in their blood, sweat, and tears into the game, and they see none of the money that gathered through their hard work Student 3 and effort. This is the equivalent of slavery, in a sense, as these college students are working for free basically. College students should get paid by the NCAA because they are the main workers that are the main reason for the revenue. This outrageous concept that student athletes are not allowed to get paid has sparked controversy among the players and the NCAA itself. The NCAA uses these student athletes in order to use their talents to sell out venues, gather television views, and sell merchandise from their respective colleges. Sure, the NCAA does provide scholarships and education for these students, but that just enough. As scholarships just cover school costs and account for the countless other costs. the need for school supplies, gas money, money for clothes, money for household supplies, and the need for pocket money for whatever reasons. Regardless the reason, student athletes need extra money in order to live an adequate life outside of the simple costs for school, meal plans, and school books. Sure, they could ask mom and dad for money, but for most of these college athletes, their parents afford to send them extra cash for personal spending. They could also get a job, but as most athletes know, there is no time for a job. barely time to sleep. Athletes have to devote time to practice, and travel to their athletic events, as well as devote time to homework, studying, and actually going to class, and then you also have to include time to eat and downtime to relax from all the stress that student athletes constantly deal with. Student-Athletes deserve to get paid at least a minimal salary for their hard work put on the field that generates the great wealth for the NCAA. If it for these athletes sacrificing leaving their hometowns, practicing every day, and limiting their social life, the NCAA would be nothing. These student athletes usually get to go out and party and have fun and do all the things their fellow peers do because of their tight schedules and limited time, which leads to having to prioritize and sacrificing certain things. These athletes deserve this money due to their Student 4 sacrifices and hard work. no time for them to try and pick up an extra job, so they have to struggle through college being broke. a real struggle to be walking around broke with no money, while the NCAA makes millions of dollars off of your production on the field, and you see none of that money. like a slap on the face, like being used, like a slave to the NCAA. Works Cited The Official Site of the  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., n.d.Web.15 Feb. 2017. Edelman, Marc. 21 Reasons Why Student-Athletes Are Employees And Should Be Allowed To  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 06 Jan. 2015. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Appeals to Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Ed Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-253. Print. Student 5 FIRST SECOND