Trey Harrell 1/29/16 ENC Intro Without question, religion is one of the most controversial topics among the public and in the media. I am interested in studying religion and the impact it has on minds. Religion is an everyday part of a huge percentage of lives. Different religions exist and provide many different lifestyles. I am interested in examining what separates the actions and motives of someone who is religious versus someone who is not. Religion has been practiced for thousands of years. It has always been prevalent and very much an everyday part of life for many people. There should be a huge spectrum of people to examine, from extremely religious to completely secular. It should make for an interesting study. There are many different things that appear to be actions seeded in religion. Examining the behavior of religious and secular countries, for example, would provide evidence and context to how religious people behave differently in society. Everyday politics are likely influenced by religious backgrounds and how they view relevant topics. Key historical points for the paper would include the involvement of religion in terrorism, politics and many other facets of everyday life. How does religion cause people to behave differently than they otherwise would? Do people who adhere to certain religions behave differently than those who at all? 1) Religion and  IEP. N.p., 13 March 2006, Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article discusses how religion is evident in the public sphere, including in governing bodies. Certain countries allow for religious figures to be head of state. Many countries have very different procedures on separating church and state. Very liberal countries tend to completely try and remove government from having any role in religion. On the other end of the spectrum, there are counties that make religious figures the head of state. Very different situations exist all over the place. In America, the head of state is not a religious figure, but much of politics is very politically charged. This Internet piece serves as direct context toward the research question. This piece is a tool to examine how religious motives affect political policies and motives. People are often interested in pushing their agendas, and frequently it is based in religion. Issues in America such abortion rights and banning of certain religious groups are modern problems that are highly debated. It is no secret that religion fuels many politics. 2) Fine, Jonathan. Contrasting Secular and Religious  Middle East Forum. N.p., Winter 2008. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article compares the difference between religious and secular acts of terror. The article clearly states that there is a difference in secular and religious based acts of terror. Many of the secularly defined acts notably occurred because of monetary motives. In addition to seeking money, kidnapping/harming government officials were prevalent in secular acts of terror. In religious acts of terror, self- sacrifice was much more prevalent. After reading the article it became apparent that religious and secular acts of terror frequently came in different forms. This article should be a direct example of how religious vs non- religious behavior exists and differentiate. The research question is directly addressed and compares acts of terror between religion and non-religion. Terrorism is a subsection of comparing religious to non- religious. It is a subsection that garners a lot of news and is very focused on in modern day. 3) Gosden, Emily. How Religion Has Clashed with Secular  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 01 July 2011. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. This article provides, in list form, example of times in society that religion has created a controversial situation. There are many different controversies listed and they apply to many different areas of society. Areas such as education, legislation and workplace concerns are all addressed with examples of past incidences. There are many events from history that could be used to show discrimination/ ways that religion affects society. This article is direct context for comparing religious and secular society. Many people see things differently based on whether or not they are religious and this article provides numerous examples of civil conflict and disagreement in society. Religious based controversies arise occasionally in society and it represents the way religious vs non-religious people may think about the same subject. This article is very useful and provides direct examples of real life incidents that happened in society. 4) Zuckerman, Phil. Think Religion Makes Society Less Violent? Think  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 30 Oct. 2014. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. This article compares secular versus religious societies and considers which is more violent of the two. The article makes the case, that despite popular belief; societies with religious influence are actually the more violent of the two. On an international level, countries that tend to be secular appear to have lower rates of crime. This article makes a strong case for how it is advantageous as a society to lean towards secularization over religiousness. This is a comparison in many statistical categories from secular to religious societies. This article is useful because it provides details on international levels of the effectiveness of religion in society. This article addresses concerns about religion and secular society. This makes for a useful source to draw from when addressing the research question. Many details in the newspaper article directly provide evidence to how certain societies operate. The sources facts appear to be credible and makes for a useful source to draw from. The claim that secular societies operate better provides direct evidence from on side of the argument. 5) Lipka, Michael. Religious Groups and Their Political Pew Research Center. N.p., 23 Feb. 2016. Web 11 Feb 2017 This article discusses the political identities of particular religious groups. Many religious people let their religion influence the way they view politics sometimes. Not all people let religion determine their politics, but this article closely examines the relation between some religious groups and political identity. In America, certain religious groups are often more likely to lean Democratic or Republican. The study takes a close look at what the numbers actually are and what religious groups are identifying as what. The article addresses how presidential elections are affected by these religious identities and how it affects voting. This information is presented and data from prior elections is put to use to make this study possible. Some religious groups appear to be moderate in how its influence affects their politics but some religious groups unify behind a certain political idea. This study is very strongly in direct context with the research question. Examining how entire religious groups strictly adhere to certain political identities is not only fascinating, but also very relevant to addressing whether religion affects decision-making and motives. This ties in closely with the research question because political motivation is key area where religion plays an influence. The article contains facts that would be useful in addressing the research question and providing detail. For example, 70% of Mormons identify as Republicans whereas, 96% of African Methodist Episcopals identify as Democratic. Overall, I think this source is one of the best and most direct in providing example to the research question. 6) Decherf, Dominique. Views of Religious Brookings. Brookings, 01 Jan. 2001. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. This article summarizes what views on religious matters are as a country. France is a country that does not actively endorse any religion for their country. France is considered to be a secular society. This obviously makes for a different lifestyle than for those who live in religious societies. Because France is secular, the government behaves differently and the religious tolerance is much different than that of a religious countr y. Church and state are considered to be completely separate from each other in France. Because of this, society runs differently and the State does not make religious interpretations or use religion as a code of law. The article notes that there are other countries in the world that strongly lean on religion for their legal sphere. Religion is the code of law in other countries. France is very opposite and does not interfere or endorse any particular religion. This article is very related to the research question and is in context. Considering how different countries behave from each other due to religious motives is a useful way of considering how religion makes people different. The people of France and the people of a highly religious society may be forced to live their lives differently whether they want to or not. France preaches pure religious tolerance, which makes for an interesting case study. Comparing a country like France to another country and then observing how lifestyles are different would make for useful research and provide context to the paper.