Jeffrey Hoang Hoang 1 Instructor: DuBois English Comp 2 13 February 2017 Ethics of Interrogation Methods Since the horrific events on September 11, 2001, the United States has amped up its security in airports, borders, and virtually all aspects of public life to prevent a terrorist attack from reoccurring again. The U.S government will do whatever it takes to protect its citizens, therefore often times they would use torture to interrogate their detainees if crucial information is needed. While it can be an efficient method, there are groups that completely disagree with torture in general. However, the United Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) view that the use of torture is an effective type of interrogation method because of how sufficient it is, but while it is considered a fast method, human rights organizations such as Human Rights Watch (HRW) believes that there are alternative methods that will not physically harm the detainees. In a case where the CIA has someone in custody who has information of a bomb attack that could happen any minute, they believe that the use of torture is the only route available to receive a quick and accurate answer out of the detainee. On the other hand, the Human Rights Watch view torture to be cruel and inhuman. Their mission statement on it is that, are committed to pressing government authorities to act to prevent torture, as well as bringing those who engage in torture to (Human Rights Watch 2012). The HRW would also want the victims of torture to get full rehabilitation so they can get back on their feet and move on. From the perspective, it is the only way that it can be done fast and effective. While the Human Rights Hoang 2 Watch believes that there are other methods that will get the job done and not physically or mentally harm the detainee. The Central Intelligence Agency consider these programs (meaning the use of torture) to be effective when needing crucial information on terrorist attacks when American lives are at stake. According to the CIA, they will first follow the U.S. Army Field Manual, which shows the military interrogators how to conduct effective interrogations, and if those do not work, they will then turn towards the enhanced interrogation techniques (EITs). These techniques include the use of waterboarding, sleep deprivation, stress positions, and even forced nudity. Although these can mentally hurt the detainees, the CIA also uses methods that can physically harm them such as restricted diets. According to Oliver Laughland in his article, How the CIA tortured its detainees, they feed a detainee a bland, commercial liquid meal instead of normal (Laughland 1). Other physical methods could be rectal feeding, rehydration and beatings that include facial holds, insult claps, and attention grasps. Either way, if it is either mental or physical, human rights organizations still view it as inhuman. The point of the enhanced interrogation techniques is that it can be fast and effective on getting the answers from the detainees if there are lives at stake as to how the CIA sees it. No one would like to see anything like 9/11 to happen again, therefore some would lead on that, torture was portrayed as disagreeable but (McClintock 414). The use of torture will ensure Americans that they will be safe from another terrorist attack from happening. While some may agree to this and some may not, the safety of Americans is the priority for the CIA. While the CIA continues these torture methods, there are human rights organizations like the Human Rights Watch that are against it and find it to be cruel and inhuman. The Human Hoang 3 Rights Watch is an organization that defends the rights of people worldwide and to pressure those with power to respect the rights of other. When it comes to the torture of people, the HRW will not stand for it to continue and will put an end to it. They believe that there should be an alternative way for the CIA to use on their detainees. These types of torture methods can have a negative effect on the detainees overall with depression, anxiety, sleeplessness, post-traumatic stress disorder, feelings of hopelessness, sadness, isolation, and much more. In a case with the use of cold water, a suspected Afghan militant, Gul Rahman, died of hypothermia and was left in a cold cell with no clothes on. Not only it can scar the detainees, but can lead to death. The CIA believes that torturing the detainee will give them the information needed. But according to Senator McCain, a former prisoner of war, he stated, know from personal experience that the abuse of prisoners will produce more bad than good (Miles 11). He also stated that the victims of torture would most likely tell misleading information that sounds believable. Not only the CIA could be receiving false information but also harming the detainee for no reason then. To prevent any future harm, the Human Rights Watch wants the CIA to stop these enhanced interrogation techniques by pressuring the government and to spread the word. With use of torture gone, the Human Rights Watch wants the U.S Congress to according to Laura Pitter, Joseph Saunders, and Leslie Haskell in their article No More Excuses a Roadmap to Justice for CIA Torture, legislation that would acknowledge wrongdoing, apologize, and provide redress, including compensation and rehabilitation, to victims of US torture and other They also want the CIA to mainly stick to the U.S Army Field Manual and to improve the techniques so then they do not have to resort to torture. In the eyes of the Human Rights Watch, they hope that this will put an end to the use of torture as an interrogation method. Hoang 4 Between the CIA and the Human Rights Watch, the two stakeholders should agree on a compromise to use a type of method that does not harm the detainee and can be quick and effective. It should be use in a way that can not negatively affect them overall. The use of hypnosis on the detainee can benefit both the CIA and Human Rights Watch. It does not do any harm and it can be done on a detainee with them unaware. Although the information coming from the detainee while they are being hypnotized could be inaccurate, the HRW would help fund the CIA to research deeper into hypnosis. The use of hypnosis should be used to keep the detainee at ease and make them believe that they are safe to talk. To current day, the CIA still uses the enhanced interrogation techniques (torture). The CIA believe that by using such method, will make the detainee give up crucial information. With some techniques that can get the answers out of them fast, like waterboarding and putting them in stress positions, or techniques that can take a bit longer like sleep deprivation and rectal feeding. The Human Rights Watch find this to be inhuman and should be stopped. Overall, the two sides have good points on why their side is the right one. The use of torture can be viewed as a method that can help save lives from terrorists or that it is considered as cruel and inhuman. Hoang 5 Work Cited Haskell, Leslie. Pitter, Laura. Saunders, Joseph. No More Excuses: a Roadmap to Justice for CIA Torture. Human Rights Watch. 2015, Dec. 1. https://www.hrw.org/report/2015/12/01/no- more-excuses/roadmap-justice-cia-torture Laughland, Oliver. How the CIA Tortured its Detainees. The Guardian. 2015, May 20. https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2014/dec/09/cia-torture-methods-waterboarding- sleep-deprivation McKay, Hollie. Architect of hopes Trump resists PC approach. Fox News U.S. 2017, Jan. 15. http://www.foxnews.com/us/2017/01/15/architect-cia-s- enhanced-interrogation-hopes-trump-resists-pc-approach.html. Miles, Anne. Perspectives on the Senate Select Committeeon Intelligence (SSCI) and Enhanced Interrogation Techniques: In Brief. 10, Feb. 2015, https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/01be/dc6081d0984b11a3186ceeac12143b64eeee.pdf. Smyth, Marie. The Ashgate Research Companion to Political Violence. Farnham: Ashgate, 2012.