Student 1 Student Lisa Dubois ENC 1102 1 January 2016 GMO Stand for GMO Labeling GMOs, or genetically modified organisms, is a heavily debated topic within the United States. This is considering these 38 countries, GM crops are banned on the government level, with the backing of the scientists, doctors, and environmental as stated by Yelena Sukhoterina (Sukhoterina 12-15), many think the United States should adopt similar policies toward this controversial crop. While these crops are controversial, many companies do not take efforts to state whether their product do or do not contain GMOs. GMO Inside aims to act against many of these companies to label if they use or use GMOs in their products. Their stating is that many of these companies put GMOs onto the market without any adequate testing (Green America). As stated on their website GMO Inside combats this, Inside gives people information and tools, and provides a place for a growing community of people from all walks of life, to share information and actions around genetically engineered (Green America). This is important to their intended audience, as those that view GMOs to possess negative health effects would act against any consumer products they would buy unknowing that it uses GMOs. GMO Inside uses their images to spur their advocators to both warn and act against companies using GMOs in their products. their interests. GMO Inside tries to spur their viewers to action against many baby formula providers through image A. Image A consists of an innocent looking child, plastered with logos of many baby formula producers, against a white background. To the right of the child is text Student 2 making your baby a lab and precedingly a statement babies deserve better than Nano is short for nanoparticles, a byproduct of nanotechnology. As stated in a research study by Friends of the Earth nanoparticles pose risks due to being chemically reactive and more bioactive than larger particles of the same also have much greater access to our bodies, so they are more likely than larger particles to enter cells, tissues and compromise our immune system and may have long-term pathological (Illuminato 4). The intended audience towards this image are primarily family oriented members, as they have a strong sense of pathos, or are drawn into the image with a connection to the subject matter, as stated by Lee, McKee and McIntyre (McKee 150-151). The emotions invoked in this image are of shock and worry. The superposition of logos over an innocent and unknowing baby shock the audience. This works with the question written in the right, saying that companies are using them as lab rats, evoking worry within much of the audience. This worry is only heightened when considering the statement located below the question, talking about toxic nanoparticles that the children could be exposed to. This statement regarding nanoparticles is simple and readily agreeable, so while it could appeal to logos the use the dangerous subject matter and the children deserving better can be an appeal to the pathos of the audience (McKee 144-145). The strong sense of pathos due to invoking worry and shock about their families is the central push GMO Inside gives to the audience to spur reaction. GMO Inside tries to encourage its audience to take a stand against Land O Lakes and their distributors use of GMOs in their diets in Image B. Image B has a white lab rat pushing a Land O Lakes product into the trash within the setting of a dark damp laboratory testing room, with a statement using the logo of Land O Lakes to the right urging the audience to act. Their audience for this image is likely anti-GMO consumers and people who buy Land O Student 3 Lakes. The main way GMO Inside tries to reach its audience is through its use of pathos, or emotionally stimulating material. The statement tells the audience that they are basically treated like a lab rat. This revelation gives the audience a sense of fear and panic towards the Land O Lakes company. The rat is placed in the image, causing the consumer to associate themselves as the lab rat. This association is established using the Land O Lakes product, as those who have purchased Land O Lakes view themselves used and tested like the lab rat. The association is felt to be negative due to the environment as well, where the lab rat is throwing out the Land O Lakes product and refusing to be used as test subject. The use of the Land O Lakes logo within the image allows for ethos rhetoric. As the actual logo is very recognizable and adds a sense of credibility to the overall image. Meanwhile it also damages the credibility of the company through the same means, as the logo is used in a negative light. The use of this image is to have the audience feel as if they are being used by Land O Lakes, and to act against this company. Each image additionally has the GMO Inside logo on the lower right corner, allowing for an additional ethos rhetoric. GMO Inside in a clean straight font with a .org off to the side gives a strong sense that the campaign is well researched and professional. The use of this logo helps with the credibility of the overall image and allows the audience to further their search of GMO users by following the link. The intended audience for each image is adult consumers. In image A the image is more geared towards adults concerned about family or children. Image B on the other hand is more aimed towards the general consumer. Through many images showing companies taking risks with consumers by using GMO products GMO Inside tries to stir their audience to act against such companies. They usually utilize pathos within their images to induce both a state of worry to spur the audience to action. The rhetoric strategy gets the audience to worry about their health and work together. While Student 4 many anti-GMO campaigns try to utilize the negative effects of GMOs with legislature and regulations, GMO Inside focuses on the image that GMOs are not adequately tested and dangerous. Additionally, the companies that use these genetically modified crops are practicing shady activities by not actively stating whether they use GMOs in their products. GMO Inside uses these aspects while additionally promoting non-GMO users to advocate against these genetically modified crops.. Student 5 Works Cited Green America. Why GMO Inside? 2012. Document. 29 January 2016. McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee. Logos: Appeals to  Carabelli, Ed. Jason. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. Print. McIntyre, Megan, Kate Pantelides, and Jessica McKee. . Kairos: Appeals to  Context, Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in. Ed. Jason Carabelli, Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-253. Print. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Pathos: Appeals to  Kendra G. Lee. Ed. Jason Carabelli, Brogan Sullivan. Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1253. . Print. Smith, Anna. 5 Things You Need to Know About Nano. 26 October 2016. Web. 14 2 2017. Sukhoterina, Yelena. Sorry, Monsanto: GMO Crops Now Banned in 38 Countries, Grown in Only 28. 21 April 2016. Website. 28 1 2017. Student 6 Image A Image B http://gmoinside.org/wp-content/themes/kaboodle/functions/thumb.php?src=wp- 2.png&w=920&h=338&zc=1&q=90