Vasylenko 1 Artem Vasylenko L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 13 February, 2017 Racism in Sport All people in our world are different. Each of us has his own race, religion, nationality, background, political views, skin color, social and economical position, but it does not mean that we are not equal or one person is better than another one. Racism is a global hierarchy of superiority and inferiority along the line of the human that have been politically, culturally and economically produced and reproduced (Grosfoguel, 2011). Another big part of this term is Discrimination which can be defined as bad treatment and disrespectful relation to people on the grounds of sex or skin color. We can face it all around the world in all spheres of life and sport is not an exception. Such relation to sportsmen should be stopped because it does not benefit sport and bring a lot of in it. Nowadays racism is a very serious problem in sports, especially in soccer, because some fans and clubs respect players from other countries with different skin color or religion and why some organizations like FIFA or UEFA should come together. They should forget about enmity and make a decision that UEFA will take radical actions in relation to clubs and fans if it will not be enough after FIFA had some training and educational lessons with them. The first organization which tries to overcome racism in sport and especially in soccer is UEFA. The Union of European Football Associations or UEFA was founded on 15 June, 1954 in Basel and is one of the most powerful sport organizations in the world. This organization has a Vasylenko 2 lot of tasks in sport and one of them is to overcome racism in soccer. Their campaign to eliminate discrimination, disrespect, intolerance, racism has become a major priority for UEFA and their slogan is to (Racism in Sport, n.d.). The Union of European Football Associations is very powerful and has a big impact on clubs and their fans. Especially after incidents in England and Russia where black players heard a lot of racist jokes and songs from the stadium or fans were throwing bananas on the field and screaming UEFA started its campaign against racism and presented special restrictions for clubs (Tom White, 2015). This organization believes that the only solution to overcome racism is to be strict towards individuals who do not respect players with different skin color or religion. A team which includes players, club representatives and fans which was suspected in racism will be banned from the league and not allowed to take part in games for a some period of time. It is very strict punishment because for the club the scariest is not to play and it what happens to them if they do not follow the rules. According to Cleland & Cashmore (2014), a soccer player Luis Suarez during the game Liverpool against Manchester United called his opponent with black skin color a and later it was proved by UEFA and finally his team Liverpool was banned for 4 games and Luis Suarez was not allowed to play for 8 games. This authors of this article believes that UEFA works in a right way and lead this example as a good solution for solving the issue of racism. Another organization which tries to overcome racism in sport is FIFA or the Federation Internationale de Football Association. FIFA believes in more peaceful ways of solving this issue and the president of this organization says that person who likes sport should respect it and its and their main slogan is No to (Racism in Sport, n.d.). This organization takes more peaceful actions than UEFA, for example they organize special Vasylenko 3 events for players, coaches, fans, club presidents and tries to persuade them that racism only harms sport and there is no benefit from it. UEFA is not against their policy even despite the fact that their methods of solving this issue are completely different. UEFA realizes that clubs and its players and fans should not be punished after first case of racism during the game otherwise almost all clubs would be banned. They accept the fact that FIFA warns clubs and give them understanding what can happen to them if racism will exist inside the club. UEFA produces special apparels for the players with their slogan on it which they should wear before the start of each game. They try to promote this ideology and make people believe that if racism will still exist in our life, we will not develop as society in general. What would be really good for sport and could help to overcome racism faster - if FIFA and UEFA start working together! This already happened before between two basketball organizations in Europe and they both have been trying to overcome racism since late 90th. The situation between these two stakeholders was almost the same because their methods were different and they were trying to prove that their way of solving this issue is better and more practical. Finally they started one campaign against racism in basketball on May 25, 2001 before the start of new basketball season and since this date there were noticed only 3 cases of demonstration of racism in European Basketball League (Thomsen, 2002) .There is a good possibility that UEFA and FIFA can work together, especially because they try to solve one problem. When companies work in a different ways but trying to do one thing or solve one issue, there is a big chance that finally they can find compromises to work together if it will have to solve it faster. The compromise is to split their actions. This solution does not influence any participant of this possible cooperation because both companies continue doing what they did Vasylenko 4 before but in one campaign. It is very realistic compromise because these two companies are not-profitable and why they do not worry about the their popularity or interests so much. Moreover they try to overcome on issue and this fact can help them to unite faster and easier. FIFA works more with fans and players when UEFA works more with clubs and leagues. So, if fans will not respect FIFA and will not follow its rules, UEFA will ban their club and will not allow it to take part in a league. This compromise satisfy both sides because they both continue doing same work and awareness of the fact that it will help them to solve the issue of racism in soccer faster - makes them much friendlier to each other. I think that this method is even better for UEFA because FIFA already fans and players and if racism will still exist among them - it will be much easier for FIFA to ban this team because they did not respect the rules even after warning and now should be ready for a much serious and strict limitations. All in all, racism is a very acute problem nowadays in all spheres of our life and sport is not an exception. It is very difficult to overcome this issue because it is something that should be understand by people, but some of them do not want even try to do it. Thankfully, we have organization like FIFA and UEFA which try to solve this issue and make people understand that such term as racism should not exist anymore and try to make sport more respectful and tolerant. It will be even better if these two organizations will come together and start one campaign which will help to accelerate this process. It is possible because they have one aim and this fact should make them forget about enmity, unite them and finally make our sport better! Vasylenko 5 Works Cited Cleland, J., & Cashmore, E. (2014). Racism and British Football in the Twenty-First Century: The Existence of a Colour-Blind of Migration Studies. Thomsen, Ian. (2002). Not Thrilled About Search Premier. Racism in Sport. (2017). Retrieved from www.uefa.org. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Grosfoguel, R. (2011). Post-Colonial Studies and Paradigms of Variative Political-Economy: Transmodernity, Decolonial Thinking, and Global Journal of Peripheral Cultural Production of the Luso-Hispanic World. White, T. (2015). is rife in English football with over 350 incidents from the Premier League to grassroots since 2012, investigation Racism in Sport. (2017). Retrieved from www.fifa.com. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017.