Student 1 Student Lisa Dubois ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Wounded Veterans for Wounded Warriors Project America fell in horror when calamity hit and scarred thousands of civilians on September 11, 2001. Approximately 3,000 people died, including those who served to protect the wounded. Due to the disaster, many volunteered for the military to honors those lives lost. The 9-11 terrorist attack provoked many retaliations, such as operations Iraqi Freedom, Enduring Freedom, and New Dawn. This brought about the Wounded Warriors Project (WWP), an organization that raises awareness and enlist the aid, helps the injured service members, and provides additional aid and programs to further help those who need it and their families. The organization provides help to 97,743 veterans and 22,042 families (Wounded Warrior Project). The Wounded Warriors Project grants beneficial aid to veterans and their families, rather than the dissatisfactory help the government provides to the men and women who fight for our country. With a growing number of more than 5.5 million disable veterans since 2008, it is evident that the WWP is becoming a necessity (Bureau, U.S. Census). The two following ads displayed by WWP achieve a sense of support and willpower that veterans with all types of disability hope to acquire. Initially, the primary message conveyed in the first image is overcoming all obstacles. Within the image it states Severa, the woman shown in the image, in school, traumatized in Iraq, and then took a fall which brought her back to her The enlargement of the 3 unfortunate words beside her draws the attention as it leads to curiosity as to Student 2 why those misleading words are being placed next to a content woman. The small words below then allow the audience to know where she is coming from and why she is a member of the Wounded Warriors Project. Visual cues reveal a jubilant feeling of her accomplishment from a rock climb. These visual cues indicate a metaphor of facing many challenges and achieving them, reflecting it back to her service in Iraq. The use of earth-tone colors gives a feel of tranquility. The audience can view many rhetorical appeals within the ad. Providing ranking and when she became a member shows the use of logos because it openly informs the audience of her position. With all the disabilities one can attain from trauma in war, combat stress is the most common response to the mental and emotional exertion veterans acquire after facing tough and dangerous situations. Ethos can be seen through the projects she partook in, such as Project Odyssey and Track. This gives credibility to the organization itself and its usefulness to their members. Evidently, pathos is used prominently within the ad. The large text displayed alongside her clarifies a tough battle she endured yet giving an ambiance of relief and optimism towards the end. This reveals that Severa will always have an organization to receive help from. The use of Kairos in the image is important as it confirms the timely benefit of the Wounded Warriors Project. The organization echoes the saying heals all this signifies that no matter the battle wounds, one can always get back on their feet when a member of the Wounded Warriors Project. Furthermore, the second image contains fewer text than the first image; however, it can express the same effect on the audience. The primary message conveyed in the image is the hardships some veterans face after their service from the military, whether it is physical, emotional, or mental. The apparent visual cue shown is the paraplegic man in his wheelchair Student 3 with a determined face. The elements of the black and white design with the image composition shown work together to create an appeal of determination and optimism. Overall, the black background with white text emphasizes the main concept of the image of solemnity. I believe the monochrome color choice within the text was a good choice for a deeper understanding of the ad. With very little text within the image, every little detail counts to grab the attention. Displaying the rhetorical appeal of ethos, the man promotes the Army on his shirt. Sponsoring the shirt gives credibility to the Army and all the sacrifices he made while serving for them. Pathos is evident as it allows the audience to feel sympathetic for Jason as it clues that he lost his legs in a war. The hints given is the evident reason to advertising the Wounded Warriors Project. Simultaneously, the text and his bold expression on his face shows that his fight is still not over. Comparatively, both images provide insight into the Wounded Warriors project. The organization offers many sub-projects that can benefit individuals under different circumstances, as seen in each image. Both images also reflect the feeling of determination and optimism that is the epitome of the whole worth. I believe the use of Kairos is the most manifested rhetorical appeal in both images. It represents the phases and endurance one will undergo to live a life that changes their disability into strength. Whether the disability they acquire is mental, physical, or emotional, the images provided by the Wounded Warriors Project projects a sense of hope for those seeking for help. The two images provided advertise the Wounded Warriors Project as an organization that will empower and support veterans with any disability they acquire after serving the military. It is important that this organization exists because it provides additional funding for disable Student 4 veterans. The government gives disabled veterans an allowance of $3,000 per month with disability benefits or otherwise they must find a job (Harvey and Conyers). So, for those who do not receive enough, the Wounded Warrior Project provides that extra boost with the extra resources such as mental and physical health care. The WPP ensures the ability connect, serve, and (Wounded Warrior Project). This is extremely valuable to not only the veterans, but their families as well. (WC: 1003) Student 5 Student 6 Works Cited Bureau, U.S. Census. U.S. Veteran Facts and  Disabled World. Disabled World, 01 Nov. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. www.disabled-world.com/disability/statistics/veteran- statistics.php Phil Harvey, and Lisa Conyers. From War to Welfare: Disabled Veterans Deserve  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 11 Nov. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-1111-harvey-conyers-veterans-disability- 20151111-story.html Wounded Warrior  Wounded Warrior Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. www.woundedwarriorproject.org/