Gurgues 1 Adel Gurgues Mrs. Changamire English 1102 March 5 th 2017 Intermediate draft The NCAA is an organization that runs the two most popular college sports. Both college basketball and football generate billions of dollars of revenue per year. As an organization, the NCAA is one of the most successful in the world of business. As years, have gone by and the NCAA becoming a multi-billion-dollar company, people and players have become to question whether college athletes should be paid or not. The NCAA have expressed confidently that they would not change the rule whether or not college students should be paid. The NCAA has received heavy criticism recently and have been in multiple law suites regarding the payment of colleges athletes. Many pictures have gone viral online of the NCAA becoming the masters and the college athletes are slaves in a sense. This basically states that the people run the NCAA watch as people risk their lives for entertainment. One of the pictures on the internet portrays perfectly how the NCAA is seen by the public. In the first picture, it shows two big college athletes pulling a car with a word bubble saying, money, no gifts, no cars, no endorsements. Why are we doing This perfectly reflects how the NCAA only cares about revenue and endorsements instead of the players themselves. Money Gurgues 2 is the way businesses view success and what the NCAA wants to build on. Paying players mean the NCAA is making less money which is obviously one of the main reasons that the NCAA adapted the policy. They also believe in the fact that if college players were to get paid that it would turn into a minor-league sport (NCAA). Minor league sports in the united states attract much attention as they do in other countries. Minor league soccer in lots of foreign countries generate a large cloud, due to the affordability of the tickets. The second picture that portrays the NCAA as well but in a much more simplistic way. The picture has one football and one basketball and in the background, was a pile of money. This just makes the NCAA look like they only care for money and anything that makes the most money is what they are going to abide by. Money runs business world and whatever makes the most of the green is what people will do. The two pictures use a variety of rhetorical strategies in order to enhance their message through the picture. The first picture with the two college athletes pulling a car really emphasizes the use of pathos. Making people feel sympathy for the college athletes, make them more eager to help them out. People are softest to the things that are morally wrong and that is what the picture really puts out there. The picture with the two sports objects followed by a background of money really portrays logos. The logic that the money is in the background shows that the NCAA only cares for the money. Almost everyone could see that picture and say, the NCAA is all about Rhetorical strategies really do emphasize the picture and what companies use to sway the audience. Gurgues 3 In conclusion, both pictures show the company and exactly what they stand for. The NCAA denying college athletes pay really made a lot of people mad and have caused multiple issues to the company and sports. This topic is really big and will only get bigger and time goes by. With the topic getting bigger, more and more pictures of the NCAA and their horrible guidelines will get exposed. Gurgues 4 Works cited Cmaadmin. NCAA President: Paying Athletes Could Destroy College  Diverse. N.p., 19 June 2014. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Press, Associated. NCAA president: Not a good  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 17 Sept. 2013. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. NCAA.com The Official Website of NCAA  NCAA.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.