Ragoobar 1 Selena Ragoobar L.E. (Lisa) DuBois ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Project 1: Intermediate Draft In the United States of America, obesity is increasing at a dangerous rate due to the lack of a balanced diet and exercise. Large contributing factors can include the often consumption of fast food. According to the United States Healthful Food Council, on average, most American adults consume a meal or snack from a restaurant 5.8 times on a weekly basis, and more than 30 percent of children eat fast food on any given day (USHFC). Fast food appeals to Americans because it is inexpensive and readily available, one of the top contributors in the fast food industry is none other than the big yellow states that, purpose goes beyond what we sell. using our reach to be a positive force. For our customers. Our people. Our communities. Our Corporate). Many Americans love because it allows them to not have to worry about having to empty their wallets to fill their belly. Organizations like the United States Healthful Food Council which is a nongovernmental organization dedicated to fighting diet-related disease by realigning the food incentives with health are trying to provide Americans with healthier food choices (USHFC). The USHFC disagrees with choice of serving unhealthy food when they can have a healthier and more beneficial impact if they choose to go healthy. These two stakeholders both have best interest at mind, the USHFC wanting to provide healthier food for Americans as for wanting to Ragoobar 2 provide cheaper food for Americans. However, the USHFC disagrees with choice to serve unhealthy food to their customers, a proposed compromise that could fulfill but stakeholders purpose would propose for both organizations to cooperate together to sell healthier food choices through the regulations and guidance of the United States Healthful Food Council on the menu. founded in 1940, is the largest fast-food chain in the world and in The United States. They state, proud of everything we do. And dedicated to doing more. Evolving alongside our customers. Building memories that last a lifetime. And goodwill that lasts Corporate). They believe that food should be good, inexpensive, and fast. has a long reputation of being an unhealthy fast food restaurant, however is taking somewhat of an approach towards making a change in the healthy direction by setting goals as reduce salt/ sodium, sugar, saturated fat, or calories across the menu as well as serve 100% more fruit, vegetables, low-fat dairy or whole grains by Corporate). This can make a slight difference but there is an in this goal, that suggests that they are hoping to reduce one or the other across the menu, however some believe this might make a slight impact in the healthier direction. Sunil Mahtani would disagree, in his article , he explains an experiment performed by Morgan Spurlock in 2003 during which he consumed food only from for a whole month, in result he gained eighteen pounds as well as suffered severe liver damage. Spurlock then used the film footage of the experiment to produce a documentary called Super Size Me, raise awareness about both the obesity epidemic in the United States and how and other fast-food chains could be contributing to the (Mahtani, Sunil). Based on this experiment it is safe Ragoobar 3 to conclude that many Americans would believe that by solely cutting down on sodium, sugar, saturated fat, or calories from their menu would not make much of a difference compared to if they were to partner with the USHFC and produce healthier food choices on the menu than to have the same menu options just a slightly less harmful. The United States Healthful Food Council is a, nongovernmental organization dedicated to fighting diet-related disease by realigning the food incentives with health The USHFC has a panel of food nutrition experts who are trying to change the America by tackling the food industry, as they stated, this issue head on and is filling a void in addressing the national epidemics of diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular disease. By partnering and certifying foodservice operations (restaurants, institutional and corporate dining facilities, catering and meal delivery services) as well as their suppliers, the USHFC can better align their interest with the (USHFC). The USHFC believes that the food one consumes should be beneficial to health and the food industry should cater to their consumers health, in result both parties should benefit. The United States Healthful Food Council developed REAL (Responsible Epicurean and Agricultural Leadership) certified, which is a nationally recognized mark of excellence for food and foodservice operators committed to holistic nutrition and environmental (USHFC). The REAL certification recognizes a food as healthy and safe to eat. These two organizations both have the best interest in mind but both would disagree on their health choices, a proposed compromise would suggest both organizations to cooperate together to sell healthier food choices at through the regulations and guidance of the United States Healthful Food Council. A way this compromise can be Ragoobar 4 implemented is by incorporating healthier food choices into their menu and the USHFC supporting by having their logo shown on the packaging labels of foods and being REAL certified when they met the criteria. This way both organizations are giving something up but coming together for a greater good. An example of a similar compromise would be how a national foodservice management company, Guckenheimer became the first company of kind to get the USHFC REAL (Responsible Epicurean and Agricultural Leadership) certification (Newswire,PR). In order for Guckenheimer restaurants to be Real certified they each had to be assessed to meet a range of criteria that was determined by REAL credentialed experts, these criterias include utilization of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, healthful cooking and preparation methods, moderate portion sizes, behavioral components that encourage for choices, sustainable practices for food sourcing, and (Newswire,PR). The benefits and incentives of being REAL certified include The USHFC endorsing the food and beverage products of the restaurant and as USHFC stated support making those products available to foodservice operators at a discount. This provides a net benefit to all involved: foodservice establishments and operations will be able to access higher-quality products at a discount, and suppliers can secure new business from REAL Certified foodservice The criterias to be REAL certified will not be easily met by but the incentives will be worth the costs. This is promising evidence that this type of compromise can be implemented between and The USHFC. having to change their menu and lose some profit, will hopefully cause them to implement healthier food choices into their menu with the guidance of the United States Healthful Food Council, and the United States Healthful Food Council having to lose their fight Ragoobar 5 with and put their pride aside, will have endorse and eventually REAL certify products. All for the end goal of having healthier food readily available and to decrease obesity rates in America. With much effort and small compromises it is evident that the larger compromise between and the United States Healthfood Council can be implemented. Ragoobar 6 Works Cited Alviola, IV, Pedro A., et al. The Effect Of Fast-Food Restaurants On Childhood Obesity: A School Level  Economics And Human Biology 12.(2014): 110-119. ScienceDirect. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Jolley, Chuck. says no to GMOs,  Feedstuffs 2014: 8. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Mahtani, Sunil, MBA.  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2015): Research Starters. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. PR, Newswire. Guckenheimer Foodservice Advances Employee Health Commitment Through Partnership With United States Healthful Food Council  PR Newswire US 12 Mar. 2013: Regional Business News. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. United States Healthful Food Council . About The United States Healthful Food  United States Healthful Food Council USHFC. United States Healthful Food Council , n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Ragoobar 7