Benjamin 1 Laurie- Ann Benjamin Professor Dubois Enc 1102 29 January 2017 Physician Assisted Suicide: A Necessary Step Physician Assisted Suicide has been a debate around the United Stated of America for a long time. This debate became most prominent when a 29 year Californian woman, Brittany Maynard, with stage 4 glioblastoma decided to use Death by dignity act. Glioblastoma refers to a condition where malignant tumors develop in the brain. After discovering her new reality, Brittany and her family moved from California to Oregon since California did not have a right to death by dignity. In a YouTube video, Brittany Maynard explains her choice to use physician assisted death. She lists reasons such as limiting the financial and emotional stress that comes with staying alive and being able to die in the company of her husband and parents (Brittany Maynard Legislative Testimony, youtube.com). With these reasons in mind This debate exists amongst the individual states, end of life advocacy groups, and the general public. This paper will focus on the debate between Compassions and Choices and the state of Tennessee. Compassions and Choices is an advocacy organization that promotes the legalization of end of life options whereas the state of Tennessee considers physician assisted suicide to be more harm than good. Although this is an ongoing debate, the state of Tennessee and Compassions of Choices need to reach a compromise that is focused solely on the welfare. In 1993, Compassion in Dying, which was later renamed to Compassion and Choices in 2006, was the first organization in the United States of America to organize an end-of-life consultancy program. This program educates interested parties about all options accessible to them whether it be palliative care or end-of-life. Compassions and mission is Benjamin 2 empower people with information and receive healthcare that is consistent with their values and priorities as they approach the end of (compassionandchoices.org). They also promote end of life choices and advocates for it to be legal in all the states. This organization focuses on legislative change to make dying rights more accessible. Everything done is directed towards making the patient as comfortable as possible and allows the patient to be in full control of their health affairs (compassion and choices. Org) The state of Tennessee, amongst other states, has laws in place that prevent terminally ill persons, such as Brittany Maynard, from ending their life on their own terms. Under Tennessee law, a person commits assisted suicide if they supply the person who wants to die with substances or methods that will cause the death (Procorn.org). In 2015, Senator Tate proposed a by Dignity but it was not passed. In this bill, terminally ill persons over the age of 18 and lived in Tennessee for over a year could request death by dignity. The adult would have to be declared terminally ill by two physicians and present a written letter stating the drugs needed for the adult to take their own life. This bill was rejected on the grounds that adults deemed terminally ill could live on for years. It was also rejected because victims of abuse that have been classified as terminally ill could be coerced into physician assisted suicide out of fear of their abuser. Another reason for denying the bill was the fact that if one doctor declared the adult as mentally incapable, the victim could simply seek a consult from another doctor and receive the approval needed (Procorn.org). These two stakeholders disagree because one is endorsing a person to take their life whereas the other considers physician assisted suicide as murder. Compassion and Change simply wants the patient to be comfortable in whatever form that person chooses. In this case, comfort arrives through a death which they control. However, Tennessee considers a number of Benjamin 3 factors that goes into this decision. As mentioned before, some of these factors include being mentally unstable, or being coerced into a decision that the adult would not make on their own. Although the state of Tennessee and Compassion and Choices seem to be on complete opposite ends of the spectrum, it is possible that a compromise can be reach. After all, one was reached in the case of Oregon and Compassions and Change. Much like Tennessee, Oregon did not want to pass physician assisted suicide into law because it was deemed as murder. Compassions and Change was ruthless when it came to advocating for this bill to be passed. After much going back and forth, the state of Oregon declared that one may seek to die by dignity once: The adult who is capable, is a resident of Oregon, and has been determined by the attending physician and consulting to be suffering from a terminal disease and who has voluntarily expressed his or her wish to die, may make a written request for medication for the purpose of ending his or her life in a humane and dignified manner. (Oregon.gov) Clearly, Compassion and Choices and the State of Tennessee disagree on the terms of physician assisted suicide but they can both draw lessons from each other. The state of Tennessee needs to consider physical, emotional, and financial turmoil that the adult and their family experiences when the adult is sick. The pending death weighs heavily on the mind of the adult and prevents them from enjoying their last days. The state of Tennessee had a very good point in saying that. To combat this, there should be physicians identified to declare whether or not an adult is capable of making such a decision. Another valid point by the state of Tennessee was the issue of coercion. This issue can be covered by doing background checks on the family, home and work environment. Along with legalizing physician assisted suicide, the law could implement a minimal age that an adult must be in order to use this right. Benjamin 4 Brittany Maynard was only twenty-nine years old when she decided to use this right. Normally, adults in the senior years are the ones that choose end of life options when they are terminally ill. Physician Assisted Suicide is an intense topic. Understandably, family and friends would not want a person dearly close to them to request medicine that will end their life. At the end of the day it is up to the suffering person to decide the best option for them. As mentioned the person the suffering person is the one experiencing the pain from their illness. It can be agreed that family and friends would be experiencing emotional and financial stress as well but it is important to keep the suffering feelings at the forefront. The adult in question should be in control of what happens to their body. People often see suicide as an easy escape. For a terminally ill person, the aim is to just have peace of mind and come to terms with the reality that they are going to die. Most also consider how expensive the cost of staying a live would be. Staying alive means continued doctor visits and continued treatments which most terminally ill persons wish they could stop. Choosing to die with dignity is an enormous decision and should be respected by the state, friends and family. Benjamin 5 Works Cited & Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan 2017. of the Surrealist Choice Reviews Online 40.03(2002):n pag. Web. Oregon Revised  Oregon Revised Statute. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Brittany Maynard Fund. Brittany Fund About Comments. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. Patients Rights Council. N.p.,n.d. Web. 29 Jan 2017. YouTube. YouTube, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Benjamin 6