Alexis Wallace Wallace 1 Instructor: Sarah Roth Composition I February 18, 2017 The Benefits of Art Art is a shared passion worldwide. It is one of the things that keeps us connected and works within various fields of communication. We can see art, we can create it, and we can learn from it. Unfortunately, some cultures are disregarding the importance of the arts by limiting it within their education system. An article written in 2012 stated that to new findings the first government survey in a decade that tracks the availability of arts in schools fewer elementary schools are offering visual arts, dance and drama classes than during a decade (Walker, 2012). The debate on whether art is needed or not, revolves mainly around opinion. There are some who believe that there is not enough evidence to support the idea that art contributes to learning in other academic criteria, and that it is not as important as other subjects. While others, such as people with high education in the fine arts and those who participate in and experience art, have a fair argument as to why it is important that art education exists. There are certain cultures that promote the arts more than others, and see firsthand just how beneficial they can be. In this paper I will discover why it is beneficial to promote and educate people about the arts within various cultures. Wallace 2 Anderson, E. (2016). Learning from an artistically crafted moment: Valuing aesthetic experience in the student drama education. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 17(1). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v17n1/.Jnn This article provides well researched information and personal perspective on aesthetic learning and its place in education. The author is a drama teacher and is well educated in the arts. She discusses her personal experiences with art and provides evidence that supports the value of the arts. This article is relevant to my topic because it gives insight on the effects of arts on people. Its main focus is in the theater department, but it is still a strong support for the arts as a whole. This is a good source because I found it on a reliable website and it provides the names of several editors that reviewed it. Scott Goble, J. (2015). Music or Musics? An Important Matter at Hand. Action, Criticism & Theory For Music Education, 14(3), 27-42. In this article Scott Goble explores the many benefits of music education, and even refers to it as the of He also makes connections between the art of music and philosophy. One of the most important aspects of this article is the fact that the author relates everything to modern situations and concerns. This gives it good timeliness qualities that greatly help his argument. This article is relevant to my topic because music is a very popular form of art. Since it is enjoyed by most it will provide common ground with the audience. He has strong arguments supporting the benefits of music education. It is a reliable source because I obtained it from the USF library search system. Wallace 3 McFerran, K. S., Crooke, A. H. D., & Bolger, L. (2017). Promoting engagement in school through tailored music programs. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 18(3). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v18n3/. In this article, the authors discuss the various values of music education. They explore the possibility of music education being to psychosocial and health It also highlights other important benefits of music in schools, such as student engagement and connectedness. This article has the advantage of being extremely recent. Being written in 2017 ensures its relevance to present situations. It show that four editors; Terry Barrett, Eeva Anttila, Peter Webster, and Brad Haseman, reviewed the article. All four of them come from respected universities. Ghanbari, S. (2015). Learning across disciplines: A collective case study of two university programs that integrate the arts with STEM. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 16(Number 7). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v16n7/. In this article the author suggests that art may be a key ingredient to help with STEM education. The STEM acronym gets cleverly changed to STEAM, when the author incorporates the word art into it. Within the abstract of the article, the author explains that STEAM paradigm also emphasizes the importance of STEM education, but argues that the arts have the ability to open up new ways of seeing, thinking, and This article provides a great way to fight the counterargument. People often tend to believe that STEM education has higher value than the arts. Implementing ideas from this article will help show that art can actually contribute to the highly valued STEM program. Wallace 4 Gardiner, P. (2017). Playwriting and flow: The interconnection between creativity, engagement and skill development. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 18(6). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v18n6/. This article connects creativity and the learning experience. It also contains research on playwriting pedagogy. The author also explores ways in which creativity can be correctly incorporated into the classroom to improve the experience of learning. He believes that this way of teaching is vital and can encourage students to be more actively engaged in what they are learning. This article is relevant to my topic because it contains research that aims to prove the benefits art provides for the learning experience. There are some that believe art does not contribute to the education process, and this article helps to disprove that. It is edited by four different people, all from respected universities. The article was also written this year, making it extremely relevant to the present. Blatt-Gross, C. (2013). Toward meaningful education: Investigating artful behavior as a human proclivity in the classroom. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 14(7). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v14n7/. This article explores the idea that artistic behavior is in the human nature. It argues that this behavior is an important part of how we learn. The author believes that art must have some sort of effect on the learning process, considering the fact that children are normally excited about creative activities. This excitement leads to full engagement in the project. This article is relevant to my topic because it sees artistic behavior to be beneficial to education. It provides a different angle to its argument, by viewing art as a natural human Wallace 5 behavior, rather than just an activity. The author obtained data through a couple methods of observation as well as interviews with teachers. It is also edited by four different people from respected from universities. Resource in introduction: Walker, T. (2012). The good and bad news about arts education in U.S. schools. News and Features from the National Education Association. Retrieved from http://neatoday.org/2012/04/05/the-good-and-bad-news-about-arts-education-in-u-s-schools-2/