Skeoch 1 Lauren Skeoch Professor Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 11 February 2017 Final Draft Drug addiction is an issue that is omnipresent across the globe. There are so many negative consequences to addiction, and that is why there are many organizations determined to assist those who struggle with addiction to overcome it. One of these organizations is Natural High, an organization that uses peer influence as well as fun activities such as scuba-diving, fishing, rock climbing, etc. in order to cure addiction in individuals. This organization operates in as many locations as possible and works by instead of relocating the addict, they work in the community to help each individual find their Another organization that works to combat addiction is Phoenix House. This organization is more well known, working to combat addiction using your traditional rehabilitation methods such as relocation and isolation. The methods that these two organizations use are drastically different but both are intended to have the exact same outcome, so there is no reason for these two organizations to be at odds any longer. Instead, Phoenix House and Natural High should work together to combat addiction, by filling in the gaps when needed. When one of Natural members needs professional help for the addiction, Phoenix House would be the first recommendation, and if relocation rehabilitation does not work for an addict, Natural High could welcome them with open arms. Both Natural High and Phoenix House want to cure addiction, but have different methods of Skeoch 2 doing so; this compromise allows them to come together and compliment each strengths and weaknesses. Phoenix House works on combatting addiction by using a approach, as stated on their website. They hold onto traditional values when treating addiction, while also being sure to treat every patient the way that will best benefit them. This organization also strongly believes in evidence-based treatment, and sees addiction as a disease rather than a moral flaw, which unfortunately is a common misconception when looking at the field of addiction. The organization also places emphasis on treating the person as a whole rather than just focusing on the addiction within the person, and leaving the treatment there; this is a large part of their multidisciplinary treatment plans and their holistic approach that they stress on their information page. This is also known as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, as described in Truth About and Drug by Scholastic Scope. This publication addresses that Behavioral Therapy also can help individuals deal with depression and other mood or anxiety disorders that sometimes go hand in hand with a drug (The Truth About and Drug Addiction 3). This holistic approach seems to be a key for the success of this organization as well as their residential programs. On Phoenix website, it reads, care may be the best course for some, while outpatient care may be advised for (www.phoenixhouse.org). Even on their mission statement page, they write that they even have a residential program for teens and accredited high schools for these students to attend and continue school in. Their website states that they have been working with addicts for more than 45 years, and they obviously have had success with their methods. Phoenix House is a large organization that has been able to grow and expand in many ways, as made apparent on their website. However, there is always room for improvement and this compromise with Natural Skeoch 3 High may be that wiggle room. In essence, there that much that the organization would have to change, and that is why there is so much more to gain than there is to lose. Natural High is an organization that is not as well known in the field of addiction, but are becoming more popular as opposed to standard rehabilitation centers, such as Phoenix House. What is unique about this company is that instead of relocating and isolating the addict, they work in the communities of these addicts to rework their addictive natures towards something more productive, or something that is at least better for their health than drugs. As their mission statement states on their website, mission is to inspire and empower youth to find their natural high and develop skills and courage to live life (www.naturalhigh.org). This organization does not appear to believe that addiction is a disease like Phoenix House does, but instead something that can be resolved naturally. In a work by Robert Granfield, William Cloud, Coming Clean: Overcoming Addiction Without Treatment, it is addressed that there are many success stories that are completely unrelated from rehabilitation centers, or 12-step NA groups. Every single success story in this book is an addict overcoming addiction without the help of professionals or rehabilitation centers. For example, they write heroin users discontinued use as a result of the of the good life exemplified by the value system of work and stable living rather than from the of hitting rock (Granfield, Robert, Cloud, William 16). Naural High relates to this philosophy and shows that through their lack of doctors and professional help in order to help addicts become clean. At a first glance, it looks like this organization that only helps the youth in communities. However, when you look deeper into the workings, you see that they are helping many other age groups as well if they need it. The only reason that older addicts may not be able to comply with this program is if they are too old to do the activities that this organization pushes their addicts to do in order to Skeoch 4 find their but if older people are able to participate in the activities, then they are more than welcome to do so. Although this program may not have as high of success ratings as organizations like Phoenix House, it is definitely a drastically different approach to curing addiction and can be equally effective with some help. This compromise would mean that Natural High would still be helping addicts the same way, but if there is a roadblock, Phoenix House can step in with a more professional perspective. The compromise proposed between Natural High and Phoenix House could be what the organization needs to spread their ideas further across the world. Partnering with an organization that has a strong following like Phoenix House does could be a great thing for their cause. The proposed compromise between Natural High and Phoenix House could lead to the benefit of so many people across the globe. The two organizations necessarily need to come together as one, but instead could simply bounce ideas off of each other. Phoenix House could maybe use some of natural ideas for their treatment, maybe incorporating a rock climbing wall or art center in their facilities. Natural High could maybe refer their patients who need more severe help to Phoenix House so that their experts can help the patients who need more professional help. These organizations could easily put their differences behind them and work together to help more addicts in more communities by simply applying the other organizations ideas into their treatment plans. There are so many options for recovery when these two organizations come together. Even in corporations that have come together, it has been seen to benefit everyone. For example, in an academic article written by Kathleen Marie Oertle and John S. Trach, they discuss the benefits of two different groups coming together in order to benefit rehabilitating students. In this paper, Interagency Collaborations, they talk about the collaborations between special educators and rehabilitation professionals and how results in Skeoch 5 students were better in the areas of employment, independent living, and community involvement when these two groups worked together with students in rehabilitation (Oertle and Trach 38). These two groups came together and used their strengths to help the students that needed it, and hat this example shows is that it is entirely possible and beneficial for two groups to come together as one to benefit a group of people who need help. Although Natural High and Phoenix House have completely different ideas on how to properly combat addiction, there is such a simple solution as to how these two organizations can work together to promote healthy living among addicts. Both of these powerful and positive organizations want to cure addiction, but have different methods of doing so; this compromise allows them to come together by using their strengths to fill in the gaps for addicts who need extra help. Drug addiction is real and harms more people every day, and with compromises like these, we are closer to ending it. Skeoch 6 Works Cited Granfield, Robert, and William Cloud. Coming Clean : Overcoming Addiction Without Treatment. New York: NYU Press, 1999. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Oertle, Kathleen Marie, and John S. Trach. Interagency Collaboration: The Importance of Rehabilitation Involvement in  Journal of Rehabilitation 73 (2007): 36-44. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Recovery Research Institute >Mass General Hospital Harvard Medical  The Brain in Recovery Recovery Research Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Natural High. N.p., 2017. Web. 24 Jan 2017 The Truth About  & Drug  Scholastic Scope 57.14 (2009): 20-22. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Drug Addiction, Alcohol Abuse Treatment & Rehab Phoenix House. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan 2017.