Hebert 1 Raina Hebert Professor Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 Sec. 105 March 2, 2017 The Advocates of Youth Visuals The Advocates for Youth is a non profit organization which also on adolescents as the critical group to reach with information on reproductive health and family planning (healthfinder.gov). They make an effort to help young individuals make informed and responsible decisions about sex. The organization believes that sex education is very important for adolescents, and if they choose to partake in sexual activity the organization promotes doing it safely. The organization has one advertisement suggesting happy individuals feeling secure around the safety of their family. This suggests the use of pathos to allow the audience to feel connected with the advertisement because they bring family into the topic so you would be able to make a choice about sex that benefits you and your loved ones. The second advertisement is an image that says for Youth and Health The image has people holding hands with a cross in the middle of shaped like a heart. I feel like this image pertains to pathos because they are trying to target religious people and promote love and acceptance from the community, which would touch anybody who is religious or about heart. Pathos is the overall relationship between the two images and the and this is evident because they use love and acceptance to affect us emotionally, Hebert 2 the message from the stakeholder would be that they are a very informative about sex education and also accepting and want to teach adolescents. The first image by the Advocates for Youth is targeted to inform adolescents and help them feel comfortable in the environment. The image portrays diverse individuals and their families. In the image the little girl is holding a globe, this could signify the wide effect the organization has had on individuals of different backgrounds or ways of lives. This is targeted to a wide audience because they can imagine they are one of those people and it helps put them into their shoes. This signifies pathos because family is an emotional topic for everyone, when we think of family we think of home and comfort and the image portrays a happy family showering each other with love. It could also display family because adolescents have a responsibility for their actions now, but regardless, family will always be behind you when something goes wrong. The organization believes important to youth to clarify their individual, family, and community so this is why they have family pictured on the advertisement, to express they believe the adolescent should hold their family values to a standard and address it accordingly (advocatesforyouth.org). The purpose of the emotional appeal is to help the adolescent audience feel comfortable with the organization because they would feel like the organization would put their needs first, as a loving family would. The image displays itself in a way that if you have a loving family that is accepting that they will gladly take you in and help guide you with their own open arms, which is so important for people who feel comfortable to go to their family about sex or questions about sex. If an adolescent is quite clear on their sexuality, that could also play a factor in what kind of sex education they should be taught. Acceptance and variety is indicated in the organization and the LGBTQ Youth feels that Hebert 3 too many instructors and teachers to appropriately address their identities, behaviors and (LGBTQ Youth). An LGBTQ adolescent would feel calmed by the advertisement because they want to be reassured their family will accept them regardless of their sexuality. The organization wants to include them so they have programs help youth understand gender identity and sexual and they also show that they will be accepted and that they will be able to provide sex education regardless of their prefered sexuality (LGBTQ Youth). The second image by the Advocates for Youth represents comfort and openness in learning about sex education. I believe the pink and blue people represents boys and girls. The people are holding hands in the image. I feel like this signifies that equal ways of teaching boys and girls about sex education is very important. I think they are holding hands because they are comfortable with each other even though they are the opposite sex. They are also holding hands in a way that makes a heart and in the middle of the heart is a cross. The heart is shaped for love and acceptance on the topic of sex education. okay to be open because you will still be accepted and loved regardless. The cross in the middle could target the advertisement to the Christian community, making it known that even though widely believed in Christianity individuals should wait until marriage, it is still important to teach adolescents about sex education. The organization to increase the opportunities for and abilities of youth to make healthy decisions about which is still important for individuals whether they believe in abstinence or not (healthfinder.gov). The Advocates for Youth states they their organization will stand to community values and respond to community so this Hebert 4 can correlate with the cross because they can alter their teaching style of Sex education in a necessary way for Christian individuals (advocatesforyouth.org). All teens are required to receive sex information to make the healthy choice of staying abstinent or not, the images show that they will be very accepting regardless. The images use Pathos to appeal to the audience and this is very helpful due to adolescents usually being more emotional individuals. Both is the images express the desire to want to inform adolescents in the most effective yet the most comfortable environment possible. To age and culturally appropriate sexual health information in a safe environment for allows the adolescents to feel like they can open up to the teacher while feeling safe enough to know that they be judged or punished, which is important for adolescents to know (advocatesforyouth.org). The purpose of making it Pathos could be because advertisements which display emotion lures people in and catches their attention because of them comparing the images to their current emotional state. Sex education is a very emotionally important topic. The topic his mostly targeted towards adolescents. When we are adolescents your hormones are raging and your emotions are a mess, so why not approach adolescents in an emotional advertisement to catch your attention? Adolescents are taught they should make good decisions for themselves and the people around them. The Advocates for Youth displays this in their advertisements and wants adolescents to feel in a safe environment to express these emotions and total honesty. The Advocates for Youth presents themselves as a very accepting and informing organization by how their images are displayed. They will not only tell you want you need to know about sex education, they will also help you out if you have any questions or personal concerns. Their images are very descriptive in Hebert 5 a nonverbal way and this strikes the audience because easier on the eyes than multiple words plastered on a poster. The rhetorical strategy pathos being so prominent is a calling for a emotional and serious response to sex education. The organization is expressing how sex education should be taken seriously in a comfortable environment, and that they can provide the audience this. Works Cited Advocatesforyouth.org . N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Campaign, Human Rights. LGBTQ Youth Need Inclusive Sex  Rights Campaign . N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Sex  . N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.