Cohen 1 Brian Cohen Instructor Dubois ENC 1102 January 29 th 2017 Eliminating the Concerns of Prostitution and the Sex Industry In modern society, we are presented with social, economic, and health issues that plague and divide us as humans. One of the main current ones is the topic of prostitution and its legitimacy across the world as it legalized in 49 countries across the world, and has a limited legality in 12 countries (Procon). So the present debate in the United States is pushing towards either on stricter enforcement policies to prevent prostitution and or push towards make it a legitimate adult industry. (Procon) With modern problems, especially with ones that hit all three categories of social, economic, and health you have organizations that will advocate for the cause. For prostitution you have the Organization for Prostitute Survivors or OPS, who focuses on enforcing stricter policies and removing women from the black market industry and assisting them in a better fit life style. (Organization for Prostituion Surviors) In addition, you have the World Health Organization or WHO which directly advocate for prostitution and its entirety but believes in its fundamental health, social, and economic benefits that can be produce by make it legal. (World Health Organization) By getting these two organizations together and provide insight and creating a heavily regulated industry based off the model of the medicinal marijuana and gun industry, they can make a safe and reliable new industry to the United States by regulation such as any other market. (Statistic Brain) Cohen 2 Organization for Prostitute Survivors sees prostitution as being strictly a social issue. They state it a practice for men to exercise violence against women in the industry (Organization for Prostituion Surviors). OPS strongly believes in the fact that prostitution singly creates trauma to women in the industry as it a proposed industry and women have a choice to be in it or to get out of it. OPS starts off by creating a groundwork of the healing and removal process of the industry (Organization for Prostituion Surviors). They are seen to be as a safe zone for women to turn to escape the industry. Thus further turning the process into a peer support group where other survivors can get together and tell their stories similar to any Alcohol Anonymous group, including the founder of OPS Noel Gomez who spent 15 years in the in the sex industry. OPS will further to reach out in a non-judgmental zone to start searching for resources for women to find inter and external abilities that could fit them such as trades, such as cosmetology, fashion, and design but not limited to those (Organization for Prostituion Surviors). OPS also takes its traditional approach by having all survivors teach the benefits of exiting the industry of those who have been creating an accountability on their side. OPS ultimately strives for a gender equal wonder putting an end to violence, oppression to women, and end any social and cultural that would support the ideology of prostitution for women and violence against women (Organization for Prostituion Surviors). Just like OPS the World Health Organization also has its very own standpoint and cause that it fights for. WHOs primary focuses on the organization level to reach, fight, and expand for the highest level of health. WHO defines health as being or anything social, mental, and physical being all around (World Health Organization). As WHOs main objective focuses on improvement of health, it is known for its vast functions that it incorporates underneath it. Being included is how WHO acts as a main authority on all international health progress, such as to Cohen 3 promoting the cooperation of other organization and other agencies to improve on economic, recreation, housing, sanitation, and nutrition of everyone. (World Health Organization) One key topic that WHO wants to better is the sex worker industry, in attempts to minimize the spread of HIV (Newitz). WHO acknowledges that across the majority of the world men having sex with men, transgender, and or sex workers is highly illegal. For that sole reason WHO believes that people who attain an illness via prostitution are not likely to seek out medical treatment or help or general advice out of fear of being arrested for having sex for money or for soliciting sex for money (Newitz). WHO then emphasizes that people who are in the prostitution industry or pay for it follow general medical guidelines about safer sex, because they have access to the materials that will allow them to (Newitz). The Organization for Prostitute Survivors and the World Health Organization, both address the problem with prostitution and have conflicting interest. As stated before OPS thinks prostitution is more of a women based industry problem as they have an option and a forced industry. OPS strongly emphasizes and focuses a good portion how prostitution is a man violent oriented problem. OPS wants stronger policies and information education for women in the industry and considering getting into the industry as a prevention and a solution to reduce if not eliminate the total industry as a whole. On the contrary the World Health Organization addresses prostitution as a different problem as a whole, not being a social but a worldwide health issue, but not due to the fact to the industry but due to its illegal status. WHO is calling for world legalization of the sex worker industry in attempt to reduce the spread of HIV. By reducing the fear of incarceration. WHO would then focus on condom programing, behavioral interventions, and sexual and reproductive health intervention that may come from the sex industry. Cohen 4 In the obvious nature of the conflict OPS and WHO would probably not agree on each reasoning for prostitutions legitimacy or not. That is why a supposed collaboration compromise a full fledge regulated industry would benefit both sides. A fully regulated industry would entail, taxes, like any business entity, security, mandatory health screenings, and criminal record background checks. To start off just like any other industry or business usually a state and federal tax are included in the product or a service, by regulating the sex industry it would add an additional amount of taxes to the state and federal economy directly, just as the medicinal marijuana industry added an additional one billion dollars in state tax revenue for the state of Colorado in 2015. These taxes would be nothing but a benefit to the state as an addition and a help. With the sex industry becoming legitimized and accepted as a of in similarity to the acceptance of the porn industry, this would also take ease off OPS and finding jobs for women and men in the industry as it opens up legitimate potential new jobs and chance for members in the prostitution industry to aspire for entrepreneurship positions and even higher business models due to first hand experience. Also regulated security and background checks would be implemented, so for workers and solicitors would both have to a criminal free record to maximize safety for both parties, also reducing the ease of OPS worries of forced sexual abuse. Also can be seen in the gun industry and medicinal marijuana industry both accepted and practiced industries (Gius). Lastly to satisfy WHOs main health concern both parties the workers and consumer should be required to provide monthly health records to show that they are in good standing to limit the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. Conclusively, prostitution across the world has been seen split down the middle divided between conflict of interest of social, economic, and health ideas. As the Organization for Prostitute Survivors want to eliminate the industry as whole due to its violent based history and Cohen 5 the World Health Organization wants an international legalization of the industry to reduce health risk, present conflicting interest. But with a compromise of a strictly regulated industry it would eliminate the concerns of both organizations and eliminate the problems and or concerns of prostitution as a whole. Cohen 6 Works Cited Gius, Mark. Department of Economics, Quinnipiac  The effects of state and federal background checks on state-level gun-related murder rates. (2015): 13. Article. Kurtzleben, Danielle. Research Suggests Gun Background Checks Work, But Not Everything. 9 January 2016. <http://www.npr.org/2016/01/09/462252799/research- suggests-gun-background-checks-work-but-theyre-not-everything>. Newitz, Annalee. io9. 22 July 2014. Article. <http://io9.gizmodo.com/the-world-health- organization-wants-to-decriminalize-se-1607894662>. Organization for Prostituion Surviors. About Us. n.d. Web Page. <http://seattleops.org/about- us/>. Procon. 100 Countries and Their Prostitution Policies. n.d. Article. <http://prostitution.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=000772>. Statistic Brain. Prostitution Statistics. n.d. Web Page. <http://www.statisticbrain.com/prostitution-statistics/>. World Health Organization. Sex Work. n.d. Document.