Solano 1 Ariana Solano L.E. DuBois Composition 2 January 29 2017 How Ethical are sweatshops? Sweatshops are defined by the US department of labor laws as a factory that violates two or more labor laws. Labor laws have to do with the regulation of wages, benefits, child labor, and working hours. While the government has more control over what happens within the United States they do not have control over what happens outside the country. In many cases, sweatshop-type factories are seen in 3rd world countries. If companies have to place their factories outside the country to go around the United States labor laws then they can not be as ethical as they should be. The two organizations that will be focused on are Gap Inc. and Clean Clothes Campaign. One company uses sweatshop type factors while the other is against the concept as a whole. With easy ways to cheap labor Gap Inc. overlooks how ethical their workload is, other companies like Clean Clothes Campaign see the easy path but choose a more ethical approach to following labor laws, by having Gap Inc. raise their wages for factory workers it will give workers more opportunities for a healthier lifestyle. The first Organization Gap Inc. has five brands which are fairly well known; Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, Athleta, and Intermix (Gap Inc. About). All brands focus in the clothing industry making Gap Inc. a global fashion industry. Gap Inc. opened its first store in San Francisco called in 1969 to create the perfect pair of jeans and by the 1970s Gap Inc. went public with 1.2 million stocks being offered (Gap Inc. About). In 2014 Gap Inc. even Solano 2 raised their minimum wages for all U.S. employees. Gap has set many goals to try and is trying to fulfill them by 2020 (Gap Inc. About). Some goals Are about equal pay in the workforce while others are about creating a healthier environment energy wise. They are going to start listening to the feedback of their employees to show they are valued (Gap Sustainability). Gap also has goals of housing a cleaner worldwide business and putting more effort in protecting animal rights by banning real fur (Gap Inc. About). The gap was not always this determined to have changed for their company. On April 24, 2013, a clothing factory in Bangladesh collapsed killing 1115 people and injuring numerous people (Biswas paragraph 1). While Gap Inc. was not one of the companies tied to the collapse many companies decided to sign an agreement to improve working conditions to improve safety conditions for working while Gap refused (Morrison paragraph 2). Although Gap Inc. was not linked to this major collapse their garments have been found in other smaller fatal factory accidents in Bangladesh (Morrison paragraph 4). In 2013 Gap Inc. completely against that fact of ensuring working safety but were uneasy of fact that it could be legally binding. (Morrison paragraph 5). 4 years later and Gap is now trying to improve the negatives about their factories out of the United States. The second organization is Clean Clothes Campaign. Their goal is to improve the working conditions in factories and provided empowerment to workers (Clean Clothes Campaign, Who We Are). Clean Clothes Campaign was created in 1989 to help ensure that all workers are treated with respect. They strive to raise awareness and have people take action against companies that use sweatshops. They want to improve the conditions of factories and how employees are treated. While companies try to search for places to produce their products for the lowest cost, Clean Clothes Campaign says it at high (Clean Clothes Solano 3 Campaign, Safety). Working continues to suffer for our clothes. They strongly believe that having a living wage should be a human right. A Living wage means being able to buy food, pay for rent, clothing, transportation, etc. The Clean Clothes Campaign has helped more than 250 cases. While they do not encourage the boycott of factories they want to resolve the problem in a long-term way (Clean Clothes Campaign). Clean Clothes Campaign has many goals to create a safer more livable workplace and environment. The conflict between Gap Inc. and Clean Clothes Campaign is the usage of sweatshops and the poor labor conditions that are often found in that type of worker setting. Clean Clothes Campaign is against the negative aspects of sweatshops use and how it does not create a sustainable living wage. Sweatshops can be considered morally wrong due to the lack of choices workers in those areas have (Kates 1). CCC focuses on promoting a healthy working environment with fair wages and by definition lacking these factors results in a creation of a sweatshop. Gap uses those types of factories defined as sweatshops for the cheap labor. Having cheap labor negatively affect the workers. If they can not make a certain amount of money they can not support their families or provide for them. Not only is wage a big issue but the conditions inside the factories with long hours and standing for long periods of time. Some sweatshops require their employees to stay on their feet almost the whole day (Kates 1). People should not have to work long hours and still not be able to provide for their family. The compromise would be to raise the wage of factory workers to a sustainable amount. If Gap Inc. agrees to pay a higher wage to in factory workers in places like Bangladesh it would help both organizations. With raising wages Gap Inc. loss how cheap the products will be. By paying lower wages means the products are very inexpensive to make meaning a larger revenue, Solano 4 increasing wages would lower the revenue on these products. Even though Clean Clothes Campaign gains in having the workers paid fairly there are still negative aspects of the factories Gap Inc. uses. For example long working shifts, poor environmental conditions and possible abuse in the workplace. With this compromise by Gap Inc. raising the wages of those workers it will help fulfill one of their 2020 goals to house a cleaner worldwide business by putting more effort in to protect human rights. By having this agreement with Gap Inc. Clean Clothes Campaign now has a partnership that is also supporting the same beliefs like improving worker conditions. Even though both companies lose something the gain for both outways the what they would lose. This compromise will work because it is a fact that you need money to sustain a livable lifestyle. Even today in the United States people are fighting to have their wages raised to 15 dollars because studies show anything below that still put a working under the poverty line. Poverty is being in a state where someone is extremely poor, getting out of poverty is in no doubt beneficial to anyone. In conclusions with easier ways for cheap labor, Gap Inc. overlooks how ethical their environment is, other companies like Clean Clothes Campaign see the easiest paths but chooses more ethical approaches to follow labor laws. Clean Clothes Campaign was respect and a healthy workplace for all people, and Gap Inc. wants to create a cleaner business. The conflict of Gap Inc. using sweatshop-type factories has prevented both companies from fulfilling that goal. The compromise of raising wages for these factory workers has aspects that involve each company gaining and losing something wethers it is physical or just the idea of there beliefs but the positive outcome of this compromise outways the possible negatives. Solano 5 Word count: 1245 Works Cited Biswas, Animesh, Aminur Rahman, Saidur Rahman Mashreky, Tasnuva Humaira, and Koustuv Dalal. The Scientific World  and Emergency Management of a Man-Made Disaster: Lesson Learnt from a Collapse Factory Building, Bangladesh (2015): 1-8. Web. Clean Clothes  Clothes Campaign . N.p., 29 Apr. 2013. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Gap Inc. Gap Inc,  Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Gap Inc. Inc Inc. n.p., n.d. Web 28 Jan. 2017. Kates, Michael.  The Ethics of Sweatshops and the Limits of Choice  Ethics Quarterly 25.2 (2015): 191-212. Web. Morrison , Sarah. Bangladesh factory collapse: Gap refuses to back safety  Independent . Independent Digital News and Media, 13 May 2014. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.