Biamonte 1 Rachel Biamonte Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 15 February 2017 Education on GMOs through the Non-GMO Project Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) create food in unique and mysterious ways, which can lead to health problems. GMOs, being a relatively new field of science, have numerous buyers left with minimal knowledge about the process. It is a job to display to the customer what the nutritional value and ingredients are inside a product. When products are produced using GMOs the ingredients may be presented on the packaging; however, how the product was made through the GMO process might not be apparent. GMOs are living organisms whose genes are manipulated in a laboratory to produce a certain outcome The Non-GMO Project is an organization whose mission is to provide buyers with trusted GMO-free food and teach their consumers about the process of GMOs. Since this field of science is so new and goes against the laws of nature. The Non-GMO Project strives to educate the common people that GMOs can produce combinations of viral genes that do not occur in This leads consumers to wonder what is really in their food and if it is good for their health. The Non-GMO Project works alongside other companies, such as the Right to Know, to fight toward the right of consumers to know if their food is produced with GMOs The Non-GMO Project is a non-profit organization, so they do not manufacture their own merchandise, but instead they place a verification seal on products they have verified to be GMO-free. Even though the Non-GMO mission is to educate their customers on the processes and effects of GMOs, after the analyses of their images the Biamonte 2 organization is drawing more attention towards the appearance of their seal, which can lead viewers to their site where they can find more information about GMOs. Through the Non-GMO website, the organization educates their consumers about how GMO products can be produced and what the organization is doing to help prevent the sales of GMOs in the United States. Many countries around the world have bans on the production and sales of The United States and Canada are some of the few developed countries in the world that allow the production of GMOs and do not require companies to label their food as being produced with GMOs The Non-GMO Project displays to the audience their verification seal and how it is trusted in image A. In image A, the image mainly contains an unfocused background of products on a shelf with the Non-GMO Project seal on them. Then towards the right hand corner the image comes into clear focus on the seal. This focus grabs the attention and appeals to the audience through ethos. Ethos is the appeal to an ethics or morals. The unfocused part of the image relates to the unknown processes used to make GMOs as opposed to the known nutrition that is present in GMO-free food. This appeal to ethos makes the audience question what they are putting inside their body. TRUSTED placed in the center of the image persuades the audience that they are a reliable company Trusted This bolded, and in ALL probably more effective than a silly or playful in the main statement appeals to the audience through ethos and displays to the viewer that they can trust their organization to provide their customers with high quality foods (Pack). Likewise, this same bolded statement utilizes ethos describing how proud the organization is to be MOST TRUSTED SEAL for GMO Trusted This saying presents to the audience that many people in the U.S. and Canada trust their seal, and so should Biamonte 3 the viewer. The intended targets of this organization are parents and those concerned about their health. This organization appeals to parents because they are the ones purchasing the food for the family and they want to buy best for their children. The Non-GMO Project is dedicated to their customers. They spread the word about their organization through ads promoting their seal. In image B, the Non-GMO Project displays to the viewer that the organization inspects multiple branches of food. Through a call to action, the image calls the audience to for the Butterfly at the meat Rather than directly educating their customers on the effects of GMOs, this image informs the viewer about the appearance of their seal and how the organization extends further than just fresh fruits and pre-packaged foods. Also, the use of bright colors, such as vivid blue, green, and orange, makes viewers gravitate toward their image and take interest in their organization. Even though the font of the writing is small and placed in the corner, it is still impactful after the viewer has taken notice of the seal. The seal displays to the viewer that they should purchase this meat for themselves and for the ones they care most about because it has been verified and trusted. In regards to the vivid butterfly, it represents the natural processes that the Non-GMO Project strives for in their organization. Another animal is also displayed in the image, a rooster. This rooster reflects the harmless personality of these animals and that their organization strives to provide their customers meats treated without harmful chemicals. Through ethos, this image builds a trust between the consumer and the organization allowing them to rely on the for quality meats and poultry, and not have to question how their produce was processed. Through this image, the Non-GMO Project raises awareness about GMOs in everyday foods, which in turn makes people interested in learning about GMOs and leads viewers to their website to learn more about GMOs. Biamonte 4 Both ads from this organization highlight the appearance of their verification seal on different types of food items. These images spread the word about the impacts the Non-GMO Project has had on the food industry in North America. Likewise, the same images display to the viewer where their seal can be found. Therefore, the described images help the organization achieve its mission by spreading awareness and teaching their customers about the effects of GMOs and the importance of taking an interest in their health. Also, through these ads the customers learn they can trust this organization and know their seal truly verifies what they want their food to contain. Ultimately, the Non-GMO Project strives to provide their customers with high quality food and gain their trust through their satisfaction. This non-profit organization enlightens others about the processes of GMOs. For example, 1991 a variety of tomato was engineered with genes from artic flounder to make it the Non-GMO Project wants others to know the uncertainties of GMO food production and know they have the right to know how their food is made Overall both images mainly utilize ethos to appeal to the audience. Image A displays the trust present in the organization, while image B is calling the viewer to search for their logo next time they shop. However, both images overall represent the mission and brings awareness to the subject of GMOs (WC: 1195). Biamonte 5 Works Cited Living Non-GMO: The Non-GMO Project. Web. 20 Jan 2017. Non-GMO: The Non-GMO Living Non-GMO: The Non-GMO Project. Web. 20 Jan 2017. Trusted The NonGMO Project. Web. 20 Jan 2017. Pack, Jenna. Breaking Down an Writing Commons. Web. 21 Jan 2017. Biamonte 6 Image A https://www.nongmoproject.org/ Image B https://livingnongmo.org/