Billy Harris Ms. Changamire ENC-1101 Project 2 Intermediate Draft 2 March 2107 Whether or whether not to legalize marijuana for medicinal purposes has been a topic debated in the United States for years. On one side of the argument stands the Americans for Safe Access, or The Americans for Safe Access could very well be considered one of the frontrunners on the debate of medical marijuana. The Americans for Safe Access is a not-for- profit organization devoted to the cause of legalizing Marijuana for medicinal purposes. They have stated that has immense medical value; we have collected research on cannabinoids and the therapeutic use of (safeaccessnow.org). According to their website, mission of Americans for Safe Access is to ensure safe and legal access to Cannabis (Marijuana) for therapeutic use and (safeaccessnow.org). The Americans for Safe Access are without question very efficient at getting their messages out to their audience. One of the most effective ways the Americans for Safe Access advertise their opinion is through media usage such as pictures and video; more specifically pictures and videos that appeal to the victims of certain medical conditions and illnesses where marijuana can potentially improve or even heal their symptoms. By analyzing the two images below, one can easily see the collection of ways the Americans for Safe Access appeal to their audience. Image 1 Image 2 . The main reason the Americans for Safe Access are so effective at conveying their messages could be accredited to their exceptional use of visual rhetoric (ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos) that they display in their ads, pictures, and videos. Above one can see two advertisements labeled Image 1 and Image 2. Though the two ads are not similar in looks, the two images both do a terrific job their audience. Image 1 is an advertisement made by the Americans for Safe Access to warn their audience of the broken promises the government (or possibly the Obama Administration more specifically) have made and that the audience needs to act and address the situation. Though the Americans for Safe Access does not place a heavy amount of importance of ethos in Image 1, it can still be noted at the very bottom of the image where they give the name of another organization as well as their own, to establish credibility for their audience. Where the Americans for Safe Access lacks ethos in Image 1, its extensive use of pathos makes up for it. Image 1 places emphasis on pathos by placing the image of all the people in the background to make them feel welcomed and not alone. And by their statement stating million Marijuana patients and their families will by showing the audience just how many are affected by their topic. When it comes to logos usage, the Americans for Safe Access creates logic and rationale by stating million Marijuana patients and their families will this is because they state a fact about their topic and convey to their audience that there are many people effected by a vast number of conditions and illnesses that are treated with marijuana. Lastly, the Americans for Safe Access displays Kairos in Image 1 when they state, broken promises lose an by telling the audience that they have been wronged by the government and by creating a certain sense of urgency in their audience that tells them they need to act quick and take a stand. . Though the Americans for Safe Access are not trying to convey the same message in Image 2, they still use rather similar ways of displaying visual rhetoric for their audience. In Image 2, the Americans for Safe Access Image 2 gives facts about professional sports athletes and how they suffer from injuries they received while they played, and how marijuana is a better substitute for athletes than the current medications. The Americans for Safe Access reveal ethos and credibility by stating multiple facts and providing an informational website link that their audience may view to learn more if they wish. Another use of visual rhetoric they use is pathos, which they use to imply emotion and creativity; and display with their background image of the stadium and by asking them a question to hook their attention. Given that Image 2 is an advertisement, they need to have strong logos, or logical appeal to their audience. The Americans for Safe Access implant logos in Image 2 with their facts stating million Americans suffer from chronic and out of 10 retired players suffer from pain on a daily Lastly, though Image 2 does not exude much Kairos, one can still get glimpses of it in the facts; since it is stated that so many people are effected by chronic pain, which instantly installs some urgency in the audience. Though both of these Images are being used to advertise different messages to their audience, the Americans for Safe Access is still able to convey their messages through their meticulous use of visual rhetoric. When creating images like the two above, organization like the Americans for Safe Access take into count a substantial number of factors that might be more efficient in getting their message across. These factors can range anywhere from the colors they use in the image and the font size and style, to the information they chose to display on the image such as facts or links. Many institutions and organizations, such as the Institute of Medicine, will reach out to other organizations (such as the Americans for Safe Access) to help them spread their messages and awareness about topics. One can see several great examples of this in the two images above, where in both images the Americans for Safe Access provide the links to other organizations devoted to the same cause. Though Marijuana has been used both medicinally and recreationally for centuries, mankind still has divided opinions on Marijuana and whether it holds medicinal benefits when consumed in proper ways. On one side of this highly debated topic stands the Americans for Safe Access, who believes that is a safe and effective medicine, patients should have access, and the government should expand avenues for research and drug (nationalacademies.org). When trying to expand their cause and reveal their messages to their audience, the Americans for Safe Access create many advertisements and sources of media. One of the most effective ways the Americans for Safe Access advertise their opinion is through media usage such as pictures and video; more specifically pictures and videos that appeal to the victims of certain medical conditions and illnesses where marijuana can potentially improve or even heal their symptoms. When analyzing the two advertisements and images above that were made by the Americans for Safe Access, their extensive use of the visual rhetorical elements can be easily noted and observed. Works Cited Americans for Safe Access - Google  Americans for Safe Access - Google Search. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Copyright 2017 National Academy of Sciences. All Rights  (HMD). N.p., 17 Feb. 2017. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Kelley, Rebecca. Leafly Partners with Americans for Safe Access on NFL-Focused Chronic Pain  Leafly. N.p., 11 Aug. 2014. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Scientific History of Medical  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. What the Science  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017.