Colon 1 Perry Colon Professor Lisa DuBois ENC1102 Section 046 12 February 2017 The Guantanamo Bay Controversy One of the most controversial issues in America right now (although it get that much recognition from the media) us whether to close the detention center in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. There are two sides to this dispute with two main stakeholders. The main stakeholder on the side of closing the detention center at Guantanamo Bay is the United Nations, or, more specifically, the United Nations Human Rights Council. The main stakeholder on the side that wants to keep the detention center at Guantanamo Bay open is the United States Government. It is true that the United Nations Human Rights Council and the United States Government are both rather large organizations with multiple people expressing different views in each respective organization, however, the general feeling in the United States Government is to keep the detention center at Guantanamo Bay open and the general feeling of the United Nations Human Rights Council is to close the detention center at Guantanamo Bay. The compromise that would most satisfy both stakeholders in the dispute would be for the United States Government to work with the United Nations Human Rights Council to improve the quality of life for all inmates in the detention center at Guantanamo Bay and to cooperate and work together to create a processing system to ensure that all inmates are processed in a quick and timely manner instead of being incarcerated indefinitely. Colon 2 To start off, the United States Government built the detention center at Guantanamo Bay in response to the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center on September 11 th , 2001. Guantanamo Bay started out as a military base (The World Factbook). However, the purpose of the detention center was to hold detainees who were deemed to be associated with the terrorist cell known as al-Qaeda and were captured during the war on terror that ensued. The United States Government had started building the detention center at Guantanamo Bay starting in 2002. In early 2002, the detention center began accepting its first detainees in the form of suspected terrorists from the Middle East. Once a suspected terrorist was sent to Guantanamo Bay, they would be there for an indefinite amount of time to await military trial. While they awaited trial, the detainees were sometimes subject to classified torture methods (also known as enhanced interrogation techniques) to get information that would lead to the arrest of their cohorts (Nolen). To make matters worse, the President George w. administration had said that the prisoners had no rights that the United States Government had to uphold due to the fact that the detention center was technically not a part of the United States (Nolen). In addition, the United States Government maintained that the detention center did not have to comply with the Geneva Conventions set out by the United Nations because it did not apply to enemy (Nolen). Even though basic rights were given to the detainees at Guantanamo Bay eventually, the torture or enhanced interrogation techniques still go on. However, the United States Government has good reason for what they are doing. The United States does this in order to maintain national security by locking away any potential threats to the United States and her people. In addition, the United States Government stands by keeping Guantanamo Bay open because it can learn valuable information to fight the war on terror. The biggest concern that the United States Government has with closing Guantanamo Bay is that if they release the detainees Colon 3 from Guantanamo Bay, they are worried they may become a threat to the citizens of the United States. However, President Obama had tried to push for the closing of Guantanamo Bay, to no avail (Nolen). To continue, the United Nations Human Rights Council has been trying to get the United States Government to close the detention center at Guantanamo Bay for years. However, the United Nations has not been trying to do this unprovoked. Experts from the United Nations Human Rights Council has been trying to close the detention center on the grounds of the use of enhanced interrogation techniques and because of the fact, that the United States Government intends to keep all detainees at Guantanamo Bay for an indefinite amount of time (UN News Center). The United Nations believes that the United States Government cannot justify the treatment of their prisoners by saying that it is to stop the war on terror (UN News Center). The United Nations also believes that it is a violation of human rights to keep prisoners at Guantanamo Bay for an indefinite amount of time. As a result, the United Nations called for an end to the use of enhanced interrogation techniques and indefinite incarceration. The United Nations Human Rights Council intends to do this because they want to ensure that the rights of all peoples in the world are upheld. A possible concern that the United Nations may have is that if they do not stop the United States, the United States might take things farther or other countries might follow suit (UN News Center). With all of this to be considered, there is one proposition of a compromise which might work in order to satisfy both stakeholders in the dispute. This compromise both asks something Colon 4 of the United States and the United Nations Human Rights council, but also provides benefits for each of the stakeholders as well. For this compromise to work, the United States must work with the United Nations in order to figure out a system that will process prisoners in a timely an acceptable manner. It is probable that the United Nations and the United States Government would agree that terrorism is a global issue and would both agree that innocent lives must be kept safe. So, it could be possible that the United States Government can work with the United Nations in order to put these potential terrorists on trial, perhaps at the International Court of Justice (International Court of Justice). If they were to do this, the United Nations would be satisfied because this would end human rights violations and indefinite incarcerations in Guantanamo Bay. The United States would also be satisfied because if they were to do this, national security can be maintained and the United States Government would see that these terrorists would be brought to justice. In conclusion, the best way to compromise on the issue involving Guantanamo Bay would be for the United Nations and the United States Government to cooperate in order to think of a timely wat for terrorists to be processed, brought to trial, and therefore, brought to justice. In addition, both parties of the issue would be satisfied because their main concerns would be addressed. In order for this compromise to begin taking form, the United Nations Human Rights Council and the United States Government must begin talking and building relations in order to work together to take on this task. Colon 5 Works Cited Nolen, Jeannette L. Guantanamo Bay Detention  Encyclopedia Britannica. Encyclopedia Britannica, Inc., 22 May 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. International Court of  The Court International Court of Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. UN Rights Experts Urge US to Close Detention Centre and End Impunity for  UN News Center. United Nations, 11 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. UNITED NATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS  United Nations Human Rights Council. United Nations, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Case For Closing - And Keeping Open -  NPR. NPR, 6 Mar. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The World  Central Intelligence Agency. Central Intelligence Agency, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Lennon, Chad. Detainees In The Global War On Terrorism Aboard Guantanamo  Touro Law Review 4 (2015): 1013. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Neier, Aryeh. The United Nations Human Rights Council: A Critique And Early Assessment By Rosa Freedman  Journal Of Cold War Studies 1 (2014): 212. Project MUSE. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.