Reges 1 Caroline Reges Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102.05 15 February 2017 A Deeper Look at the Death Penalty The death penalty is legal in 31 states within the United States, and is a very controversial issue within the country even today (States and Capital Punishment). In general, the death penalty can only be applied when someone commits a first-degree murder, or by committing other aggravating factors, which vary from state to state. The Southern Baptist Convention is a supporter of the death penalty. They believe in the for an rule, where if you take a life then you deserve to lose your own life. They believe this is the most effective way for people to know not to commit murder. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty is against the death penalty. They believe that terminating a murderer is ineffective and is not helping society become safer. They believe education and new policies will help improve society. When looking at the controversial issue of the death penalty, the Southern Baptist Convention and the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty have extremely different views. Despite these differences, they have common ground when it comes to only wanting the actual murderers put in jail, so they could solve their problem by putting restrictions on the death penalty and making life without parole more common. The Southern Baptist Convention is a supporter of the death penalty, one that is rightly applied and believe it is effective. The Southern Baptist convention believes that one who intentionally takes life by murder forfeits the right to his own (Allen). They are very strict about this law, though, because they do believe that the death penalty should only be applied Reges 2 when the evidence very clearly shows that the person on trial committed the murder. The person on trial must have multiple witnesses (Capital Punishment: An Overview of Christian Perspectives). They do not want race or economic status to influence whether or not the person gets the death penalty. One of the leaders of the Southern Baptist Convention, Albert Mohler, believes that many Americans do not think the death penalty is very effective, while he believes that it is the best punishment. Sociologist Ernest van den Haag would agree with Albert Mohler, who believes that most people have conscience, which threatens them, should they do what is den Haag). He does not agree with replacing the death penalty with lighter punishments, because action of violating rules tends to exceed the disadvantage of being (Van den Haag), and the person may choose to commit the murder because they are not afraid of the punishment. The Southern Baptist Convention feels that having the death penalty is the morally right thing to do. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) believes that the death penalty needs to be abolished and laws need to be changed. They want safe neighborhoods which would be able to address the root cause of crime and violence (About Us). They hope to stop the problem before it even happens to reduce the amount of murders within the US, so the court would not even need to worry about having to use the death penalty. They want offenders to have to be held accountable for their actions, but allow them the chance to change in prison and give them access to mental health services. In a study done by Michael Radelet and Ronald Akers of Northwestern Law, they found out that 92% of the population believes that life sentence imprisonment has more of an effect on deterring homicide than the death penalty (Radelet 14). Very few people believe that the death penalty system is effective. The NCADP wants dignity for the criminal justice system, including judicial and prison systems (About Us). They want Reges 3 rational policies based on evidence. Ever since 1976, every ten people who have been executed, at least one person was wrongfully sentenced to death and then set (About Us). Overall, this group does not just want to abolish the death penalty, they want a safer society so people would not even make such extreme actions so the death penalty does not even need to be applied in the first place. Even though both of these groups have their differences, they do have some common ground. They both believe that a person who commits a murder needs to suffer for what they have done. They both believe it should be done in different ways, but there should be some sort of severe punishment. They also both believe that the courts should be very careful on who they give the death penalty to. The case for someone who may be given the death penalty needs to be very thorough to ensure that someone who did not commit their crime is wrongfully executed. The compromise between the two stakeholders would be having the without punishment become more common while putting stricter country-wide restrictions on when the death penalty can be given. The without punishment would be given to all murder cases. This would ensure that the murder cases that turned out to be false set the offenders free. Also, if it turned out that the offender did not commit murder but something less severe, they could be taken to court and given another trial to change the length of their punishment. The government will also enact a country-wide law that allows the death penalty to be applied, but only if the offender committed a first-degree murder, and at least two people were killed by the murderer. To ensure that the death penalty is rightly applied, there must be at least three different forms of evidence confirming the murderer committed the murder, including DNA evidence, witnesses, and fingerprints. This could also mean that if someone in prison is given without Reges 4 and then more evidence is found for their case proving that they are a murderer, they could be given the death penalty. A program could be started to help educate the public about how horrible life in prison is and why people do not want to commit murder and end up in prison for life. This system would help make sure that the people really know what they are getting into if they commit a murder. The funding of this program would come from the money saved by the without system. In an estimate done by the Palm Beach Post, they found out that Florida would save $51 million a year if the death penalty was replaced with life without parole (V). This new system would not completely get rid of the death penalty, but having more people be punished with life without parole would save some money, which could be better spent on educating the public and bettering the communities. This program is good for the community because it supports families and prison workers. Because there is a long wait for the court case and the execution, families would sometimes spend years in a period of uncertainty before they know whether or not their loved one is going to be executed (Covey 1100). This would help the families be more at ease so they at least know what is going to happen soon after it happens. It still leave the opportunity for the innocent to be released if they are not found guilty, but they would be in prison and their future would be less uncertain than the current system. With this compromise, both groups would have to give up some of their beliefs to make the people happy overall. The Southern Baptist Convention would have to give up giving the death penalty to all murderers, which the NCADP would have to allow the death penalty to continue under certain circumstances. Neither side would be completely satisfied, but it is the only way to ensure that the death penalty is not abolished completely. Both sides would benefit Reges 5 with the fact that the death penalty is now more rightly applied. This would ensure that all of the wrongfully accused are not put into prison or given the death penalty, unless it is very clear that the offender committed the murder. Overall, it can be seen that the two groups, the Southern Baptist Convention and the NCADP have some very opposing opinions relating to the death penalty. The Southern Baptist Convention would like to keep the death penalty and ensure the penalty is only applied to the correct person. The NCADP would like to abolish the death penalty and make a safer community. Putting more restrictions on when the death penalty is used countrywide, but also making life without parole more common. It would ensure the correct person is put into prison, it ensures they suffer for what they did, and saves the government money that can be spent to educate the public. This compromise may not be perfect, but it is one way that both groups can benefit. Works Cited Allen, Bob. SBC Leader Says Christians Should Support Death  Baptist News Global, 2 May 2014, https://baptistnews.com/article/sbc-leader-says-christians-should- support-death-penalty/#.WI6DDGQrJWM. 22 Jan. 2017. Reges 6 Bob Allen graduated from Southern Illinois University and Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. He has been part of Baptist News Global since October 2008. From 2002 to 2008 he was managing editor of EthicsDaily.com, a Baptist center for ethics website. He has a lot of background with baptists, so he should be able to clearly explain what the Southern Baptist Convention leader says, but could be biased in support of Baptists. This source gave me direct quotes from the Southern Baptist Convention leader, so I could easily explain their beliefs. About  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, http://www.ncadp.org/pages/about-us. 22 Jan. 2017. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) was founded in 1976. They currently have 90 million members and are growing. Recently they had their Killing the campaign to get rid of the death penalty for juveniles. This source helped me easily understand the beliefs of the NCADP so I could explain them. Capital Punishment: An Overview of Christian  ERLC, 29 May 2014, http://erlc.com/resource-library/articles/capital-punishment-an-overview-of- christian-perspectives. 29 Jan. 2017. Formally known as the Christian Life Commission, the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission was founded in 1988 to help churches understand the gospel and answer moral and social problems. They now have 16 million members in 43,000 different churches. This source gave me more background on my stakeholder. Reges 7 Covey, Russel D. Death in Prison: The Right Death Penalty Georgia State University Law Review, volume 5, 2011, 1099-102. Georgia State Law Reading Room. http://readingroom.law.gsu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2696&context=gsulr. 29 January 2017. Russel D. Covey got his A.B. at Amherst College, his M.A. at Princeton University, and his J.D. at Yale Law School. He is now a professor of law at Georgia State University College of Law. He is a member of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. The Georgia State University Law Review has been running since 1984, and is published out of Atlanta. This helped me figure out a compromise that is possible since Covey has a lot of background in law. This source gave me facts to support my compromise. Radelet, Michael L., and Ronald L. Akers. Deterrence and the Death Penalty: The Views of the  The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, 87, 1996, 14. Northwestern Law Scholarly Commons. http://scholarlycommons.law.northwestern.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=6901 &context=jclc. 29 January 2017. Michael L Radelet got his BA in Sociology at Michigan State University, his MA in Sociology at Eastern Michigan University, and his PhD in Sociology at Purdue University. He is now a Professor and Associate Chair at the Department of Sociology of the University of Colorado at Boulder. In 2006, he received the Paul Tappan Award Outstanding Contributions to the Field of The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology was founded in 1910 and is published Reges 8 out of Evanston Illinois. This journal is through a law school, so they should be reliable when it comes to the death penalty and the rules. This helped me support the beliefs. States and Capital  NCSL, 11 September 2016, http://www.ncsl.org/research/civil- and-criminal-justice/death-penalty.aspx. 28 Jan. 2017 The National Conference of State Legislatures is a bipartisan non-governmental organization. It was founded in 1975 and is located in Washington DC and Denver. This helped me get background knowledge to explain the death penalty to the reader. V, S. The High Price of Killing  Palm Beach Post, 4 January 2000, http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/node/2289. 29 Jan. 2017 The Palm Beach Post is a newspaper that was founded in 1916. They currently have 750,00 daily readers in the Southern Florida area. This helped give evidence to support my compromise. Van Den Haag, Ernest. On Deterrence and the Death  The Journal of Criminal Law, Criminology and Police Science, Volume 60, 1969, 142-43. Northwestern Law Scholarly Commons. http://scholarlycommons.law.northwestern.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=5580 &context=jclc. 29 January 2017. Ernest van den Haag got his MA in economics at University of Iowa. He died in 2002. Originally established in 1910, the Journal of Criminal Law, Criminology and Police Science is published by the Northwestern University School of Law in Evanston, Illinois. His paper lets me know reason in support of the death penalty Reges 9 that is not just religious. This gave me another perspective in support of the death penalty.