Rodriguez 1 Rachel Rodriguez Dr. Theodosiou ENC 1102.050 Spring 17 7 February, 2017 Death Penalty Since the year 1976, 1,445 individuals have been executed in the United States alone (Death Penalty Information Center). The Death Penalty is among one of the most controversial topics to date. As seen through two organizations with very opposed viewpoints, the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty(NCADP) and the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation(CJLF), the death penalty has become an increasingly large topic of debate. The NCADP works to abolish the death penalty in not only the U.S, but all across the world(National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty). Meanwhile, the CJLF works to defend the law which qualifies an individual for capital punishment (Criminal Justice Legal Foundation). Whether it is believed that the death penalty should be kept or abolished, both sides share one common goal, to protect the people. With that, a compromise can be made to appeal to both sides of the issue, and that is to sentence only those who have committed numerous, extreme and heinous crimes to death while the vast majority will be sentenced to life in prison without the possibility for parole. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty is the oldest organization dedicated exclusively to the abolition of the death  (National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty). According to the NCADP, for over 40 years, they have been working toward one goal, to abolish the death penalty in the United States and support efforts to abolish the death penalty  Through the use of campaigns, informational training opportunities, and general education to the public they are trying to provoke a nation in favor of eradicating the idea Rodriguez 2 of using death as punishment and instead, alter our responses to violence and crime. They are a non-profit, tax exempt organization in the United States. Like all other organizations with the same goal of prohibiting the use of capital punishment, the NCADP sees the many flaws and failures behind the inhumane  including: racial the possibility of innocence, and the mental/emotional health of families and those involved in the execution process. Richard Dieter, retired attorney, wrote since 1973, 150 people sentenced to death in twenty-six states have been exonerated and freed after they were acquitted, granted a full pardon, or all charges were dismissed, including seven in 2014  (925). This goes to show how serious and detrimental the death penalty really is; a reform of the system is desperately needed. As stated by the New York Times paper, It is time Americans acknowledged that the death penalty cannot be made to comply with the Constitution and is in every way  Those standing against the death penalty, stand extremely strong in their beliefs. On the contrary, the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation primarily works toward creating a balance between those accused of crime and rights throughout our criminal justice system, as a whole. However, in terms of capital punishment in particular, goal is to defend state and federal laws which qualify the worst murderers for the death penalty and encourages the removal of legal obstacles unrelated to a guilt or timely enforcement of the  (Criminal Justice Legal Foundation). As a non-profit organization, they are made up of well-educated individuals whom all have a background in the criminal justice system. According to Raj Sethuraju, writer of Understanding Death Penalty Support and Opposition Among Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Students, one of the most popular reasons an individual supports the death penalty is retribution, which involves the idea that the punishment for an offender should be proportionate to the harm caused by his or her criminal Rodriguez 3  (3). Similarly, others who are in favor of the death penalty see the lasting effect executions will have on a society such as maintaining order (Sethuraju 3). Among the many reasons in support od the death penalty, CJLF defends the idea that the death penalty reduces rates of recidivism, reduces crime and murder rates, as well as creates a sense of closure for victims families. It is very clear that both the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty and the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation contain extremely opposed ideas and beliefs when it comes to justifying for and against capital punishment. Although, when putting the true goals and aspirations of these diverse organizations into perspective, it can be seen that both stakeholders want justice for the people. Despite for different reasons, they both work toward creating a sense of relief to families. This commonality is especially crucial in creating a compromise for an issue as critical to our society as the death penalty. Contrary to common belief, a compromise can be made for something as controversial as the death penalty. All it will take is for the NCADP and CJLF to come together and realize that among many differences in beliefs, they share one common goal, to defend and protect the people of not only America, but all over the world. With that in mind, to appeal to both sides of the argument, the United States of America can adopt a new policy in which those who have committed harsh, murderous crimes and would have previously been sentenced to death, will instead, be sentenced to life in prison without any possibility for parole with the exception of those individuals who have committed multiple, severe and heinous crimes, whom will be sentenced to the death penalty. A professor from Georgia State University College of Law, states regarding life in prison without possibility for parole, Rodriguez 4 It would save money, enhance equity among offenders, eliminate the risk of wrongful executions, and increase the odds that persons wrongfully convicted of capital crimes can obtain eventual redress. Death-in-prison would also increase the sense of closure and reduce years of stress and uncertainty felt by families awaiting imposition of capital sentences without reducing either the retributive or deterrent functions of punishment (Covey) This shows the explicit positive effects of this new punishment to both sides to the argument. However, along with every positive comes drawbacks. As far as this compromise goes, the NCADP will be unhappy with the fact that the death penalty is not completely abolished. Likewise, the CJLF will be unhappy with the fact that all people are not able to be punished as  for their serious crimes. As far as going through with life sentencing without the possibility of parole, the process will remain the same, in that, those convicted will go through trial where the judge will dictate whether or not a person is guilty or not. Then, if they decide a person is guilty and deserves severe punishment, they will be sentenced to life in prison without parole, with the exception of the few individuals whom have committed heinous crimes as extreme as pinning a child to a chair and making them watch their mother and father be killed, who will be sentenced to capital punishment. There is rising debate over the cost of the death penalty in comparison to life sentencing without the possibility for parole. According to the death penalty information center, Capital punishment cases put a huge financial burden on county budgets, the state of Florida alone would save $51 million each year by punishing all first-degree murderers with life in prison without (Death Penalty Information Center). With that, the NCADP and CJLF will need to come together and bring awareness to others in their communities, they should host events to Rodriguez 5 raise money for the pricey court processes. For example, each time a court case is brought up where the death penalty is being considered, they will come together and host a fundraiser outside of that court house. In order to gain the attention of the public, they can make eye- catching posters for the town including information about the event. Hosting these events will provide the community with a chance to gain knowledge of this new process, and give these organizations an ample amount of support and money they need to follow through with the ruling, as well as bring these diverse organizations together. In order for these juxtaposed groups to come together, they need to apprehend that they are more similar than not and they need to be willing to accept the fact that this new method of punishment will fulfill both of their goals, to protect the people. For the past 41 years, the death penalty has been an extremely controversial topic with no set solution. Organizations such as the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty stand strongly against the racial, legal, and mental aspects of the death penalty while the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation works to defend all legal and social aspects of the death penalty. Among their many differences, they have one crucial thing in common, they both want a safer environment for the people and to bring awareness to this issue. With a new sentence: life in prison without the possibility of parole, both these organizations will fulfill their goal of protecting the people. All that is needed is for them to put their differences aside and understand the benefits our society will experience from this compromise. Rodriguez 6 Works Cited And Indefensible  New York Times. The New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/26/opinion/an-indefensible- punishment.html?nl=todaysheadlines&emc=tha211. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Covey, Russell D. Death in Prison: The Right Death Penalty  Race, Racism, and the Law. &catid=140&Itemid=155. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Russell D. Covey is a professor at Georgia State University College of Law. With that, it is clear that he is a very well-educated and trusted source of information especially in terms of the law. He has written many articles and conducted lots of research in regards to criminal law. Previously, he worked inside the courtroom along side a judge. This article presented the overall idea of the compromise and helped to validate the use of it. There was a substantial amount of evidence to support why this compromise would be useful which helped in outlining this paper and research. CJLF. Criminal Justice Legal Foundation, http://www.cjlf.org/. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. The Criminal Justice Legal Foundation is a non-profit law organization that works to assure that people guilty of committing crimes receive swift and certain punishment in an orderly and constitutional manner. The staff is made up of many attorneys and other individuals whom all have a higher education in criminal law. This organization was one of the main stakeholders for this paper. They provided a very strong argument in justification of the death penalty and helped to build up a basis for Rodriguez 7 argumentation. This source was particularly helpful in providing research and support for the argument in favor of the death penalty. Death Penalty Information Center. The Death Penalty Information Center, http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Dieter, Richard C. The Future of the Death Penalty in the United  University of Richmond Law Review, vol.49, 3, 2014, pp. 921, 925. Richard Dieter is an attorney and has been the executive director of the death penalty information center in Washington, DC since 1992. Dieter attended several schools and received many degrees, including a law degree from Georgetown University Law Center in Washington, DC. As an active member of the criminal justice system, Dieter is a member of the Maryland Bar, the Bar of the District of Columbia, and the Bar of the U. S. Supreme Court. Additionally, he is a professor of law at the Catholic University School of Law where he teaches a seminar on the death penalty. The Future of the Death Penalty in the United  will provide this paper with the necessary information needed with regards to where the death penalty is projected to go in the U.S. Similarly, this source will be used to back up the argument against the death penalty, to show the diminishing affect of the death penalty as a whole. It also provided information about Life imprisonment which will be useful for the compromise. Sethuraju, Raj, Jason Sole, and Oliver Brian E. Understanding Death Penalty Support and Opposition Among Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement  SAGE Open, 6, 1(2016): Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 14. Feb. 2017. Rodriguez 8 Raj Sethuraju is a professor at the Metropolitan State University, where he teaches Criminology. He is an active member of his community where he hosts regular forums and does volunteer work through the NAACP. This article was written to inform the reader about the many beliefs of both those who support and oppose the death penalty. This was extremely useful in supporting the argument of the CJLF, who stand for the death penalty. National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, http://www.ncadp.org/pages/about-us. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty is a non-profit, tax exempt organization that works to abolish the death penalty. This organization is made up of more than 90 million supporters all whom share the same goal. Their staff is made up of well educated people who have all received a higher education in law and have some experience in the field. This source helped to build up an argument against the death penalty. It provided loads of information and resources to help guide the argument in favor of abandoning the death penalty. Rodriguez 9