Suda 1 Anthony J. Suda Prof. Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102.050 15 February 2017 Gun Violence and Gun Rights in America Gun violence and gun rights in America have long been two heatedly debated topics in recent American history. With 10,945 lives lost due to gun related homicides in 2014, and a steadily increasing national gun-homicide rate, it is not uncommon to wonder when Americans will say is and help to curb gun violence by advocating for gun reform legislation. However, in a nation bound by its duty to live and govern by the constitution, at what point does gun reform begin to infringe upon the fundamental rights granted and guaranteed to its citizens? The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, or the CSGV, is an organization that seeks to put an end to gun violence in the United States by calling for a ban on assault rifles and making sure that pro-gun lobbying organizations do not have control over the United States congress. On the other hand, the National Rifle Association (NRA), is a vocal critic of anti-gun sentiments and legislation and is the foremost voice in preserving and lobbying for second amendment rights. So how may a compromise be struck between two strongly opposing causes? Without negating the values of either side, the best way for the two organizations to work together is to create a mutual fund to lobby for the expansion of background checks in both state and federal legislatures. The CSGV has long been a proponent of gun control measures and gun reform policies. Since its inception in 1974, the CSGV has grown to represent 47 organizations nationwide that work together to reduce gun violence across the nation. These organizations include religious Suda 2 organizations, child welfare advocates, public health professionals, and social justice organizations. As per their mission statement, the CSGV seeks to freedom from gun violence through strategic research, strategic engagement and effective policy (About Us). The CSGV explicitly states on their website that their primary goal is reduce gun violence through policy measures in addition to challenging and opposing the lobbying actions of the NRA. The CSGV has a three-part strategy that is used in their mission to promote gun safety and reduce gun violence: holding politicians accountable through negative campaign ads across various forms of media, engaging lawmakers on the state and federal level to become more cognizant of issues regarding gun violence in their communities, and by challenging the rhetoric head on in order to make the platform regarding gun-related issues more receptive to the general public. By doing this, the CSGV hopes to enforce their guiding principle in that Americans have a right to live in communities free from gun (About Us). Founded by Union veterans Col. William C. Church and Gen. George Wingate in 1871, the NRA began as an organization sole purpose was to promote and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific (About the NRA). Since then, marksmanship as a sporting activity has been only one of the things that the NRA actively pursues as one of its chief goals. The NRA is the largest and most recognizable gun rights organization that lobbies against any legislative measures both at the state and federal levels that seek to restrict second amendment rights in any, way, shape, or including but not limited to the proposed banning of assault style weapons. Although the primary mission lies in its legislative lobbying, the NRA also supports gun safety and education. 1990, the NRA established the NRA Foundation, a non- profit subdivision of the organization that focuses on fundraising to promote and provide safety and educational projects to the (About the NRA). In addition to the establishment Suda 3 of the NRA Foundation, the NRA has also sponsored Refuse to Be A Victim seminars that helped more than 100,000 men and women develop their own personal safety plan using common sense (About the NRA). Though the CSGV and the NRA seem like two organizations missions are completely contradictory to one another, this is untrue. While both organizations undoubtedly fight for two very opposing causes, common ground can be found in both desire to promote gun safety and prevent gun violence, albeit that they pursue this in different ways. The CSGV lobbies to ban assault weapons and lobbies to keep the NRA from having control over lawmaking decisions. The NRA lobbies to make sure that congressmen and other legislators across the U.S. vote with the interest to preserve second amendment rights in mind, combatting any legislation that seeks to restrict gun use. One common way to prevent deaths by gun violence is through legislative efforts to expand background checks in legislative bodies in both the state and federal levels. If the CSGV and NRA can come together to lobby for the expansion of background checks, both organizations would be successful in promoting gun safety in a way that is not counterproductive to either of their missions. The expansion of background checks is without a doubt a key initiative to curbing gun violence and promoting gun safety in America. In a peer-reviewed article authored by Bisakha Sen and Anantachai Panjamapirom, the researchers conclude that and large, more comprehensive background checks at the state level prior to firearm purchases may reduce firearm (349). In another research article posted in the American Journal for Preventative Medicine, it was found that there was a association between more local- level background checks and lower firearm-suicide fatality rates . . (Sumner et. al 5). If both organizations could work together and lobby for the expansion of background check legislation Suda 4 in both state and federal levels, then both the NRA and the CSGV could both find success in their missions to promoting gun safety, as lobbying for background check expansions in legislative bodies could prevent hundreds of homicides via gun violence. In 2010 alone, 277 million dollars was spent by the NRA and its affiliates, outspending the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence in a 99 to 1 ratio By The Numbers 4). In 2015, 143 legislative bills were lobbied by the NRA By The 4). If the NRA sought to create a fundraising effort with the CSGV, legislation to expand background checks could certainly be passed in Congress, as the track record has shown their own lobbying and fundraising campaigns to be successful. If both organizations could lobby together to expand background check policies, they would both be aiding their mission to promote gun safety, as inhibiting those with a criminal record from being able to legally obtain a gun prevents them from committing gun related crimes. Although the expansion of background checks would be instrumental in the initiative to help save lives, a prominent objective of the CSGV, it would not place the views of the NRA at a disadvantage, as law-abiding citizens would still be able to purchase firearms without trouble. In addition to saving lives, lobbying for the expansion background checks would also pave way for an NRA in the regard that this compromise does not call for the ban of assault rifles (a calling cry from the CSGV), in which they believe is a stepping stone for further restriction and revocation of second amendment rights from American citizens. In the end, second amendment rights are preserved, and Americans are saved from gun violence. It is without a doubt that the CSGV and the NRA are two organizations that will always oppose one another so long as there is gun violence in America. However, as a nation bound by its constitution, it is important that any laws proposed by any legislature is consistent with that said constitution. The need to decrease deaths via gun violence in this country is a real, and Suda 5 tangible one. And although there is much discourse on how exactly to do that, one thing is if two of the most prominent opponents regarding gun violence and gun rights in this nation can come together and lobby for the expansion of background checks that may indeed save lives, it would certainly be a win-win for everyone. WC: 1344 Suda 6 Works Cited A Brief History of the  National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. About  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence., n.d. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. NRA By The  Nation 303.1/2 (2016): 4. Academic Search Premier. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Kochanek, Kenny D., Sherry L. Murphy, Jiaquan Xu, and Betzaida Tejada-Vera. Deaths: Final Data for  National Center for Health Statistics. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 30 June 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. This source was chosen due to its most recent and most accurate report reflecting statistics describing the amount of deaths that have occurred in the year 2014 due to gun violence. The source is from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which is a government organization that is the most prominent institution that promotes public health and public health research and information. The authors of this source are all experts employed by the CDC that have various degrees such as but limited to the Medical Doctorate, or MD, and other graduate level degrees that establish credibility in their research findings. Sen, Bisakha, and Anantachai Panjamapirom. State background checks for gun purchase and firearm deaths: An exploratory  Preventive Medicine 55.4 (2012): 346-50. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. This source was chosen for its academic review and study of the correlation between background check legislation enforced at the state level and yearly deaths due to guns and firearms. The source comes from an academic journal, Preventive Medicine, and the authors have established themselves as both being experts on the subject, as Suda 7 Bisakha Sen is a professor in the Department of Healthcare Organization & Policy, School of Public Health, at the University of Alabama. Anantachai Panjamapirom is a member of the Advisory Board Company, focusing on Research and Insights. Sumner, Steven A., Peter M. Layde, and Clare E. Guse. Firearm Death Rates and Association with Level of Firearm Purchase Background  American Journal of Preventive Medicine 35.1 (2008): 1-6. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. This source was also chosen for its recent and accurate statistics regarding the correlation between background checks and firearm death rates as presented in the renown medical journal, the American Journal of Preventive Medicine. The contributors to this peer-reviewed study include Dr. Peter M. Layde, a medical doctor and professor at the Emory University School of Medicine and Clare E. Guse, a researcher at the Injury Research Center at the Medical College of Medicine.