Student 1 Student L. E. DuBois ENC 1102 February 15 2016 Electricity Generation in the American Energy Market According to the development of the society more and more countries do pay attention to protecting the environment because most of the people who are living in the world found that developing economy can not be based on polluting the environment or wasting the resources can not be renewed. Therefore, the government and lot of organizations are trying to use the new and clean energy to instead of the non-renewable energy for reducing the pollution of the environment to improve the quality of air, water, and natural environment. The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) is one of the organizations in America which focus on advertising environmental energy to the public. EIA collects, make analysis, and disseminates independent as well as unbiased information of data for purposes of making policies, efficient markets as well as a public indulgence of energy and its economic and environmental relationship. The energy company is the primary source of energy information, and the U.S. government officers and employees approve its data and analysis as well as forecasts. EIA performs a comprehensive data collection program that covers the whole spectrum of sources of energy; end users, as well as energy, flows. This organization prepares an informative power analysis, the market trends for short-term and long-term forecasts for each month. Generally, EIA was established as the main federal government legislative on energy statistics and analysis and was created to respond to the needs of increasing the collection of national initiatives and publicize energy-related information and evaluating as well as analyzing the information. Student 2 According to two pictures which are both published by EIA, it is easy to find out how this organization to express its ideas that were using clean energy and protecting environment are important to the earth. To begin with, the Picture 1 (EIA) was published on January 5, 2017, which advertised the main functions of EIA. The picture obtains two different types of clean energy, including wind energy and solar energy, they both are clean energy which aims at telling audiences that this company focuses on developing clean energy to protect the environment. Also, the main color of the picture is blue and white which make audiences connect to clean and comfortable. First, the picture uses logos which means using example and facts to claim its idea. In the picture, audiences are able to understand the main job of this organization is producing clean energy and constructing renewable energy projects because the image shows the windmill and solar panel. Moreover, the picture also uses pathos as one of the rhetorical appeals. The background is blue and clean sky which makes the audience feel relaxed and understand how important to protect this clear sky. Audiences can imagine that having clean energy, the sky of their city will be as clean as the which will persuade audiences to participate in the activity of having renewable and environmental energy. The emotion of seeing this beautiful sky will become a good simulation to push people to protect the environment and use clean energy. In picture two (EIA), the background has been changed from blue sky to brown desert. There is only one thing, a tower which made by iron and colored by yellow and green, in the picture. First, the picture uses pathos to persuade people to protect the environment. Because if people keep destroying the environment, there will be no green land which will take place by desert like what the picture shows. The picture obtains the emotion of scare which fears to lose green plants to increase the attentions of the audience. Moreover, it also uses Logos to increase Student 3 its influence. In the picture, the iron tower is telling the audience how is construction to produce clean energy. It helps audiences to understand the process and general theory of creating clean energy to increase the credibility of this organization and make audiences trust what the target and thesis more. The pictorial chosen by the stakeholders were used for purposes of indicating the various sources of energy used in the United States to produce electricity. The energy was produced from different sources to make electricity available to many consumers at lower prices. The process was conducted in the setting of standards to marketers who participated in consumer choice program. The stakeholders had a primary objective of providing energy services and increasing the electricity generation by increasing pressure. The message communicated by the pictures indicate that the most likely target participants in the institution were the researchers, consumers and policy makers who intended to take care of the environment by maintaining it and making rules and regulations that would govern the environment. Color and design used in the image convey certain rhetorical appeals such as emphasizing on the usefulness of the solar panels and wind turbines. However, another rhetorical appeal is indicated by the background image of the picture such as the sky to show the main purpose of the distribution lines which is to transmit electricity to users and occupation of a large area for fuel to show the capacity and basis of the energy obtained from the different sources. The third rhetorical appeal enables in understanding the working mechanism of the solar panels, wind turbines through the transfer process and how they are made. Production of electricity have logical fallacies such as generation could lead to the destruction of the environment when people decide to use more wood, waste from crop as well as the use of coal in place of other sources of energy which result Student 4 in pollution of the environment. The organization assumes that there is the unequal demand of electricity and hence its distribution is a factor of consumers. Furthermore, according to the data which published in 2016 by EIA, the power plants in U.S. use renewable sources of energy such as water, wind, coal, geothermal, and solar to produce electricity. The wind became the second source of heat after hydroelectric power giving a percentage of 35 while 46% for hydroelectric. Most of the non-hydro sources of power such as solar combined with wind source in 2015 to produce more electricity than that generated by hydro-power. The amount of wind power has made a substantial increment over the past eight years. Increased generation of electricity was also contributed by reduced cost of generation from the wind as well as the policies that advocated for the development of inexhaustible energy sources. The United States is ranked as the top manufacturer of electricity from the wing in the world. The reason behind increment of production of electricity from the wind is the great support of the U.S. government where most of the tax collected contributes to the production as well as paying the producers per kilowatt-hour of the generated electricity, which motivates the targets involved. With this report, it is not difficult to find that America is one of the countries in the world which are concerning about the environment and trying to use as much clean energy as possible. In conclusion, EIA as an environmental organization in America which produced a lot of outstanding and amazing pictures and news has made great contribution to protecting American environment. It is no difficult to believe so many people have participated in the activities of using clean energy and protect the earth after reading the pictures and news. According to the pictures and current situation of the environment, it is responsibility for everyone who is living in Student 5 the world to participate in protecting the environment and keeping it clean. Using renewable energy is necessary for everyone for having a beautiful earth. (WC: 1329) Student 6 Works Cited EIA, US. Annual energy outlook 2011 with projections to  Energy Information Administration, 2011. Moxley Joseph M. WRITING COMMONS. Web. Jan 24.2015 Student 7 Picture 1. http://www.eia.gov/outlooks/aeo/?src=home-b4 Picture 2. https://www.eia.gov/petroleum/drilling/?src=home-b1