Last Name 1 Student Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Amnesty International: Stopping Torture Human Rights are rights that everyone has, despite sex, nationality, location, or background. These rights, theoretically speaking, cannot be taken away for any reason. There are even international laws and treaties stating the rights everyone has as humans. One of the most important documents created was the Universal Declaration of Human created by representatives from all different cultural and legal backgrounds Universal Declaration of Human It appears this would be common sense, but there are certain circumstances where governments feel it is for the greater good to break these rights- there have been numerous instances of governments, all over the world, torturing suspected terrorist as punishment and as a form of interrogation. This is a basic violation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, yet it happens all the time- which is why organizations, such as Amnesty International, form. Amnesty International is a global movement, founded in the United Kingdom, of individuals acknowledging and fighting injustice and promoting human rights, including the basic human right to not be subjected to torture, through many outlets including the creation of advertisements and images like shown below Their purpose is to and expose abuses, educate and mobilize the public, and help transform societies to create a safer, more just This organization even received the Nobel Peace Prize for their crucial work in all forms of human rights advocacy. Last Name 2 To gain support to stop torture, Amnesty International carefully creates images that evoke emotion and cause the viewer to be inspired and supportive of the cause. In image A, there is a plain wooden chair with a light bulb hanging from a wire directly above. The single chair represents the isolation felt from being tortured. The image looks like a suspicious interrogation room, like what one would see in a movie where the government want anyone to know going on. Pathos, appealing to emotion, is used in this situation because it induces a cold, dark, and depressing feeling. The entire tone of the image is despair. There are also the words can stop to the left of the chair, with the word torture crossed out. By crossing out the word, it brings attention to it. It also symbolizes the goal of the group, which is to eliminate torture. The font is white and yellow, which is a great contrast to the dark background image. It represents the hope and goodness of the group in response to the dark issue of torture. The word is in yellow font, along with the line crossing out the word By changing the color of the word Amnesty International is saying we will stop this issue; it shows confidence and adds emphasis. Ethos appeals to the credibility of the author and is the way of establishing trust with his or her reader (Hoffman 20). Ethos is used in this image by showing the well-known and highly developed organization logo in the right-hand corner to let the viewers know the credibility of the source. The wording can stop is a realistic statement that appeals to the viewers reasoning and is a call to action. The overall message of the image that Amnesty International is conveying is that together, we can stop torture. Not everyone views images the same way, so different styles and designs can be more effective in getting the message across and gaining support. Image B is quite different from image A in that image B is strictly words, no visual pictures, however they both have a Last Name 3 depressing tone. The image states by the hair. Head held under water. No air. Just water. Scared to breathe. No air. Scared to choke. No air. Scared to die. Water. Water. Water. Until you put a stop to it. At In an image with only words, it is necessary to analyze the syntax and diction of the message. Image B describes someone being tortured with water and feeling like dying. Every word is carefully chosen to evoke a sense of despair and wrong-doing. While reading this, the audience feels as though they are the one being tortured. Full sentences be formed because of everything they are experiencing in that moment. It could be said that there are no images in the picture because the person speaking cannot see anything under the water. The repetition of creates a traumatic feeling of hopelessness, which is the use of pathos. By repeating the phrase it creates a sense of urgency to save the person speaking. The sentences are short and simple because not appealing to see a large paragraph of words on an image- most people take the time to read it. The color contrast between the bright yellow background and the black font appeals to the eye- it makes it more and draws attention to it. The way the message is worded, using repetition and short sentences, causes the viewer to feel like they are in the same situation as the speaker, which is an excellent way to gain support for the elimination of torture. Amnesty International stands for the protection and promotion of basic human rights, including torture despite the situation. They use specially crafted images to gain support and convey their message that we can end torture. All their images have some overall feeling of solemn or despair. The tone of both images is serious and somber, because the issue at hand is serious and somber. The two images discussed earlier provide two different ways of relaying the same message. Image A had few words, but a background image, while image B was completely Last Name 4 written words. No matter the image, the message Amnesty International is displaying is the same. (WC:1047) Image A: Image B: Works Cited Last Name 5 Amnesty International USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Our  Amnesty International USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. The Universal Declaration of Human  Universal Declaration of Human Rights Main. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.