Sustek 1 Nicholas Sustek Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 15 February, 2017 Animal Testing Alternative: Vitro Testing Many cosmetic companies test their products inhumanely on animals to ensure the products are safe for human use. There are organizations that are pushing to get rid of animal testing because it is cruel to the animals being tested on. Two stakeholders on this issue are PETA and Cover Girl. Both stakeholders would like cosmetic products to be safe for human use. The main difference is PETA want animals to be harmed in any way whereas Cover Girl thinks the suffering of the animals is worth the payoff of having products that are safe for humans to buy and use. A possible solution to this conflict is vitro testing, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA, is the largest animal rights organization in the world. PETA was founded in 1980. Despite PETA being a relatively young organization it has saved the lives of thousands of mistreated and abused animals in various environments. Per official website, peta.org, their mission statement is focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment industry. We also work on a variety of other issues, including the cruel killing of rodents, birds, and other animals who are often considered as well as cruelty to domesticated On the issue of testing cosmetic products on animals to ensure they are safe for human use Sustek 2 PETA stands firmly against it. The Humane Society, another animal rights organization, sides with PETA on the issue of animal testing. According to their official website, the organization agrees with PETA in the shared statement that they would like cosmetic companies to find different methods to ensure the safe use of cosmetic products by humans. On the other side of the issue, Cover Girl believes that animal testing is necessary to make sure that their products are safe for their customers to use. The FDA stands by Cover Girl as seen on their website. According to FDA.gov companies are liable for making sure their products are safe to use, if the company decides to go with animal testing that is alright as long as it is used to ensure the safety of human beings. Cover Girl has been in business since 1961. Cover Girl has always provided their customers with the safest cosmetic products. According to Cover official Facebook page, their mission statement is girl is a cover Cover Girl wants to provide their customers with the cosmetic products they need to be a Cover Girl does not enjoy participating in cruel methods of testing products on animals. If Cover Girl was shown a cheaper, faster, and more accurate method of ensuring the safety of the people who use their cosmetic products they would make the switch. Despite their different positions on the necessity of animal testing, both stakeholders want cosmetic products to be safe for human use. When the European commission added the 7 th amendment in 2009 to the cosmetics directive, banning animal testing researchers were given until 2013 to find an alternative process for ensuring safe cosmetic products, since there was uneasiness with the public on whether or not cosmetic products would be safe to use. Mentioned in an article covered by the Journal of Sustek 3 Consumer Protection And Food Safety, the research team found a splendid solution to the problem which is vitro testing. Vitro testing is a solution that is beneficial to both stakeholders. Not only does vitro testing replace the need to test on animals so they no longer are harmed, but it is also a more cost-efficient and accurate way to test a safety for human use. Vitro testing is viewed as a superior alternative to animal testing in every way in an article written by Pauline McNamee titled, A Tiered Approach To The Use Of Alternatives To Animal Testing For The Safety Assessment Of Cosmetics: Eye  The article goes over in depth different alternatives to animal testing, the best alternative to animal testing being vitro testing. Testing cosmetic products on animals has proven itself to be a terrible candidate for a procedure to ensure human safety when using cosmetic products. Animal testing takes longer to get results than vitro testing. Vitro testing can determine results much faster at a cheaper cost and no sentient beings are harmed in the process. According to the humane society a vitro test can determine results for a chemical corrosivity test as quickly as three minutes, but typically take hours to days to determine results. Compare that to the speed of animal testing which can take months to years with the quickest results taking weeks to obtain (humanesociety.org). The benefits of vitro testing could be reaped by both stakeholders in this sense. Cover Girl would take less time to develop cosmetic products and PETA would be glad to see that no sentient beings are harmed in the process, all the while cosmetic products are tested for safe human use more efficiently which is a positive for both stakeholders. Not only does animal testing take longer to acquire results, it is also much more expensive. According to all-creatures.org the cost comparisons of animal tests and vitro Sustek 4 tests for skin corrosivity are $1,800 per assay and $725 per assay, respectively. The cost comparison for genotoxicity, which are tests that show if the substance is toxic to deoxyribonucleic acid, otherwise known as DNA, shows animal tests of chromosomal aberration, or when there is an abnormality of structure or quantity of chromosomes, costs $30,000 per assay where the alternative vitro test is two thirds of the cost at $20,000 per assay. Tests of sister chromatid exchange have animal testing at $22,000 per assay where the vitro alternative test is almost a third of the cost at $8,000 per assay. Tests of unscheduled DNA synthesis are a similar proportion to that of the sister chromatid exchange tests marking animal testing at $32,000 per assay and vitro alternative tests at $11,000 per assay. The cost comparison for pyrogenicity, which is defined as whether the substance causes fever, put animal tests at $400 per assay and vitro test alternatives at $110 per assay, a mere fourth of the cost of animal testing (all-creatures.org). These numbers clearly show that vitro alternative tests are in the best interest of both organizations like PETA and cosmetic companies such as Cover Girl. If Cover Girl spends less money on testing their products to make sure they are safe for human use they can dedicate more resources to providing more product for their customers. Alternative vitro testing is more accurate than animal testing in determining if cosmetic products are safe for human use. The biology of hamsters, monkeys, rabbits, guinea pigs, and mice, common animals used for animal testing, are much different to that of humans. Some products tested on these animals may show results of being safe for the animals, but then have fatal effects on humans. For example, in a study discussed by the New England Anti-Vivisection Society, or NEAVS, where they used animal testing to find if glass fibers were harmful to humans, the experiment showed that the glass fibers Sustek 5 were safe. However, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, have determined the fibers were carcinogenic, or contain cancer causing particles (neavs.org). Vitro testing uses human cell cultures or human tissue samples which offer much more precise results since it tests to see how the product effects human biology as opposed to somewhat similar biology of certain animals. Animal testing only flawed in biological terms but there are also environmental factors that can play a role with the results. For example, the animals could react negatively to a product simply because of the stress caused by having tests done to the animal. According to vivisection.org, vitro testing is done in a controlled environment that is a test tube. Controlled environments offer more precise results because there are no outside factors or confounding variables that can alter or invalidate the results of the experiment. Vitro testing alternatives again prove to be the better option for both stakeholders. Cosmetic companies like Cover Girl could benefit from using vitro testing alternatives because if the company decides on using animal testing and the results show that the product is safe for human use but then it is later found that the product is carcinogenic or otherwise fatal to humans, that company could have a class action law suit on their hands which could potentially force the company to cease doing business. There would also be an abundance of legal fees the company would have to pay on top of that they would have to hire a public relations firm to manage the incident if the company wishes to continue business and not ruin its reputation. All of these potential consequences can be avoided simply by deciding to use vitro alternative tests as opposed to animal testing. In culmination, the conflict between cosmetic companies like Cover Girl and organizations like PETA could be solved by replacing animal testing to ensure human Sustek 6 safety when using cosmetic products with alternative vitro testing. Vitro testing offers a lot of benefits that animal testing cannot. Vitro testing can obtain results exponentially faster than animal testing. Vitro testing is a fraction of the cost of animal testing, making it a much better candidate for companies. Vitro testing delivers more accurate results than animal testing since it is done in the controlled environment of a test tube. Lastly, vitro testing is cruelty-free, so no sentient beings are harmed in the process of ensuring safe use of cosmetic products for humans. The advantages of alternative vitro testing are clear and plentiful in every aspect over animal testing. Both stakeholders PETA and Cover Girl can only gain from the employment of vitro testing in place of animal testing. Sustek 7 Work Cited test time the humane society, 19 Oct. 2016, Accessed 26 January 2017. The humane society is stating the fact that vitro alternative testing is obtains results from experiments faster than animal testing obtains results from experiments and backing it up with hard numbers. On this web page the humane society shows how the importance of time efficiency matters when deciding if the company should choose between animal testing, alternative vitro testing, or any other alternative method to test if a cosmetic product is safe for human use. On the web page the humane society gives specific quantitative figures showing exactly how much faster the process of vitro alternative testing is compared to the process of animal testing. The Humane Society is a non-profit organization that is against animal cruelty and pushes for an end to cruel actions taken upon animals or other sentient beings. The Humane Society was established in 1954 and is a current organization. The Humane Society is responsible for the creation of some federal legislation such as the humane methods of slaughter act. The Humane Society has a long history in association with animal rights and cruel actions against animals. The Humane Society is also recognized on a federal level which is plenty of merit to establish the organizations credibility. testing cost All-creatures, Jan. 2007, www.all-creatures.org/articles/ar-alt- compar.html. Accessed 25 January 2017. All-creature.org states the statistical figures of the cost differences between animal testing and vitro alternative testing. The web page elaborates on significant the differences of the Sustek 8 costs between the process of animal testing and the process of vitro alternative testing are and the web page shows what ways the companies that choose to use animal testing as opposed to vitro alternative testing could use the saved money to better their business for example they could use the money to develop more cosmetic products for their customers. The web page also shows how both organizations against animal testing and cosmetic product companies can benefit from switching to vitro alternative testing from animal testing since it is the obvious choice between animal testing and vitro testing being that vitro testing a fraction of the cost of animal testing All creatures organization is a dedicated organization that pushes cosmetic companies to pursue more humane testing methods such as the vitro alternative testing method. The web page is kept up to date with all of the statistics and information by the founder of the organization whose occupation is a biologist. Since the administrator of the web page is a professional scientist the information is all gathered from credible sources and therefore is credible itself. up animal Food and Drug Administration, 5 Apr. 2015, http://www.fda.gov/cosmetics/scienceresearch/producttesting/ucm072268.htm. Accessed 12 February 2017. New England Anti-Vivisection Society, 12 Dec. 2016, www.neavs.org/alternatives/in-testing. Accessed 26 January 2017. The New England Anti-Vivisection Society state on this web page that there are differences in the biology of the animals used in the process of animal testing and the biology of human beings. This web pages goes on to show the importance of understanding this fact by stating that some products that may result as safe to use for Sustek 9 human through animal testing may not be safe to use for humans because the animals can react differently to the products than how humans would react to the cosmetic products since the biological factors vary between species. The web page goes on to show that given this information it would be smarter to use a process based on human biology such as vitro alternative testing. The New England Anti-Vivisection society is a non-profit organization focusing on animal protection founded over a hundred years ago in 1895. The New England Anti-Vivisection society was responsible for ending use of chimpanzees in invasive biomedical research. The organization has a rich history of finding alternative humane methods of research. The higher ups of the organization all have received a degree or higher. The organization web page is always kept up to date and heavily monitored to ensure accurate information is being provided by the website. environments of Vivisectioninfo, 3 Mar. 2015, Accessed 25 January 2017. The vivisection info web page provides insight on how there could be other environmental factors or confounding variables that contribute to the results from animal testing such as stress levels of the different animals. The web page also shows that process of vitro alternative testing is done in a controlled environment like a test tube where they take into account confounding variables and environmental factors and make sure the results are not effected by outside influences. The web page shows how the assurance of no outside influence is important because it could mean that the company is establishing a causal relationship between the product and the animals reaction when the cause of the animals reaction could have been from some other influence so by using a Sustek 10 controlled environment the company is eliminating the risk of determining a false causal relationship.Vivisectioninfo.org is a web page created by a research team that dedicates work to find experimental methods that are one hundred percent humane. Each and every member of the research team that provides information for the web page is a professional scientist. Some of the scientists on the research team were members of the team that contributed to the development of the vitro alternative testing method. Girl misson cover girl, 25 Jan. 2017, https://www.facebook.com/pg/covergirlcosmetics/about/. Accessed 25 January 2017. McNamee, Pauline, et al. A Tiered Approach To The Use Of Alternatives To Animal Testing For The Safety Assessment Of Cosmetics: Eye  Regulatory Toxicology And Pharmacology 54.(2009): 197-209. ScienceDirect. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Safe Cosmetics Without Animal Testing? Contributions Of The EU Project  Journal Fur Verbraucherschutz Und Lebensmittelsicherheit-Journal Of Consumer Protection And Food Safety suppl. 2 (2009): 41. SwePub. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. is vitro PETA, 21 Oct. 2011, www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for- experimentation/alternatives-animal-testing/. Accessed 27 January 2017. On this web page PETA explains what vitro alternative testing is and how the process of the test works. The web page covers everything from what materials are involved in the testing process, how long the process typically takes, how much the testing process costs, and the availability of the materials needed for the vitro alternative testing process. PETA shows on their web page the amount of scientific research and backing of the vitro alternative testing process has an abundance of more reliability than that of animal testing it is shown that the vitro testing process is the animal testing superior in every Sustek 11 aspect.People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals or PETA is an international nom- profit organization that fights for the rights of animals. PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world. PETA is responsible for the passing of the Animal Welfare Act in 1985. One of four core focuses is on animal testing to which they have done extensive research on and have a plethora of knowledge about. PETA must stay informed on current issues associated with animal rights so the organization is always up to date with their statistics in order to properly fight for animal rights