Shayhorn 1 Zachary Shayhorn Maria Theodosiou ENC 1012 Comp II February 13, 2017 Mass Surveillance in the United States In the United States, there are a multitude of government agencies that practice mass surveillance of the everyday citizen for national security purposes. Many citizens, however, see this as a great affront to their right to privacy. The National Security Agency is a fore runner in mass surveillance and continuously gather information on all United States citizens in order to determine possible national security threats. They believe that because they do not use the information gathered for malice unless an attack is planed that they should have the ability to spy unhindered so that they have the greatest possible chance to stop threats before they happen. Many citizens based organizations, such as Stand Against Spying, understand that it is not the intent to misuse the information they gather but still consider it a breach of our right as citizens to a certain level of privacy, especially when the watched citizens are not informed that they are being watched. They also believe that because all of this information is gathered into a single point it is too easy for an ill wishing person to use the information for their own purposes. A feasible compromise between these two side would be to place restrictions on the NSA to limit their power and have the citizen organizations bring awareness and action to the American people of the possible threats to the nation and how they can personally assist in the endeavor. The National Security Agency, NSA for short, is the government agency charged with protection of the United States communications and other information systems against any and Shayhorn 2 all attempts to of network warfare. The NSA has a hand in almost everything related to the internet and general technology including the obvious cybersecurity and other general protection of government communications but also the less obvious information gathering of both domestic and foreign sources (NSA). The surveillance is a major reason that the NSA is seen as such a large threat to citizen rights. The main focus of NSA surveillance is domestic, targeting possible threats from within the United States. While the goal is to find, and stop potential domestic terrorists including any and all radical extremists and because and extremist groups today use the power of the Internet, especially social media, to spread their messages of hate and intolerance, and to recruit new the NSA needs to be able to track all communications between the citizen body in order to properly stop these threats (NSA). While it does seem a bit farfetched, the NSA actually does collect information from all possible sources about the citizen population and does run this information through a program designed to sort through and find probable security issues. This, of course, is made to keep us safe from any harm that may fall upon us. This type of surveillance is an instance of what Bryce Clayton Newell in his article Massive Metadata Machine: Liberty, Power, and Secret Mass Surveillance in the U.S. and calls positive liberty, because regular citizens are not being hounded or coerced out of our rights (Newell 508). This positive liberty is, according to Newell, exactly what need to keep the citizen body safe while preserving freedom and dignity. However, citizen organizations such as Stand Against Spying and its sister groups such as Stop Watching Us believe that this is not the case, and that the that sweeps up the communications of millions of people violates the US Constitution and international and privacy and the freedom of (Stand Against Spying). This stakeholder would consider what the NSA is doing a negative liberty because by doing this they are taking freedom Shayhorn 3 away from its citizens in a largely nonconstructive manor and ever so slightly turning the citizens into subjects. In the paper Surveillance of Personal Data by EU Member States and Its Compatibility with EU Didier Bigo et al make the point that although surveillance agencies that surveillance has been strictly limited to counterterrorism operations and that surveillance took place on a small they do not deny that to obtain this information the agencies had to the entirety of the citizen body thus is a breach of trust and confidence in terms of believed (Bigo et al 14). The goal of Stand Against Spying is to spread the relevance and intrusion of mass surveillance as well as broadcast what congressmen are currently part of the movement against mass surveillance and who are for it. Their sister groups also conduct rallies and conventions to educate the people on what government agencies like the NSA can see and how to stand against their spying. Both of these stakeholders have fairly obvious and distinctly opposing opinions on the topic of mass government surveillance and unfortunately there is little common ground to be explored. However, both organizations wish to sustain the dignity of USA citizens. The NSA only wishes to keep us safe and feeling safe without the worry of a government agency looking over their shoulders. The SAS also wants to keep dignity intact, only through a more direct method. Fortunately, neither of these stakeholders are completely averse to a compromise or integration of the ideals, this will make finding a compromise that will suit both of them much easier than if it was all or nothing. The NSA wants to retain the lawful freedom to spy on those they wish in order to keep the peace and Stand Against Spying does not want to completely cripple the NSA but they want to limit the ease in which the NSA sees something at any given moment and the secrecy in which they do it. Shayhorn 4 Considering both stakeholders are fairly lenient on most of their ideals, as shown in the willingness to be transparent and SAS not as radical anti-surveillance bills that have passed through Congress, the compromise can be implemented with ease. Firstly, one must address the NSA and the abundance of operating freedom it has. Currently the NSA is only reined in by the Church Committee Review, which has been more or less inactive for the last half century. This organization existed for the sole purpose of keeping the various government agencies such as the NSA, CIA and the like from getting out of hand with their unchecked power, reporting all abuse of this power to Congress for corrections. However, this group has not been active for a fairly long time and the NSA has had no serious contenders to deal with that solely look into the balance of this agencies. This Church Committee Review must be reformed/resurged and given more power to ensure that the NSA does not misuse the information they gather through mass surveillance as well as their freedom to spy on anyone. Though the NSA considers itself more must be done to increase the transparency of the agency such as notifying those who are under specific watch. This notification does not have to be directly sent to them it just has to be in an area where the persons can see the information if they wish to look. This notification would include what the NSA monitors such as cell phones, computer history and credit card transactions. This is all designed to preserve the right to privacy and some dignity while at the same time letting the NSA continue its search for possible digital and physical terrorists. Stand Against Spying and the other organizations it represents must also play their part in this compromise by creating a movement as movement is the beginning of all (Huey 5). The major problem of any movement is the of advocates to articulate a message that resonates with a wider and then a convincing argument that the masses Shayhorn 5 will wish to act (Huey 4). To create a movement SAS will have to inform the population of what the NSA combats and begin training the population to combat possible smaller issues such as mass hacking that the NSA is designed to stop. If SAS and its sister orginizations were able to teach citizens how to protect their individual internet then it would provide a reason for action as well as let the NSA focus solely on locating terrorism and large scale hacking, limiting their need to spy on the masses. To perform these teachings and information outlets SAS and other citizen groups would need to use the money they are gathering to combat mass spying and place it to use doing the above actions. If citizens can all protect their parts of the internet and therefore limit smaller hackers than the NSA can focus on larger scale hackers and terrorists in its information gathering and would not have nearly as much of a need to perform the mass spying that it is currently doing; of course, the restrictions to the NSA will also prevent it from the surveillance even if they wanted to. With this compromise, SAS would not get its complete destruction of mass surveillance instead have to settle for a large limiting to mass spying, the NSA would also lose some because they would have to jump through many more hoops prior to being able to spy on someone. If this compromise is followed it is obvious that the NSA will always want to rise to their former glory in the name of citizen protection. This is just as there will almost certainly always be citizen organizations, such as SAS, that aim to completely destroy the use of mass surveillance in fear that it is breaching their privacy. However, if the Church Committee Review is reinstated and reinvigorated then the NSA will never be able to display the nearly godlike omnipotence of its citizenry that is so feared. This must also be backed by successful movement created by SAS goal is to inform citizens and to train them to protect the internet from hackers and the like so that the NSA will not have the need to monitor everyone. Shayhorn 6 Word count: 1679 Works Cited Stand Against Spying A citizen run organization that is built to monitor the political issue of mass surveillance of the American people and has been running since 2013. They are against the government ability to spy upon its citizens and keep record of those in Congress who oppose the issue. They also have various sister sites that organize marches and petitions to end mass surveillance. Security www.nsa.gov The government ran organization of the National Security Agency has operated since November 4, 1952. The goal of this department is to keep up to date intelligence on those who wish to do the United States harm in any way. As an organization they believe that they must retain the ability of mass surveillance in order to accomplish their motto and keep the US safe from all enemies. Huey, Laura. A Social Movement For Privacy/Against Surveillance? Some Difficulties In Engendering Mass Resistance In A Land Of Twitter And  Case Western Reserve Journal Of International Law 42.3 (2010): 699-709. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Laura Huey is currently an associate professor at the University of Western Ontario with a PhD in Sociology. She is also a senior member of many different social monitoring and Evidence Based Policing groups across Canada, the United States and the United Shayhorn 7 Kingdoms. The Case Western Reserve Journal of International Law has existed since 1968 and is considered a major authority on all things associated with law and reform, including social reform. JIL is published from Case Western Reserve University. This source will greatly aid the paper because it directly suggested the possibility of a social movement to create awareness of mass surveillance and how a balance may be achieved between spying and a blackout. Newell, Bryce Clayton. Massive Metadata Machine: Liberty, Power, and Secret Mass Surveillance in the U.S. and I/S: A Journal of Law and Policy for the Information Society 10(2),481-522 (2014) Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Bryce Clayton Newell graduated from the University of Washington with a doctorate in Information Sciences and current works as a post-doctoral researcher in the Tilburg Institute for Law, Technology, and Society. The journal is an interdisciplinary journal of research and commentary concentrating on the intersection of law, policy, and information technology and was formed from the corporation between the Moritz College of Law at Ohio State University and Carnegie Mellon H.J. Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management, both highly regarded institutions in their respective fields. This source will aid the paper by showing the validity of the side of the argument and how they do not overstep and boundaries laid out for them. Bigo, Didier et al. Surveillance of Personal Data by EU Member States and Its Compatibility with EU Liberty and Security in Europe Papers 61 1-65 (2013) Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Shayhorn 8 Six of the seven authors have doctorates in fields such as communication, international law, and European policy studies. The majority of the authors all belong to the CEPS which was founded in Brussels in 1983, CEPS is self-described leading think tank and forum for debate on EU affairs, with an exceptionally strong in-house research capacity and an extensive network of partner institutes throughout the world. This source will help assess the validity of the stakeholders against the use of mass surveillance in any government.