Robert Traitz Professor Mariama 3/2/2017 ENC 1102 Students for Concealed Carry: Visual Rhetoric The right to bear arms is one of most coveted constitutional rights. In Florida, over 1 million citizens have obtained concealed carry licenses, which some believe has contributed to a 30% decrease in violent crime since 2013. Many concealed handgun owners believe that the right to carry their firearm for protection should not be infringed upon or restricted to certain locations. Concealed carry of guns on college campuses is one of most fervently debated topics to date. One of the driving forces behind the push to allow campus carry is Students for Concealed Carry. This organization is made up of students, teachers, faculty, and concerned citizens who believe that people who hold legal concealed carry handgun licenses should be able to defend themselves anywhere, especially on their school campus. Organizations like SCC lobby for their cause using written and visual arguments. The images they utilize include a photo of three students partaking in an open holster protest and a poster referencing the vast amount of threats facing a college campus today and how little a college can actually do to prevent them all. Students for Concealed Carry supports their argument to citizens and legislators that campus carry will improve safety and security at colleges through two pieces of visual rhetoric that connect the human right to self-defense with the benefits of a responsibly armed collegiate community. Students for Concealed Carry was established by college students who hold state-issued concealed carry permits but are not allowed to exercise their right to self-defense on their campus. This motivated them to form SCC and advocate for changes in campus carry policy across the US. SCC is non-partisan and holds no affiliation to the NRA or any political party, their goal is simply to persuade legislators to allow legal carry at colleges and universities. Another objective of SCC is to dispel common misconceptions about concealed carry and educate the public on the facts of the matter through written and visual arguments (Zalneraitis, 2012). In 2012, the SCC achieved a victory in Colorado in the University of Colorado Board of Regents v. Students for Concealed Carry case. SCC proved to a Colorado appeals court that a campus firearm ban violated both the Colorado Concealed Carry Act and the Colorado State right to bear arms. This victory echoed throughout the nation and gave SCC the momentum they needed to make progress in political battlegrounds in Florida and Texas, two of the major states where campus carry is being debated heavily. One of the most recent and notable actions by SCC is the organization of empty holster protests at schools across the country. One of the protests, and the students taking part in it, is one of the examples of use of visual rhetoric. The first example of visual rhetoric employed by the SCC is a photo of students at the University of Kentucky participating in an open holster protest (Burnett, 2012). This image shows three UK students brandishing their empty handgun holsters while protesting college gun bans. The purpose of these protests is to unite college students and staff who want the ability to concealed carry on their campuses. In 2016, these protests took place at schools throughout Florida, where the debate over campus carry has been heating up. This image aims to show the positive, safe atmosphere surrounding those who support campus carry. The presence of both male and female students illustrates that the desire to be armed for defense on campus is not a male dominated emotion. Both men and women who have concealed handgun licenses want to protect themselves when on campus. The students are smiling and appear proud to defend their right bear arms on campus, which conveys that students will feel more empowered, confident, and safe if given the ability to protect themselves while at school. This rhetorical appeal connects to the backdrop to which this picture was taken. The sun is shining down on the students with green trees and a blue sky behind them. Even if the holsters were not visible, one would still receive a positive vibe from the setting of this photo. The intended audience this image wants to reach is the American public as well as legislators and policy makers, specifically those in college or those with family members in college. In addition to the open holster protest photo, Students for concealed carry uses another example of visual rhetoric to rally support for their cause. This example is a banner that reads, ALL THE WHICH ONE DO COLLEGES In the background, scattered around the banner, are different threats and attacks that have occurred on or against college campuses in the past. This image captures a sense of realism by including headlines from various tragedies like, Dead in College Student who shot classmates still at 33 dead in Virginia School shooter kills 12 wounds Center stage on the banner is the headline, with gun thwarts This headline is emboldened a little and place amongst the other headlines. This brings attention to a time when an armed student foiled an attack. Also, being the only positive headline on the banner, the message is conveyed that more guns on campus could result in more foiled attacks. In terms of subliminal appeals, this rhetorical image is primarily red in color personifying the topic as evil or bloody. Additionally, the banner utilizes large, bold writing to convey a sense of urgency. Attacks on college campuses are a very real and current threat, and the message of the banner is that college staff alone cannot fully eliminate any one of these dangerous occurrences from happening. All factors combined, this example of visual rhetoric used by the SCC present a strong, urgent message that threats to colleges are looming everywhere and college staff alone are not equipped to stop it all. It is also up to students to defend themselves and others while at school. In conclusion, Students for Concealed Carry utilizes these two pieces of visual rhetoric to advocate for concealed carry rights on college campuses that will result in safer campuses and less attacks. This organization looks to make political change using factual evidence and emotional rhetoric to make college campuses safer. Their images appeal to the sense of urgency and importance around the topic and provide a glimpse at the people whose lives campus carry could one day save. Bibliography Burnett, David. Carry on College  USCCA-Concealed Carry Self Defense Insurance & CCW Info. N.p., 04 Oct. 2012. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Mulhere, Kaitlin. Push for Concealed Guns on Campuses Is Gaining  Push for Concealed Guns on Campuses Is Gaining Steam. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Unknown. Regents of the University of Colorado v. Students for Concealed Carry on  Justia Law. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Zalneraitis, Zachary. Florida Students for Concealed  Florida Students for Concealed Carry RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017.