McClure 1 Sydney McClure Maria Theodosiou Composition II January 31, 2017 STEM to STEAM In T.J article, Engaging Students In STEM he states, term refers to teaching and learning in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and (246-247). Recently, there has been a debate about adding art into the STEM program to reform it into STEAM. One of the stakeholders that is for integrating art into STEAM is the Rhode Island School of Design, also known as RISD. On the other side, we have the Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST). PCAST is only focused on STEM education itself and how to integrate more STEM programs into the school system. While we have one side only focused on STEM, and the other side focused on integrating STEAM, it is clear that the best compromise that both sides would agree on is to create a trial run by making summer camps, classes, or workshops to see just how adding art into STEM can affect student growth. The first stakeholder is the Rhode Island School of Design (RISD). They want to integrate art into the STEM program to reform it into STEAM. According to the RISD website, goal is to foster the true innovation that comes with combining the mind of a scientist or technologist with that of an artist or (RISD). John Maeda, the President of the Rhode Island School of Design, has been arguing that an for art needs to be added to turn STEM into STEAM because the challenges the next generation faces will demand creative solutions that STEM cannot do alone McClure 2 (Maeda). Art is all about creativity and opening the mind to see complex ideas that can be hidden from plain sight. To support this theory, Ralph article Teaching The Arts Across The Curriculum: Meanings, Policy And  states that also suggests that through an arts process, creative connections can be developed that are at the heart of cognitive (2). This quote shows that art can impact the mind in ways that most people realize. Maeda supports this when he states, creates the innovative products and solutions that will propel our economy forward, and artists ask the deep questions about humanity that reveal which way forward actually (Maeda). This kind of mindset is what students needs to grow and get a step forward in the world. As the economy and society change, the curriculum needs to change with it. STEM programs have recently been in high demand. As Nancy Dejarnette states, need for professionals in the fields of Science and Technology fields in the United States has seen steady growth over the past (181). Because of this, there has been a greater emphasis on STEM education. There are many benefits that art has to offer the world and to STEM, but in report to the president, they only talk about STEM and never mention art anywhere (Holdren). PCAST, is an advisory group of the leading scientists and engineers appointed by the President to make advice about the scientific and technological world available to him from inside the White House (Holdren 4). John Holdren, the Director of PCAST, mentioned in the report to the President, need for STEM knowledge extends to all Americans. The products of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics play a substantial and growing role in the lives of all (25). When Holdren mentioned that STEM is a growing role, he was talking about jobs. why helping to improve these programs is important to our society today. These two stakeholders are so passionate about their standings that they refuse to see that they both have some common ground with each other. Both PCAST and RISD agree that an improved McClure 3 curriculum will better prepare students for the world. The only problem is that there are different viewpoints on how to change the curriculum and what that change can do. Buck even states that, promoting across the could become creative thinkers going forward in the 21st century [and able to meet the challenges of an ever-changing (2). belief coincides with RISD because they both believe that promoting art can help boost student growth. On the other hand, there is the combined belief between PCAST and Nancy Dejarnette when she states that, students are engaged in STEM activities, they will also gain experience with 21 st Century skills such as critical thinking, collaboration and communication that will help prepare them to compete on the global (186). Both statements involve the fact that with a changed curriculum, the experiences that people gain will benefit them in the 21 st century. Considering the fact that both of these stakeholders have a common ground, it makes it easier to come up with a compromise that they both could agree on. It would be hard for PCAST and RISD to have their way and make each other happy. So, each one of them will have to give something up in order to gain something. However, because of this, it can help create a new program that could change education. Kennedy mentions that in the report PCAST prepared for the president, they provided some strategies for improving K-12 STEM education. To go along side strategy, Dejarnette even stated that, summer camps, classes, and workshops for elementary students to experience hands-on scientific inquiry and technological design activities will engage young learners with STEM disciplines and content that they might not otherwise (186). Developing summer camps and other experiences are great ideas, but instead of making it only focused on STEM, they could add art into it. Of course, PCAST agree to adding art into STEM. Therefore, a good compromise is to make a couple of McClure 4 camps and add art into them as a trial run to see how adding art effects the STEM organization. This way PCAST gets to keep STEM for the time being and RISD gets to show that art has the potential to benefit STEM. Something that could make these camps attractive towards parents is the fact that not only will their children learn all the STEAM subjects, but they will have fun as well. Each day they can be taught a different subject. For example, Monday could be science, Tuesday could be math, Wednesday could be engineering, Thursday could be different forms of art (i.e., painting, singing, dancing, designing, etc.), and Friday could be technology based classes. At the end of the days, and on weekends, the kids could get free time and have what summer camps are supposed to have; fun activities that kids can engage in. Having the classes spread out can make it easier on the kids and still give them free time to play with their friends. If the trial turns for the good, then PCAST might be willing to add art to STEM. If this were to happen, it would make goal come true. Of course, adding art into STEM be easy. Both PCAST and RISD would have to raise money and awareness for their new program. If they are both willing to put in the work and effort, they might realize that their goals to improve student growth are very similar. Although the STEM program has kept itself going for so long, a good time to initiate a change. There are many ways that art can help improve STEM and still make both sides happy. Since PCAST might not be completely for adding art, it makes sense to have a trial run to see how everything goes. Having a summer camp, some classes, and a workshop are great ways to test the waters. Since STEM already has a lot of supporters, getting the money for these camps, classes, and workshops be too hard. Using these other foundations and organizations to help open these camps can benefit the future. Opening these extra classes can give more students an education in the subjects involved in STEAM. If STEM and art can boost student growth separately, imagine McClure 5 what they can do together. Both sides make compelling cases for why their views are the most important. However, if they could get a chance to see what would happen if they were to work together, they might realize that helping each other and joining forces could improve student growth and possibly boost the economy in the future. McClure 6 Works Cited Buck, Ralph, and Barbara Snook. Teaching The Arts Across The Curriculum: Meanings,Policy And  International Journal Of Education & The Arts 17.29-32 (2016): 1-21. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Ralph Buck is a reliable source because, not only has he won three different awards, but he has also written more than eight papers. He is a principal investigator with the Centre for Brain Research and he is involved with five other research topics as well. This article helps shape my compromise because it provides the ways that art can be beneficially to people and other subjects in school. The goal of this article is to show just how important art education is when it comes to school. Since it was mentioned that art can help other subjects, it helps support my cause that adding art into STEM can also benefit the STEM program while presenting more attention to art. Dejarnette, Nancy K. Children: Providing Early Exposure To Stem (Science, Technology, Engineering And Math)  Reading Improvement 53.4 (2016): 181 187. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 17 Jan. 2017. Nancy Dejarnette is a professor at the University of Bridgeport and has written seven articles. This source is important to my research because besides the fact that it gives me information about STEM, it has a bunch of quotes that goes along with my compromise perfectly. This quote will help boost my compromise and prove why my compromise can help benefit both of my stakeholders. Holdren, John P., and Eric Lander. to the President Engage to Excel: Producing One Million Additional College Graduates With Degrees In Science, Technology, Engineering, McClure 7 and Executive Office of the President: Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (2012): 1-130. Web. 18 Jan. 2017. Besides being the director to PCAST for eight years, John Holdren has also taught at Harvard for thirteen years and the University of California for more than twenty years. He has a lot of experience which makes him a reliable source. This source is important because it is written by my stakeholder and it gives all the information about their side of their argument on how STEM education is more important that anything else since it is causing more of an impact on our economy than it used to. Because this source is written by one of my stakeholders, it holds higher importance than the rest of my sources. Kennedy, T. J, and M. R.L, Odell. Engaging Students In STEM  Science Education International 25.3 (2014): 246-258. Education Source. Web. 17 Jan. 2017 Michael Odell is a reliable source because the Vice President for Research and Technology Transfer and the Director of Federal Relations for the University of Texas. This source is important because it gave me ideas on different compromises that I could use and it connected to one of my stakeholders. Besides the face that it helps with my compromise, it also gave me information that is vital to backing up one of my stakeholders to show why STEM is important, while leaving room to show why art is also important. Maeda, John. STEM to STEAM: Art in K-12 Is Key to Building a Strong  Edutopia, 02 Oct. 2012. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. John Maeda was a Professor at the MIT Media Lab for 12 years, and then he became the President of the Rhode Island School of Design. This article is related to my research because not only written by the President of RISD, which is one of my stakeholders, McClure 8 but it also discusses why art is so important. Maeda gives a lot of information that shines a light on art and all the good that comes with it. Rhode Island School of Design  Rhode Island School of Design RISD. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. <http://www.risd.edu/>. This website discusses that the STEM to STEAM organization is a RISD-led initiative to add art and design into STEM to create STEAM. They were founded in 1877 and their goal is to foster the true innovation that comes with combining the mind of a scientist or technologist with that of an artist or designer. This source fits into my research because it helps add the point of view of why art is important and why it should become STEAM. It points out one side of the disagreement, but it also helps boost my compromise.