Jacobson 1 Taylor Jacobson Maria Theodosiou ENC1102-050 15 February 2017 A Compromise Between NCAA & CAPA on Paying College Athletes One of the biggest debates among recent news in sports revolves around a seemingly simple topic: paying college athletes. Paying them seems fair because of how much revenue they bring in for big sports companies but even so, it is argued that they are amateur athletes also receiving a college education. Two specific organizations involved in the conflict both care for the athletes, and their mission statements reflect this. One organization that most people are aware of is the National Collegiate Athletic Association (or the NCAA), and they are advocating for athletes to remain amateurs, without payment. College Athletes Players Association is another organization that believes that college athletes should be paid salaries for exploitation and broadcasting of these individuals (CAPA). Although these two organizations disagree on paying college athletes, because of their goals to do what is best for these individuals, they can reach an agreement on giving compensation to the players through better facilities and opportunities rather than salaries. The National Collegiate Athletic Association values the well-being of the athletes but does not want the players to be paid salaries. Despite having conflicting views, the NCAA has similar goals to CAPA, which include promoting inclusion and sense of community, respecting others despite differences, and developing leadership among athletes (NCAA). The main goal is to support to athletes so that they get the most out of their education, along with competition in sports. Because of this value, this organization argues that college athletes need to Jacobson 2 maintain amateur status an academic environment in which acquiring a quality education is the first (NCAA). Remaining an amateur in the sport would require zero salaries or payment toward the athletes, therefore the NCAA stubbornly refuses any argument for why college athletes should be paid. Paying them would be like treating the athletic environment like a job and the student-athletes like employees, even though the purpose is to get the athletes a degree and an education along with athletic success (Ridpath). Although compensation is desired, it is argued that college athletes already receive full scholarships to attend school. Universities give athletes the scholarships because of revenue that is brought in by sporting events and broadcasts. The NCAA values and emphasizes student-athletes getting a college degree, and receiving the scholarship money helps them to easily do that. Although athletes receive full scholarships for going to school, the NCAA would not go through the process of paying all athletes, because some would receive more than others, salaries would be complicated and unequal throughout college athletics, and amateurism would be diminished (Jackson). Therefore, the NCAA believes there is no simple way to pay college athletes. CAPA (College Athletes Players Association), an organization that is also athlete- centered, and focused on their success and well-being, believes that college athletes deserve more than what they are currently receiving. Some of biggest goals are to make each game fair and even, and protect the athletes physically, mentally, and economically (CAPA). They attempt to provide them with the resources that they deserve. To achieve these goals, CAPA run protests and events to promote their organization and to get the attention, since they are in control of most of the money flow (CAPA). The money the NCAA receives is kept to pay an excessive amount of money to coaches and other employees in the NCAA, and to distribute to companies televising or broadcasting college athletics (Cronk). Most college Jacobson 3 athletes have no choice in having their face and their name being presented on national television because the media wants to present stories about the athletes and the channels (ESPN, CBS, TNT, Fox Sports, etc.) want their audiences to be informed on the important players of each team. By designating the best players on the best teams, they can hand out awards, produce television shows and documentaries, and share dramatized stories to boost their ratings and their profit. Athletes are forced to spend their time answering the questions, going through photoshoots, and being branded all over the sports world. CAPA believes that because these productions scrape in billions of dollars, the NCAA should permit athletes to receive some of the profits made for utilizing their faces, names, and some of their personal information (CAPA). Even without the media hounding athletes for good stories or their quotes, CAPA believes that there is another problem associated with not paying college athletes. This organization uncovers that athletic revenues generate over the last several decades have been spent on excessive salaries and luxury athletic facilities while college athletes are denied basic (CAPA). Even players who have some degree of injury, whether a leg or a head injury, are encouraged to play because of revenue generated when important players are on the court or field (CAPA). According to this organization, paying college athletes is absolutely necessary for how much NCAA and sponsors exploit them (CAPA). As the years have passed, the NCAA has gradually decreased their focus on their values of protecting the athletes first; instead, money seems to be the primary goal. CAPA lives up to their values and goals for the most part, but does not realize the full consequences of abolishing the amateur status. While CAPA believes athletes need to be compensated for manipulation, NCAA disagrees, wanting to preserve amateurism. Before discussing a possible compromise between the two stakeholders in this controversial debate, there are common themes Jacobson 4 to be looked at through both organizations. Both of their overarching themes revolve around making life easier and better for the student-athlete. The NCAA wants athletes to not only succeed in their sport and school, but take away leadership and social skills from their time with the athletic program. They value a balanced effort between school and sports, and the scholarship money they receive helps them to do that (NCAA). CAPA also values succeeding in sport and academics, but highly emphasizes the athletic part of it. They both share common values and goals but emphasis on certain parts of the values separates them. The NCAA wants to preserve amateurism by not compensating for the athletes, therefore promoting college education as well. CAPA emphasizes protecting the athletes while playing their sport and encouraging that injuries and exploitations in the media are made up for through compensation. To resolve this issue or at least relieve some of the tension, compensation can be made possible. The proposal is that athletes receive compensation through the NCAA by using the money to better protect athletes while they injured and to improve amenities and opportunities for them. Although CAPA would not be completely content with athletes not receiving a salary, they still would receive extra benefits to keep them safe, healthy, and productive on and off the court (Berry III). The NCAA would have to release some of the money they make and give to other corporations to provide for the athletes. CAPA could also help raise money or gather support from all over the country to help keep the athletes protected and compensated. While the NCAA can still make a lot of money, the athletes need to come into consideration before anything else. They deserve the compensation of being treated in the best ways possible and being provided the best possible resources such as tutors to help further their education as the NCAA would like it. They would also accept the best possible athletic trainers, nutritionists, and sports psychologists to help further their athletic careers as CAPA would like it. Jacobson 5 The athletic trainers would be highly-trained professionals that would determine the readiness of an athlete to strongly and painlessly be able to play in a game. By doing this, the athletes would be protected, as CAPA would like the NCAA to improve upon. Nutritionists would suggest the best possible meals for athletes to eat, to improve their performance, and live a healthy lifestyle. Sports psychologists would ensure the mental capacity of the athlete would be at the best potential, they would improve the confidence in the athletes, whether they are injured or just lacking in their self esteem, and they would help create a healthy environment between teammates to advance chemistry and ultimate success (Root). Not only would this improve the college healthy lifestyle to do well in athletics and schoolwork, but it would provide more jobs. This would be done by decreasing the payments to big corporations by a small amount, and using that money to distribute a little more to the conferences. The conferences would use the extra money for their business and to evenly allocate to the universities. The purpose of giving more money to the universities is so that resourceful people can be hired, like trainers, psychologists, and nutritionists, as well as tutors to educate the students efficiently but also still allow for them to train for their sport. The facilities would not only include trained professionals to help the athletes create a healthy balance of sports and school, but would also include newer and updated equipment for workouts and practices (weights, basketballs, footballs, goals, etc.). The money would also provide for study rooms that are in a convenient area near the gyms and practice areas, equipped with tutors and technology. Each arena would have an athletic trainer office and sports psychologist office to be near to the athletes in case they are injured or need help through tough times. Jacobson 6 Along with better facilities and amenities, protections should be put into place for athletes. The NCAA needs to allow coaches, athletic trainers, and sports psychologists to decide (without the influence) if an athlete is ready to play in a game physically and mentally. After an injury, life event, or even just in everyday college life, athletes need to be checked on to make sure they are in a good state to do their schoolwork and to perform their sport. NCAA would want the players to play sooner than later, but CAPA would want the coaches protecting the athletes instead of being influenced by the NCAA. As well, these protections would contain payment of medical bills involving sports-related events, which is one of goals (CAPA). With better protected athletes, they will do better in school as well as in their sport, which aligns with goals from CAPA and the NCAA. This is a fairly attainable solution for the stakeholders to agree on, although money and business seem to be the first priority among sports currently. If the money put aside be distributed to accommodate all the changes explained above, the focus can just be on protecting the athletes and providing as much help as possible to keep them healthy and successful. There could be a rule implemented to limit the amount of encounters an athlete can have with the media, so that they can focus on schoolwork when they are not playing their sport in practice or in a game. The athletes still would not be paid and would retain amateur status as the NCAA would like, but also is not communicating with the media as much, like CAPA would prefer. CAPA still would not get the athletes salaries and the NCAA would receive lower profits without faces everywhere. But sacrifices must be made is both organizations want athletes to be able to succeed in schoolwork as well. Taking time away from the media would give them more time to do that. If the NCAA and CAPA re-evaluate their goals and work Jacobson 7 together, this compromise can be achieved in many different ways to aid the competitors of sports world. While paying college athletes seems like a huge dilemma between our two stakeholders, the NCAA and CAPA, the real issue stemming from this heated debate is caring and providing for the student-athletes of universities. Protecting them, providing for them, aiding them, and encouraging them helps fulfill both goals of doing what is best for college athletes. Whether or not college athletes should be paid are the two main sides in this conflict, but the two sides could be brought together by helping the athletes get a great education and athletic experience will help make up for how much money is brought in because of them. If distributing money for extensive resources is too complicated to implement, taking athletes away from the media could also release some tension in the argument, and allow for players to spend more time on school. Although NCAA may be missing out on profit and CAPA does not get the salaries for players, working together to create a better environment and improve well-being provides benefits for both organizations and most prominently, the athletes. WC: 2,100 Jacobson 8 Works Cited National Collegiate Athletic Association, ncaa.org/amateurism, last updated 2017. Web. 25 January 2017 The NCAA is an organization that was founded in 1906 and is centered around creating the opportunity for college players to be successful in their athletic event and academics. This source is crucial for my paper because the NCAA is one of the stakeholders, therefore their website provides important information for presenting one of the sides of the paying college athletes debate. Berry III, William W. Amateurism: Saving Intercollegiate Athletics through Conference-Athlete Revenue Alabama Law Review, vol. 68, 2, 2016, pp. 567-568 This article comes from a recent periodical on the debate of paying college athletes, and introduces both sides and comes up with a compromise. The author of the article is William W. Berry III. Berry is a scholar and a professor at University of Mississippi, who has written several articles for varieties of Law Journals. At U of Miss, he specifically teaches law involving criminals, employment, and sports. This article came from the Alabama Law Review, which published its first article in 1948. This article is useful for my project because it essentially uses a Rogerian Argument with my topic, which gave me ideas for not only both stakeholders but for the compromise as well. Cronk, Erin. Encroachment: Why the NCAA Must Compensate Student-Athletes For the Use of Their Names, Images, and University of La Verne Law Review, vol. 34, 2, 1 June 2013, p. 136 Jacobson 9 Cronk received her graduate degree from La Verne University for Law. She works as an assistant at CGC Law and specifically writes articles about the law and the NCAA. She is a young writer, just recently out of graduate school, so she does not have awards but has a lot of education involving law. This article is important for helping advocate for one of stakeholders in my debate, CAPA. Jackson, Scoop. Myth of ESPN, 12 September 2013, athletics.Web. Accessed 28 January 2017. Scoop Jackson attended Xavier University for undergraduate and received a Degree from Howard University from which he became a journalist, specifically for sports-based magazines and journals. He currently writes for ESPN on important issues in the sports world. ESPN has been around since 1979, and is responsible for broadcasting a wide variety of sports and includes articles and journals on their website. This source was essential for my essay because it was one of the few knowledgeable articles written advocating for the point of view in the paying college players debate. Ridpath, David B. NCAA Violates Antitrust Forbes, 30 September 2015, http://www.forbes.com/sites/bdavidridpath/2015/09/30/this-just-in-the-ncaa-violates-anti- trust-law/#62caca20194d. Web. 28 January 2017. The author, David Ridpath, has an Ed.D in Sports Administration and Faculty Management from Ohio State University, and currently works as a sports writer and professor in Sports Management for Ohio University. He wrote an article for Forbes website in the SportsMoney page. Forbes has been around for exactly a century and has Jacobson 10 been producing articles on businesses, sports, technology, and economics. article discusses the NCAA in depth, regarding their policies and faults, which helps both support and argue against the NCAA as one of my stakeholders. Root, Brian C. the Promises of Riches in Collegiate Athletics Lead to the Compromised Long-term Health of Student-athletes: Why and How the NCAA Should Protect Health Matrix: Journal of Law-Medicine, vol. 19, 1, 2009, pp. 37, 279-315 Brian Root is a student writer working towards a graduate degree. He has written several articles for medicine-based journals, including this one: Health Matrix. This journal has been around since 1993 and uses law and medicine to analyze issues in our society today. This journal comes from Case Western Reserve University law school. This journal helps provide another point of view and possible solution to the debate of paying college athletes or not. College Athletes Players Association, last updated 2017. http://www.collegeathletespa.org/what, last updated 2017. Web. 26 January 2017. CAPA is an organization focused on making college lives better. This is also a stakeholder in my paper, so it would be very useful to use this webpage in my sources. They also list their goals and motives, like the NCAA, and share a lot in common with the NCAA, despite being on opposite sides. Using this information will help distinguish one stakeholder from the other, and give more information on mission statement.