Jachimek 1 Ben Jachimek Kristin Gockinski ENC 1102.012 27 February 2017 Power Play: An Assessment of Energy Ad Campaigns Electricity is one of the most important parts of city infrastructure; it allows hospitals, police departments, and many other vital assets of society to properly function. Florida is known for its brutal storm seasons, and this creates a challenge for electric companies to restore power when it is lost in these hazardous conditions. The Florida Power and Light Company (FPL) works to yield affordable electricity to its many customers as well as constantly keep the lights on, even in the worst of storms. FPL is the largest power company in Florida, who provides service to over 10 million Floridians in areas from as far as Miami to Tampa. FPL uses two specific images to display how their company provides reliable and cheap energy. These images use well managed amounts of Logos, Ethos, Pathos, and Kairos to be considered effective advertising. FPL was founded in 1925 and has always been dedicated to give quality service to its customers. Through this ideology, they have grown into the largest power company in the state and can provide energy to millions. They built and own the two largest nuclear reactor sites in the state, which helps power the 10 million homes the company is responsible for. Their whole company revolves around producing clean, reliable energy at the lowest cost (FPL company profile 1). Jachimek 2 The first appeal to be examined in image one is ethos, an appeal to morality and authority. The use of unedited photography shows that FPL uses these photos to give an view of what their company does. This contrasts from other styles of advertisement which use heavily edited photos to convey a different rhetorical appeal. Ethos is also used in the text, when it is mentioned that is more than a what drives (FPL Advertising 1). This gives the company a sense of morality, saying that they are more than willing to help their customers. This in conjunction with having the FPL logo at the bottom gives a face to the campaign and an organization that can be trusted. Next, pathos is used in image one to elicit emotion and further lead the viewer to trust the organization. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that creates emotion within the viewer. The phrase for you, in good weather and gives the viewer a sense of comfort (FPL Advertising 1). This sense of trust and comfort will help the viewer to accept the facts and claims made within the advertisement without much thought. Another phrase, or shine, never stop working to bring you the most reliable helps to feed the sense of trust in the viewer as well (FPL Advertising 1). Image one relies heavily on Logos, for example how it makes the claim that Florida is the lightning capital of the world. Logos is a rhetorical appeal that uses statistics and logic to advance an argument or claims being made; which is used in image 1. Because of this, Floridians Image 1 Jachimek 3 would be prompted to want a more reliable energy source/provider to ensure their safety and energy needs. This helps set up the rest of the image which advertises speedy power line repair and quick power outage response. The following statistics draw back to this point as FPL mentions their increase in service (FPL Advertising 1). These examples of logos help tie the advertisement together by adding some concrete evidence to the many claims made by the company. Kairos is also used in image one, to create a sense of urgency within viewers and influence them to make hasty decisions. All statements, images, and rhetorical appeals merge together to first instill a sense that power loss is imminent. Then, they create a sense of trust in FPL to restore power quickly after lost. This gives the viewer the idea that they should switch to FPL before the next storm season if they want reliable energy, which is using Kairos to instill a sense of timeliness and haste. Image two relies on logos- the appeal to intelligence and logic. By comparing data, FPL manages to display that their pricing is dropping in an economy where all prices are rising. Then by predicting their prices to continue to drop it makes more of a point that switching to FPL is the smart thing to do. By appealing largely to the sense of intelligence it makes a very compelling argument. Image two also relies on Pathos, which is used modestly in this ad Pathos is an appeal to emotion and is shown only in the text of the ad. By speaking in second person, the text creates the idea that the company is working hard for you to keep prices low. By speaking directly to the reader in this voice it creates a sense that the company Image 2 Jachimek 4 cares about the individual. This sense of caring creates an effect of trust as well, which helps the reader not question the accuracy of the data being presented. The image also relies heavily on Kairos by showing increasing prices of necessities and the dropping price of electricity. FPL manages to create a sense of urgency for the reader to switch providers by doing this. This will compel the reader to make a hasty decision, which is exactly what the company is aiming for. Overall, image one primarily focuses on making the viewer anticipate power loss during the next storm, which is first done in the dark lighting of the photo. Certain facts discussed such as Florida being the lightning capital of the U.S. also helps the advertisement accomplish this sense of anticipation. Next, the ad focuses on giving the viewer a sense of support, which is done in discussing higher reliability rates and fast response times. Also by using certain words in the text, they use Pathos to further create a sense of support. Finally, the ad ties this all together with Kairos to give the viewer a sense of urgency once a sense of trust and imminent events have been established. All of this combines together to make the point that people need to switch to FPL before next storm season. Image case is a bit different- it first establishes the fact that prices everywhere are rising, then it boasts decreasing prices to show the stark contrast between FPL service and other items. This is to appeal to sense of frugality in a time where everyone is feeling the repercussions of the economic recession. This in combination with the sense of haste the ad develops impacts the viewer more and makes it more likely for the viewer to seriously consider changing providers. Adding the second person text helps to give the appearance that the company understands this financial struggle and that they are supportive of the public helps to make the advertisement very effective. Jachimek 5 As the largest energy provider in the state, FPL uses different styles of advertising which are filled with rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Although these ads are diverse, the images work together to make the effective campaign to save energy, money, and time by switching to FPL. This is to ensure that FPL can be on the forefront of the energy production sector and continue to provide electricity to the growing population. Jachimek 6 Works Cited FPL Advertising, www.fpl.com/news/pdf/reliability-print-english.pdf 25 Feb 2017 PR Newswire, www.fpl.com/news/pdf/reliability-print-english.pdf 24 Feb 2017 FPL www.fpl.com/about/company-profile.html 24 Feb 2017