James 1 Jivan James Professor Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.012 13 March 2017 Finding a Balance between Environment and Economy One of the biggest concerns of the human population is conservation of energy resources. This is a major problem due to the fact that consumption of non-renewable causes: resource depletion, climate change, ozone layer depletion, adverse effects on human and environment, and acid rain (Rinkesh 2). In order to find a solution to such a problem, Solar Energy Industries Association was founded. Their mission statement is to achieve equilibrium between environmental, and economic development needs in the form of solar energy 1). They are the driving force behind solar energy development through education and advocacy. Also SEIA is the official national trade association in the U.S, as they represent all other supporters and organizations which stand for the development of solar energy 1). The company strived to develop innovative, sustainable processes and products according to market requirements and make an economic source of renewable energy. SEIA then researched and developed efforts to cover the whole solar value chain. Currently, they use their website to support convincing households and organizations to trust them, using images with compelling design elements and rhetorical appeals to send the message that they will have the solution for depleting energy resources and raise awareness of the benefits of such methods. There are two easily accessible and ideal figures of how Solar Energy Industries Association effectively uses images to convey their position on renewable energy to their audience, which contain ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. James 2 Figure 1 makes use of various rhetorical appeals to connect with the intended audience. The first appeal seen in this image is or appeal to creditability, is authors attempt to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or authority (Lane 22). This is seen in the image in the bottom right corner of the advertisement. It is the logo which shows that the image was produced by them and not an illegitimate source. Also in the picture, there are solar panels, which shows one of products. Another rhetorical appeal seen in this image is or appeal to timeliness, is the authors attempt to persuade call the reader to action (Lane 39). This can be seen in the image in the bottom left corner. It states which is trying to encourage the audience to act now and try and conserve and help the environment and climate around them. figure 1, makes use of or appeal to emotion, to help the author connect the audience to the advertisement better (Lane 27). This is seen in the advertisement through the man working in the background. This is used to relate to the audience, in the sense that it is an ordinary person working very hard for sake. This creates a sense of sympathy as working hard or honestly is a common human desire/ aspiration and a desire to help. Additionally, the pictures color choices can affect the audience, and portray and enhance various messages (Pack 3). In this case the author makes use of two predominant colors, blue and green. The color green symbolizes growth, harmony, and safety. It is making a connection with the picture and the environment, offering an eco-friendly message or solution, which Solar Energy Figure 1 James 3 Industries Association is providing. The color blue symbolizes the sky and represents depth and stability. It is helping enhance the connection with the picture and the environment, in terms of eco-friendly safety, with a soothing and tranquil aspect to it. Furthermore, Figure 1 also makes use of or appeal to logic. This is the attempt to provide reasons and logic to their claim (Lane 30). This is seen in the image, in the very middle of it, are now getting clean energy from more than 1,000,000 solar (#ActOnClimate). The creator of the image is using this statement or fact to help show that solar energy is currently on the rise and worth a shot, which appeals to the sense of reasoning. The second image used by SEIA makes use of rhetorical appeal to convey its message as well. One rhetorical appeal seen in this image is or appeal to timeliness. The visual appeal contributed to this rhetorical appeal. As it makes use of both orange and red which are colors that are used to urge viewers to take action and create a sense of urgency. Not only did the author use this to create a call to action, they also used the details under each state in the picture. These details show how much solar energy is used by each, and a fun fact concerning solar energy and the state. This is used to inspire readers to contribute. Another rhetorical appeal that the Solar Energy Industries Association uses in Figure 2 is or appeal to logic. This is seen in the image, as the author uses actually statistics from the top ten states that use solar energy. It includes the number of homes that are supported on solar energy for each of the top ten states. This helps enhance the message being conveyed to the Figure 2 James 4 viewer as it is actually showing data that is relatable to the real world and that solar energy is practical, and not uncommon. The usage of or appeal to creditability is also seen in Figure 2. This is seen in the top right corner of the image, as the link to the website that produced the image is there. This is used to show that the message presented in the image is legitimate and from a credible source. The picture is easily accessible on the homepage of the organization, which adds to its creditability. Also another example of how this appeal is shown in this advertisement is through the use of the ten states in the image. This shows that the information presented is actually relevant to the area or the viewers. One more rhetorical appeal found in Figure 2 is or appeal to emotion. This is seen as the number of homes powered by solar energy is included under each state. This relates it to the audience, and making it more emotionally appealing as it seems accessible to the public easily. The usage of color also contributes to the appeal of emotion. Like the first image it uses visual appeal to enhance its message to the audience. This advertisement makes use of two predominant colors, red and orange. It uses the color orange, which represents the sun and creativity (Pack 2). This helps develop more of a connection between the picture and the authors goals, which is the promotion of solar energy. Also it makes use of the color red, which is used to alert people, or stimulate urgency. This helps show how much of a priority the states in the picture made solar energy. Both of these colors make the reader look at the message presented in the image in a more positive light for the author as it establishes a deeper emotional connection between the audience and the image. Solar Energy Industries usage of the two images to reach their audience due to the incorporation of rhetorical appeals is very effective. The use of rhetorical appeals in James 5 both images were effective in promoting their primary goal to support Solar Energy Industries objective of encouraging others to invest in and raise awareness for solar energy. The images work together to depict the goodness of the stakeholder, showing to their target audience that they do provide the solution, socially and ecologically. Also, the pictures have the effect of convincing different organizations and supporters to opt for SEIA whenever they have business to solve regarding solar energy, showing that the company is the best option among the others in all aspects to solve the worlds energy conservation problem. To conclude, Solar Energy Industries Association is one of the biggest advocates for renewable energy sources in the form of solar energy. They often use images or advertisements to try and achieve their mission statement, which is to achieve an equilibrium between environmental and economic development needs in the form of solar energy 1). Two examples of this are Figures 1 and Figure 2. These images are used by Solar Energy Industries in hope of continuing the already impressive growth of solar energy across the United States. James 6 Works Cited SEIA, Solar Energy Industries Association, 2017, 28 Jan. 2017, http://www.seia.org/about. SEIA, http://www.seia.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides. Rhetorical Rhetoric Matters: Language and Argument in Context. University of South Florida, 2017. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Pack, Jenna. Down an Writing Commons. Creative Commons, http://www.color-wheel-pro.com/color-meaning.html . Accessed 27 Jan. 2017. Top 10 Solar SEIA, http://www.seia.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017.