Mercado 1 Alejandra Mercado Robert Ryan ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Fight against Cages Since their inception, the organization known as PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) has caused a lot or outrage with their campaigns and advertisements. This organization comes up with crude and bold statements in order to convince people of their cause. Their motto Animals are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other  This means that their mission and goal is to protect animals rights. PETA focuses on four main areas in which the biggest number of animals suffer: the food industry, in the clothing industry, in labs, and in the entertainment industry. The use of animals for entertainments purposes is one of the most argued issues as it involves the morality of having animals in zoos. This is something that PETA is publicly and exclusively against. PETA uses various aspects of the rhetorical analysis such as kairos, pathos, logos, and ethos in their ads to catch the attentions and to make them take an action towards their cause. ads are known to be bold and scandalous to make sure people pay attention and understand the message. In picture 1, a woman can be seen with skin painted like a tiger. The woman that portrays a tiger is inside a cage looking uncomfortable and mad. A text is also displayed in the ad that says lonely and abused: Boycott the can easily deduce from the text that the purpose is for people to stop going to the circus. As its message applies to a Mercado 2 vast number of people, their intended audience would be everyone; although it can also be said that intended for a somewhat mature audience as it contains a harsh message. This ad insinuates that by attending the circus, you are supporting animals abuse. PETA uses rhetorical elements in all of their advertisements knowing it is the best way to get their purpose and message into the world. For instance, the first ad was made to make the audience feel something, to be more specific: it wants people to feel bad for going to the circus. This tactic involves pathos since it targets the feelings. The ad has the words, abused, These three words associated with the women dressed like a tiger are designed to make the audience feel bad about the way tigers are treated in the circus. Logos, the appeal to logic or reason, is also present in this ad. At the bottom of the image, there is some information regarding tigers in the circus, it reads as follows, in circuses are viciously struck with sticks to make them perform difficult tricks, and confined to cages barely larger than their own bodies. Help stop this cruelty by never attending a circus that uses This element was strategically included as it is information the majority of the audience would not be aware of. By adding this piece of information, the audience will be able to understand a new position on the issue at hand. It is also important to notice the fact that a portion of the text is in bold. This attracts attention to the single action that PETA wants the audience to follow. Timeliness is another important element in any ad, as it ads a sense of urgency to the message that is being delivered. In the rhetorical analysis, kairos is what defines timeliness. The largest piece of text in the ad says, the This brings a sense of urgency to immediate stop supporting the circus and to never go to a show again. This has the sense of Mercado 3 timeliness since boycotting the industry can be always be done, and of urgency, because they are asking for you to do it now. Not only is the message urgent, but it is also timely as it applies as long as circuses still exist. PETA uses similar ads containing homogeneous visual and rhetorical elements as it can be analyzed with the next ad. This ad stars a woman without clothing in a bathtub. It also poses a question, Could you live in a bathtub for 40 years? An important part of this ad that also needs to be analyzed the title Seaquarium: Confinement and As there is a woman with no clothing and a very thoughtful question in the ad, the targeted audience would have to be mature enough to understand the concept.Also, children would not be attracted by the image of a woman with no clothing. With the information provided by the organization, it can be concluded that the main purpose of PETA with this campaign would be to close all aquariums as whales should be in the ocean. The strongest elements of the ad are the connection it is trying to establish with the audience. you live in a bathtub for 40 is the biggest text in the ad, marking its importance. This question opens a relationship with the audience as it makes people think of themselves as the victim. Pathos is what opens engages the audience in the ad so they continue analyzing it. Logos, logic, is also a key element for this ad. The advertisement has information about a specific whale named Lolita. PETA uses logos to educate the people about the conditions whales live in when they are confined in aquariums. It says that Lolita was torn away from her family in 1970 and has been stuck in a tiny tank in the Miami Seaquarium. Also, she is in a concrete tank in chemically treated water and the aquarium refuses to release her. To top of everything, kairos also makes an appearance with the question discussed above. By stating that Mercado 4 lolita has been in the aquarium for 40 years, it shows the audience the urgency of freeing her now. They also have her story and the phrase free which makes people want to help her immediately. It is known that PETA likes using bold statements and pictures in their campaigns. Nonetheless, there has been a worldwide discussion on whether or not these daring elements strengthen or weaken the message the organization is trying to spread. In an article about sex in advertising the writer quoted professor Tom Reichert saying, Sex sells because it attracts attention. People are hardwired to notice sexually relevant information, so ads with sexual content get (Mulvey). Most of ads protagonist are either barely clothed or completely naked. The organization has argued various times that their intention is to appeal to as many people as possible which is why they chose to show skin so much. Many of the campaigns include famous people in the entertainment business. A writer noted that a product or company with a famous person, catchy jingle, desirable state of being or powerful emotion creates a strong psychological connection in the (Hudgins). The organization uses the techniques that are supposed to attract the most attention to their ads. PETA has mixed reviews on the way they present their message in ads. They use a mix of the most effective rhetorical and visual elements to engage the audience in their cause. By having celebrities without clothing running their campaigns Peta believes they will get the most attention and therefore they can achieve their mission and goal faster. However, is combining all of these elements into one ad, like PETA does, effective or is it too much for the audience to handle? Mercado 5 Works Cited About  . PETA, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Hudgins, Catherin. 5 Most Common Advertising  Business - Chron.com . Chron.com, 28 July 2011. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Mulvey, Jeanette. Why Sex Sells...More Than  News Daily . N.p., 07 June 2012. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Mercado 6 Picture 1 Picture 2