Whitney 1 Alex Whitney Robert Ryan ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Digital Learning Education is the way in which the world evolves, so it makes sense that this evolution be applied to education. As the digital age continues to develop, the idea of incorporating technology into modern education in order to improve the quality of learning has come to light. One of the leading organizations who support this development is the National Association for the Education of Young Children, abbreviated as NAEYC. The NAEYC works to interweave technology and new teaching methods into the education of children between birth and 8 years old. They also promote using technology only as a tool and not a replacement for the social interactions with family, classmates, and teachers to aid in the development of social skills. By bringing technology into the learning environment, the association says that this will allow young children to be better educated and be more prepared for the world and the way life is evolving. The NAEYC, through the use of carefully crafted images, informs others of their organization and what they stand for in the ever-changing world. The NAEYC utilizes advertisements in order to inform others of who they are and what they stand for as a trustworthy association. Prominently displayed across the center of the banner is the name of the association, clearly visible against the light-colored background. Below the name is a slogan of theirs about their efforts for working to improve the quality of the education being taught to young children. On the right side of the image is a group of children playing in the snow, smiling and laughing together in the snow. The audience that would be most interested Whitney 2 in this advertisement would be new or expecting parents looking to improve the future of their children and make it a happy one too. There is a strong possibility this ad would be shown during the winter, as the picture would be more relatable during that time of year. All these elements are used to create an effective advertisement to aid the NAEYC and its goals. The image has been designed in order to utilize a few well-known concepts used to judge the effectiveness of advertisements. It displays its credibility as a respected organization by making its name as the focus of the banner, representing what is known as ethos. People are more likely to believe in the words of those who have proven themselves to be trustworthy and reliable, so having a logo enables something to receive the same level of respect as if it was in their name. The picture of the children is used to tug at the heart strings of those examining the ad, playing on their pathos, or passion, to keep them interested. Emotions are useful for making an audience feel a certain way in response to an claim, as is used in this ad. The slogan below the name explains what it aims to do if it achieves what it sets out to accomplish in an informed manner. By knowing what an organization stands for, even if the audience did not know the NAEYC, they would have an understanding of what they stood for. The image emulates the qualities necessary to be considered an effective advertisement. The second image continues to promote the NAEYC in a positive manner for the association. Unlike the first advertisement, this image come off as a more informational piece than one meant to invoke emotion. The name of the association and one of its partners is displayed at the top of the image, followed by several bullet points containing the benefits of technology. The NAEYC logo, along with a partner organization called Fred Rodgers Center for Early Learning and Media are displayed beside the list. The ad aims to appeal to those who are unsure of the benefits to technology being integrated in the education department. It also Whitney 3 allows for those curious for more details to know exactly where to go for more information. The ad provided by the two partner associations will aid them in reaching out to others in their mission to better the education of children. This image was created to exemplify key elements that advertisements share in order to attract their audiences. Like the first image, one of the most prominent parts of the ad is the two organizations: the NAEYC and the Rogers Center. They have their names and their logos taking up a large portion of the image, their names intending to the credibility of their claims for their missions. The list of facts included in the image is a clear appeal to logic, and the goal of theirs to create a technologically enhanced learning environment are not negative or detrimental. It could be argued that there is a sense of urgency in the ad, because the focus pertains to a small age bracket, so making a decision about a education would need to be done sooner than later to make the most of the childhood. By effectively using the strengths of the advertisement to their advantage, both organizations will become more reputable and successful in their goals. These images help the NAEYC and its partners promote its goals and dreams in a clear and diverse manner. The mission and desires for the association and the future are openly displayed for others to view, taking a direct approach to getting support rather than degrading their competition. One ad aims to appeal to those who understand the credibility, and the emotional impact on them for going out and finding the right way to educate children so they may end up with greater futures. The other takes a more scholarly approach by informing others of the benefits to technology, and by extension their work to incorporate it into the modern teaching methods of today and tomorrow. These and more allow for prospective audiences to make the decision as quickly and as hassle-free as possible, giving the association Whitney 4 the support it needs to continue to work towards its goals. All this blends together to create a cohesive and beneficial bond between the organization and the images it uses to represent itself. Thus, the status as creditable and reliable association continue to be upheld by the quality of their promotions and public appeal. In conclusion, the NAEYC visually shows prospective audiences the beliefs and goals of their association and why they should be invested in this work. The NAEYC stands to incorporate technology into education in a safe and beneficial manner that will impact future generations in a positive manner. Their advertisements invoke the necessary components of an attention-grabbing piece in order to properly display themselves in an upholding and non- slanderous light. While not as timely as some, the emotional and informational prowess they display alongside their clear-cut credibility draws in others who seek better futures for their children. So, it is in this way that the NAEYC seeks to educate others in the effectiveness of technology in the education system and its benefits for the children of the future. Whitney 5 Works Cited Association for the Education of Young Children National Association for the Education of Young Children NAEYC, www.naeyc.org/. Snow, Kyle. News You Can Use: Family Engagement and Early Childhood National Association for the Education of Young Children NAEYC, www.naeyc.org/content/research-news-family-engagement. Skarda, Erin. the Experts: How Can We Fix Early Childhood Nation Swell, 3 Sept. 2015, nationswell.com/ask-experts-can-fix-early-childhood-education/.