Roberts 1 Alexandria Roberts Martha Heiser ENC 1102.069 28 February 2017 People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals: Images of Beliefs Advertisements and images are important key factors in getting a company or message across. The two images are advertisements from the People for Ethical Treatment of Animals organization. The first image is of an obese-looking child eating a cheeseburger with the caption, kids meat is child abuse. Fight the fat, Go The second image is of Italian actress and showgirl, Elisabetta Canalis who is sitting down on the ground naked along with the caption that states, rather go naked than wear The second image also has a blurb in the top corner that states, that are killed for their fur are electrocuted, drowned, beaten, and often skinned alive. Be comfortable in your own skin, and let animals keep Each of the images are very thought- provoking and intend on sending messages to the public about changes they could make in their lives to help the lives of animals. Since the the People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) organization has devoted their time and efforts to improve the lives of animals. The non-profit organization was started by Ingrid Newkirk, who has been an animal rights activist for over two decades. She saw that animals treated with enough decency, and wanted to make a change in many areas of life where this mistreatment occurs. When the organization created their main website, they included four main places that they intended on restoring: Food Industry, Entertainment, Clothing Trade, and Labs. These areas each showcase different alternatives to some of the things we do every day in the interest of helping animals. For example, Dan Matthews is the Senior Vice President of Campaigns for PETA, and he was able to convince Calvin Klein to stop designing with animal fur. These types of changes are beneficial for Roberts 2 big name companies because it will show the consumers of that brand that they are supporters of not killing animals for clothing. There are some other tactics that PETA uses to help animals. One of the most important ways that PETA gets their messages out is by educating the public through protest or some form of advertisement. The idea is that PETA shares knowledge about their own research so that they may conduct cruelty investigations and rescue animals. Without the interest of the public, there be enough support to create laws that protect the animals who are being abused or killed in some way. website does not want society to be in the dark when it comes to how animals are treated. Many people have seen videos and images that show what happens when the abuse is taking place. The content they produce is outraging and sometimes sad, however it is important to PETA that the public knows the truth. Image 1 depicts a young boy who appears to be eating a cheeseburger. In big, blue letters the words, kids meat is child abuse. Fight the fat: go is sprawled on the side. This image can be found somewhat offensive to many of the viewers who see it. claimed idea of someone going vegan is that the replacement fruits and vegetables will keep people skinny. This is not an accurate assessment. PETA is trying to relay that anyone who eats meat is or will become over time which may not even be a true belief of the organization. Instead, it may be a way to distract the audience. Instead of PETA telling the public to stop supporting the killing of animals, they are telling people information that involves the life and self-image. This advertisement was probably aimed toward parents who are concerned about their health, however this advertisement could include anyone. The reason why parents are more likely to give in to the advertisement is because parents tend to be concerned about the health and wellbeing of their children. Until a certain age, parents make most of their decisions and every parent will choose what their kids eat until they can make their own choices. There are two main rhetorical appeals that are used in this image: Roberts 3 Pathos and Logos. The use of Pathos is shown because this image could make parents feel bad for feeding their child meat if it is equivalent to child abuse. Logos is shown in this image as a Rhetorical Fallacy to say that eating meat is going to make you fat, which is not a statement that can be backed up by facts. This image not only offends many people, calling current meat-eaters fat, but invokes the idea of parents that they properly taking care of their children. Image 2 is a nude picture of Elisabetta Canalis, an Italian actress and showgirl from Italy. The caption of her picture reads, rather go naked than wear fur. Animals that are killed for their fur are electrocuted, drowned, beaten, and often skinned alive. Be comfortable in your own skin, and let animals keep This image as well as images like this one have created much controversy among the public. The argument stands, why does PETA have to use nude men and women to advertise its campaigns? According to their website, knows that provocative, attention-grabbing actions are sometimes necessary to get people talking about issues that they would otherwise prefer not to think (PETA). This method of advertising is very risky and unacceptable, especially when the image is put in a place where a child could see it. The idea that PETA wants to eliminate the production of fur is understandable, but some of the images they have put on public display has made some people very upset. The rhetorical appeals shown in this picture are Ethos and Pathos. The use of ethos is the of a famous actress who is promoting that fur should be outlawed. The use of Pathos seems to be more thought-provoking, where the image states what type of abuse the animals endure before they become a form of clothing. This image seemed to be aimed for a more mature audience that knew of the actress prior to seeing it. Even though they have a target audience, it stop children from seeing this image, which would cause an outrage from parents. These images, as well as others that PETA has sent out have made an impact on the progress of stopping the abuse of animals. The problem is that many of their images are seen as obscene, which is why many people want to get involved. However, the use of images like these are important in Roberts 4 some ways. People care about animals if they see the horrible treatment they were put through. What these images do is give the audience a moment to think, and act upon their thoughts. The extremity that images show always pleasant, but they get people to care, which helps these animals in the end. If it for the drastic measures that PETA takes, nothing would ever change, and the abuse of these creatures would continue to thrive. Works Cited: Roberts 5 Kretzer, Michelle W. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights  PETA. Ingrid Newkirk, 16 Sept. 2010. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Be a vegan, save the  Business Mirror [Makati City, 15 Nov. 2015. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Lord, Emily, et al. Economic Impacts of Adoption and Fundraising Strategies in Animal  Preventive Veterinary Medicine, vol. 113, 01 Mar. 2014, pp. 423-429. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.prevetmed.2013.12.002. Maroufi, Chogollah. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=er s&AN=89474357&site=eds-live. 1 st Image: 2 nd Image: Roberts 6