Jonah Devoy Sara Roth ENC1101 2/19/2017 Planned Parenthood Since the time of man before there was an understanding of childbirth, people participated in animalistic practices in removing a fetus or birth itself which usually happened in extremely unsanitary settings. Before the proper knowledge of childbirth, most women did not survive, and it was seen as something they were not going to survive. From the time Planned Parenthood was first opened as American Birth Control League in 1921, they have taken huge steps into changing the lives of women all around the world. The past ninety-four years of Planned Parenthoods lifespan has stirred up the waters of what is wrong and right in terms of the life of a fetus, and what some women should be or be allowed to do. The have shed light on issues most refuse to tackle and help women in all stages of childbirth, from assisting women on how to prepare for child birth, to what it means to stand up for your body. The Historical Horror of  Mental Floss. N.p., 09 May 2013. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Social status had a huge role to play in childbirth for most of the history of man. Those who were wealthier and more well off and could afford or were expected to have offspring, were encouraged to have children. This is because women were able to rest and recover from her childbirth, whereas those who were considered lower class, had to continue work up to and after childbirth if they wanted to eat, and therefore pregnancies were not viewed as a good thing. Childbirth was so dangerous back in the renaissance ages that women would write out their will as soon as they found out they were with child. For upper-class females, to spread out the duration of one pregnancy from another, she would breastfeed for as long as possible, but wet nurses took the child so the women could become pregnant soon again. The process of childbirth was considered sacred so the women wore lots of cloths to cover her, which posed a problem for medical doctors. Doctors were often not encouraged to take place in childbirth, and the midwives did not them to be there because they wanted to give up their power of expertise in the field. Because of this, much of advice and written work were assumptions or guesses. Up until 1842, most doctors even wash their hands before any sort of medical work. It until the 20 th century that the public became aware of how preventable deaths from child births could be prevented. Childbirth  WebMD. WebMD, 1 Feb. 2001. Web. 12 Mar. 2017 There are many things that can go wrong during a pregnancy for a women. For first time laborers, a failure to progress, or a labor that lasts to long may occur. There is a possibility that instead of the fetus coming out normally, with the back of the head facing the birth canal and the fetus facing the spine, it may be birthed with the fetus facing the front, which can cause extreme back pains and prolonged delivery. In some instances, a women might face Umbilical Cord Prolapse, which is where the umbilical cord might slip from the cervix, causing the fetus to be unable to get their nutrients, blood, and oxygen, which could kill the baby. Umbilical cord compression is rare, but a possibility for some women where the umbilical cord wraps around the fetus and becomes twisted. This could cause the babies blood flow to decrease and a cesarean section may be needed. There are hundreds of things that can, and in some cases, do go wrong in childbirth, but by education and discovery, newer and safer ways to help women deliver are being found every day. Planning  Homepage. N.p., 28 Dec. 2005. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Once discovering you are pregnant and decide to keep the child, planning the steps up to child birth is one of the most important things you could possibly do. Planning the steps up to labor has benefits such as being able to conceive easier, avoid complications, recover quicker, and give birth to a heathier baby. Making changes in your life is an important step into safety conceiving a baby. The first step is to try to change everything at once. Take your time learning to eat healthy and give up smoking, and start with slow exercise before you hurt yourself. Stress seems to be a common problem with pregnant women because of how overwhelming everything can be or if the pregnant women feels fear or nervous leading up to the big day. To prevent stress exercises such as yoga or jogging are encouraged. important to stay away from toxins such as x-rays, second hand smoke, or any bacterial contaminants. These can cause complications to the child and may even cause problems to the mother. Abortion  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Abortion is a topic that has been rocking the nation since the beginning of the 20 th century and has yet to slow down. There is controversy where ever it goes and can stirs up any conversation. Abortion policies in polls have shown that 30% of Americans are okay with our current standing on the topic, which is the lowest level of satisfaction in 15 years of polling. The number one argument on why abortion should be stopped at all costs is abortion is considered by some individuals. The number one argument reported for abortion is US Supreme Court has declared abortion to be a fundamental  guaranteed by the US Because of this the issue regarding the rights of abortions and whether or not the government should step in and abolish, or give ultimate consent to women in the decision to keep or remove the fetus from their body is so amazingly touchy and chaotic, it may be quite some time before any finalized legislation is passed regarding the issue.