Butterfield 1 Brittany Butterfield Ms. Heiser ENC 1102 069 12 March 2017 SIECUS: Why Choose any Program but US Preteens across the nation are being taught a controversial curriculum called sexual education. Sexual education, commonly known as is the teaching of human sexuality topics. There are many branches of sexual education, but the two most prominent are comprehensive sexual education and abstinence-centered education. These two branches are regularly debated; the debates gather a consensus on which of the two should be taught in educational facilities. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, SIECUS, and Care2 are organizations that support comprehensive sexual education teachings. They both have taken stands on educating children about safer sex to decrease teenage pregnancy. SIECUS and Care2 have furthered its message on comprehensive sexual education through two pieces of visual rhetoric that push their ideologies. To begin, Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States is an organization that actively advocates for comprehensive sexual education. Their website states that has the right to accurate information and age and developmentally appropriate education about (www.siecus.org). SIECUS believes that comprehensive sexual education is a critical course of study that should be taught regardless of the cultural background of each child. Topics including human development, sexual relationships, sexual expression and sexual health are all taught. These topics are positively expressed, encouraging adolescents to be comfortable in their sexuality. In furtherance of ensuring accurate and respectful teachings, Butterfield 2 SIECUS has a training program for teachers. The teachers learn exactly how to present sexual education information and remain well up-to-date on emerging information. Consequently, adolescents become more prepared for when they choose to partake in sexual activities. The first image is subtle but has a powerful message advocating for comprehensive sexual education. The image contains a monochromatic silhouette of a female preteen. Above the head, there are thought bubbles in the form of text messages. The text messages are potential questions involving sex that the girl has asked her friends about. This image shatters the of sight, out of phrase that parents commonly believe. Adolescents will continue to talk about sex and/or partake in sexual activities even if parents refuse to communicate and provide them with correct information. In Confidence and Preferences for Communicating with Their Child About Deputy researcher of Parenting and family Dr. Morawska explains the heavy role parents have in the growth of their sexuality. Dr. Morawska notes that the parents felt comfortable talking about sexual abuse and body image self-love but not sex itself. In this case, sexual comprehensive programs can act as a happy medium for the parent and the teen. Parents can avoid feeling awkward, while adolescents can learn safe tools to prevent pregnancy and transmission of STDS/HIV/AIDS. In addition, the rhetorical appeals that can be found in image one are Pathos and Kairos. Pathos is presented because of the emotion it draws out of parents when they see this image. Image one can be shocking to many parents; they may be surprised to think that their child could have impure sexual thoughts and questions. Parents can also be saddened by this image. They may self-reflect on their own parenting skills and realize how closed off they are on topics pertaining to sex. Therefore, saddened at the weak relationship they have with their child(ren) where one or both parties feel uncomfortable having discussions on sensitive subjects. Kairos Butterfield 3 can also be found in the questions of this image: when is a person not a virgin anymore? Or do people change after having sex? These are all questions that relate to a timespan within a life. This image stresses the need for some form of communication with adolescents and superiors to ensure accurate information is being taught. The second image is sarcastic and has great banter. The image compares sexual topics to life jackets/flotation devices. The first lines say life jackets encourage risky behavior like the notion that talking about sex to adolescents encourages risky behavior. The next line reads the only way to prevent drowning is total abstinence from going in the water like the opposing belief of the only way to get pregnant and not contract any diseases is total abstinence from sex. The image goes on to further say that by chance you find yourself struggling with drowning then no life-saving other procedure or act should be allowed to be administered. You got yourself into this mess you have to live with the translating to the idea if someone has sex and gets pregnant they should not be allowed to have an abortion. Along with that, once pregnant the baby should be perceived as a gift regardless of the circumstances. The last line reads, you were forcibly pushed into the water. worry. If it was legitimate pushing your body will find a way to shut out all the water and survive the which translates to if someone was raped, and they are not lying about being raped, they can relax because their body will somehow find a way to give them a natural abortion. This whole image pokes fun at how ludicrous of an ideology people have about the teaching of comprehensive sexual education. Furthermore, the rhetorical appeals that can be found in image one are Logos, Pathos, and Ethos. This image is a logical piece; the readers must make connections between flotation devices and comprehensive sexual education to understand the banter used throughout the advertisement. Pathos can be found in this image because the readers are amused at how absurd Butterfield 4 the ban of flotation devices are. Lastly, Ethos can be found in this image because of the logo that is located at the top right corner (Care2). Care2 is a nonprofit organization that activates for the rights of others (www.care2.com). Sexual education is a topic that Care2 feels strongly about; they have taken many stands stating their opposition to abstinence-centered education programs. They recently had a petition on their website in support of sex education In the petition, it stated need to get rid of the current deceptive approach of abstinence-only programs and put in place a federal sex-education program that gives teens the facts - including both the benefits of abstinence and the facts about safe sex and how to prevent the spread of Care2 agrees with this statement, which was shown in image two as a push for comprehensive sexual programs. The teaching of comprehensive sexual education is a topic that has been discussed thoroughly. SIECUS and Care2 intentions are to lower the rate of teen pregnancy and prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. These two images help decrease the stigma that comprehensive sexual education has in everyday society. Cultural values have set standards that judge teens who have sex and/or openly talk about their sex life. However, sex is an everyday factor in life; therefore, it should not be so controversial to partake in. Comprehensive sexual education causes tension between people, this stresses the importance of evaluating visual rhetoric. Visual rhetoric gives insight on how society feels about prevailing issues. It opens the conversation to get people talking; this not only educates others but also gets people to become more comfortable with the subject. As the number of advertisements increase, SIECUS and messages continue to spread. Society will become more comfortable with the idea of educating their adolescents on topics, such as sex. Butterfield 5 Works Cited About  About Care2 About Us. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Morawska, Alina1, et al. Parental Confidence and Preferences for Communicating with Their Child about  Sex Education, vol. 15, no. 3, May 2015, pp. 235-248. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/14681811.2014.996213. - Comprehensive Sexuality SIECUS - Comprehensive Sexuality Education, www.siecus.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.ViewPage&pageId=514. REAL Sex Education Petition, www.thepetitionsite.com/takeaction/789/945/296/. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Image 1: Butterfield 6 Image 2: https://feministphilosophers.files.wordpress.com/2012/09/ban-floaties1.jpg