Cramp 1 Hayden Cramp Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 1 March 2017 Clearing the Air on Smoking Smoking remains a major health issue in America. Every day, young people begin smoking cigarettes without knowing the severe side effects that can come with it. Smoking can cause serious illness, cancer, and even death. Fortunately, many organizations have come out to spread awareness about how dangerous this habit forming product is. One major organization that is on the forefront of spreading awareness and research for this issue is the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The CDC has released two pieces of visual rhetoric in the form of advertisements that support their cause against smoking. These images are very informative and convey the mission and goals of the CDC on this important issue. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is a Unites States federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Their headquarters is located in Atlanta, Georgia and was founded on July 1, 1946 (CDC). The mission is to 24/7 to protect America from health, safety and security threats, both foreign and in the U.S. Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are chronic or acute, curable or preventable, human error or deliberate attack, CDC fights disease and supports communities and citizens to do the (CDC). On the issue of smoking, the CDC and its partners promote tobacco control interventions, which include actions to prevent youth from starting to use tobacco, smoke-free environments, programs to help tobacco users quit, and steps to eliminate tobacco-related health disparities in all population groups (CDC). This organization has released many advertisements in the form of Cramp 2 pictures to get their points and goals across to the public. Both of the images selected utilize forms of rhetorical appeals to accomplish the mission. Image 1 is a picture advertisement that shows the effects of smoking in the human organ systems. title reads and health problems linked to This image contains many forms of rhetorical appeals, such as ethos, pathos, logos, and even kairos. The definitions of the rhetorical appeals can be found from the text Really Ethos is an appeal towards credibility and morality, Image 1 has this because it is created by a credible source, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Since this image depicts the different organs in the body that smoking effects, this is an appeal towards pathos. Pathos deals with the emotions something can convey. This image affects emotions because it scares people into realizing what smoking really does to your internal organs, including the lungs, liver, and kidneys. Logos is an appeal to logic and reason, which this image presents through scientific research data. It reads, out of 3 cancer deaths could be This strikes an important cord because it informs people of the connection between smoking cigarettes and death. Last but not least, Kairos is an appeal to timeliness and very prominent in this image. This is kairos because the image intends for people to stop smoking immediately. It does this by informing and scaring people about the facts of smoking and why it should be stopped now. This audience is people who are currently smokers, as well as people who This is because the image is very strong in conveying the message on why smoking should be stopped. The color red is used frequently because red is usually associated with urgency and health. All of the main points of the image are in red, including the title and the organs directly affected. A study was performed by researchers and they found increased risk of cardiovascular mortality in subjects with smoking (Yuksel). This research data Cramp 3 backs up the claim that smoking can greatly affect your health and justifies the use of red in image 1 to highlight the danger. Another point about this image is that the person pictured is not a particular race, gender, or age. The CDC wanted to show and inform their audience that smoking can affect literally anyone, regardless of any particular group they belong to. Finally, the word is used three times in the image to stress the fact that smoking can cause cancer. This image is very effective at getting the mission across against smoking. While image 1 takes a medical approach to discouraging smoking, image 2 attacks the problem from a social angle and appeals to emotion. It depicts people who are dealing with the side effects of smoking cigarettes today and informs people what not to do. This image also contains all four of the rhetorical appeals from image 1 and argues for the same point. Ethos is present in this image because it is produced from the CDC and shows credibility. The image strikes very strong emotions in almost everyone who views it because of its graphic nature showing the cost to real people. This is pathos because the emotion imbedded in the image is used to inform and scare people away from smoking, which is the goal of the CDC. Logos deals with logic and reason and this image is very logical, it shows people who are suffering from smoking so logically the people who view it will not want to smoke or stop smoking. Finally, kairos is also an element used in this image because it makes people want to quit because of how effective the images are. The words are also an appeal to timeliness and helps to get the point across to quit smoking immediately. This audience is anyone currently smoking, as well as people who The first section of image 2 it reads tell people smoking is bad, show and includes an image of a lady who has survived from many surgeries from cancer caused by smoking. This is a social way of getting people scared of smoking because no one wants to look like this person. Cramp 4 Our culture today values appearance as very important and this image shows that smoking can directly affect the way you appear to others. Brenna Sandvik, an author for the website Odyssey, states: are conditioned daily to internally label others based on appearance and whether or not it seems like they have it all together (Odyssey). All of the text in this image is very large and in bold font, which conveys urgency and importance to what is said. Most of the color in the picture are in the same neutral tones and nothing is too vibrant. This gives a sense of seriousness to the picture. The image is effective at showing the overall goals of the CDC through its messages and rhetorical appeals. In conclusion, the issue of smoking remains a serious health issue for the country, despite continual efforts to save lives through education. The use of an array of images, and related rhetorical methods, is necessary since individuals in the target audience may respond more effectively to one method or another. The images build the case against smoking on several levels, which the CDC hopes will eventually spur people to change their behavior and perception of smoking. The use of these varied appeals is the element that gives the images their potency. Cramp 5 Works Cited Brenna Sandvik, Our Culture Is Obsessed With Physical Appearance, And Why We Need To Change That, https://www.theodysseyonline.com/cultures-obsessed-physical- appearance, accessed March 1, 2017. Web. CDC https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/index.htm CDC https://www.cdc.gov/about/organization/mission.htm Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Yuksel, Ramazan, et al. Autonomic Cardiac Activity in Patients with Smoking and Alcohol Addiction by Heart Rate Variability  Clinical & Investigative Medicine, vol. 39, no. 6, Nov. 2016, pp. S147-S152. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=a2 h&AN=120024709&site=eds-live. Cramp 6 Image 1: Image 2: