Espada 1 Elise Espada Martha Heiser ENC1102.069 1 March 2017 They Are The Voice It is estimated that there could be as as ten thousand puppy mills in the United Since there is no legal definition of a puppy mill, ASPCA or the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals defines puppy mills are large scaled commercial dog breeding facility where profit is given priority over the well being of the (Puppy These dogs are housed in overcrowded and unsanitary conditions without proper veterinary care, food, water or socialization. Since puppy mills focus on profit which means that the dogs are bred often with little regard for genetic quality. The puppies usually have congenital and hereditary conditions and they also often suffer from anxiety and other behavioral problems. They often arrive in pet stores with diseases and parasites. The ASPCA encourages people to make adoption their first option but they do inform people how to get a purebred and as well point out what is wrong with a breeder if that is the only available option. They endorse this idea by making advertisements of all sorts such as on their website, magazines, and commercials with effective use of pathos and other rhetorical appeals to educate people about puppy mills and encourage them to adopt. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, also known as the ASPCA, was founded in 1866 and is known to be the first humane society established in North America and one of the largest in the world. Today, the organization has more than two million Espada 2 supporters across America. They are founded on the belief that are entitled to kind and respectful treatment at the hands of humans and must be protected under the They are also a privately funded 501(c)(3) not for profit corporation. mission was stated by the founder Henry Bergh in provide effective means for the prevention of cruelty to animals throughout the United Like what was said before, The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to mission to prevent cruelty to animals throughout the United States. They prove and national leadership in animal-assisted therapy, animal behavior, animal poison control, anti-cruelty, humane education, legislative services, and shelter (Thomas 36). The founder Henry Bergh modeled his association after Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and this association has been founded twenty six years earlier. The ASPCA accomplished many things in its earlier years such as in 1876, they operated the first injured horse ambulance and in 1875, they created the first sling for horse rescue (Thomas 37). The ASPCA has supported many causes over its history which include the establishment of a veterinary hospital for domestic pets in 1912, and a training program for dogs and owners to make them better pets and pet (Thomas 37). Ed Sayres, who use to be a leader of ASPCA, says that one of their biggest accomplishments was implementing the no-kill shelter model in New York City, which apparently now has the lowest euthanasia rate in the country and also including that it can be done in any city anywhere (Gienow). ASPCA still to this day continues to participate in the community to protect animals and their rights. The two images being addressed in this paper are going to be referred as Image 1 which is the dog with the syringe and collar and other which is the puppy with the sign saying Espada 3 The Fight Against Puppy will be referred to as Image 2. The purpose of both of these images is to encourage people to adopt, Image 1 more than Image 2, since the ASPCA encourages people to make adoption their first option. Image 2 is leaning more to promote boycotting pet stores that sell puppies in order to join the fight against puppy mills since since most pet stores that do sell puppies get them from there. Many of advertisements use animals to appeal to people since many find animals cute. Both of these images in a way are saying that these animals are going through a lot and the viewer should react coordinately. There are elements of ethos in both of these images. Ethos being the credibility or ethical appeal of something. Since both of these images are from the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and this organization is known to be the first humane society established in North America and are apparently one of the largest human societies in the world. They are also recognized as a national animal welfare organization by the government and have many programs to extend their anti-cruelty mission. Another rhetorical appeal in these images is pathos which is something that provokes feeling and emotions. Dogs are known to be loyal and kind which relates to Image 1 which seems to be saying that the fate lies in the hand of the person who is viewing the image. The advertisement would have been displayed in a magazine with the option to tear back a portion of the page to relay that the fate can be changed if the view does something about what the dog is going through. Image 2 shows a puppy which are known for their cuteness and some what helplessness as a human baby. The puppy is also is giving the viewer that could pull at the heart strings to help out in the situation which is to join the fight against puppy mills. Espada 4 Another rhetorical appeal would be logos which is the appeal to logic. There is a statistic in Image 1 saying that dogs are euthanized every Not many people would know about this information. The amount of dogs being euthanized due to them not being able to find new homes and be adopted would make the viewer feel bad since the number of dogs dying everyday is so high. Image 2 says that most pet stores get their puppies from puppy mills and since puppy mills are considered a form of abuse which is suppose to make the viewer of the advertisement to consider boycotting the pet stores that sell puppies. The other rhetorical appeal is the element of kairos which is appeal to time. It shows the most in Image 1 rather than Image 2. Since Image 1 says that there are 10,000 dogs euthanized every day it makes the viewer feel like there is a sense of urgency. There are so many dogs that are killed every day due to the fact they were not able to be adopted. In conclusion, understanding the visual rhetorical appeals behind the two advertisements that this organization uses to appeal to the public and make them understand what they stand for. Both of these images make the viewers want to look more into the situation being addressed and consider ways to help out. Its to consider adopting a dog instead of buying from a breeder or a pet store and to avoid pet stores that sell puppies because they usually get those puppies from puppy mills. It helps portray that dogs can not help themselves and rely on humans to help them which means that only humans can save them. Espada 5 Espada 6 Works Cited ASPCA, 2017. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. Gienow, Michelle. Departing Leader Plans to Turn His Attention  of Philanthropy , no. 17, 2012. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.303323484&site=eds-live. ASPCA, 17 Feb. 2017. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. Thomas, Joe. ASPCA: An Best  of Case Studies , no. 1, 2015, p. 36. ,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.421323496&site=eds-live.