Huynh 1 Tuan Huynh Robert Ryan ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Union of Concerned Scientists Advertisements Our world is dying, but you can save it. This is the type of message many environmental groups are trying to convey to the public. simple, but effective. After all, it is common knowledge that the burning of fossil fuel is harmful to the environment. Yet, the need for energy and the conveniences of fossil fuel has left many people willingly blinded to the issue right in front of them. Groups, such as the Union of Concerned Scientists, has made it a priority to educate the public about this issue and to advocate change. This organization puts, to work to solve our most pressing for a healthy, safe, and sustainable (Union of Concerned Scientists Mission Statement). In order to have a safe, and sustainable they must address the issue of harmful gas emissions. One way they are addressing this issues is through informational advertisements, such as their it ad (advertisement one) and their Climate Risks of Natural ad (advertisement two). Through their advertisements, the Union of Concerned Scientists uses rhetorical appeals and visual elements in an attempt to inform everyday individuals that there is an alternative to fossil fuel; convincing them to make a sacrifice in their lifestyle in order to save the environment. Advertisement one uses colors and imagery to help illustrate positive alternatives to harmful gas emissions. Their color scheme is practical and has purpose. Things that are in red, such as the cars and power plants, are sources of gas emissions. Things that are in blue and green Huynh 2 correlates to ways that people can conserve or reduce gas emissions. This choice in visual design makes it much easier for an audience to differentiate what is good and what is bad just based on the picture and color. Even if an audience does not read the text, they can still get an idea of what the ad is trying to convey. The color also pervades throughout the text, highlighting the most important information, like down 200 mid-sized The intent is to inform the audience, so even if the audience does not retain most of the information in the ad, they have a higher chance of remembering the colored words- which is the most important information. The format and layout of the advertisement also helps organize the information presented. The information follows a windy road from the top to the bottom. The top showcases ways to make a difference on an individual scale. As you get to the bottom of the road, the scale is raised to a national level. The primary purpose is to get an individual to make at least a small difference, why the scale is set small at the top, where the audience most likely will read first. Then, if the ad garners their attention, then they can get to the information about alternative energy on a national level. The primary rhetorical appeal in this advertisement is logos. It is used to inform the audience about what they can do specifically to save the environment. Logos provides not only facts about ways an individual can save the environment, but also gives statistics on what would result from their action. The logos works well with the formatting, as it details specific actions the audience can take on an individual scale (at the top) all the way to the national scale at the bottom. The advertisement also uses a little bit of pathos with its choice of diction. Phrases like and are repeated throughout the text to invoke a feeling of seriousness to the situation; the issue just affect you personally, but also your family and your friends. This Huynh 3 is an attempt to coax the audience into action knowing that by making a lifestyle change they can benefit not just themselves, but their community as well. Similar to advertisement one, advertisement two also uses colors and imagery to great effect in informing the audience about alternative resources. Like the first advertisement, the warmer colors represent harmful sources of energy while the cooler colors represent clean energy. This makes it easier for the audience to access and organize the information. If the information is presented in an easy and intuitive way, then the audience is more likely to retain the information. The scaling of the images also helps compare the statistics in a logical manner. The point of these visual elements is to present the information as intuitively as possible, in hopes that the advertisement can educate as many people as possible about using cleaner alternative resources. Like the other advertisement, logos is present to inform; but unlike the other advertisement, this one uses kairos to create a sense of urgency in the situation in an attempt to get the audience to act now. The top statement, Old and inefficient coal plants are closing.The choices we make to replace them will determine our electricity sources for the next 30-50 makes the moment feel heavier and more serious. It hopes to make the audience believe that they must act now in order to secure the use of the right energy sources in the future. This notion is further amplified by the next statement, right now we are moving toward a natural gas-dominated electricity As expressed by the logos throughout the advertisement, gas emissions are bad. So, the situation right now is even more dire considering that we are moving towards this harmful lifestyle. It is up to the audience to act now if they want prevent this Huynh 4 movement from happening. This is the type of urgency this company wants to instill in its audience in order to get them to act at all. The two advertisement are very similar in regards to both being very logos heavy. After all, the main purpose of their campaign is to educate and inform the audience about better alternative solutions to energy needs. They both are also consistent in their use of bright colors, and simple and intuitive images. This is to draw in as many people as possible to their ad. The bright colors will be more likely to attract younger audiences. The UCS wants the future to be healthier, safer, and more sustainable; so it makes sense that they would want to target younger people as well in order to pass their ideas onto the next generation. The pictures and colors do a great job at representing the information in the most basic sense, so even if an individual quickly glances over the ad, they can get a general idea of the message: gas is bad, renewable resources are good. The UCS is trying to point out something that most people already know, but are too close-minded to act upon it. Through these advertisements, the UCS hopes to dispel this ignorance through the education of a wide-ranging audience. They hope that if their audience become more insightful about the situation and possible course of action, they will try to make a difference. No one really wants to see our planet destroyed, and most people knows that harmful gas emissions is destroying our planet. With enough knowledge and direction, maybe we can make a sacrifice and do our dying planet a favor. Huynh 5 Advertisement 1 Huynh 6 Advertisement 2 ( It is split up into 3 separate panels that are all part of 1 cohesive ad) Huynh 7 Huynh 8