Damon 1 William Damon Sarah Roth ENC 1101 March 12, 2017 Security Concerns Connected to a Growing Internet of Things The internet of things has always had security concerns, over time the concerns have developed because of technology growth, the prevalence of tracking technologies, and different identification methods. Seeing different ways in which internet devices are connected changes the nature of the security concerns involved with this technology. With the development and implementation of different tracking technologies, there is much concern of what different devise record and how this information is stored and shared between devices. Different identification methods often allow for even more exploits where a malicious person can impersonate a device with less possibility of being detected or tracked. Technology growth has been exponential since the early 2000s. Verizon experts have estimated that by the year 2020 there will be 5 billion devices connected to the internet (Britton 3). The McKinsey Global Institute predicts that the IoT will have a potential economic impact of between 4 and 11 trillion dollars per year by 2025 (Tankard 11). In 2014, Hewlett Packard conducted a comprehensive analysis of IoT devices and found that 70% have potential exploits that could be used against them (Britton 4). The devices in this survey included sensors and connected infrastructure that we rely on for travel, utilities, and the transfer of information. The growth of RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) remains at the forefront of most IoT predictions, even though this is one of the least secure types of communication that exist and is very vulnerable to intrusion (Atzori 2790). Scholarly conversation has agreed that over time internet connected devices will continue to grow. The more growth we see, the more concern is expressed about fundamental flaws in the security of IoT and possible preventative measures that we can take. RFID was the main push behind trying to create and implement the IoT and continues to be the most used technology for tracking and recording action of a sensor. Yan Lu explains that RFID security is inherently flawed because RFID tags will always identify themselves when asked by an RFID scanner. This makes it very easy for someone to use a scanner, find the identification frequency of a tag, then create another tag with the exact same parameters of the first in order to fool a system. This risk is compounded when we take into account that RFID can transmit between walls making it possible for a potential attacker to not even see what they are targeting (Yu 20). When used as a tracking technology, RFID is used for everything from key cards that track hospital employees in order to improve efficiency to toll roads that need to know how much to charge someone. NFC (Near Field Communication) has now become a popular way of devices communicating and is now built into upwards of 20% of phones. NFC is often used to verify credit card data when checking out of a store but have been compromised many times by hacker apps that can copy and then reuse credit card data (Britton 3-5). Identification methods used in the IoT have evolved but still remain an issue of debate over how much security they actually provide. RFID and NFC remain the most common ways of identification and have already been used in many real-world applications. One of the most common applications is key cards that had RFID chips in order to allow someone access to a specific building or piece of equipment. Damon 2 These chips are also used to identify patients in some hospitals and track cargo shipments. These threats even affect the military, RFID cards are used to grant personnel access to rooms where secret information is held and processed. These rooms have direct connections to critical military infrastructure used to communicate real time data about operations around the world. The possibility of misidentifying a user or allowing someone with replicated credentials access to places that are secure remains one of the biggest potential threats in the IoT. Tracking technologies also have the potential to make our lives much easier. Having your lights and air conditioning turn on as soon as you walk into your home would be one of the easiest applications for this. Even your car turning on when you get close to it or your office computer turning on when your walk into your workplace are all things that are possible with the internet of things. In summation, the IoT has and will continue to see rapid expansion that touches every aspect of our lives. This has the potential to bring new security threats into existence that impact our privacy, personal and financial security, and peace of mind. This has been a result in the use of both tracking and identification technologies that are now so prevalent in our society. As the scholarly conversation continues to change with the increasing presence of the IoT, we will see new potential threats as a result of growth, tracking technologies, and identification. Damon 3 Works Cited Britton, Katherine. Handling Privacy And Security In The Internet Of  Journal Of Internet Law 19.10 (2016): 3-7. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Tankard, Colin. Feature: The Security Issues Of The Internet Of  Computer Fraud & Security 2015.(2015): 11-14. ScienceDirect. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Lu, Yan. The Internet of Things: From Rfid to the Next-Generation Pervasive Networked Systems. New York: Auerbach Publications, 2008. Internet resource. Atzori, Luigi, Antonio Iera, and Giacomo Morabito. The Internet Of Things: A  Computer Networks 54.(2010): 2787-2805. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.