Shapiro 1 Matthew Shapiro Prof Ryan 20 February 2017 ENC 1102.045 Parents Television Council and their fight against Indecency The issue of censorship and indecent programming is a trending topic present day. In fact, it is being brought center stage by the unhappy entity, known as the Parents TV Council. Their mission is to protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful effects and to provide a safe and sound entertainment media environment for children and families across America. (PTC) The recent use of the V-chip still has not been able to sufficiently ward off all unwanted programs. Parents can no longer depend on the TV Rating system to warn them of graphic content due to the ill-rated programs. They have argued for years with the FCC, pleading to Congress who oversees the FCC and mediates between them. The topic of their appeal to Congress is the viewing of the indecent programs. TV programs are not rated properly and too violent for children, this needs reform. The first image is an advertisement found on the councils website. The tone of this image is ardent and cautionary. The image gives a warning to the viewer, the broken ratings are the first thing the audience looks at and in doing so raises the awareness of what is being petitioned. The issues of ill-rated shows and the reform are symbolized with the broken ratings and the highlighted in red words that read Broken Rating The purpose of this ad is to move the audience to want to Shapiro 2 participate in the argument and support the Council. This advertisement would appeal to all involved parents, this is a immense population of people who will go out of their way to provide their children with clean and pure programs. The fact that this organization is petitioning for a reform then would move the audience to want to support. Within the first image there are many elements that appeal to the audience. Although the image does not have the company logo listed anywhere on it, the sense of credibility is established because it is taken from the Councils website. The Council has been working for two and half decades and has had a strong, influential voice in society. They represent their cases to Congress. With that being said, credibility builds. The element of logos is applicable to this image; using logic one would be able to interpret the meaning of the picture when seeing the broken TV rating systems and the Ratings Reform Petition. This would insinuate that there is a problem. Also if you notice the only rating that is not represented as broken is the This is because they find this to be the most consistently and appropriate rating they come out with. Kairos is established with the phrase Action because it motivating for the audience to act now. The thought that something like this is a problem and assuming that a concerned, involved parent is viewing this ad then they would feel inclined to act. The second image is also taken from the website, what first catches the eye is the largest picture with the words the FCC do Job? The tone of this image from the publisher would be described as critical and facetious. It is completely wrong for something inappropriate like that to be aired on television for children to see. At the top the name and mission is stated up there. Already from analyzing those two items and seeing that they address the FCC, you can see that the ad has to do Shapiro 3 with unhappy parents complaining to the government FCC for inappropriate material documented from a popular show Under the criticizing question, you can read the statement a complaint on the and help stop the future possibility of showing more nudity and profanity in newer TV shows. After analyzing the image you can see the credibility is established with the company name and the bottom subtopics of the and reports conducted, family and action A sense of timeliness is established with the small phrases around the image like take or These key words draw the audience in and will make them act. Also the side note to the right where it says unless we speak up, the will be getting its by airing nudity, profanity, and This will instantly spark a fire in most parents and persuade them to act in a timely manner in order to fully support the cause. Logically you can see the problem they advocate on the advertisement and what the organization represents from reading all the material and analyzing the subtopics towards the bottom of the screens Both images selected were chosen because of the similarity they both resemble. They both are advertised by the same company and are both found on the company website. They both cover the issue of programs being too violent and not being rated properly. Both advocate reform and ask that the audience participate and help support the organizations. They deliberately word and structure the design of the ads to insinuate frustration and passion from the parents. Other informed and active parents will in turn look this at because more educated on this topic arising in society and then will feel the want to participate. The councils motive is for the audience to feel inclined to be active and speak up. Both ads list on one image it is listed twice. This emphasis Shapiro 4 and repetition will make it efficient and easy when wanting to join the PTC. Rather then having to research further or find other links that will allow them to join, there is a text option to right on the same page. Furthermore the trending topic of indecent programs being aired and the need for reform is established in both images selected. The fact that TV shows are too violent and not rated properly is unfathomable by a large group of people. In fact the numbers are growing as they try to advertise their argument and their opinions. Both images are persuasive in the sense that the information listed, even with the small amount that is in the first image chosen, moves the reader to act and make them feel passionate about it. The tone is negative, of course the writers are not going to be satisfied or be quiet about this subject. Neither will the supporting audience. With that being said, this helps promote the organizations mission in providing a safe and sound media environment for children and families as more and more involved, active parents strive in making TVs programs clean and rated properly. Shapiro 5 Works Cited Parents Television Council -  Parents Television Council - Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Abelman, Robert. Fighting The War On Indecency: Mediating TV, Internet, And Videogame Usage Among Achieving And Underachieving Gifted  Roeper Review 2 (2007): 100. Academic OneFile. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Herman, Sarah1. The Battle For The Remote Control--Has The FCC Indecency Policy Worn Out Its Welcome In Living  Washington University Journal Of Law & Policy 38.(2012): 357-382. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Shapiro 6 Shapiro 7