Chris Holliday English Composition II Robert Ryan February 26, 2017 Project 2 All around the world, gun violence has been a rampant issue. The unnecessary murder and bloodshed that has been caused by the use of guns is preposterous. These random and violent acts of violence have put many people on edge because they feel as though they could be attacked with a gun any day and that constant fear has many Americans frightened. Many organizations, such as the NRA, do not believe that gun violence is a thing and that you should blame the man that is wielding the gun and not the gun itself. This notion is extremely misguided and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (CSGV) has made it their cause to fix these misinterpretations and end the hypocrisy that has been established by gun owners. Their mission statement says that they wish to eliminate gun violence through research and public outreach. Senator Chris Murphy has praised the CSGV, stating that they have the way in exposing the insurrectionist ideology promoted by the NRA and the others in the pro-gun (CSGV.org). The two images presented are very symbolic of the message that the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence because they both show how the CSGV attempts to eliminate gun violence by presenting accurate statistics and calling out the hypocrisy that exists. My stakeholder, the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, has been an adamant oppose to the second amendment and the misinterpretations that have come from it. They have been very vocal in their drive to end gun violence in America. The two advertisements show the stance of the stakeholder by explaining how they feel on the stance of gun violence while showing the horrible realities that result from the ownership and violent use of guns. In the first advertisement, there is a plethora of rhetorical appeals that the CSGV use to make their claim much more credible. They appeal to all four of the rhetorical appeals with very interesting methods. First off is how they portray ethos in the first advertisement. CSGV is a non-profit organization that attempts to raise awareness on the topic of gun violence and therefore they have a great amount of research that backs up their claims. They also have statistical information in their advertisement that gives them added credibility because they have evidence to back up their claims. The first advertisement also has a great amount of pathos that forces the individual who is reading this advertisement to feel many different things. The first thing that catches the eye is the silhouettes that are on the picture which makes the reader question what about to experience. The advertisement shows the true horrors that guns bring because it speaks about the death of innocent children so the heart-strings of the reader are being pulled. This advertisement brings upon feelings of extreme sorrow because many families have lost members because of the gulf war due to the use of guns which is another reason that gun violence needs to be dealt with. Also, they compare the amount of people dying in the gulf war from the usage of guns with innocent children who live in the United States, which is an extremely emotional subject for many people because no one wants their child to perish at such a young age because of an irresponsible person. where the bolded number thirteen comes from because CSGV wants the reader to understand the severity of gun violence on the innocent population of humans in America. That statistic alone shows the great danger that gun violence has on America because normal citizens understand that hundreds of people die in war every day so knowing that for every one soldier, thirteen children die on the other end of a gun is simply disheartening. The logos from the first advertisement comes from the statistic that is given as well as the timeframe that these statistics are placed between. They show that the CSGV have done their research and found the average rate of deaths that occur because of gun violence. They also give the source of where they located this statistic from so that their numbers and facts can be scrutinized for better understanding. This advertisement also appeals to Kairos in that gun violence and the gulf war are still prevalent issues and people are still attempting to challenge the second amendment. The second advertisement is different from the first one in that it does not provide any statistical evidence but rather focuses more on the emotional side. The only appeal to ethos is that it is from an accredited source in that it is still from CSGV and they have been established as credible. This add is more of an appeal to pathos and Kairos. It appeals to pathos in that the two separate colors show the differing stances between the anti-gun CSGV and the pro-gun organization that have great power in this country. This advertisement gives an emotion of anger because after many mass shootings, the NRA is quick to deem the shooter unstable and irrational for using their gun in a manner that is harmful to the safety of the innocent people that are around. They will always say that the gun cannot be blamed for the murder of many people because guns cannot kill people, while at the same time praising guns for saving lives. This advertisement is hitting at the hypocrisy that has affected the ideals of many Americans because they do not understand that the same weapons they praise the use of by police officers for saving lives are the same weapons that just as easily massacred 20 children at Sandy Hook Elementary. This advertisement also appeals to Kairos because there have been many fatal shootings over this past decade that have called for many people to open their eyes and understand that guns are a very violent weapon and that you cannot just blame the person and not the gun because it is impossible for someone to kill a great amount of people over such a short span. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence has been very adamant in attempting to end gun violence. With various advertisements, such as the two chosen for this paper, truly illuminate the problem that guns can have on this country and world. Gun violence and gun ownership are also rampant issues that have led to furious divisions in this country that, in the end, have changed nothing because everyday people, including children, have been killed by guns. According to the Watson Institute number of United States troops who have died fighting the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan had passed 6,800 at the beginning of but only 2,386 died in Afghanistan which would equal out to about 31,018 children dying because of gun violence in the United States. This statistic alone should be an eye opener to many citizens because over 31,000 children who will never get to experience a full life because people who agree with the NRA do not believe gun should be held accountable for the actions of people who should not have been allowed to own a gun in the first place. This is why the CSGV uses advertisements such as these two in order to shed light on the atrocities that come with gun ownership and the hypocritical jargon used by big gun manufacturers and the NRA to make it seem as though guns are good and people are the bad ones.