Chamani 1 Ashkon Chamani Kristen Gocinski ENC 1102.012 13 march 2017 The Norm with NORML For the first time in U.S history, there are more states that have legalized marijuana in one way than there are that have not, 28 states having some form of legal marijuana. The debate of marijuana legalization was a huge, happening discussion since the but has taken on huge support since the past 15 years. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or NORML for short has been campaigning towards legalizing marijuana in both its medical and recreational forms all over the United States. With the recent legalizations of marijuana in states like California and Nevada, NORML has increased their message by many means including advertisements. NORML has been using images to help portray their stance on marijuana laws using ethos, pathos, kairos, and logos; the two images selected represent the logical standpoints of legalizing marijuana NORML has on the issue, and clearly displays this to all its audience. NORML was started back in 1970, in an effort to help share the voice of all marijuana as they put it. During the NORML was able to pass enough legislation to decriminalize marijuana in 11 states. Their mission statement being move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (NORML) Their perspective on marijuana is that with responsibility people should have the right to choose what they decide to participate in. NORML also has a Chamani 2 research team that provides articles of research done on the effects of marijuana on smokers to help better show their stance that marijuana should be legalized. A main way that NORML has spread their message is their use of images depicting blunt truths to their audience. NORML argues that the American people should use history of previously illegal drugs, and use the outcome of the prohibitions as hindsight for marijuana. The first image draws a comparison of alcohol prohibition and marijuana prohibition, relating how both are a failure. The appeal of ethos, which relates back to the credibility of the image, and whether the image can be trusted to be truthful, comes from the trademark of NORML and the knowledge that people have from alcohol prohibition. At the bottom of the image there is a NORML trademark which gives the audience a sense of trust that NORML would not blatantly lie about something if their credibility is in question. Another way this appeal is visible is the fact that nearly all Americans are aware of what happened during alcohol prohibition, with the rise in gang related violence, and ultimately the prohibition being scraped with the 21 st amendment. The next appeal of image one being felt is pathos, the deliberate emotions and reactions meant to be felt once the image is taken in. The main emotions meant to be felt are nostalgia and a sudden realization of what is being done. The reason nostalgia is being felt is because we see Chamani 3 the old gang car with bullet holes, along with the gangsters themselves with the then predominate Thompson machine guns. The reason this nostalgic feeling is felt is because in day and age there are many references to gangs over marijuana. Another reason for the nostalgic feeling comes from the color scheme being in black and white, which were what all pictures were until more developed images gave color. The sudden realization of what needs to be done comes from the caption that reads prohibition? It still (cannabisculture). The reason this gives the audience that emotion, is it makes the audience realize the striking similarities of both prohibition and how clear it is how the current one must also be scrapped. The next appeal image one gives off is Kairos, the use of specific elements to give the audience the sense of urgency. The way this is done, is by comparing an event that was once supported by many, alcohol prohibition, but was later realized to be flawed. The understanding that alcohol prohibition work, promotes action to be taken. This gives the audience the feeling of hindsight which will motivate them to help speed up the process of legalization to minimize the harm done by criminalization. The reason the audience would do this is mainly to help correct the justice system and help make a large push in the progressive direction the U.S has been headed in. The last appeal that is portrayed by image one, is logos, the appeal to logic. This image is most heavily appealing to logos due to the essence of the fact that the audience need to make the comparison of the similarities of alcohol prohibition and marijuana prohibition. The feeling that the audience will have after seeing the image is a connection of what must be done. The reason Chamani 4 for this is the harm that befell the U.S during the prohibition of alcohol and the harm that is occurring due to marijuana prohibition. The prohibition must be lifted, like that of alcohol prohibition, and federally taxed. The second image released by NORML to spread their message also draws a comparison to alcohol. The image shows the mortality rate of both drugs, alcohol claiming the lives of 40,000 people early, and marijuana claiming none, there is also a caption which reads, laws should The first appeal that is portrayed is ethos, due to the sources listed. The key to this image being successful is for it to be trusted, and when it comes to provider of the information, many people question the credibility of the figures given. The image has a citation of where they got their information from, the Center for Disease Control. This source is widely accepted by people and therefore gives people the acceptance of the information given, this is key to the message being intercepted otherwise people would claim the statistic is The second appeal depicted is pathos in which the image is meant to give emotions of realization. The way this is seen is due to the facts and slightly the colors of the image. The white background adds a professional array to the image by giving the initial images more contrast. This helps the audience see the emphasis of the information provided which emboldens the Chamani 5 seriousness of the image. The caption also adds to appeal of an emotion of seriousness and how this is an ongoing struggle by highlighting the degree of importance. The image gives a second side of why the audience should support legalization of marijuana in comparison to alcohol. The third appeal Kairos is more predominantly seen here, since the caption is asking the audience to perform an action indirectly. This action being to protest the criminalization of marijuana, and join the fight to legalize the drug. The statistic given also shows the direness at which people are dying due to one drug being illegal and not as accessible. This could cause someone to be inclined to begin to follow NORML more closely and be more supportive in future elections. The last appeal logos, is very clear in which we see two drugs being compared based upon their deadliness. If one were uninformed they would immediately assume the drug that kills thousands yearly to be illegal, and the one that has never killed anyone to be legal, but against logic the opposite is true. This raises questions as to how logical the debate of keeping marijuana illegal can be. And ultimately leads the audience to view the discussion of legalizing marijuana now more logical. The first image of the comparison to alcohol prohibition has one main purpose, to allow people to see what connection they should be making. The image is doing this, by bringing up a very famous part of American history in which a drug that was not illegal became illegal and as a result the American people went to the black markets. The same occurrence is going on right now, and the image is trying to exemplify that. The second image does something similar in the way that it is again drawing a comparison to alcohol in a different way. By drawing the death Chamani 6 tolls of both drugs also want the audience to question the logic of criminalization of marijuana. The picture achieves their goal of giving their audience a second side of why they should support legalization of marijuana. There are many images that exert their opinions on their targeted viewers, and this can be seen with the images released by NORML. NORML has used the images to help portray their stance on marijuana laws with all the rhetorical appeals, the two images also help emphasize the reasons NORML stands with marijuana legalization. In total these images, both of which make comparisons to alcohol either directly or indirectly, are a summary of the type of advertising that is sent out by NORML. These images can be seen to be very effective as they have a clear and thought out message that nearly all can receive once viewing the images. Works cited Brady, Pete. Advertising for  Cannabis Culture, http://www.cannabisculture.com/content/2001/05/16/1944. 22 Aug. 2008. 27 Feb. 2017. of North Carolina Official  NORML of North Carolina, https://ncnorml.com/tag/marijuana-safer-than-alcohol/. Feb. 2014. 27 Feb. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana  The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Law, http://norml.org/ 29. June 2013. 27 Feb. 2017.