Alvarez 1 Luis A. Alvarez Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 6 March 2017 Protecting Civil Liberties in a Growing Surveillance State The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) strives to prevent any attacks on civil rights by on the toughest civil liberties cases and issues to defend all people from government abuse and (ACLU). The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) believes any effort to tamper with free speech and the freedom of the press is an abuse of human rights. Through donations, the ACLU acquires encryption to protect journalists from illegal government seizure in digital age of widespread government (ACLU). Through the use of these two images from the ACLU, the rhetorical appeals are demonstrated in an attempt to convey to the audience that it takes more than a display of pride to protect civil liberties, it takes action. And it must be done now because freedom cannot protect itself. In Figure 1, it appears that the audience are Americans who are unaware of the reach of government spying. Forty years ago from former President George W. second term, the government flouted the civil liberties of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The fact that this statistic continues unabated should logically alarm these innocent Americans. To establish logos, the ACLU maintain that the violation of constitutional rights such as the First protections of privacy and free speech is a misuse of surveillance (Vollmann 70). Of course, functionaries involved in the intelligence community (for example, NSA Alvarez 2 contractors) are being indirectly targeted as well. In fact, the advertisement suggests that these functionaries are responsible for obstructing Americans and their government from fostering a sustainable democracy as in the in Martin Luther King (ACLU). In Figure 2, the advertisement is geared toward young college educated adults because the focal point of the image is a young woman sticking her tongue out in defiance of the callous nature toward the civil liberties of prudent Americans. As young adults are considered more rebellious than their elders, they are even more vulnerable to illegal government surveillance. The image of the young woman sticking her tongue out in Figure 2 is large compared to the logo and the text. Thus, the scale of the tongue (its size in relation to everything else on the page), along with the colors of the American flag, indicates the designer wants the viewer to focus on the pattern and feel driven to support the ACLU. Although this advertisement unsuccessfully identifies ethos, it masterfully appeals to the pathos as young adults tend to rely on emotion instead of reason to make decisions when confronted with little available information. The context that Figure 1 introduces to the reader is the fact that the government was illegally wiretapping Martin Luther King Jr. in the of national His rights were trampled on although he was championing rights for all Americans. The use of surveillance against so-called of the President led to a law that explicitly demands that the President acquire court permission for wiretaps of Americans, even for national security investigations. By using Dr. King as the focal point of the image, the ACLU establishes its ethos as they are a champion of civil liberties, like Dr. King. Whereas, former President George W. Bush is significantly smaller than the image of Dr. King. Alvarez 3 Figure 2 conveys to the audience that the issue of government overreach is more relevant to millennials than ever. Their civil liberties have been violated since the 9/11 terrorist attacks when a majority of them were too young to realize how governments do not always act according to the American best interests. Now that these individuals are old enough to protect their rights, they can a stand for Figure 1 is black and white which attempts to convince the reader that the issue is black and white. This creates a false dilemma. This advertisement assumes that there are only two options when there are, in fact, more. For example, either the government stops its surveillance on Americans or America will be a surveillance state. There are a myriad of ways to curb surveillance, but this statement suggests there is only one. Figure 2 presents a photo of a young woman sticking her tongue out with an image of the American flag. This image invokes patriotism, and thus pathos, convincing the reader that a American would join the ACLU. For example, a member of the ACLU claims no Americans are in favor of government surveillance. A police detective who is an American states that surveillance keeps Americans safe from terrorist attacks. Consequently, that ACLU member replies that no American is in favor of government surveillance. This is faulty logic because this creates an argument based on the idea that no person of a particular group would act or think in a certain way (Pack 345). Notice that this advertisement uses red, white, and blue on the young tongue, on the text box on the bottom left corner, and on the bottom of the image. The use of red, white, and blue on the text boxes tie in nicely with the same color scheme on the young tongue, creating a sense of coherence that makes the design feel professional and therefore convincing. The phrases are short and to the point which indicates Alvarez 4 that it is targeted to young adults. As these issues are of progressive concern, the target audience will be more inclined to support these initiatives. According to the designer for Figure 1, the scale indicates that Dr. King is important as his photo is significantly larger than the photo of Bush. Bush lost trust by illegally wiretapping law abiding Americans because he feels above the law. Thus his leadership is nearsighted and his echelon is diminutive. Whereas, Dr. charisma won the hearts of thousands of Americans as he protected their freedoms when they were left helpless. Dr. King demonstrates the power of one as his agenda is holistic and his followers are numerous. The tone in Figure 1 is as ruthless toward government surveillance as the Bush encroachment of civil liberties. To the ACLU, wiretapping Americans is an of government power. They continue their assault against former President Bush as he allows these violations of the First Amendment because he that he is not bound by The advertisement alarms the viewer that Americans can be put under illegal close scrutiny by the Bush Administration. The caption Years Ago, Wiretapping of Innocent Americans Was an Abuse of Government Power. It Still is bolded and in all caps. This is effective in portraying the concern that government surveillance will always result in government overreach despite the so-called benefits of the security apparatus, regardless of the current administration. The only way to stop these unlawful seizures is to advocate the initiatives. The designer of Figure 2 conveys for the tone that the young woman is not that important. Her uncrisp visage demonstrates that anyone can become a member of the ACLU regardless of political or institutional bias, gender, race, ethnicity, or religion. And as many can Alvarez 5 and do join, supporting the ACLU is a popular and therefore logical decision. Figure 2 states that at the heart of freedom are civil rights. To build kairos, it adds it takes more than pride to protect these rights. It takes action. The catch phrase a Stand for Your is bolded and in all caps. This is effective in expressing the urgency in joining the ACLU in the fight against unlawful government infringement of civil liberties. Figure 1 asks Americans to call the White House to tell the administration to stop illegally spying on Americans. The ACLU even provides a phone number to contact the White House. The kariotic concern is that government overreach will continue to infringe on the rights of innocent Americans unless they support the organization immediately. In order to continue security cooperation with Americans, responsible strategic decisions imposed by the intelligence apparatus must rely on their trust in the government (Berman 124). Wiretapping Martin Luther King Jr. was unconstitutional and still Figure 2 tells its target market to join the ACLU because protect Although the Constitution guarantees Americans their civil liberties, these rights are not set in stone. It to guard these protections from government overreach. Alvarez 6 Figure 1 Alvarez 7 Figure 2 Alvarez 8 Works Cited the ACLU . The American Civil Liberties Union. January 2017. Web. 21 January 2017. American Civil Liberties Union. a Stand For Your 11 June 2011 via Google Images. Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY 2.0). Web. 20 February 2017. American Civil Liberties Union. Years Ago, Wiretapping of Innocent Americans Was an Abuse of Government Power. It Still 9 March 2002 via Google Images. Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY 2.0). Web. 20 February 2017. Berman, Emily. Domestic Intelligence and Lee Law Review . Volume 71. Issue 1. Winter 2014. OneFile . 3. Web. 24 January 2016. Pack, Jenna. Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. E-text. Vollmann, William T. of Loving Policy . December 2013. 68-71 Print.