West 1 Jillian West Prof. Gocinski ENC 1102-012 13 March 2017 Dolce & Gabbana and Sexual Objectification is the objectification of feeling, and the subjectification of (Langer), art manipulates the feelings of their audience through objectification and subjectification. Women and men are used as sex objects within images to appease their audience and are fragmentized to just their body parts. Dolce & Gabbana use ethos, pathos, and logos in objectifying images to advertise their fashion. The two images chosen ineffectively portray Dolce & mission to their audience. Dolce & Gabbana not only creates, designs, produces and distributes high-end clothing, they value everyone and prohibit discrimination. According to Dolce & Codice of Ethics, form of discrimination and harassment must be prohibited, paying constant attention to creating and maintaining a safe, healthy and adequate working environment, in which all Employees and Co-workers are of It is understood across the world that fashion is structured through stylization, glamorous, and sexualization (van der Laan and Giselinde). Dolce & Gabbana have women and men within their advertisements display these elements and are appreciated for their aesthetic. Dolce & Gabbana advertise their fashion not to objectify women or men, but to express the high quality of their pieces. Dolce & Gabbana use ethos in their two images to provide credibility and establish trust in order to persuade the audience. Dolce & Gabbana are attempting to persuade the audience by displaying their own credibility or authority within their images. In the first image, Dolce & logo is transparent so that the audience can still see the half-naked models. In the West 2 second image the logo has a gap in between the names to not take away from the aesthetic of the clothing. Both images display Dolce & logo across the photo. This establishes credibility because it shows that they approve this advertisement and that this photo promotes their clothing brand. Dolce & Gabbana use pathos in both images to promote sexual appeal. Dolce & Gabbana use pathos, within their images, to persuade emotion, engagement and connection with the audience. The element of pathos that is used in both images is sexual appeal. The woman in the first image is wearing a corset, revealing majority of the lower half of her body along with two of the four men being half clothed. The body is positioned in a way of sexual desire with her pelvis thrusted towards the sky. Both men and women are covered in body oil so as that flash of the camera shines their bodies and they glisten with a natural glow, accenting their legs, arms and abdomen. This image is designed to make the audience desire Dolce & clothing in order to feel sexy. The second image promotes the same feeling. As a man lies naked on the floor two other men are looking and pointing at his private area, interested in the sight, while a third man has his pants his pants unbuckled and a fourth is straightening his tie. This invites a sexual setting as the naked body is positioned with his legs and mouth open along with his hands resting on his chest. The two men could have either just finished engaging in sexual activity with the unconscious man or they were getting ready to, either way this appeals to sexual emotions within the audience. Image 1 West 3 The two images provided by Dolce & Gabbana contain logos to display claims that are accurate and make sense. Without logic and clear reasons audiences will fail to respect the claims provided in an advertisement. Logos is the appeal to logic, the logic of evidence and reasons. Logos is used in the first image by the implication of one woman being overpowered by four men. She is being held down by her wrists by one of the four men. This implies a position of approval of gang rape, that it is okay for a woman to be immobilized and subjected to will. The fact that the woman has an alienated or absent look on her face shows that she was not aroused by being withheld of her will. The white walls, clear blue sky and water suggests a serene background and that the act is normal. In the second image, the man lying naked and does not look conscious. Instead of the photo showing the bystanders helping him, they look more aroused by his body. The dark background implies an apartment of some sorts after a late night outing. It proceeds to provide the idea that a group a men brought home someone unconscious to take advantage of his inabilities. Although Dolce & Gabbana provided both images to present their remarkable fashion, the images ineffectively convince the audience to purchase Dolce & clothing. Dolce & merchandise is supposed to display the confidence of women and men, to inquire ideas of elegant and competent women and men; their advertisements are supposed to present these elements while highlighting the clothing. The images fail to accomplish this goal because the advertisements lack concentration on the clothing; both images objectify men and women. In Image 2 West 4 image one, one of the men is wearing Dolce & Gabbana underwear, but with his being in the background and the lack of focus on his attire, there is no way for the audience to notice the label. In neither image one nor image two is there anything else identifying with Dolce & Gabbana except for their logo written across the image. If the logo was not displayed no one would know who this advertisement belonged to or the designers of the clothes. In both images sexual appeal is addressed, but it is advertised in a way that is distasteful. Instead of promoting sexual appeal of the clothing, how the merchandise provides more confidence and elegance, the image presents aspects of sexual abuse with a woman being withheld of her will in image one and in image two an unconscious, naked man lying helpless while four other men watch in arousal. These elements distract the audience from the clothing and do not effectively convey Dolce and mission. In conclusion, Dolce & Gabbana use objectifying images to advertise their fashion. The two images chosen display ethos, pathos, and logos and ineffectively portray Dolce & mission to their audience. The images do not effectively portray Dolce & mission because there is a lack of representation of their clothing and the sexual appeal displayed distracts the audience from their fashion. West 5 Works Cited OF Dolce&Gabbana: Code of Ethics, www.dolcegabbana.com/corporate/en/group/code-of-ethics.html. Accessed 28 January 2017. & Gabbana - Photos - Most controversial banned NY Daily News, 3 June 2015, www.nydailynews.com/entertainment/controversial-banned-ads-gallery- 1.2245644?pmSlide=1.2245631. Accessed 15 February 2017 Metro.co.uk, Amy Duncan for. D&G in hot water again as advert  Metro. <http://metro.co.uk/2015/03/18/dolce-gabbana-in-hot-water-again-after-gang-rape-ad- campaign-resurfaces-just-days-after-ivf-furore-5108624/>. Accessed 27 February 2017 van der Laan, Elise, and Giselinde Kuipers. How Aesthetic Logics Shape A Cultural Field: Differentiation And Consolidation In The Transnational Field Of Fashion Images,  Poetics vol.56, 2016, pp. 64-84. ScienceDirect. URL. Accessed 28 January 2017.