Toland 1 Sierra Toland Mr. Spencer ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Covenant House The Covenant House, is an organization that focuses on helping the homeless and runaway youth with food, shelter, and love (Covenant House 1). all kids want the same thing for is what an image by the Covenant House states to make people sympathize that some children are homeless and wanting a home while others are wishing for toys. In another image it has two children sitting by a dumpster with a caption that states, plan to live on the to get people to feel sad that there are youth that are forced to live on the street and eat out of the dumpster. In both images they use the surroundings to help the audience feel more compassion towards their living situations. The Covenant House uses ethos, pathos, Kairos and logos in these images to help push the audience to feel bad for these children so they will donate to the organization so these children do not have to go through homelessness anymore. Throughout both pictures pathos is used to make the audience feel a certain way. Pathos is defined as rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the because it is an appeal to emotion (Lee et al 37). In the first image, that I will refer to as throughout, is a picture of a child laying in a box, with their feet sticking out. At the bottom of the image it is captioned, all kids want the same thing for They put this caption so people will pity this child and donate to the organization to help the other youth who are going through homelessness. The child is dressed in clothes that Toland 2 look old and a little too big for them, which would make the audience think that this child not only lives on the street but has very little. In image 2, two children are sitting by a dumpster eating, and the caption says, plan to live on the And around the dumpster is a white line that forms what looks like a floorplan for a house, and it is labelled which makes the audience understand that the children have to eat out of the dumpster. And because this number is so high the Covenant House feels as though they need to target the audience that will help fund these children find shelter and be able to eat in a more sterile way. Also, in both images ethos is used in images through the Covenant House logo. Ethos, is described as method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Rhetoric Really Matters 27). The Covenant House uses intrinsic authority when they use generally good morality to persuade the audience. Just by showing how these children are forced to live would make anyone with good morality want to help. Both images contain the Covenant House logo as well as provided the phone number and/or website so the audience is able to get more information about this organization so they can donate. In image one and image two, the Covenant House does not directly state any statistics or evidence but through our unstated assumption using logic, logos is used. In the textbook, Rhetoric Really Matters, logos is defined as an appeal to logic. In image one, we can assume that some children want toys while others want a bed to sleep in. This is because it is showing a boy in a sleeping in box that has a child playing on a computer on the front. In image two the quote, plan to live on the forces the audience to think logically on why a child would be on the living on the street and how it can be stopped if the audience helps. Toland 3 Additionally, Kairos is used to urge the audience to act now. In both of these images children are forced to do unsafe things such as living on the street and eating their food out of the dumpster, therefore something must be done now. That is what the Covenant House is trying to get the audience to understand. In image one, it incorporates the fact that it is Christmas time or almost Christmas time, urging the audience to act before the holiday so the children can have a normal holiday celebration. In the second image, the audience is urged to act now because the children are eating from the dumpster, and eventually the food will run out and they will have nothing to eat. To discuss the design elements, in the first image, the surrounding of the boy in the box is dirty and dusty, but the box itself is a light baby blue so that it stands out in contrast to the other parts of the image. They did this to draw attention to the child in the box. The message of this image is that some children are only wishing for a place to sleep every night while others are asking for materialistic things, like toys and computers. Not only are they trying to target parents who feel empathy for this child and children who are going through this same situation, they are trying to target other teens who are more fortunate and are blessed with not only a home but also toys and other things that other children do not have but should. In the second image, the dumpster is green so it stands out, this is so it is the first thing people look at when they see this picture, and then they look to see the boys who are eating. Also for the pop of color, they did the of the kitchen white so it would stand out and the audience would see that because these children live on the street they are forced to eat out of the dumpster. The message is that children on the street have to do some unsanitary things to survive, because if they did not they would not be able to eat. In this one they are trying to target not only parents of children, but anyone because these children are eating from the dumpster. Toland 4 To conclude, the Covenant House is trying to persuade people to act now to help youth who are going through homelessness and are starving but using ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos. The two images both use children who are going through this to push their point that it is an urgent matter to be resolved. Toland 5 Toland 6 Work-Cited Covenant  Helping Homeless Children & Youth Covenant House. Covenant House, 07 Sept. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print.