Smith 1 Storm Smith Professor Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.012 13 March 2017 Making the Cut did you hear about the new WNBA video game, yea, neither did can be the future statement if female athletes do not get more endorsements. When someone looks at the various collegiate sports who do they think of- the athletes, the coaches, the games, or the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). The NCAA is the corporation for collegiate sports, they are the ones who deal with the athletes for recruiting, creating how much money each team and then athlete should receive, and other things that the college itself would not handle. The NCAA has dealt with various issues with the Title IX and sex discrimination cases due to participation numbers with athletics from both male and female teams. They have been trying to settle these cases and lessen the issues with sex bias crimes and women athletics numbers have begun to increase but at a slow and steady pace. The NCAA has shown with sponsors that male athletes have better numbers and are chosen first over female athletes for endorsements such as video games, apparel, etc. The NCAA has shown with advertisements and data that the numbers of female and male athletes have increased over the years but male athletics have always dominated. They also show advertisements for their video games using mainly male sports like football, soccer, or basketball and female sports do not make the cut. These advertisements raise rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, dealing with credibility, emotion, logic, and time to show the audience their stance on the topic that female athletes are not the ones chosen for sport endorsements. The two images chosen will show how Smith 2 the NCAA needs to begin getting female athletes involved in the advertising world so they can bring in more profit and give female athletics better recognition. The mission statement is purpose is to govern competition in a fair, safe, equitable and sportsmanlike manner, and to integrate intercollegiate athletics into higher education so that the educational experience of the student-athlete is Official Site of the Their goal is to keep every student-athlete in a safe environment while playing the sport they love and to keep the educational aspect of the student a high priority as well. The NCAA wants their athletes to be able to have a back-up plan incase their sport falls through and they can then lean on their education. Their main priority are the student-athletes at the universities and colleges. When dealing with issues involving sex based discriminations it brings a negative cogitation on the universities involved causing some to lose money from their contributors. There have been issues in the past where the NCAA and the Title IX law have come in disagreement due to scholarships given to athletes. The National Law Center that female athletes at the 25 institutions in Division I received a disproportionately small amount of sports-related financial aid during the 1995-96 academic (Naughton). This is also during the years where the NCAA recorded that the participation of female athletes was only breaking 100,000 while male athletics was almost at 200,000 and increasing (NCAA). Due to these cases, female athletes do not want to participate in athletics when they go to college because they know they would be wasting their time during their season, not achieving any recognition and having their grades become issues with the college itself. These issues need to be brought to the attention of people because if these situations are not fixed then who knows what could happen with collegiate sports overall. Smith 3 Ethos is shown in Image 1because of player chosen for the video game cover and the expression on his face and in Image 2 we are given data to prove the credibility with the NCAA. Ethos is the appeal to credibility and ethical stances. The image of the NCAA football 11 video game shows known Florida Gator football player Tim Tebow on both the covers the XBOX 360 and PS3. The use of major video games along with the NCAA logo shows the audience and those who will purchase to play the game will be choosing a game with a popular player. The credibility is shown with the fact that Tebow is enthusiastic when playing gives the player the same feeling when he or she will play the video game. The game also represents the NCAA logo so there is the notion that the game is like that of actual college football rather than just a random video game sponsor. The image 2 shows how the data gives the numbers of the male, female, and total amount of student- athletes from the year 1984 to 2015. The use of statistics provided by the NCAA themselves gives reliability to the data so those who look at the chart can see actual numbers of student-athletes. The reader can trust the information given out because the NCAA provided this knowledge and would not want to give out false numbers. The use pathos is shown with Image 1 with the football player in action and the emotion while playing gives the audience a sense of enthusiasm to go out and play those very same games. Pathos is the appeal to emotion and the images chosen use color or expressions to show the appeal. The blues bring a sense of happiness showing that those who Smith 4 play the games will be happy while playing and it shows that the NCAA football players enjoy playing for their colleges. The chart uses three main colors to show pathos as well as logos because the total is in green, male athletes are in blue and female athletes are in red. The green represents the numbers are in a good standing and ranking, there are no issues with having student-athletes participate. The blue for male athletes gives them a positive look as their numbers mainly increase. The red representing the female athletes gives a vibe of negative numbers where they have smaller numbers than male and only in 2014-2015 did they get closest to the male numbers. The statistics can show that more female athletes need to continue their athletic career to the collegiate level to create a balance between male and female numbers. Logos, the appeal to logical knowledge, is shown in Image 1 and 2 through the illusion of data and knowledge. The use of a male college athlete in Image 1 shows the point that male athletes are chosen for endorsements over female athletes. This goal is to have those who look at the video games see that male athletes are on the cover of these games and that the female endorsements are not a major thing. The audience needs to be aware of the situation at hand with issues between male and female athletes being endorsed and sponsored. This photo has data within it so the audience is given statistics about the student-athletes within the NCAA program from 1984. The audience must think about how the numbers coincide with the topic of the paper where male athletes are the higher percentage in the total number of athletes. People need to realize that at some universities male sports dominant over female athletics which cause women to not have the same opportunities everywhere. When companies use advertisements, they want their model to catch the audience they intend to get with their message and will typically choose a masculine figure over a feminine figure. The video games purpose was to endorse NCAA football using a popular figure who is Smith 5 known to the public for his great athleticism and his community actions. They want to use Tim Tebow for his ability to pursue others into doing the right thing, he plays college football well so can you, in a video game. The image was successful for the game but we need to look deeper into the issue. The endorsements given by NCAA in forms of video games, apparel, etc. are using male student-athletes as the college image and not sharing the wealth with the female student-athletes. Bringing female endorsements will not be a negative impact on the NCAA because they will still be bringing in profit. The chart showing the number of NCAA student- athletes gives the sports analyst data to show the increasing of student-athletes throughout the years. The image is supposed to be informative about the opportunities that have now led to more athletes to continue their career in college. This also gives the idea, since there are many student-athletes in colleges they will can pursue professional careers in the sports they love. The chart should be showing that the female population is rising; however male athletes still dominate the collegiate athletics. If we can show that female athletes can gain endorsements just like male athletes, then we can encourage more female to continue playing sports in college which can potentially lead to increased number of student-athletes bringing in profits for their universities as well as the NCAA. The issue at hand is that female student-athletes may work just as hard but are still dominated by their fellow male student-athletes. These advertisements raise rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, dealing with credibility, emotion, logic, and time to show the audience their stance on the topic that female athletes are not the ones chosen for sport endorsements. The two images chosen will show how the NCAA needs to begin getting female athletes involved in the advertising world so they can bring in more profit and give female athletics better recognition. If the NCAA can work out contracts with colleges, their athletes, and Smith 6 sponsors it will be evident that bringing in female student-athletes to the endorsement world will benefit not only the athletes, the colleges they attend but also the NCAA. Smith 7 Figure 1 Figure 2 Smith 8 Works Cited Core NCAA.org The Official Site of the NCAA, www.ncaa.org/about/ncaa-core-values. Accessed 27 February 2017. NCAA. of NCAA Student-Athletes 1984-85 to NCAA. http://www.ncaa.org/about/respurces/research/divsion-ii-score. Accessed 26 February 2017. Naughton, Jim. Between Title IX and NCAA Rules Is at Heart of Lawsuit Football and Title IX in The Chronicles of Higher Education. 1997, http://www.chronicle.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/article/Tension-Between-Title-IX-v and/77626. Accessed 26 February 2017. Tebow on the cover of NCAA Football Wikipedia, NCAA, XBOX360, PS3. July 13, 2010, Accessed 27 February 2017.