Frank 1 Emma Frank Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 012 27 February, 2017 A Rhetorical Appeal to Education In the year 2009, a group of students attending Princeton University came together and discussed the importance of educational equality among students. This discussion eventually led to the founding chapter of the organization Students for Education Reform in 2011. Comprised of seventy-five chapters across twenty-two states, SFER, fights for educational rights through the participation in projects, campaigns, and protests (Our People: The organization has been active on social media accounts, updating viewers of national issues occurring in the education system. Students for Education Reform has released images to illustrate their views on educational rights. By utilizing ethos, pathos, and kairos within these pictures, the message of maximizing a academic career is successfully delivered by this organization. SFER is full of ambitious college students and strong advocates of academic reform. Though the organization is relatively young, the group has grown to more than a thousand members in about six years Members have voiced their opinions in projects such as the Shut Us campaign, the Would MLK project, and the it rally (Our Power Campaigns & Events). Each of these projects has focused on helping to increase teacher salary, close racial gaps, and improve communication within school systems Campaigns & This grass roots organization has tackled on national problems in hopes of bettering a educational experience. Frank 2 The first image released by Students for Education Reform is an illustration that utilizes the ethos appeal. Ethos is defined as a rhetorical appeal that establishes credibility within an image or advertisement. Students for Education Reform released an image that includes the face of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. MLK was an active and well-respected advocate of the 20 th century who fought for civil rights. By including, the face of Martin Luther King, the picture released, has credibility based on the recognizable individual illustrated. Along with the familiarity the image establishes, outside context of the illustration furthers the credibility such as fight for (Figure 1). By including these pieces of evidence, audience members are informed of the actions Dr. Martin Luther King took and why he is such a reputable and credible source. Along with Dr. Martin Luther King, a symbol representing Students for Education Reform is intertwined into the picture. The small red house, representing SFER allows for credibility to be established due to the legitimacy the organization holds (Figure 1). Pathos, or the rhetorical device that appeals to emotion can be found within Figure 1. The emotion can be illustrated through the low levels of saturation on Dr. Martin Luther Face contrasted with a dark background. Black-and-white imaging techniques is utilized to create a serious tone. Martin Luther King also appears to look as if he is in the middle of a deep thought. His eyes do not meet with the viewers, rather he is looking down; a body expression that makes him look passive to audience members. In turn, this passive appearance helps to make the figure more appear approachable. Martin Luther reminiscent expressions and lack of eye contact Figure 1 Frank 3 illustrate a theme of sadness and defeat throughout the image. Through this creation of a somber atmosphere, viewers not only remember the loss of a great man who died fighting for the equality of others but they are also motivated to go out and make a change within society (Figure 1). Lastly, the first image released by Students for Education Reform utilizes the rhetorical appeal kairos. Kairos is defined as a technique that focuses on illustrating time and increasing levels of urgency. The quote: still have this pinpoints how vital change is needed within the education system- a change that needs to occur now (Figure 1). The use of unifies all audience members as one, and the reference to the speech have a establishes a sense of familiarity (Figure 1). This sense of familiarity and unification causes audience members to work together in changing current policies within the education system (Figure 1). Students for Education Reform released another image, figure 2, that utilizes ethos and pathos. First, regarding ethos, the appeal of credibility, a bold, red house that represents the organization serves as a tactic to validate the image produced. Pathos, the appeal of emotion can be found in the image through the scene of individuals sitting- most likely protesting on a rainy street. The figures in the picture are surrounded by a blue hazy film, one that establishes a serious and somewhat somber mood. Within the image there is a contrast between past and present. For instance, the past Figure 2 Frank 4 derives from a snapshot of a group of individuals taken several years ago; evidence of this can be found through the NBC camera, the clothes worn and the facial hair of the individuals in the image. Conversely, the small red-house that represents a modern organization is utilized as the present within this comparison. This juxtaposition of time allows for the audience to see how a collaboration of past experiences are similar to the ones currently happening. (Figure 2). Thus, this understanding of mutualism between past and present experiences can help to create a more beneficial future. Lastly, emotion derives from the word which is a powerful and poignant word defined as something being vital and necessary for life (Figure 2). Emotion also comes from the facial expressions of the people sitting on the street who appear exhausted but determined to fight for change. Through a selection of connotative diction and contrasting colors, the image utilizes ethos and pathos to portray its message of education reform (Figure 2). Image two uses kairos, the appeal of time to deliver its message. For starters, while the word does evoke emotion it also establishes a sense of urgency. Within the quote, the word is also included which further defines the need for immediate change (Figure 2). By including quotes that highlight the dire needs for educational changes, students are called to action and motivated to participate in those very changes. Relating back to the first image provided by Students for Education Reform, the picture distributed successfully encourages the public to go out and participate in making educational rights equal. The targeted population is not specific or skewed because the credibility of Martin Luther King is universally understood. This image utilizes ethos, pathos, and kairos, making it even more widely known by audience members (Figure 1). There were no attacks on a specific policy or individual, rather techniques were used to unify viewers under a remorseful situation and simply encourage them to make an educational difference. Students for Education Reform Frank 5 released another image that worked to highlight the importance of fixing issues within the education system. Like the first image, image two targets a broad population of individuals. This broadness can first be exemplified through the picture of an event that occurred several years ago. People at that time who witnessed or even heard about this event may recognize it in this image. By including a hashtag, the younger population is targeted based on their knowledge of internet lingo. Comparing the effectiveness of both images, a common ground between the two can be established: a need for change within the education system. Thus, the message of reforming problems within the education system is delivered successfully in both images by using several different appeals and by unifying contrasting audience members (Figure 1), (Figure 2). Students for Education Reform is a national organization that fights to fix problems in the education system. Participating in projects and campaigns, this group, comprised of college students and advocates of education reform has voiced their opinions for over six years. Two images released by Students for Education Reform, with the appeals ethos, pathos, and kairos, encourage the targeted audiences to go out and participate in bettering the education system in order to maximize a academic career. Frank 6 Citation Figure 1. dream is not Twitter, 16 Jan. 2017, Students for Education Reform California. Accessed 20 February 2017. @SFERnational. Figure 2. the 20th century, all the way to now, students are aligned for Twitter, 21 Feb. 2017, Students for Education Reform National. https://twitter.com/SFERnational/media Accessed 20 February 2017. Our Power. Campaigns & https://www.studentsforedreform.org/campaigns/ Accessed 15 February 2017. Our People. https://www.studentsforedreform.org/our-people/ Accessed 15 February 2017.