Smoak 1 Conner Smoak Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 1 March 2017 The Effectiveness of Homeschooling Images Since the idea of education has been around, many changes in the way it is approached have been taken. On one hand, many organizations believe that public school education promotes social interaction and communication skills that are needed to be successful in future career. These groups believe that there are opportunities that accompany public school such as extracurricular sports, future references, and experiences exposing students to the outside world. However, there are some organizations that are concerned with the negative effects of public school education. These negative effects range from improper education to social seclusion to inapt preparation for their life beyond school. Homeschool World, a practical homeschooling magazine organization, supports the practice of home education and believes that homeschool instruction is the optimum means when it comes to teaching students. This group also believes that homeschooling students does not only affect their performance excellence in school, but also affairs dealing with money, social skills, and future opportunities. Homeschool World supports its argument to parents and students alike that homeschool education is a more effective form of instruction through two pieces of visual rhetoric that connect homeschooling to better lifestyles. The first rhetorical appeal to be discussed is Ethos, the appeal to credibility. The first image employs the use of ethos in a common way throughout society. In the bottom, right-hand corner of this image, there is a quote from Mahatma Gandhi which says, Smoak 2 is no school equal to a decent home, and no teacher equal to a virtuous Whether someone has done extensive research on Gandhi or has only heard a reference to his name, most people have a general understanding of who Gandhi was and what he stood for, and continues to represent in society today. Using a quote from such a well-known person throughout the world and relating what he said to the ideals of Homeschool World gives these ideals and values a stance to be raised on. When analyzing ethos in an image and the credibility that it is assuming, it is imperative to consider the relevancy of the figure used to establish credibility. Presenting a musician as a credible source to promote reading does not make sense. This is due to the fact that there is no evident connection or reasoning that the musician would have any background expertise in the subject at hand. This raises the question of why Homeschool World would use a quote from Gandhi when he was not discussing homeschool education. Rather he was discussing the effectiveness of a principled parent and a providing home to the livelihood of children. So, while this quote does come from a credible source for certain topic areas, it may not have been the best choice to support the idea of different costs between homeschooling and public school. The second image or does not use the rhetorical appeal of ethos. Not using a credible source to back the data used weakens the argument in the image. By stating a and not referencing a specific study, the audience is unable to know if the data is representative or selective. The second rhetorical appeal that is being looked at is logos, the appeal to logic and reason. The first image is centered around the use of logos. Society, as a whole, values money and the responsibility of not throwing it away, which is a logical way of thinking. The goal of this image is to say that people who send their children to public school Smoak 3 are flushing their well as the money of tax the toilet, something that is quite frowned upon. This technique is effective because it brings to the attention a fact about schooling that they might not have known before. The logical action to take after seeing this image would be to consider the amount of money that is being spent that could be saved or used for other purposes and understand that there is a much better option of choosing homeschool. For the second image, or the use of logos is seen in the practical understanding that just because a student is taught from home mean that they are going to be different such as media has made it out to be. The common understanding is that homeschooled students socialize with society correctly because they exposed to people as much as they grew up, but this is illogical to believe about all students, especially when the research shows otherwise. This image makes people think about what they previously believed and question whether or not they are correct, as well as make them consider what the best option is to make and students for society. On the other hand, there are many studies including a study put on by Widener Law Review, a student-run law review that covers current legal issues, that says homeschooled students have higher levels of performance than students who have been taught through public school on standardized achievement tests based on academia (Dumas 73). This ability to score higher on these tests may have been able to translate over to the social skills that were measured in this study. Also, there is no understanding of the scale on which these scores were obtained, giving the scores no logical meaning other than homeschool scores being higher than public school. Now onto the third rhetorical appeal pathos, the appeal to emotion. In the first picture the title already evokes emotion from the get go. When many people hear the word they Smoak 4 begin to think immediately about money and how they spend it. In society money holds a standard that is above life sometimes, there is a stigma that corresponds with money and how people feel about it. To have money is to be happy. This belief is what this image is based on. People want more money to be happy, and if they able to have that money it can produce an array of feelings. If people feel as if their money is not being put to good use or is being wasted, they may feel revolting and bad about themselves, which is not a feeling many people enjoy. This feeling may move them to change the way they are approaching education for their students. Pathos is a very commonly used and the second image is a great example of why it is used and how it is effective. or appeals to the emotions of how people feel about other people. Specifically, this image focuses on the negative connotation that comes with social qualities of homeschooled students. It is made to cause those who believed that homeschoolers are different to be taken aback by these statistics that say homeschooled students are actually more capable in these areas of skill. So, in turn, this makes those people feel bad not only about thinking that, but also about being out done by those they believed were inferior in this sense. This also empowers homeschooled students because this image shows that they can still be quite as successful, or even more successful, as public school students in the future. There are however, studies such as one done by Amy Pearson a writer with an online journalism company Global Post that says students should be in school to aid them in matters of socialization, meaning that students who are in public schools are given more opportunities to create deep bonds with other students. The final rhetorical appeal that is discussed is the appeal to timeliness, kairos. Though vaguely used in it is stated that the amount of money stated per child is the Smoak 5 amount spent per year. If this spending on each child continues year after year, then that is almost $10,000 dollars for each child adding up more and more. This image wants the audience to know that if something change this year then it will just happen again the next year. Kairos, while used in many sale for the next five minutes does not have a place in the second image. The lack of the appeal Kairos does not affect the success of this image, this image relies on pathos for the most part and the added element of Kairos would be ineffective. Both of these images hone in on what is important in society: money and social abilities. Even though both images are from the same organization, they take very different approaches to promoting homeschool education. People hold different values and have higher standards for certain aspects of life. If someone is more concerned with money and how it is spent, then the first image will have more of an impact on them than say the second image. If someone is more concerned with how students will fit in with society and their standing against each other, then the second image would be the one that speaks to them. The use of both sides to draw in the audience is an excellent example of how rhetorical appeals can be used differently. In the world, there are many different people and many different viewpoints. The use of rhetorical appeals matters because not only do they make advertisements more exciting to look at, they also shape the way people think and perceive the many ideas encompassing them. Smoak 6 Works Cited Dumas, Tanya K., Sean Gates, and Deborah R. Schwarzer. Evidence for Homeschooling: Constitutional Analysis in Light of Social Science  Widener Law Review 16.63 (2010): 63-87. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The Most Visited Homeschool  Homeschool World. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Pearson, Amy. How School Impacts a  Our Everyday Life. Global Post. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Smoak 7 Smoak 8