Bula 1 Victor Bula Professor Basil ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Effectiveness of the NEDA advertisements The National Eating Disorder Association has been the leading organization in combating eating disorders across the world. Eating disorders have become far too common today and remains to be one of the most neglected problems. There are three major eating disorders which plague the world such as Anorexia Nervosa, Binge Eating Disorder, and Bulimia Nervosa. Approximately 20 million women and 10 million men in the United States alone will suffer from a clinically significant eating disorder the Their sole purpose is to rid the world of eating disorders and their first steps towards reaching their goal is by spreading awareness of their main issues and The NEDA has released advertisements that appeal to the average person and make them want to take charge and strive for change. Their advertisements have been affective in teaching viewers and had caused a rise an action. The utilization of harsh facts, size, and color schemes along with the use of rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos, logos, and Kairos has caused a positive outlook on reaching the organizations goal. Often pathos is used in advertisements to convey the reader. Pathos includes an appeal to emotion to get them to act on an issue or an ad being presented. The first image created by the NEDA includes a toilet seat with eating utensils around it. Some readers also might feel a strong sense of disgust as tools you eat with are so close to the last place most people like to eat at. It is trying to first depict the common idea that people get when eating Bula 2 disorders come to mind. Simply that people eat than go throw up after is the common idea. The advertisements use of words under the image appeal to pathos specifically. The words include much will we lose on this diet? Lots of people this They make the reader feel bad about thinking a certain way because they assumed that the advertisements were almost humorous to a point until they bring in the harsh truth that these disorders have a mortality rate attached to them. The image again makes the reader feel remorse and feel unexpected emotions thus, reaching the goal of the advertisements. As for the second image created by the NEDA it has a giant strawberry on a small fork. It is also paired with the words monster under the bed. in the The words suggest that other people have common fears such as monsters under the bed but people with eating disorders have a fear of eating or eating too much. The image appeals to emotion because it also shows you how the mind of someone plagued with an eating disorder views their food. Such as a regular strawberry looking as huge as it does in the image. The distortion of food is a common symptom of one of these disorders. The image seems to also covey some humor as an initial response would go along the lines of that the strawberry is ridiculously big for the fork. This is effective since the you might be forced to change from one feeling to the other after looking at the image with more details. These being used reflect a feeling a sympathy towards those affected. Ethos is an appeal to credibility. Many people seek to see how credible something is before diving into information that can end up being false or misleading. Therefore, ethos is a very important part that come into play when discussing advertisements and their effectiveness. Bula 3 Both images do a wonderful and simple job of showing their credibility right off the bat. In the bottom, right corner both images have the organizations symbol and names. Along with their signs they add at the bottom their website to find further information on the organization. Giving the audience the option to consider them as deep as they feel is necessary. Most people as they go through their daily life rely on their sense of logic. Therefore, organizations emphasize logic into most of their advertisements. So, logos are an appeal to the logic. In the first image with the toilet seat contains many examples that appeal to logic. At the bottom of the image in smaller font it begins to state facts and symptoms of bulimia. They say that bulimia causes heart arrhythmias, intestinal bleeding, and rupturing of the esophagus. These are straight facts being thrown at the reader to make them feel as if they should do something to combat the now obvious seriousness bulimia can be. As for the second image of the strawberry, it also contains a strong application of logic. The image is paired with information about eating disorders at the bottom stating that people affected distort their food such as how it is shown in the picture but also distort the size of their own body and seeing thin as fat. Without the use of logic in advertisements there would be a loss in its effectiveness to convey the reader. Timeliness is an important factor when considering the effectiveness of an advertisement. An organization can do an outstanding job on the other components of rhetoric but if it implore Kairos than the whole objective of the advertisement could go to waste. Both images by the NEDA were released at one of the organizations awareness walks which is a perfect time to release them where it reaches the largest audience The first image itself appeals to timeliness in the bold text when it says we will lose lots of people this year from bulimia. It gives a sense that if you act now more people will die. This increases its effectiveness. Also in Bula 4 the small text at the bottom it says that the symptoms are life threatening but can be treated. This appeals to timeliness because it suggests that if you act soon people could die because the life-threatening effects have a positive outlook if treated. As for the second image with the strawberry, it contain much emphasis on timeliness depending on weather the reader acts now or later. Although it does not contain this sense of action the advertisement still achieves its goal of informing the public with its richness of pathos appeals. In summation eating disorders are not to be taken lightly. The absence of people who know about the truths of disorders just increases the tendencies and horrors of them. Anorexia Nervosa has the highest mortality rate of any mental illness This not just out of all the eating disorders this is all mental disorders which is a very broad spectrum. This shows the seriousness that eating disorders are. These facts that open the eyes of readers have been one of the most effective uses of rhetorical appeals especially logos. As described by CNN in an article, eating disorders on the eating disorders are creeping into our society little by little and starting off at an even younger age than expected. In the article a 9-year-old developed Bulimia and Anorexia Nervosa because of an award system she had. The system included getting snacks when she behaved and get any snacks when she behaved badly(CNN). Something as simple as a reward system can develop into something that you could struggle with the rest of your life as seen in the example of the girl who is now in her This shows the complexity of eating disorders and the dire need to bring them to an end. The NEDA has recognized this issue and has offered many resources so more people can continue happy and fulfilling lives without the tortures eating disorders can be. Bula 5 The use of blunt facts, design schemes, and rhetorical appeals used throughout the organizations ads could have great success in their first step towards a brighter future for those affected by eating disorders. Pathos appeal more to a true self and leaves a mark on the person when advertisements hit deep. As for ethos and logos, the credibility of a source could be one of the most important aspects of an advertisements that piggy backs off the logic of an advertisements because the whole point is to inform readers of truthful information. Timeliness is essential because if things are done a wrong time the whole piece of work could go to waste despite the work put into the creating the piece. The facts effect readers to make them feel sympathetic, which is a main goal of the organization. So now the organization can take an even greater step towards eliminating eating disorders. Bula 6 Bula 7 Bula 8 Works Cited Page CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Eating Disorder Statistics National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated  National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Get The Facts On Eating  National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. and National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.