Vieira 1 Karen Vieira Sarah Basil ENC 1102.905S17 26 February 2017 Judging Textbook Covers: a Classroom Ritual First year composition is common coursework that most to all first year college students must complete during their college education. This coursework is placed on students curriculums to ensure they gain the basic communication skills necessary for higher education level courses; those that they will take throughout their whole college careers and, in most cases , their day to day careers after their graduation. Pearson is a well known company that produces textbooks for colleges all around the world. On their page they introduce themselves like such, the learning company, committed to helping everyone wherever, and however it suits them. Our products and services are carefully researched, expertly developed, and continually improved to ensure that they deliver the best possible learner outcomes that enable people around the world to make progress in their Learning for everyone, everywhere, and in every ). they hold a good reputation in the textbook world there is still intense competition and this is why, despite people saying one judge a book by cover, Pearson spend so much time on Two of their first year composition textbooks covers entitled in and Blair make use of pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos to establish themselves as effective advertisement for the words within. There are many textbooks for a ludicrous amount of different topics, ranging from different teaching methods to altering types of review questions but unlike many topics Vieira 2 composition holds an even more difficult task for textbook manufacturers. in writing studies regarding subject matter for first-year composition courses are controversial. There is no consensus on what is appropriate subject matter in academic writing and due to this no set guide on how these courses should be constructed or taught (Friedman 78). In other words, there is no general consensus on what the book should be teaching or what sort of prose or poetry one should present as examples, if at all, in a textbook. In this competitive atmosphere textbook providers must try to do anything to get a heads up in the game, one way in which Pearson does this is by striving for technological advancement. devoted to preparing students to compete in an ever-changing, global economy by using technology more effectively and by making learning personal. Our products and services help educators and institutions meet learner needs and shape Still there are many companies who do the following so textbook covers as unassuming as some may seem can go a long way. Pathos appeals to emotions, one of the first things many people notice when looking at anything. An incredibly effective strategy in the art of persuasion, people focus on things that make them feel things whether they be happy, sad, angry or uncomfortable. The first image in does this through contrasting colors. The larger part of the image is a crowd in black and white filming something we see with their cell phones. On the top of the cover in full larger than life color are a series of four pictures: a man fishing, a boy drinking water from his hands, a lake with birds, and a series of day cards. These pictures, important to note, are also mirrored so that the viewer can see them both right side up and alternatively upside down. These peculiar aspects cause a sense of curiosity to form within the Vieira 3 viewer. Creating interest within the book is the first step to acquire a sale and here Pearson does that well. Pathos in the second image, Blair Reader, Exploring Issues and actually is the main rhetorical appeal. Instead of a hook, here pathos works to give credit to the claim. Issues are inherently things that cause emotional anger, discomfort, zeal, and disagreement. After all if not they would not be labeled problems to begin with. The cover has a collage of several issue implicit images but here are a couple main ones: a student holding a cheat sheet while completing a test, a Muslim women using the American flag as a hijab, and a candlelight vigil. Almost all people have opinions on the previously mentioned images and due to this there is an implicit understanding that the book is not afraid to scope out touchy subjects. Emotions in advertisements, to insure their success, must be triggered with intent and precision both thing highly visible in this cover. Logos, the rhetorical appeal that relies on the sense of logic, must be used in the first cover to dissect the larger meaning behind images. When the viewer puts together the title, in and the pictures that they are given, they are able to understand that to truly comprehend a topic they must learn to view it from all directions in its full colorful reality instead of a small one dimensional view they might get from a cell phone screen. Another blatant appeal to logic that in makes is to add in how their newest edition contains 2016 MLA updates. understand that college students, like trees, are not made of money and thus will often try their best to find reasonably priced textbooks for their students. This means in several cases sticking to previous editions so that students have better chance at finding previously owned books. However this piece of logic on the cover works to Vieira 4 divert that thought into why it is in fact crucial to have the newest version. A broader appeal to logic which both share is that they have a section which explains that the books are available with MyWritingLab, a software some colleges use in their first year writing programs. It adds on a pro to get this book if a department is already using this program. Staying the same is something people inherently like and to be able to make use of a program they already understand a comfort. The second book though, Blair Reader has own small set of logos added onto this as well. cover has the words issues and on it. Not only do these words explain what the text will entail but it also helps to conceptualize the pathos rich pictures that it holds. In these ways logos ensures to capture the attention of logical thinkers in the pursuit for better teaching materials. Ethos, or the rhetorical appeal focusing on ethics and credibility, comes into play as both books boldly display their authors names. Neither holds name as they are selling the books on their own website but the names allow people interested in the subject to research their past work, what kinds of pedagogy styles they use at their institutions, and more. Ethos comes into play once more as each image displays its edition number, on Blair even directly next to the title and in eye catching yellow. This works to demonstrate the fact that this book has been successful in the past. Time and time again educators have used it in their classes and they seem to cease to. In other words the later the edition the more credibility it would have, most likely explaing why Blair ninth edition statement take more importance on cover than in fourth edition statement. Ethos may sometimes be a small part in advertisements such as this where location, Vieira 5 website already holds such trust, but credibility in the specific book is still important and the reason we can find examples of it even in this setting. Kairos, the appeal relating to time, is even more difficult to find in both of these advertisements but still they exist. Again their edition number comes up here. These are the most recent editions of their kind out as can be contrasted to other possible covers of older editions of the same book. They communicate the fact that they are the newest, most updated versions of themselves with either newer context or better organizational styles than before. It may be possible that this rhetorical appeal be lacking due their placement on their website. If one is already there than they are most likely interested in purchasing or deciding on a new textbook for their class. Instead Pearson may focus on sending out or placing other more kairos rich advertisements with a larger audience prior to the beginning of new semesters on other platforms. So despite timeliness being a grand factor in creating action in people in this particular type of advertisement in takes a back seat. Selling textbooks, the task which Pearson takes on, is no easy thing. With more research than ever pointing to diverting methods of teaching first year composition classes, they take on the challenge of drawing in educators to pick their books from many. Pathos is used in their covers to draw attention and hook their audience, logos is used to insure them that the material within the covers binding is worthwhile, Ethos demonstrates their authority to provide such a product, and lastly kiros seals the deal insuring their latest edition is truly the best there is. In this way the use of rhetorical appeals intersect to effectively reach goal of textbook sales. Covers will always be a first impression and they clearly forgotten this truth despite the age old saying. Vieira 6  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Friedman, Sandie. This Way For Vampires: Teaching First Year Composition in Challenging  in Teaching & 6.1 (2013): 77-84. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Learning for everyone, everywhere, and in every  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.