Jackson 1 Julius Jackson Enc 1101 Sarah Roth March 10, 2017 The changing tides off redlining Redlining is like a deadly virus, you think that the you eradicated the virus, but all you did was cause it to mutate into something worse. Redlining was a practice accepted during the industrial era of the United States of America; it is when banks and realtors could dictate where you could live. They would discriminate against ethnic groups by offering them unfavorable real estate and mortgage loans. This was acceptable because this was a time where the color of your skin predetermined your worth. As the times changed the government created laws like The Community Reinvestment Act, they implemented them with the hopes of making the housing market fair and further integrate the society. Did it succeed? Mark Pearcy writes 2012, the Manhattan Institute released a study that painted a relatively rosy picture of the state of segregation in the U.S. Per the report, cities are now more integrated than been since This outlook is mildly deceptive; while the rise in segregation has faltered, the reality of a racial divide in the U.S. is still very (Pearcy 2015). Meaning that America is the most integrated that it has ever been but many Americans still live in neighborhoods were one ethnic group makes up 90% of the community. The earlier scholarly publications that I found had a focus of simply defining what redlining is and how it is they implemented in society. In the later works, I found that the focus had shifted to try to explain the effects that the practice Jackson 2 has had on minority communities. Based on the evidence, the conversation on redlining has changed from proving its existence and how they carried it out to understanding its effects. Redlining has not been a tactic of the housing market because of the hostility that the majority against the minorities. The minority ethnic groups would live together to make life easier and safer. Along with the industrial boom of the 20 th century came the hope of wealth and new opportunity America in the new developing era. This caused the Great Migration and a new problem for the government and the housing market. Minorities began to pour into the new developing cities looking for opportunities and jobs. This gave birth to the practice of redlining. The people would not have a decision of where to live because the banks would not loan them sufficient funds or the realtor would not inform them of all the houses available in the market. This practice went on for decades until researchers revealed the practice to the people. This being around the time of the civil rights movement and radical change in America, the government quickly set up laws to make the practice illegal. This leads to the research that I found conducted by Brian Coffey. Coffey states refusal of credit to a large percentage of African Americans denies a considerable number of people the opportunity to improve their standard of living, accumulate capital, and become more fully integrated into the economic mainstream of American (Coffey 1998). He found that the housing market is still not fair to minorities after the many laws; the percentage of whites getting approved for loans when compared to blacks and other minorities is still significantly different. The area in which the applicant already resides in also affects their approval likeliness. Black applicants who live in a white community are much more likely to receive a loan when compared to someone living in a black community. Stephen L. Ross found evidence for a similar view, that banks and lenders do not bluntly discriminate against ethnic groups, but entire areas instead. He found that banks Jackson 3 avoid giving out loans to people who live in high risk areas, these areas are always areas where minorities reside. This is an indirect way of discriminating against minorities that goes unnoticed because they claim that it is a high-risk loan. The banks also prefer applicants to have Private Mortgage Insurance which many minorities cannot afford. Hence the reason for going to the bank for a loan; another barrier to deter applicants. The newer studies that I have found no longer looked at how they enforced redlining but the effects that it is having on the people. Diane Kuthy writes that the recent riots involving the controversial killings of black people by police officers is a sort of scapegoat for emotions that have they suppressed for years. She argues policies have a legacy of far reaching effects in both the public and private sectors of Baltimore and its suburbs, for example: racial disparities in health care, access to healthy food, incarceration, resources allotted for schools, and public infrastructure investment such as the privileging of the suburban highway system at the expense of the public (Kuthy 2017). She believes that true culprit behind all the inequalities that minorities deal with today they can be traced back to the practice of redlining. Dara D. Mendez agrees. Mendez believes that residential discrimination could be the cause for the disparities in health care between minorities and whites. That redlining explains why there is a higher infant mortality rate in black neighborhoods than that of white communities specifically. In conclusion, the focus of the conversation has changed from trying to prove redlining to understanding it, and as of today, the effects of it is still very vague and more research is needed, but it is still apparent to see the differences in the white and minority communities. This leads you to ponder how much influence is Americas past still effecting Americans today. Jackson 4 Works Cited Pearcy, Mark, : Teaching About Racial Residential  Virginia Social Science Journal 50. (2015): 40-50. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Kuthy, Diane, and Greenlining: Olivia Robinson Investigates Root Causes Of Racial  Art Education 70.1 (2017): 50-57. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mendez, Dara D., Vijaya K. Hogan, and Jennifer Culhane. Institutional Racism And Pregnancy Health: Using Home Mortgage Disclosure Act Data to Develop An Index for Mortgage Discrimination at The Community  Public Health Reports 126. (2011): 102. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Ross, Stephen L., and Geoffrey M.B. Tootell. Redlining, The Community Reinvestment Act, And Private Mortgage  Journal of Urban Economics 55. (2004): 278297. Science Direct. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Coffey, Brian, and J. Clarke Gocker. Racial Disparities in Mortgage Lending: The Example of Urban  Social Justice 1998: 115. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.