Main ! 1 Thomas Main Seth Spencer ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Negative Impact Of Industrial Water Pollution Water is a fundamental need for the survival of human life and other marine and wildlife species. Over seventy-one percent of the Earths surface is accommodated by water but yet these huge bodies such as lakes, rivers, and Oceans have a great threat that they all face (USGS pg.1). Over 70% of industrial companies are polluting waterways everyday with chemicals and other waste untreated para. 4). The toll that these polluting industrial companies are having on the environment and the life around it is humongous. There are many organizations out there that are against Industrial Water Pollution, one of those organizations is Greenpeace. Greenpeace wants to stop industrial poising of our water with dangerous and harmful chemicals. Their goal is to detox our waters because water is most essential need in life and the survival or our environment. Greenpeace supports their cause by using two images that use visual rhetoric to show how industrial pollution can destroy or environment and endanger human life. One of the ways Greenpeace tries to draw people into the cause with their visual rhetoric images is through the use of Pathos. For those that know, Pathos is the appeal to emotion. In Image A, Greenpeace presents an ad that says boldly and it shows a picture with half of a human hand and the fingers are the chimneys from a smoking factory. The image also has the hand portraying the stop symbol in side language. The image connects to your emotions because the image presents this gloomy portrayal of industrial polluting taking over our Main ! 2 life and depleting the natural world. When it comes to using pathos Image B is more effective in demonstrating it. As you can see in the image there is a boy holding a water bottle up and drinking it, and when he drinks the water you can see the inside of his body looks like an industrial factory. The image is showing a representation to how big of an issue industrial pollution is because it is showing that the chemicals these companies are dumping into the water untreated are taking its toll on the water and the people using the water. This image uses Pathos appeal because it makes people angered, scared, and sad. It makes the audience angry because it shows the industrial companies poising their water supply, it makes them scared because now they want to drink or fish from the water because they fear being poisoned, and the image makes the audience sad because a lot of people like kids and for them to see that the only water the kid in the image can drink is that from the polluted water should make them feel sad for the kid. One of the other ways Greenpeace make their ads most effective into drawing their audience into cause is through Ethos. In writing Ethos is the appeal to credibility, and in both images A and B Greenpeace puts the name of their organization at the bottom of their ad. And if you go online and type www.greenpeace.org you will see that they are a legitimate and credible organization that focuses their attention on a cleaner and healthier earth. Greenpeace focuses their attention on industrial pollution and tons of other controversial issues that are posing great threat to our Earth. Another thing that shows that they are a credible organization is that they are a this show that Greenpeace is a non-profit organization. This shows that Greenpeace is more interested in the issue and the movement itself instead of the money. Main ! 3 Greenpeace also uses Logos in their visual rhetoric when it comes to bringing people to their cause. Logos is the appeal to logic and reason. Image A effectively uses logos by showing the audience that Industrial Pollution just take a toll on the water but it also has a huge impact on human life. They show this by making the hands fingers into the chimneys of the industrial factory. The question this image poses to the people viewing it is, industrial polluting be apart of our environment or yet one of our most essential needs in life which is This image should give the the people reason to want to do something to minimize pollution and detox the bodies of water affected by water pollution. The second image uses logos but takes a completely different approach the the first image does. Image B shows the kid drinking the nasty polluted water that the factory has created, and in the image it shows the inside of the boy to be mechanical. This is a mir representation of what you of what you are drinking when industrial companies get away with polluting our water with harmful chemicals and waste untreated. The logos behind it is if you drink it then why would you let the boy drink it. This image gives the viewer a reason to want to do something to fix water pollution as an issue so that no one else has to drink polluted water. Greenpeace also uses Kairos in the their visual rhetoric to capture the viewer attention. kairos is the appeal to timeliness. In Image A by Greenpeace they use kairos by making a call to action. In the first image it shows in big bold letters and it shows part of a human hand with the fingers as the chimneys of a smoking factory. The message behind the image is that we need to stop industrial pollution before it takes a grand impact on human life and the environment around it. Main ! 4 It is important to take into account how important it is to fix Industrial Water pollution because it is not fixed soon then it can ultimately destroy the environment and the life around it. Water is a necessity when it comes to the survival of human life and if we keep allowing big industries to pollute our waters with harmful chemicals and other waste untreated then it will eventually catch up to us. Greenpeace has brought the attention of how dangerous Industrial Water Pollution really is through visual rhetoric, its now the peoples part to get out there and help contribute to the cause. (W.C.-1,198) Main ! 5 Image A https://www.coloribus.com/adsarchive/prints/water-pollution-program-stop- pollution-3621055/ Main ! 6 Image B http://www.campaignbriefasia.com/2012/11/saatchi-saatchi-china-launches.html Main ! 7 Work Cited Greenpeace International. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. 101: Freshwater 101: pollution. N.p., 23 Feb. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. coloribus.com. Greenpeace Water Pollution Program, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. & Saatchi Greater China Launches the Chinese HTML5 Version of the Saatchi & Saatchi THIRTY-PAGE BOOK Volume Campaign Brief Asia. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Perlman, USGS Howard. Much Water Is There On, In, and above the How Much Water Is There on earth, from the USGS Water Science School. N.P., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Main ! 8 Main ! 9