Gass 1 Darren Gass ENC 1102.910s17 Kristin Gocinski 13 March 2017 RT use of rhetorical appeals Today people are extremely hesitant to trust the media. Especially coverage on politicians. The stakeholder that will be analyzed has the same distrust with the media, yet it is a media outlet at the same time. One of the biggest in the world too. The stakeholder is Russia Today now just referred to as RT. RT is a non-profit Russian government funded news broadcaster. It was made to compete with global broadcasters like CNN or BBC. They claim to have an audience of 700 million, and they also have over a million subscribers on While they have no official mission statement, here is what their creator stated as their purpose Seslavinsky, head of the Russian Federal Agency for Print and Mass Media, pointed out that the main objective of the new channel is to create a positive image of Russia (imrussia.org). So the purpose of RT is to promote Russian propaganda. There is good evidence, that unlike BBC and CNN who are actual news sources, RT seeks to create their own news and is not seen as credible to many people. It is known by many familiar with RT that a host once quit RT mid-air due to RT being too bias and not a real news source. It even goes as far as countless cases of ex-reporters recalling times when they were told to do things like write an article about how Germany was a failed state, or downplay drinking problem(Gray). So now that it is shown only goals are to help Russian interests, examine some Gass 2 advertisements released by RT and see how they use ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos to effectively promote Russian media. RT uses ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos in their images from 2014 ad campaigns in London. Its main goal is to get British viewers to watch RT, however they do this by trying to show RT as an alternative to Londoners mainstream media. The ad campaign likely un-coincidentally coincides with invasion of Crimea in 2014. Around 2014 Russia was receiving a lot of political heat for invading Crimea, so it makes sense that RT would launch an ad campaign attempting to justify Russia in Ukraine. Although the timing of the advertising campaign is not a rhetorical appeal, it increased its effectiveness. This image 1 effectively uses ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. The most prominent use of visual rhetoric in the entire ad campaign is when it says at the bottom right (image 1). The phrase question more is a call to action therefore it would fall under Kairos. The call to action is saying to question your usual news outlet(create distrust with your usual news outlet), and imply that RT will help them question more. It is clearly an attempt to create distrust towards other news sources. The advertisement also calls for action in saying to RT.com for the second which implies that RT has alternative opinions Gass 3 and will help them The next most apparent use of visual rhetoric in the image is ethos. While ethos is about credibility this use of ethos uses more dis-credibility. The man in the image was the British Prime minister at the time, so he is very credible, yet the image paints him as a liar and shows him being surprised, characteristics usually associated with dis-credible people. It is profound that the Russian government put poster boards up in the middle of London making the British Prime Minister look foolish. The image uses aspects of pathos to relay message first the image of the prime minister is one of confusion and surprise, which makes the viewer immediately feel those emotions. Next it says that there have been 141,802 civilian deaths in the Iraq war, this is an emotional appeal because it is bringing up a very sad fact. This particular use is extremely effective because it is both pathos and logos, the British government is somewhat responsible for 141,802 civilian deaths, would definitely make some people sad enough to go to RT.com to learn more about why RT is showing that poster. It also invokes an emotional response or pathos, when it states to be ready within 45 because this creates an imaginary sense of panic and danger. These words are not logos because they are completely taken out of context, there was never a point in which Iraq started powering up their WMDs and Britain only had 45 minutes to act and the prime minister threw his hands up in shock which the poster seems to imply. The background color is predominantly red, a color that is used to represent danger and war is used in this photo because they are trying to portray danger and the British government as alike. RT takes advantage of logos as well. The logos is how RT is pointing out how the British government was wrong about the WMDs and that lead to all those civilian deaths. It also says is what happens when there is no second this is an appeal to logic and accomplishes goal of getting viewers to watch them because it makes Gass 4 the viewers think that if RT was around and popular before the Iraq war that their second opinion, would convince enough people that invading Iraq was a bad idea. The next image released by RT is not talking about Britain and Iraq, but Obama and Iran yet it still effectively uses ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Iran and the USA have created an agreement that limits Iran as a nuclear threat, however Russia is allies with Iran and enemies with the USA. Since RT is meant to help foreign affairs standing, this ad is attempting to make allies seem peaceful, and enemy the US, seem like the aggressor. Ethos is again used but again, not in the traditional sense. Keep in mind this advertisement is intended for a pro-US audience. Ethos is usually used to show a credible person endorsing something, not here. Here, it shows a credible person and overlaps the image with a non-credible person, blurring the line between who is credible and who credible, quite literally and creatively. Pathos is in this image in the white background, white is used to represent pure, unpainted, empty. The white in the background here shows a blank slate, it is up to the viewer to go to RT.com to fill in the background. Logos is used in the hard to see description below the main text. It makes the argument that people only fear president because he is an and says that distracts from the largest nuclear arsenal in the world. Then begins to say the only way you will know the truth is if you are by watching RT challenge the Gass 5 The use of ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos, was executed very effectively in this advertising campaign launched by RT. Ethos effectively hindered the credibly of the British Prime Minister. The use of ethos quite literally blurred the line between Obama and other leaders the USA view as not credible. The use of Kairos was effective enough for more people to switch their television channel to RT. The effectiveness of the ad campaign is proven by RT having an audience of 700 million and the station only being about 10 years old In conclusion, the advertising campaign from RT used ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos to effectively advance Russian interests by promoting their media as reliable. As one can expect, these advertisements were taken down from London for being too provocative and controversial. The reasons they were so controversial was because of their political undertones, the undertone being trying to hinder the influence of the British government. It is understandable for London to remove advertisements because it was a foreign government trying to create distrust between citizens and government. The campaign by RT was certainly effective as it created controversy and got the word out that RT is an alternative to mainstream media. Gass 6 Works Cited (Image 1) RT. For the Second  RT. For the Second Opinion. Web. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. <https://secondopinion.rt.com/>. The Propaganda of the Putin  Institute of Modern Russia. Web. Accessed 05 Dec. 2012. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. < https://imrussia.org/en/politics/344-the-propaganda-of-the-putin- era>. (Image 2) Chris. Russia Today News: Question MoreChris Rawlinson  Chris Rawlinson / Adspiration. N.p., 18 Dec. 2009. Web. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. <http://www.chrisrawlinson.com/2009/12/russia-today-news-question-more/>. John. Russia Today Is Weapon of Mass Deception. Will It Work in  The Spectator. The Spectator, 04 Dec. 2014. Web. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. <http://www.spectator.co.uk/2014/12/the-truth-about-russia-today-is-that-it-is-putins- mouthpiece/>. Gray, Rosie. How The Truth Is Made At Russia  BuzzFeed. Web. accessed 28 Feb. 2017. < https://www.buzzfeed.com/rosiegray/how-the-truth-is-made-at-russia-