Garcia 1 Haley Garcia Professor Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.012 27 February 2017 To Juice or Not to Juice: Steriod Abuse It takes less than five seconds to find steroids on the internet. This fact leads to the realization that ultimately anyone has access to these drugs, which in turn leads to an increase in steroid usage. It is easy to see why many individuals are drawn to the idea of these products, ads issued on the internet constantly portray these buff men and slim women as the type of individuals who use these products. This manipulation completely disregard the negative aspects and health issues that are common with steroid use that are ultimately life threatening. The Federal Drug Association is one of many accredited companies who fight against steroid use and abuse by portraying to the public real consequences of taking these drugs. This stakeholder establishes evidence that steroid use only leads to negative health effects that could essentially end up killing someone in the long run. This mindset is portrayed through a variety of ads that are published by the Federal Drug Association that steroids are not a good choice. One of my images has Jesse Ventura, a professional wrestler who had attempted to use steroids to help his career, but quickly realized they were not for him. The other image has a young athlete, specifically a football player, falling to the ground with the words mean These two images use Ethos, Pathos, Logos and Kairos to draw people in and establish the idea that steroids negatively impact your body and are not worth the risk. The two images effectively Garcia 2 prove the Federal Drug Association is against steroid use and wants all people to feel the same way. Federal Drug Association says no in regard to steroids. Over the past hundred years they have established many laws against the use of these products because the risks are more prevalent and dangerous than the desired effects are on the body. Some effects listed on the website that establish a few reasons on why anabolic steroids negatively impact your body are fertility issues, higher blood pressure, heart, and liver abnormalities. The fact that steroids are so easily distributed, either by the internet or people getting prescriptions for growth hormones and selling them to others for a profit. This easy access has increased the use of steroids rapidly in the past decade. The Federal Drug Association has taken a multitude of steps to change the ability and reputation of steroids. They have found illegal distributors online and taken them down, these sites often send out fake prescriptions or fake products to buyers. Stopping this illegal process is going to take years and a lot of people to take these companies down. The FDA is responsible for protecting the public health by ensuring the safety of human and veterinary drugs, biological products, and medical devices. They do this by deteriorating the reputation of steroids and a variety of other products to maintain a healthier atmosphere for everyone. The appeal Ethos essentially convinces the viewer of something through using a celebrity or some other source of credibility to persuade them of the issue at hand, this is used in both figure one and two to support the Federal Drug Associations views of steroid use. The first figure is the one with Jesse Ventura, a professional wrestler, actor, author, naval veteran, and political Garcia 3 commentator. His accomplishments and broad spectrum of careers allow him to appeal to a variety of audiences. Also for the people that know of his accomplishments, they would associate him with experience, or knowledge that has made him view steroids as bad or harmful. The quote on the poster makes the reader want to believe him because he says that he has done this before so he is reliable and experienced with the use of steroids and its negative effects. It is easy to correlate professionals or celebrities to being trustworthy because their lives are in the hands of the public, making them seem open and not able to lie. Figure two is the one with the younger man playing football. People have often heard or have read of the negative health effects that correlate with steroids. Seeing this young football player fall to his knees makes people feel a sense of credibility and confirmation of what they have heard before. Also, at the bottom of the poster it states, the facts on the back of the when the readers see this they automatically connect the word facts with credibility. Pathos, associated with emotions, convinces the audience by directly creating an emotional response, is used in both the images presented by the FDA to imply that steroid use is bad. The image with the Jesse Ventura, the celebrity, makes the readers laugh at his stern expression and feel a sense of anticipation. Most see his face and hand and associate it with Figure 1 Figure 2 Garcia 4 needing to pay attention or importance. Reading the quote on the left side of the post, they will feel sympathetic towards him because he has gone through negative effects from the use of steroids. Anyone who has gone through health issues or has known someone who has been affected by steroids will feel like they can relate or sympathize. The second poster I chose with the football player falling makes people feel sympathetic because he is young and should not be having health issues that he seems to have in the image. The fact that he is grabbing at his stomach on the ground in pain makes the viewers worry and want to do something to help the boy. This emotional connection establishes a bond with the readers to the poster and will make them not want to go through the same thing he is living through. This negative reaction to the ad helps make the idea that steroids are a negative thing more obvious. Logos, the appeal that deals with logic, persuades the audience by giving reasons to avoid steroids. The image with the celebrity, Jesse Ventura, persuades the audience that if this guy has done steroids and it went badly they should probably not use them either. The idea that one person has gone through negative issues with somethings directly establishes the idea that if it happens to them it will probably happen to me too. The poster with the football player falling to the floor persuades the reader that if this young athlete is suffering from using steroids I probably will too. Just like the first image, both ads make the viewers associate negative consequences with using steroids. The idea that others who have used anabolic steroids have developed one or multiple effects from directly alters the minds of others into thinking that if that happened to someone it could also happen to them. This idea establishes steroid with negativity, which is shown in both ads. Kairos refers to the timeliness of an argument this type of persuasion pertains to the thought that you have to be at the right place at the right time. The image with Jesse Ventura, the Garcia 5 celebrity, uses time by saying he used to use steroids butt has stopped because of the negative effects. Also, the quote establishes that that was the past and he is a healthier, better person now then he was back then. The second poster with the football player falling appeals to time because the image starts off with him running confidently, however as time continued he gradually fell to his This correlation to time is seen within both images above. The first image is with Jesse Ventura on the front, uses a celebrity to help establish credibility. The position he is in adds a sense of humor to the ad and the quote next to him gives the reader insight on how he feels about steroids. The fact that you are looking at him and the fact that he is holding a weight makes it seem like getting in shape or buff is possible without the use of steroids. The toughness in the picture gives off that the purpose of the ad was to tell people that steroids really do not help in the long run. Also, that you can get bulky and achieve the goals you have by just working things out. The second image portrays a football player falling to the ground. This represents the that steroids cause athletes after using them. Also, people can relate to this ad because football is a major part of the American culture and establishes a deeper connection with the audience. The man in the football uniform is also a younger guy considering he is playing football so the audience would feel sympathetic for him because he is younger than the general population. The purpose of this ad was to associate youth without steroids and that the average person will live a lot longer without using them. In conclusion, the FDA tries to warn people that using steroids will only affect them negatively overall. These ads use Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos to draw people in and create the idea that steroids are not worth the risk in the long run. Using ethics, empathy, logic, and time establishes that not only are these ads entertaining to look at, but they also contain information that is important to remember. The reason the Federal Drug Association has Garcia 6 developed such a strong opinion on steroids is because their focus is to keep our society safe and maintaining our public health. Anything that goes against this is argued and fought against. Garcia 7 Works Cited Steroids Mean  U.S. National Library of Medicine. National Institutes of Health, https://collections.nlm.nih.gov/catalog/nlm:nlmuid-101452164- erm. Accessed 27 February 2017. This Week in FDA History - This Week in FDA History - April 26,  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. https://www.fda.gov/AboutFDA/WhatWeDo/History/ThisWeek/ucm117728.htm. Accessed 27 February 2017. Unknown Author. Post Market Drug and Safety Information for Patients and Providers. I. S. Food and Drug Association. http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/PostmarketDrugSafetyInformationforPatientsandP roviders/ucm173935.htm. Accessed 27 February 2017. Garcia 8 Figure 1 Figure 2