Octavius 1 Brunard Octavius Kristen Gociniski ENC.1102.012 13 March 2017 Hot Topic: Drunk Under the Influence Individuals under the influence of drugs or alcohol tear unknowing individuals from their families daily. Drunk driving or driving under the influence of any drug is a top national debate issue because of the frequency and the impact had on families. It is generally excepted by experts and the common public alike that there is no fixing the issue of driving under the influence. Staggering statistics such as, average, a drunk driver will drive 80 times under the influence before their first The previous statement is an example of a reasoning the issue of driving under the influence is a difficult issue to overcome. Due to the issue of driving under the influence, many organizations and laws were created to attempt to correct the problem. The Against Drunk was created in the midst of the creation of organizations. Candace Lightner set out and established an organization that is committed to ending the problem of driving under the influence (MADD). In attempt to solve the issue of driving under the influence the Mothers Against Drunk Driving put out visual images to establish with the viewers the impact that driving under the influence can have. Containing ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos the two particular images selected that very effectively get the desired point across that driving under the influence is a horrible decision that often times come with consequences. Octavius 2 As stated above, Against Drunk was established in the year 1980, giving the organization more than 35 years of experience to date. Fueled by the death of her 13-year-old daughter Cari who was killed in a drunk driving accident by an individual with 3 prior arrests due to drunk driving, Candace Lightner established an organization with the To aid the victims of crimes performed by individuals driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, to aid the families of such victims and to increase public awareness of the problem of drinking and drugged MADD prides themselves on a starting from a beginning as well as not only focusing on the issue of driving under the influence, but also aiding the effected families of accidents caused by the use of drugs or alcohol. MADD does a good job in using images that contain the appeals of ethos. Ethos or ethical is defined as a to convince an audience of the credibility or In other terms, a speaker can better communicate, persuade, and convince the audience if he/she is an individual that is known for having knowledge on a subject. Visual presentation helps in a large way to truly drive home the intended point into the audience. Often, individuals are labeled by the way in which they learn best. A great deal of individuals are hence why organizations such as MADD use images to connect with the viewer and even persuade. Ethos is the established not by the individual speaking, but the logo being placed somewhere within the image. With the logo of an organization on the image, credibility is established. In the first image, just under the text written in red with the white background, Octavius 3 the viewer will notice mad logo that contains the words and more The statements more calls for immediate action, so immediate that no one else will fall to an individual under the influence of drugs or alcohol, hence making the MADD logo efficient in the use of kairos. Venturing back to the ethos side of things, since MADD has been established so long, and has withstood the test of time, their logo equates to a sense of truthfulness because of the built since 1980. The way a message makes an individual feel is described as pathos. In this particular image, the artist evokes a sense of pity by juxtaposing the general qualities of a teddy bear, which may be interpretive as caring or loving, wearing a seatbelt. It influences the audience to look at this teddy bear and see the innocence in its smile and overall composure, in efforts of having those viewing granted the realization that endangering its life would be entirely unacceptable. Not only in the contributing persuasion factor of pathos used in the image of the teddy bear, a motif of logos is present within using such a universally recognized object of care. The ethical appeal is once again adopted by MADD via the placement of their logo in the bottom right corner of image two. Establishing the backing of the information in the image by the long-time organization. In the campaign protesting drunk driving, MADD also established another more direct form of persuasion via pathos. A red picture, which a white word outline stating is killed every 51 minutes by drunk driving. Join us as one of the 51,000 MADD members in Octavius 4 This initial statistic of is killed every 51 minutes by drunk is used to evoke tragedy through the anticipated conscious mind. It is set out to first shock the audience with a drastic realization that is happening now, in which the audience has an influence in the outcome otherwise. Due to the overall simplicity of this advertisement, it is so successful in bringing its point across. The white letters associated on a red background strike the eye. This red background may be synonymous to the blood sacrificed by the individuals that lose their lives to drunk drivers every day. Logos is an appeal to the logic of the audience. A red picture, which a white word outline stating is killed every 51 minutes by drunk driving. Join us as one of the 51,000 MADD members in Now this, although not requiring any forms of general symbolism, portrays a deeper meaning than most significant drunk driving advertisements by first stating a radically fact about the statistics of contemporary drunk driving, while also offering a solution to said problem. The Mothers Against Drunk Driving established the embedment of the message read loud and clear that driving under the influence is wrong and costly via their two effective images. Through appeals and a concept that requires thinking past the surface, image 1 tugs on the softer side of the viewer by incorporating an innocent love worthy teddy bear. Octavius 5 In the the second image, MADD leaves little room for misinterpretation. A direct statement bottled with a sense of urgency gives a staggering and disheartening statistic of the saddest thing known to man, death. By dabbing in a touchy/powerful subject, direct persuasion method works extremely well. In attempt to solve the issue of driving under the influence the Mothers Against Drunk Driving put out visual images to establish with the viewers the impact that driving under the influence can have. Containing ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos the two particular images selected that very effectively get the desired point across that driving under the influence is a horrible decision that often times come with consequences. Madd.org, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, 02 March 2017, http://www.madd.org/blog/2017/march/you-delivered-teddy-bear-hugs.html. 13 March 2017 Madd.org, Mothers Against Drunk Driving, 10 January 2017, http://www.madd.org/blog/2017/january/adopt-an-advocate-spread.html. 13 March 2017 Madd.org, http://www.madd.org/about-us/mission/. 13 March 2017 Facts About Driving Under the Dosomething.org, https://www.dosomething.org/us/facts/11-facts-about-driving-under-influence 13 March 2017