Mohammad Fattah Mr. Seth Spencer ENC 1102-019 26 February 2017 On the Presence of Pollution Pollution of the oceans is an ever-growing issue that influences the survival of humanity. The Surfrider Foundation is a group working towards reducing pollution of the oceans for their continued use and presence for future generations. In doing so the Surfrider foundation is working towards the continued protection of the oceans to guarantee its benefits for humanity and for marine wildlife Paragraph 1). Visual rhetoric is one of the many means through which this foundation and many other organizations communicate their messages by appealing to their respective audiences. The Surfrider Foundation uses the advertisements below to convey its concern with pollution of the ocean through the rhetorical appeals of logos, pathos, ethos and kairos. Before an analysis of the rhetorical appeals can be presented it is imperative that some background on the Surfrider Foundation be presented first. The Surfrider Foundation was founded in 1984 with the mission to preserve the coasts for their continued use and benefit for Fattah 2 future generations Paragraph 1). This mission is very similar to the mission of the United States Environmental Protection Agency which strives to protect human health and the environment Paragraph 1). The Surfrider foundation has been at work for over thirty years trying to reduce pollution and contamination of the oceans and coasts to ensure their continued benefit to humanity as a whole. In this sense both the EPA and Surfrider foundation have been working towards a solution to the issue of water pollution. The EPA has acted on the issue by providing various restriction on pollution of the oceans through policy as a government organization while the Surfrider Foundation has used rhetorical appeals and visual rhetoric in advertisement to gather support for the issue of water pollution. According to Rhetoric Really Matters by Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, Logos is defined as an appeal to logic through the support of your argument (32). Figure one demonstrates an appeal to logos through its use of statistical evidence in the image. The figure references a study that was conducted that found that west coast fish ingest thousands of tons of plastic each year. This statistic is used by the foundation to enlighten the audience as to the current state of the seas and coasts as well as to inform them of the repercussions of leaving this waste unchecked. Figure two demonstrates an appeal to logos through its use of statistics to present the audience with incredible data on the amount of waste that pollutes ocean each year. Using this statistical evidence, the Surfrider Foundation solidifies its stance on the issue of water pollution using logos in the advertisement by presenting the audience with statistics that effectively represent the harm it brings to marine wildlife and the safety of the oceans and coasts in general. Statistics and data are vital to the support of a claim, however they are not the only means by which to grab an attention. Fattah 3 Pathos is defined as appeal to (Hoffman 37). Figure one below demonstrates the use of pathos by making the audience feel disgust, outrage and regret. This is done through the replacement of fish and seaweed in an image of sushi with plastic bags. In doing this, the audience is compelled to find out more about why the sushi has been corrupted and destroyed by trash and to find out what this could mean for their health. Figure two demonstrates an appeal to pathos by depicting an injured turtle being scanned by a human holding a scan gun. In doing this the image attempts to fill the audience with feelings of regret and remorse for indirectly harming marine wildlife. Emotion, however, is not the only means by which an idea can be supported. Ethos is a means of garnering support for an argument through the establishment of credibility and authority (Hoffman 27). Figure one demonstrates ethos through its use of branding for the Surfrider Foundation itself as well as the Rise Above Plastic initiative. It further demonstrates ethos through the citation of its statistics from research studies in the fine text presented in the bottom left corner of the image. Figure two does not appeal to ethos as much but still presents ethos in the form of the branding of the foundation. Authority is very useful in gaining understanding and support from an audience but ultimately an audience is concerned with its own wellbeing. In light of this it is important that the rhetorical appeal of kairos be analyzed. Per Rhetoric Really Matters, Kairos is an appeal to timeliness (41). Figure one demonstrates kairos by presenting the audience with the dilemma that the longer they wait to act in reducing water pollution, the more they risk ingesting the pollution themselves and becoming ill. Image two demonstrates an appeal to kairos as it presents the concept that the longer humanity waits to clean the oceans and reduce water pollution, the more they risk endangering Fattah 4 marine wildlife and forcing various aquatic species into extinction. Although all of the above rhetorical appeals are vital to the presentation of an idea and the garnering of support, it is important to look at the visual appeals and objectives of each figure. In looking at each figure it is imperative that each one is analyzed visually. Both figure one and figure two share similar audiences and messages. The audience of these images is likely to be the common man as he is the most harmed by the deterioration and destruction of the oceans and coasts. This is due to reliance on water for its continued survival. The images share a similar message of the need to protect the oceans and coasts of the world instead of risking their continued abuse ultimately leading to their destruction and deterioration. Although this message has its merits it does present a slippery slope fallacy as the continued pollution of the ocean is vital to the continued existence of the currently industrialized and modernized state of a majority of the world until better technology is developed. Although pollution of the water can be reduced it should not be eliminated as it would mean a destruction of the modern industrial world. Also, pollution of the oceans is not a false dilemma with only two sides of the issue but rather it falls along a scale of how much pollution is going into the water. These fallacies do not however reduce the importance of the message. The purpose of the foundations creation of these advertisements is to rally support for the issue of water pollution to ensure the continued existence of marine wildlife and the preservation of natural resources for future generation. In conclusion, the Surfrider use of the below figures demonstrates a multitude of rhetorical appeals. In doing so the foundation conveys an urgent message of warning to the common man on the safety of the oceans and coasts and the danger of leaving pollution in these areas unrestricted and unchecked. The use of rhetorical appeals Fattah 5 including logos, pathos, ethos and kairos demonstrate the Surfrider message of the need for the protection of the oceans and coasts to ensure their continued existence and benefits for future generations. In presenting its argument, the Surfrider Foundation effectively uses both rhetorical appeals and visual rhetoric to convey its message and to influence the position of the common man on the issue of water pollution. Fattah 6 Figure 1 Figure 2 Fattah 7 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. The Surfrider Foundation. Surfrider Foundation. N. d. www.surfrider.org. Accessed 18 February 2017. United States Environmental Protection Agency. Environmental Protection Agency. 26 Jan. 2017. www.epa.gov. Accessed 18 Feb 2017.