Weiner 1 Emily Weiner Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.012 27 February 2017 Portrayal of Mental Health Through Images One in five Americans will experience mental illness in their lives Mental health is a prevalent problem in the United States. Many organizations are actively working to improve conditions for those who suffer from mental health issues, to educate the population, to raise awareness, and to promote the early recognition of mental illness. One of the most recognized groups is The National Alliance on Mental Illness. The National Alliance on Mental Illness uses images to convey their message on mental health. Using ethos, pathos, and logos, Image One and Image Two chosen effectively portray mission to their audience. The National Alliance on Mental Illness is a national organization that promotes the wellbeing of those who suffer from mental illnesses (About NAMI). They provide services to those with mental health issues and educate the population on what mental health means and what mental illnesses are. Mental illness has been a topic of controversy for a long time. Many misconceptions exist when it comes to mental illnesses, and the only way to reverse these misconceptions is through education. The images chosen are produced by NAMI and their mission is to help those with mental illnesses and educate the population. In Image One created by NAMI, ethos is used to add credibility to the image. Ethos is used in both the wording and the color usage. The image uses the word repeatedly. The large print of the word (Image draws the attention. This Weiner 2 is meant reassure the audience that what reading is accurate. The unnecessary repetition of the word has the same effect on the reader. The white color of the words symbolizes truth. The color white is associated with purity. This association leads the to unconsciously believe that the information is accurate because when something that is pure it be deceitful. It is important for the readers to believe that the images are credible when reeducating the population and rising awareness. Pathos is used in Image One by NAMI to grabs the attention by appealing to their emotions. Pathos is used in Image One in both the font choice and the cartoon people holding hands. The curvy font chosen for words changes the tone that the facts are read in. The somber tone that the font creates allows the reader to emotionally connect with the image. The cartooned depiction of people holding hands shows the reader how common mental illness. It makes reader aware of how many people they must know that suffer from mental illness. This raises sympathy for those who suffer from mental illness. The depiction of the people holding hands has a separate meaning for those whom have a mental illness. It shows those people that they are not alone. The blue color of background of the largest fact presented makes the reader empathic. Seriousness or sadness often symbolizes blue; this is what the color makes the reader feel. Logos is used in Image One by NAMI a few ways. Logos is a rhetorical appeal to logic. It is used to convince the audience that something is logical. One of those ways is through the order of the facts shown. When the reader knows that 44 million adults experience mental illness Image One Weiner 3 each year then the two facts presented next follow logically. If a large quantity of people throughout the world experience a mental illness it is not hard to believe that the amount of American that experience mental health problem and have serious mental health illnesses is high. Another way logos is represented is through the depictions of the people holding hands. This is a clear representation of the facts presented. It reinforces the logical notion of the facts. It is important for the image to make logical sense, because it is being used to inform an audience. In Image Two created by NAMI, ethos is used to add credibility to the image. The image uses ethos through the professional dress of the people, the color usage, and the depiction of the entire United States. One example is, some of the cartoon images of people are dressed in professional attire. This professional attire is used to add credibility to the piece. A good portion of the image consists of different shades of blue. Blue is often used as a tool to represent credibility. The picture depicts the entire United States, this represents how the organization is nationwide. The idea that something is nationwide adds a sense of consistency to the image. The fact that it depicts the United States also adds an element of credibly because people all over the country respect and believe NAMI, this leads to a sense of nationalism. When something inspires nationalism, a people believes it. Another tool used by NAMI in Image Two is pathos. Each of the people pictured have different ethnicities and different clothing, but they all are frowning. They are depicted in dull colors and surrounded by different kinds of mental illnesses. Most of the colors used in the image are muted. The muted colors show that image has a serious tone. The blue clouds in the Image Two Weiner 4 background of the image represents the clouds that people with mental illness have over their heads. These factors come together to evoke sadness, relatability, and sympathy. The image states million in the center of the United States this means that 2 million American suffer from one of the major mental illnesses listed. All over the USA people are affect by mental illness. The different ethnicities of the people placed throughout the drawing of the united states represent how everyone gender and ethnicity are effected by mental illness. It is important to shows the readers how mental illness affects everyone to gain an emotional connection to the image. Logos are used by NAMI in the image in several ways. The image is representational, meaning people must put together words and symbols to understand the true meaning of the image. Although it specifically say that two million American of all different genders and ethnicities suffer from mental illnesses such as major depression, PTSD, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia all over America, you can logically piece it together. The different people, and the different mental illnesses that surround the words all lie in an outline of the united states lead to this conclusion. According to the image, its logical to think that two million suffer from major mental illnesses. NAMI intended to uses both images to help people who suffer from mental illnesses not feel alone and to educate the population on mental illnesses. Image One achieves what it was created to do. The facts paired with the visual representation of the people holding hands educates people about mental illnesses, creates sympathy for those who do not have mental illnesses, and makes those who suffer from mental illnesses not feel so alone. The second image gives a visual representation of different people who suffer from mental illnesses. Although they achieved the goal of making those who suffer not feel so alone, by showing people of different Weiner 5 genders and races that have these conditions all over the USA, they could have had a clearer representation for educational purposes. If they clearly stated million Americans suffer from major mental the message would have been clearer. Overall, the images are effective because both images use ethos, pathos, and logos compellingly to portray mission to their audience. Mental health is an important topic in the United States that needs to be addressed. The National Alliance on Mental Illness provides resources for people with mental illness, and educates the population on mental illness among other things. NAMI uses images to convey their message on mental health. The mission of the images is to help those with mental illnesses and educate the population. Using ethos, pathos, and logos, the two images chosen effectively portray mission to their audience. The first images accomplished this fully, but the second could be improved to be clearer. Overall, the images do a good job at conveying their intended messages. Image One: Weiner 6 Image Two: Weiner 7 Works Cited National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org/About-NAMI. Accessed 27 February 2017. NAMI.org, 2015, www.nami.org/Learn-More/Mental-Health-By-theNumbers. Accessed 27 February 2017. NACO.org, NAMI, 2015, http://www.naco.org/blog/ten-ways-engage-people- affected-mental-illness-your-community. Accessed 27 February 2017.