Korosec 1 Ross Korosec Ms. Lay ENC 1102 2/26/17 Should college athletes get paid Determining whether College athletes should get paid or not widely revolves around the idea that the level of play they are in, is considered amateurism. The meaning behind this is to ensure that a University can maintain an academic environment to accumulate an education. The College Athletes Players Association (CAPA) believes this to be an invalid reason as to why the everyday student athletes do not get paid for their services. In the pictures provided we can see that the work load that is being put on to the student athletes in the long run is not worth the scholarships given out. Universities can monopolize college sports and this is what Players Unions (CAPA) are trying to fight. In some cases, schools are able to make millions of the doing of these college athletes who see not one cent of the revenue generated. These students are essentially being exploited and are expected to just turn over and except that fact. Student athletes are forced to do tedious tasks while universities benefit immensely with little to no collateral in return. In the pictures provided we can derive that the College Athletes Players Association is trying to use pathos logos ethos and kiros in order to appeal to on a higher level of thinking In the first picture, we can put together that the NCAA is profiting immensely from the doing of these Athletes. But the question is why are they doing it? the thing CAPA is Korosec 2 trying to stress. These College athletes are being put through hell while the people who do essentially nothing but oversee everything can profit immensely. CAPA believes that this is morally wrong NCAA prohibits college athletes from earning money based on their status as amateurs. Coaches can do commercials and nobody questions their integrity or sense of fair play. For athletes, that is not allowed in any sense it could jeopardize their eligibility and ultimately cause them to be banned from further collegiate competition. (Greenlee, Knowing this we can derive that the picture is trying to show Logos. It is obvious that the student athletes are being exploited to gain a profit. This is how Logos is tied in. The universities can monopolize the sports industries in college. Even with student athletes being deemed as armatures coaches can profit from their own players. Greenlee who fights for student unions and wrote this article relates his thoughts which hits the points of logos by saying in sports, it seems that everybody gets paid except the athlete. a raw deal. The players provide the labor that produces winning teams, which in turn, generates heightened fan interest. Thus, football stadiums and basketball arenas are filled to capacity, translating into fatter operating budgets for the athletic College athletes have a choice of whether they would like to attend schools to play sports. If these students who are upset with the compensation of their duties all decide that schoolwork is more important and left, Universities would be devastated without the profits. The firsts picture hits Ethos by a numbers standpoint. As we can see the two profits of student athletes 0 and coaches about 55 million we can see that the ethics here are a little flawed Yes, some athletes receive scholarships but for the most part the impact it has on grades can impede his or her ability to have a solid career after sports. This picture relates to pathos by triggering the emotion of viewers to realize that the life of a college athlete is not all sun and candy. The picture almost provides a sense of which that the NCAA is a dictatorship Korosec 3 where the athletes have no say. Obviously, this is an absurd analyzation of NCAA but to an extent the treatment that is received is very similar. Work is pushed out of these people in return they are given just enough. Logically speaking, the education that is received is not a form of collateral. year, the payouts for football teams playing in bowl games ranged from $750,000 to $13 million. (Greenlee, That is a large sum of money that can impact a university immensely, but once again the people who earned that receive essentially zero percent of it. In the second picture Logos is an obvious theme that comes to mind. Someone who has nothing to do with the success of the boats movement and ability to stay afloat is receiving befits while the labor being put in is going unnoticed. Greenlee goes onto say that Last fall, the NCAA cut a new deal with CBS for TV rights fees to air exclusive broadcasts all NCAA basketball tournament games. That contract is worth $6.2 billion and has been extended to the year 2013, free enterprise, the stuff that made America what it is. But still a big problem with this scenario -- the athletes are systematically barred from getting into the cash flow cycle. Smith who is a sociologist at Wake Forrest goes onto say that research is showing that the value of the sport scholarship is insufficient for all of the needs. A good place to start is to make the sport scholarship a full scholarship. From there, as several well-placed individuals have been saying of late, re-evaluate the total student-athlete relationship to the colleges and universities they attend. The system put in place under Byers needs this re-evaluation to move forward and toward fairness for everyone involved (Smith, Pathos is thrown into this picture as well due to the fact that the NCAA is again throwing in the athletes face the revenue that they make, but providing none of it to the producers. Kairos is displayed in the second picture by showing how many minutes it takes to make the Korosec 4 accumulation of cash that the NCAA gains. Emotionally speaking some of these will never see this cash that in some cases desperately need in order to support their families. In conclusion objective in these pictures is to create a sense of equity for the student athlete. They are striving to make changes to the modern day rule book of the NCAA. Under the current rules student athletes fall under the categories of amateurs. This impedes them from making revenue but again something that is asked by the Players Union. Is this right? The answer that the student union is trying to push across in these pictures is that it is not justified. Especially when universities are profiting immensely off the duties of players. Much so that coaches are becoming millionaires, Universities are growing but nothing is changing for the student athletes. What is trying to be pushed across is that with everything changing because of the revenue NCAA is able to create, why is the compensation for student athletes not? Student athletes should be able to profit from the revenue they create. The Players union is firm on this belief. The pictures that have been provided can hit points of Pathos, Logos, Kairos and Ethos. The union is able to use pathos to describe that what has been happening needs to change as stressed by the Players Union. The players are keeping the boat afloat, and dragging the NCAA on their back. Korosec 5 Pictures Korosec 6 Works Cited Cooper, Kenneth J. Should College Athletes Be Paid to Play? Michigan State Law Professors Robert and Amy Mccormick Say Division I College Athletes Qualify as under Federal Labor  Diverse Issues in Higher Education, no. 10, 2011, p. 12. Smith, Earl. Should College Athletes Be Paid to Play? (June 23, 2011  Diverse Issues in Higher Education, no. 15, 2011, p. 3. GREENLEE, CRAIG T. College Athletes Deserve some  Black Issues in Higher Education, no. 5,