Lewis 1 Ashley Lewis Hannah Lay ENC1102 12 March 2017 Standardized Testing Standardized tests are examinations used to measure the aptitude of a student, for state standards throughout the country. These types of test scores are most commonly used to further a education, like meeting test score requirements for a particular college. The Institution for Democratic Education in America (IDEA) is a group that does not believe in standardized testing. The group stands for a greater curriculum and not limiting the school system by using these standardized tests. The intention is to transform the way people see education and make it into a more personalized and helpful way to teach students. The Mission statement says that There is a need to step out of our settings to see what is possible and gain new ideas and  By eliminating standardized testing in public schools, the IDEA believes that this change will cause students to do better in school and learn more to benefit their future. Found on the website, one image that supports their organization depicts a magazine cover helping the group by stating some of their primary goals in front of a picture of a smaller-sized classroom. The purpose of this image is to persuade the reader into being a part of their education change. The second image found on the website shows a quote made by one of the organization members, in front of a picture of a very diverse group of people. This image was created to show how education affects everyone and not just younger students. The goals of these two images are enforced using different rhetorical appeals such as ethos in the way that the pictures use brands and specific names to make people credible, pathos by allowing the Lewis 2 audience to appeal to the diversity of the individuals in each image, logos in the way each image uses specific logical evidence, and Kairos by using the history of education to enforce their idea of why a change is needed in the current educational system. The two images for the IDEA shown in this document clearly provides proof of persuading their audience through ethos by providing their organization logo, or other trusted brand organizations on their images. Ethos is the appeal to credibility, giving the creators or sponsors of the image the credit that they deserve. The first image was found on the website, portraying the magazine cover when that company decided to sponsor and support the organization. In the image, ethos is shown when making magazine Credible. The  for yes magazine is to show that the magazine company is real and can be demonstrated as a company that was used to share the goals on their magazine cover. Ethos is also shown by the Child Left quote that appears on the top of the magazine because it makes that creator credible for saying that they were for supporting standardized testing. Located in the image, ethos appears when the group brand is shown at the top of the picture. Placing an brand is critical to the picture because it indicates that the organization fully supports everything shown in that picture. Ethos is also shown in the quote by Ryan Morra (who is a member of the group). He states: education is by no means a simple task. It is an iterative process that requires constant The audience of each picture is clearly made to target school students, parents, and a diversity of people attempting to get a proper education which allows the organization to use emotions to persuade these different groups of people by appealing to their needs. Pathos is the appeal to emotions, (the word referring to the audience of the image). In the Lewis 3 image, pathos is shown in the colors and background by showing the classroom setting and using the word on the magazine cover. The words and pictures in the first image allow the audience to feel like society is advancing heavily, while still incorporating the past (using things such as the Egyptian symbols in the picture). Pathos is also found in the facial expressions, and the way they make the reader feel about the topic/picture. The classroom looks extremely comfortable and different in comparison to a general classroom setting, and all of the people in the picture seem pleased with the type of information that they are getting. Found in the image, pathos appears in the different age groups and diversity of people in the picture. The diversity of people is critical in this image because it allows the IDEA to show the community that they do not discriminate, and are trying to appeal to all people, instead of just a particular group. In addition, all of the people seem very serious in the picture portraying that the subject matter is imperative. Pathos is also located in the words and give the reader a better idea of their claim by showing hope in the way that they would like to change the educational system. Both images portray logical evidence which is used to support the overall claim, and that type of rhetorical appeal is called logos. Logos is the appeal to information, such as statistics or factual evidence. Located in the image, logos is used when saying things like New Rebels Taking Back Our Public This statement appeals to people through factual evidence because it is providing current information about what the IDEA is doing. Logos in image one allows the audience to understand that the organization is not only attempting to convince their audience, but they are also taking action. In the image, logos does not appear clearly in the image, but the diversity of the group of people could be interpreted as a logos appeal. The appeal of logos can be found in the Lewis 4 diversity of people by giving the audience a clear understanding of what types of people are in the group, and of what age group, similar to a statistic. The appeal to Kairos in both images is found through the diction portrayed in each image, making them a type of call to action. Kairos is the appeal to history and timeliness. Found in the image, Kairos in a way is being shown in the statement Education  The word shows the audience that their educational change is being implemented now, and is changing the way that the world has been taught to create school systems in the past. Kairos also appears in the Egyptian Eye in the background because it is a sign of knowledge from the past being compared to the progress made today. The image displays Kairos in the quote when talking about transforming education. This rhetorical appeal also shows up when they say Help us keep  at the end of their picture because it is a call to action for the audience to express their support of the claims, goals, and overall mission. Rhetorical appeals can influence so much of how the audience interprets the organization and what they stand for. These two images are clearly attempting to show people that there is a way to revolutionize education. The IDEA is known mainly for their goal to eliminate standardized testing. Sumita Bhattacharyya, Mary Junot, and Hillary Clark explain how standardized testing needs to be revolutionized because of its great effect in the classroom. They spoke about how most common criticism of standardized testing is that teachers find themselves to the instead of teaching the various content and skill areas of the The adults that make up the IDEA discuss how it is not right that students are not receiving 100% of the curriculum; instead, teachers are forced to teach things that might not even be in their curriculum. Carlo Ricci sees standardized testing as taking away rights. He Lewis 5 said, I would like to narrow the focus of my battle even further and argue for a revitalization of democracy by making a case against standardized testing; specifically, the Ontario Grade 10 Literacy Test is undemocratic, and we need to stop this damaging, undemocratic practice The two images that support the IDEA fully support the claims and ideas, and appeal to the audiences very well by using not only various appeals but also images that portray a diversity of people. Lewis 6 Image #1: agazine/ Image #2: Lewis 7 Works Cited Institute for Democratic Education in America  Institute for Democratic Education in America IDEA. N.p., n.d. Web. Ricci, Carlo. The Case against Standardized Testing and the Call for a Revitalization of  Review of Education, Pedagogy & Cultural Studies, vol. 26, no. 4, 01 Jan. 2004, pp. 339-361. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&A =EJ769272&site=eds-live. Sumita, Bhattacharyya, et al. Can You Hear Us? Voices Raised against Standardized Testing by Novice  Creative Education, no. 10, 2013, p. 633. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsarl&A N=edsarl.21514755.201310.201405150042.201405150042.633.639&site=eds-live.