Jones 1 Jimmy Jones Intermediate Draft 2/25/2017 Professor Lay Views of the NCAA When looking for advertisements involving the National Collegiate Athletic Association or NCAA, their advertisements have extensive rhetoric examples. The NCAA is a national organization that works directly with colleges creating opportunities for college students to play their respective sport and the highest collegiate level. The NCAA uses advertisements to engage the viewer and a way to sell their product. As a result of the NCAA being extremely popular in a thriving sports market they have numerous advertisements on television and the internet. Both of my advertisements involve the NCAA and basketball, the second most popular sport in college behind football. Each advertisement uses all four strategies; ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. The NCAA uses these strategies to also get people wo necessarily sports savvy and could be a possible new consumer. People find out about the NCAA through advertisments and the more in depth advertising will get more people on board with the NCAA. These two advertisements display the strategies need to make everyone a fan of the NCAA and their sports. The NCAA has a sponsor in Gatorade as show in my first advertisement (NCAA). The advertisement shows the college basketball players in action from shooting at the net to making a pass. It is easy for the ad to grab the attention of the audience based on the thrill of what is going to happen next and who their hero is going to be. When the title is read by the Jones 2 audience they immediately read the Gatorade name and logo. It gives the advertisement some credibility to go along with the already present NCAA. In a pathos sense, the players actions go with the hero heading. Having the will emerge a heading gives the audience a chance to picture their player on their team making a shot or making a pass to become a hero. It gets the audience thinking from the get-go. Since it has direct involvement with the audience people are more opportune to react and use their imagination while reading and observing the advertisement. The NCAA is a group that uses ads like this one to get the audience excited and keep the fans at the edge of their seat during, before, and after the season. This particular advertisement also has logos and kairos examples within. The people viewing the ad are given a different look at a team sport by singling out a specific person and taking a different look at basketball which is usually thought of as a team sport. There also is a hint of kairos in the athletes on the ad moving and making some kind of basketball related action. This first advertisement is a great example of how the NCAA uses their sponsors to better the careers of current players and increase excitement for fans forever. The second advertisement is targeted specifically for the audience and people in the United States to watch the March Madness basketball tournament that determines the national champion for the NCAA. The tournament is aired on television by CBS, TBS, and TNT giving the tournament media credibility and while at the same time giving the game a professional feel or atmosphere. The NCAA has expanded to many different TV channels in giving the fans the ability to watch four or five games at once. All 64 teams will be given atleast one game on TV giving each school and player some national recognition. If someone were to Jones 3 see this advertisement they would be intreigued to look more into what March Madness is. The NCAA has on their website here for more on the March Madness (NCAA). This option gives the reader to see how their team or just overall how the tournament is going. It gives the consumer an opportunity to relate with what the NCAA is doing and giving the tournament a personalized feel. The advertisement displays qualities of logos and pathos in the fans having the sense that their team or any team they are watching are getting the professional treatment aswell as themselves. The NCAA does a great job in advertising directly to the people who are going to be interested and wanting these feelings by having a picture of a fellow fan cheering on his respected team watching the March Madness tournament. Also in the advertisement it has the specific date when the tournament starts so the fans and families of the players wont miss a minute of the action. This displays the kairos rhetorical quality in giving a specific time so the fans can cheer on their team hopefully straight to the championship. The NCAA is all about creating a great environment for any event hosted by themselves. The NCAA continues to organize great events such as the March Madness tournament and uses the rhetorical strategies to get and keep the audience excited and engaged with the upcoming NCAA activities. After talking to someone who knows about sports but not is involved in basket ball had this quote. March Madness tournament gives me the feeling of intensity and the NCAA is very informing with advertising the tournament. I feel when March rolls around I become a basketball fan and cant wait to This was said by head mens golf coach at USF, Steve Bradley. (Bradley). The biggest impact these advertisements have on the consumer is the way it gets people involved in the tournament. A great marketing strategy used by the NCAA driven from the use of the rhetorical strategies. Jones 4 The NCAA continues day in and day out to promote advertisements geared at the future of the NCAA and all sports under their ruling. The future of the NCAA the people on the board of directors. It is the athletes and fans from each university. The advertisements engage the fans and players by using the national spotlight as a reason to perform at the highest level. Its small details that have a huge impact on what message they are trying to get across. Jones 5 Works Cited NCAA shakes up ad  Indianapolis Business Journal IBJ.com. IBJ Business Journal, 1 Oct. 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Dthomas. Probability of Competing Beyond High  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 11 July 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. 2017 DI Basketball  NCAA.com. N.p., 10 Mar. 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. March Madness  Message to the author. 4 Mar. 2017. E-mail. Live Bracket for  NCAA Basketball. CBS Sports, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Jones 6 3