Leverett 1 Shandrea Leverett Hannah Lay Composition II 2 February 2017 Death with Dignity usage of Rhetorical Appeals through Pictures In many end of life situations people are faced with hard decisions they have to make that will affect not only them but their loved ones and friends as well. Death with Dignity is an organization that gives information along with support as a end of life options for those at that point in their life (Home ). Death with Dignity believes that each person has their own rights so they support the decision of physician assisted suicide. They try to reach out to people in this circumstance or people who do not understand or agree with them through compassion and reason through their advertisements and billboards for the company to try and give terminally ill patients the best care possible by using ethos logos and pathos to connect with their viewers. Death with Dignity is a non profit organization that works to give terminally ill patients in America the freedom to make their own end of life decisions. This means determining how and when they will die. the organization works to promote and expand Death with Dignity laws across the United States based on the Oregon model. The Oregon model came from when in October 1997, Oregon passed a law that allows terminally ill citizens of that state to end their lives voluntarily through self administration prescribed by physician to give them a lethal overdose. DWD gives information and support about the organization to help patients, family members and others. They also help to defend those whom help assist or who are with physician assisted suicide. DWD has worked to pass statutes in several different states across this the United States by working directly with legislators to make and pass the best bills possible for the most benefits. Leverett 2 Death with Dignity provides two images that help to connect their message through visual means by first its use of ethos. Ethos is the ethical appeal to give credibility or character to the author. When you look at both of the pictures the one thing that stands out the most and catches the attention of the reader will be logos of the Death with Dignity organization. The organization uses this appeal in order to establish credibility within the relationship between the viewer and DWD. By the organization placing their logo in their picture this makes them stand apart from the other non credible organizations due to the fact the logo is associated to major breakthroughs for physician assisted suicide. This makes the organization qualified to speak on the topic and will give the picture proof of reliability on the topic of physician assisted suicide. So by having the Dead with Dignity logo appear in the image people can trust the information whether it be seen in an newspaper to billboard ad the information given will not be false or altered in any way. By doing this trust between the viewer of the picture and the Death with dignity organization can be used to further to draw a person to better understand DWD mission. Ethos is also presented in the second picture with the use of the figure men. Usually when you see the shaded men it has to due with medical field and most used by doctors in medical pamphlet or brochures. By Death with Dignity using this simple addition to their picture this helps establish even more credibility. This is due to the fact that with the inclusion of the common marking, people immediately associate it or anything it is on to be a trustworthy or credible information. This gives more merit to the picture in order to further persuade the viewer. Another way Death with Dignity uses its pictures to better influence and explain what the organization is about is through the use of logos. Logos is the appeal to the audience with logic or reason. In the first picture there is a statement in the picture that has the words americans, freedom and decision bolded within a normal font text. By Death with Dignity organization doing this they try to bring a logical appeal to the picture. For Americans the most important thing is Leverett 3 their freedom. This statement makes you recall the constitution, of which our government is based upon, and see that the everyone is guaranteed freedom and the pursuit of happiness. In their picture nonverbally DWD is saying that a person who is a citizen in America cannot be denied anything that interferes with their freedom and happiness of this includes the viewers end of life decisions. Others share this same viewpoint including Dr. Kevorkian a well know pathologist who over the years has assisted in physician assisted suicide. has acted with outright disdain for existing laws; laws which to him, his patients, and many others are violative of the fundamental concepts of liberty, freedom of choice, and self-determination. Kevorkian asserts that these concepts are enshrined in the Constitution of the United States and in some state DWD wants to incorporate these American virtues into their picture. Kevorakian and countless other around the US share the same values and beliefs that should be put forth for terminally ill patient in America. They further expand on this point by the figure model that shows 7 out of 10 little men shaded in. They do this in order to make it more obvious that you should choose the side in which more than majority of the United States sides with. Because of the relationship between the diagram to the medical field will think it is more logical to go with the organization. Death with Dignity relies on pathos heavily to finish drawing their viewer in to better understand what the organization is about and what they stand for, Pathos is the authors appeal to the audience by their emotions. In the first image not only is DWD trying to use the bolded words in the statement to make you think logically, but they try to appeal to the viewers emotions as well through patriotism. Americans are supposed to have rights and that are guaranteed. Freedom is one of the main thing that is extremely important to American, and for America being known for the land of equal opportunities and people come to escape the hardships of wherever they are from. So to deprive a citizen of their natural born rights and put Leverett 4 boundaries and limits what terminally ill patients can and cannot do would pull at the heart of someone who is patriotic. Although in the US the states that have legalized physician assisted suicide there are stipulation put in place. The restriction into being able to have physician assisted suicide is that your prognosis must be six months or less to live. These types of restrictions should not be put into place everyone should have the should be able to determine when they want to die regardless if they have more than six months to live (Yao 385). DWD tries to appeal to your patriotism as an American to the viewpoint that everyone should be given the rights and choices as their own person. In the second picture pathos is used being used through the usage of all the different people put together. It makes you think about your own loved one whether it be a family member or a close friend. If it came down to it of your loved one make an end of life decision of suffering on and wasting away for however long of a time they had a left or keeping whatever dignity they have before wasting away and making the decision to end their life early. You will associate this connection with any loved one you ever had to remember waste away. This ad gives the act of compassion when you look at it wanting to rather have your loved one or even yourself be at peace then stay alive fighting while suffering. Also in each individual picture there is a person standing behind another one. This adds another appeal to pathos in the visual that DWD gives. By doing this they are non verbally stating that you should stand behind anyone who is for physician assisted suicide and wants to do it even if you are against, because it is all about the patient and making sure they have the support and care they need for their end of life decision which is what Death with mission statement is all about. With both of the pictures the colors that the DWD with Dignity gives it meaning for the first picture the colors like the orange reassociate the picture with the organization. While the second picture the colors are pastel blues and greens that emit a soft comforting effect to go along with the background in the pictures. By using these colors the Leverett 5 organization and reconnect their picture with the organization and connect it with emotions to tie in with the background pictures. Death with dignity tries to use these pictures to bring forth compassion and reason when you look at it. From the use ethos and using the credibility of the company to gain the trust of the viewer to make it the reasonable option. To then the usage of logos with the placing of the shaded men diagram to make Death with Dignity the obvious choice. As well as pathos to help tie it all in with patriotism shown in the first pic and the images of the variety of backgrounds. These three rhetorical strategies help to bring and show the values and mission statement of the Death with Dignity Organization. Leverett 6 Appendix Leverett 7 Works Cited: Death with Dignity  with Dignity  With N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Risley, Robert L. Ethical and Legal Issues in the Right to  Northern Law vol. 20, 01 Jan. 1994, p. 597 Yao, Teresa. Can We Limit a Right to Physician-Assisted  Catholic Bioethics vol. 16, no. 3, Sept. 2016, pp. 385-392 Leverett 8 https://public.health.oregon.gov/ProviderPartnerResources/Evaluationresearch/deathwithdignity act/Pages/index.aspx