Heinl 1 Student Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Treating Depression: When is it Too Much? When it comes to treating depression, there are hundreds of options that someone can come across in order to cope with their issues (Clayton). The Anxiety and Depression Association of American (ADAA) and the International Society for ECT and Neurostimulation (ISEN) are both stakeholders that present seemingly incompatible goals to help individuals dealing with depression. Even though these two stakeholders have incompatible goals they both reach a common ground for the fact of wanting to better the lives of patients dealing with depression. Both stakeholders share a common interest of helping individuals dealing with depression. They also both want the best for the patients and for them to have a better happier life. Each stakeholder believes that their form of treatment is best for individuals, they just come about their treatments in different ways. The ISEN is more aggressive than the ADAA, but the ISEN believes that the amount of aggression is needed. With so many treatment options available for depression, both ISEN and ADAA provide plausible views on how to treat depression with ISEN taking a much more aggressive approach than the ADAA. However, if the ADAA and the ISEN were forced to work together and rank patients on a severity scale a simple compromise could result. ADAA is about people, ADAA is unique. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America was started more than three decades ago as the Phobia Society of America, and has Heinl 2 been expanding to help more disorders than just depression ever since. (Anxiety and Depression Association of America) They discuss how their passion is helping people understand the disorders, find treatment, and recover. The ADAA also stresses their commitment to diversity and the fact that each individual is different and will need their own personalized path for success. (Anxiety and Depression Association of America) The mission focuses on improving quality of life for those with depression, anxiety, and other disorders (Anxiety and Depression Association of America). With these characteristics, the ADAA is presented as a more personalized path and less aggressive route for individuals trying to treat depression with the help of psychiatrists, medication, and communication with people who are going through the same thing (Haddock.142). There are possible issues that come from this that the ISEN and other articles hit on which discuss the possible dependency patients can end up having with their medications. (Chui. 455) Overall, the ADAA is a large stakeholder towards the treatment of depression, they just take a less aggressive approach than the International Society for ECT and Neurostimulation but both end at a common end goal. The International Society for ECT and Neurostimulation, ISEN, is dedicated to promoting the safe, ethical and effective use of Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT) and other brain stimulation therapies for the treatment of neuropsychiatric illness such as depression, anxiety, OCD, etc. (ISEN) The ISEN discusses how ECT is highly effective, with up to a 60-90% success rate in severely depressed patients (International Society for ECT and Neurostimulation). ISEN continually discusses how with advances in both anesthesia and technology, ECT today is very safe; the risk of injury or death is extremely low (mortality less than 1 per 70,000 treatments), which is far below the risk of childbirth. (Abel. 730) Since ECT has the reputation of being a very harsh and drastic procedure done on patients the ISEN presents these statistics as one of the Heinl 3 first things seen on their home page to make sure it is known. Although ECT has dramatically increased in safeness thanks to technology, it still is a much more aggressive approach than any approach the ADAA takes. Overall, the ISEN is a very well-known strong stakeholder for the treatment of depression with their views that the right path to success is through the use of ECT and Neurostiumlation. Although these two stakeholders have what seem to be incompatible goals they do come to a common ground when dealing with their end goal which is a better life for the patients. With this common ground, it does make it easier when trying to figure out a possible compromise between the two stakeholders. A current and past solution that has come up for this incompatibility is that ECT should be an option for depressed patients but only as a last measure. This form of treatment should only be used as a last possible form of treatment for severely ill patients (Weersing.40). The ADAA needs to understand that sometimes a more aggressive approach might be needed at the beginning if a patient is suffering a lot. While the ISEN needs to realize that ECT is not the only treatment out there and that maybe there are other effective treatments that might be easier mentally and physically on a patient. Therefore, a possible compromise that could come between these two stakeholders is the creation of a test that determines the severity of the depression. This test could place them on a scale of how severe their depression is. If their score is above a certain number than ISEN might have the right form of treatment for that patient with some ECT. But, if their score is under that number then that patients form of treatment should come from the ADAA. The ADAA and ISEN could work together to create a test with which they both agree on to give to patients. If an individual comes to them they would give them this test first before treating them. In the end, with both the past and possible solutions presented a compromise for ADAA and ISEN could easily be reached. Heinl 4 With the ample number of treatment options available between the ADAA, the ISEN and even third party candidates who suggest that just intense exercise is needed to help depression, there are more than enough paths patients can take to better their lives (Carter.10). The ADAA just presents a much more personalized route for patients, while the ISEN is a more one step process for all individuals. Both stakeholders have good, valid sides but a compromise allowing the severity of the patient to be shown before going to their side should be made. This compromise could easily be made due to the two stakeholders similarities in overall concern and interests for the patient. In the end, even though the ISEN and ADAA have incompatible views on how the treatment to a patient should be given, with their common ground end goal a compromise by creating a test to determine the severity of a patient is very plausible for the two stakeholders. (WC: 1215) Heinl 5 Work Cited Abel, Anna1, et al. Sudden Gains in Therapy for Treatment-Resistant Depression: Processes of  Journal of Consulting & Clinical Psychology, vol. 84, no. 8, Aug. 2016, pp. 726-737. EBSCOhost. Accessed 23 Feb 2017 Carter, Tim, et al. Preferred Intensity Exercise for Adolescents Receiving Treatment for Depression: A Pragmatic Randomized Controlled  BMC Psychiatry, vol. 15, 14 Oct. 2015, pp. 1-12. EBSCOhost. Accessed 23 Feb 2017. Chui, Harold, et al. Dependency and Self-Criticism in Treatments for  Journal of Counseling Psychology, vol. 63, no. 4, July 2016, pp. 452-459. EBSCOhost. Accessed 23 Feb 2017. Clayton, P, Barrett, J, & Barrett, J 1983, Treatment Of Depression : Old Controversies And New Approaches, n.p.: New York : Raven Press, c1983., University of South Florida Libraries Catalog, EBSCOhost, viewed 22 Feb 2017 Haddock, SA; et al. The Efficacy of Internal Family Systems Therapy in the Treatment of Depression Among Female College Students: A Pilot Study. Journal of Marital & Family Therapy. 43, 1, 131-144, Jan. 2017. Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Heinl 6 ISEN :: International Society for ECT and  ISEN :: International Society for ECT and Neurostimulation. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Weersing, V. Robin1,2, et al. Evidence Base Update of Psychosocial Treatments for Child and Adolescent  Journal of Clinical Child & Adolescent Psychology, vol. 46, no. 1, Jan/Feb2017, pp. 11-43. EBSCOhost. Accessed 22 Feb 2017.