Rader 1 Alyssa Rader ENC 1102 Ms. Lay 2/6/17 Persuasion At Work Within this country, marijuana has become a very popular subject in the recent few political elections, and due to these efforts, a lot of pro marijuana organizations send out advertisements to persuade others to feel as they do. One of these organizations is the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or NORML. More specifically, this is a stakeholder set out to change the views of marijuana use and try to legalize marijuana for responsible use by adults for the people and the government of this country. Two images, turned into ads, which explain their purpose and stance, while also trying to persuade the audience, are featured below labeled as Political Marijuana and Marijuana Capital. These are two of many advertisements that NORML has come out with in the hopes to accomplish their mission and persuade the audience that encounters their ads. Through the use of the rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, these two ads NORML created can be used to persuade the audience to join them and their pro marijuana views on marijuana use in the country. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or NORML, was created in the recent year of 2013, as a force to help persuade the US to legalize marijuana. Their goal is stated, move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to Rader 2 assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and (Working to Reform Marijuana Laws). NORML believes marijuana can actually help people and add to everyday lives and issues. NORML wants the country to be happy by thinking that marijuana use will help supply more fulfillments, by simulating the brain into happy state of minds. Due to these thoughts they have, their efforts are put towards changing the laws in the United States government, which include restrictions on marijuana use. With the recent law changes for the legalization of marijuana in the United States, NORML believes they have been on the right track (Evans 149). ON this NORML advertises themselves in many ways to promote their mission to legalize marijuana for the whole country, from political cartoons to online databases. Two ads, which stood out the most from recent events, are one political ad, which is labeled of the legalization of marijuana and one is an informative ad, which is labeled to educate the audience of the NORML organization. In the first ad, NORML takes a play on the words of a popular political figure to persuade that marijuana is not as bad as some think and some people who one would not think smokes, does. This as is what seems to be a possible banner or a billboard of a politician himself saying he enjoyed smoking marijuana. The purpose for this ad is to persuade the audience to think marijuana is not that bad because even the icons of the US government can do such things. The ad uses ethos with the credibility of the organization, information at the bottom of the banner in a website to visit. NORML is in part trying to lessen the negative views on marijuana users, and one way of doing this adding the other ethos appeal in this ad is using is the Rader 3 politician himself, which is Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York City, to promote the legalization of the drug marijuana. The pathos in this ad is the phrase close to the bottom of the banner saying, last, an Honest This is pathos because it hits the emotions of the audience by making them think he could actually be an honest politician and not make them have anger or other negative emotions by lying or choosing the views as other politicians; where the views of politicians are anti drugs and things which associate with them. The kairos is this ad is also not much, just the hope that by adding the website at the bottom urges the audience to go online and search the information on the subject of legalizing marijuana. This ad is a persuasive ad, which the stakeholder NORML uses pathos, ethos, and kairos to do this. The second ad NORML has come out with, labeled is also one, which makes a play on words as the other ad did, in the hopes to persuade the audience to join their side and views that marijuana can help in more ways then one. This can be said because the ad is a picture of a tree made out of marijuana leaves and dollar signs, while also saying CAN Grow On The pathos in this quote of money touching the audience because money can usually be a very emotional thing for a lot of people, and the play on the words of money growing on trees can make the audience of this ad think about what the tax money can be used for to change the lives of many people across the US. The ethos in this ad is the NORML logo and website listed at the bottom of this advertisement, which shows that this ad is completely approved by people who seem to know their facts on the marijuana subject. The logos is this ad is not much just that is a true fact the marijuana is grown on trees and can be converted into state governmental revenue to help the public. Lastly, the kairos in this ad is the Rader 4 telephone number given in the left bottom hand corner to give the audience a sense of urgency to act now on the topic of legalizing marijuana by calling that number fast for my information. Due to the use of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, NORML created a persuasive advertisement to help achieve their goal to legalize marijuana. The organization of NORML, National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, is one whose efforts are put towards changing the laws of the United government to be pro marijuana use, make many advertisements to help these efforts. In these two ads that were covered, NORML makes a social impact on the viewers by trying to make plays on words used in and quotes through using the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to persuade their audience of US voters to help them make a change on current marijuana laws. Rader 5 Political Marijuana Marijuana Capital Rader 6 Works Cited Aikins, Ross D. From Recreational to Functional Drug Use: The Evolution of Drugs in American Higher Education,  History of Education 44.1 (2014): 25- 43. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Evans, Alona E. National Organization for Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) v. Drug Enforcement Administration, U.S. Department of Justice. 559 F.2d 735.  The  Five Questionable Pot  Truth In Advertising. N.p., 27 May 2016. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.  JaySelthofner.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. (n.d.). Retrieved January 27, 2017, from http://norml.org/about Journal of International Law 72.1 (1978): 149. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.