Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Proposing Natural Gas Compromise With the increasing concern over fossil fuels and their impact on the environment, many companies are searching for a solution that involves a less harmful renewable resource. One solution found is fracking; a drilling procedure used to extract oils and natural gases from deep underground (Facts About Fracking). This procedure involves drilling a well roughly two miles vertically underground, and then another two miles horizontally so that chemically treated water, and proppants sand and ceramic -can be pumped into the well and fracture the surrounding rock (Facts About Fracking). Once fractured, the gas and oil in the rock are released and pumped to the surface with liquid containing numerous contaminants (Facts About Fracking). This is not a solution that is all around accepted though. Advocates of fracking claim that it is a safe, and reliable source of energy; critics of it, however, claim that is leads to contamination of drinking water and an increase in earthquakes. One advocate for fracking is a company called, Natural Gas Alliance. They promote the use of natural gas in place of fossil fuels and claim that it is the energy (Natural Gas Solution). The organization, Greenpeace, on the other hand, believe that fracking is a destructive process and is no better for the environment than fossil fuels (Fracking). Although Greenpeace and Natural Gas Alliance have incompatible views on whether fracking should be allowed as a source of an alternate energy, a compromise can be reached that allows fracking but creates regulations and restrictions to minimize the effects on the environment. Student 2 With this in mind, the company Natural Gas Solution (ANGA), is a strong advocate for the use of natural gases and fracking. Their primary goal is to change the energy equation using natural gas instead of fossil fuels (Natural Gas Solution). ANGA has three principal arguments to support the use of natural gases. The first argument is that gas is (Natural Gas Solution). They mean that by using natural gas as a power source instead of coal, that the CO2 and other heavy metal emissions will be reduced drastically. The CO2 emissions are a main concern of environmentalists because of the rapidly increasing concentrations of it in the atmosphere. The U.S. Energy Information Administration reported that using natural gas has reduced the CO2 emissions by almost two-thirds since 2006 (Natural Gas Use is Increasing, While Emissions are Decreasing). This proves that using natural gas has a positive effect on the environment by reducing the amount of emissions that are released into our atmosphere. This is further proved by a graph from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency which shows that methane emissions from natural gas systems has decreased by 0.68% while the production of natural gases has increased by 47.3% (Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks). second claim is that gas is (Natural Gas Solution). They state that in our country, we use energy almost constantly in our lives and that natural gas power can fluctuate with all our needs (Natural Gas Solution). final arguments is that gas is (Natural Gas Solution). According to the most recent IHS study, trillion cubic feet of natural gas can be developed for around $3 per cubic is nearly twice as much gas (1,400 trillion cubic feet) recoverable for just a dollar (Gas Resource Base Continues to Expand in Volume and Decrease in Cost). This means that natural gas is a very affordable source of energy and is something that there is an abundance Student 3 of for the future. Overall, ANGA has many strong arguments in favor of using fracking to produce natural gases because it is a clean energy source, reliable, and affordable. On the other hand, Greenpeace strongly believes that fracking is damaging to the environment and is not a good source of alternate energy. The primary goal of Greenpeace is to peaceful protest and creative communication to expose global environmental problems and promote solutions that are essential to a green and peaceful (About). This organization believes that fracking is expensive, more polluting, and more dangerous than clean, renewable (Fracking). They have numerous arguments against the use of fracking because of the effect that it has on the environment. Their first argument is that fracking uses too much water for our scarce supply of it, and the water that it uses is contaminated (Fracking). Each time a well is fracked, more than 3.6 million gallons of water are used, which is a lot in states with limited supply of water (Fracking). In addition, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) conducted a study on connection to drinking water in the United States. They discovered that there were more than 150 instances of groundwater contamination due to fracking Study of Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas and Its Potential Impact on Drinking Water Resources). This shows that there is contamination from fracking, and that it can have negative impacts on the environment, as well as humans. The second argument Greenpeace states is that there is a connection between fracking and increased earthquakes since 1990 (Fracking). Scientists have completed studies showing that between 1967 and 2000, Oklahoma averaged 21 earthquakes above a 3.0 per year, but since 2010 it has averaged more than 300 above a 3.0 magnitude (Injection-Induced Earthquakes). These earthquakes are due to the wastewater disposal by injection into deep wells, but the process of fracking itself poses a low risk for inducing those stronger earthquakes (Injection-Induced Earthquakes). The final argument Student 4 of Greenpeace is that fracking is a source of air pollution due to emissions. The study on the health implications of fracking shows that the spills from fracking, the emissions from gas- processing equipment, and the emissions from vehicles transporting machinery and gas may create harmful pollutants (The Health Implications of Fracking). This is evidence that supports what Greenpeace states about the harm it causes to the environment. In all, main arguments that fracking creates water contamination, increased earthquakes, and environmental pollutants emphasize why they believe fracking should not be an alternate source of energy. While both companies disagree whether fracking should be used as an alternate source of energy, they do have common interests that are shared. For example, both companies have the good of the environment in mind. Both companies want the amount of harm done to the environment by fossil fuels to be reduced using an alternate source of energy. Despite their incompatible goals, Greenpeace and ANGA are concerned with the amount of emissions that released into the atmosphere by fossil fuels, and many other effects of using fossil fuels. In the past, the EPA enacted a Clean Power Plan for power plants (Clean Power Plan for Existing Power Plants). This plan was to reduce the carbon pollution from power plants to combat climate change (Clean Power Plan for Existing Power Plants). With this plan, environmental organizations like Greenpeace would be happy that emissions were being reduced, and companies owning power plants were still able to generate power. In the case of fracking, both stakeholders give a little to compromise and create a solution. For example, ANGA, and other companies employing the use of fracking, can agree to strict regulations on their disposal of wastewater and other regulations on their processes of the procedure. Greenpeace must then allow fracking to continue as a source of alternate energy. Greenpeace will benefit because there will be strict regulations on the disposal of wastewater that was used in fracking. This would Student 5 reduce the amount and magnitude of earthquakes causes in addition to reducing any water contamination. Greenpeace will also benefit from regulations placed on the procedures of fracking because it will reduce or eliminate environmental pollutants and contamination. ANGA, and other fracking companies, will benefit because they are still able to use fracking as a procedure to obtain natural gas. This means that their companies will still thrive. Both stakeholders are benefitted because the effects on the environment are reduced. This process will make the transition from fossil fuels that both companies want. To implement this compromise, certain laws must be created an approved by legislation. This compromise takes the incompatible goals of each stakeholder and creates a solution that both stakeholders benefit from. In conclusion, because of the concern over increasing CO2 emissions in the atmosphere, people are looking for alternate sources of energy that are less harmful to the environment. With the decline in availability of accessible oil, many companies are also looking for alternate sources of energy. Hydraulic fracking is one method of procuring natural gases from underground as a source of energy; however, here are many differing views on whether this procedure should be allowed. One advocate of fracking is the stakeholder Natural Gas Alliance. They believe that the natural gases procured from fracking are a clean, reliable, and affordable solution compared to fossil fuels. The second stakeholder, Greenpeace, believes the opposite, that fracking is a harmful and unsafe procedure that should not be allowed. When both stakeholders give a little, a compromise is able to be reached that benefits both companies. The compromise is that there will be strict regulations on the disposal of wastewater that was used in fracking to reduce the amount and magnitude of earthquakes caused, in addition to reducing any water contamination. Regulations will also be placed on the procedures of fracking because it will reduce or eliminate environmental pollutants and contamination. This compromise creates a Student 6 solution to the incompatible goals by taking their common goals and allowing both companies to benefit. (Word Count: 1,599) Student 7 Proposed Source List Power Plan for Existing Power EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 12 Jan. 2017, www.epa.gov/cleanpowerplan/clean-power-plan-existing-power-plants. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Ellsworth, William L. Science, American Association for the Advancement of Science, 12 July 2013, science.sciencemag.org/content/341/6142/1225942. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Environmental Protection Agency. Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks: 1990-2014, April 2016. Accessed 2 March. 2017. Greenpeace USA, Greenpeace, 2017, www.greenpeace.org/usa/global- warming/issues/fracking/. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Kovats, Sari , et al. health implications of ProQuest, The Lancet, 1 Mar. 2014, search.proquest.com/docview/1513845581?pq-origsite=gscholar. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Lallanilla, Marc. Facts About  LiveScience. Purch, 23 Jan. 2015. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. Marn, Jeff. Unconventional Natural Gas Resource Base Continues to Expand in Volume and Decrease in North Unconventional Natural Gas Resource Base Continues to Expand in Volume and Decrease in Cost IHS Online Newsroom, IHS, 23 Feb. 2016, news.ihsmarkit.com/press-release/north-americas- unconventional-natural-gas-resource-base-continues-expand-volume-and-de. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Student 8 Perrin, Jack , and Troy Cook. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Hydraulically fractured wells provide two-Thirds of U.S. natural gas production - Today in Energy - U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), US Department of Energy, 5 May 2016, www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=26112. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Natural Gas The Natural Gas Solution, Natural Gas Alliance, 2017, www.naturalgassolution.org/. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. U.S. EPA. Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas: Impacts from the Hydraulic Fracturing Water Cycle on Drinking Water Resources in the United States (Final Report). U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC, EPA/600/R-16/236F, 2016.