Nereim !1 James C. Nereim Professor Hannah Lay Composition 2 26 February 2017 The GOA and views Have you ever looked at a picture promoting an organization or supporting a specific view and had an opinion of the subject immediately? This comes about as a result of the method of appeals. The method of appeals uses images that draw people in by way of our emotions, logic, accreditation, or timelines to sway an audience towards their way of thinking. Organizations use this method of appeals to reach a wide audience, almost brainwashing them into agreeing with how they view things. The association known as the Gun Owners of America, which goes by the acronym GOA, works to maintain control of the current gun laws and argues with those who disagree. Some of the ways they try to convince people to side with them on the issue is through advertisements, which is specifically designed to appeal to U.S. citizens and persuade them to agree with the points. The GOA wants these advertisements to convince people to side with them in protecting gun ownership rights, through analysis of two images, one could come to understand how each image should appeal to them through the use of either ethos, pathos, logos, or kairos and convincing how they feel about the topic of gun control. First going to analyze how image 1 affects us and makes us want to side with the GOA in their aspirations, and what exactly it appeals to. The first image depicts the Gun Owners of logo with a slogan on it which reads OWNERS OF a Nereim !2 Right Not a Defending Your Second Amendment Right, To and Bear since 1975. JOIN YOUR FUTURE MAY DEPEND ON (Candid Interview with Larry Pratt). Starting off by analyzing the words one can immediately determine that they are trying to appeal to us making themselves seem more credible in the phrase which shows that the organization has been around awhile and are fairly experienced at what they do. With that built up credibility, they are able to sway people to their personal policies, but not the only way they appeal to us to accomplish their goal. Furthermore they say FUTURE MAY DEPEND ON and through that phrase they appeal to our sense of timeliness in that if we neglect to act upon the issue now, we could very well lose something we already have, and no one wants to lose a freedom they already have (Candid Interview with Larry Pratt). Also in the text of image 1, the saying a Right Not a also pops up, and we this phrase in particular appeals to us logically as it is common knowledge that the right to bear arms came with the first ten amendments to the constitution, the purpose of which were to secure rights that the American people at the time felt they were owed (Candid Interview with Larry Pratt). This creates a logical argument that also serves to credit the organization by referencing a legal document supporting their policies. Finally the first image appeals to its views through their emotions by giving the image a patriotic theme with the colors red, white and blue, which, as an American, can makes us think about our freedoms, bringing up feelings like fear for the potential of losing our freedoms, and patriotism, making us want to protect our rights. Another appeal that exist in this image comes from the silhouette image of a revolutionary, which brings up an emotional appeal and a feeling that makes you have a desire a to protect that right that trying to promote. The stars around the silhouette serve as a Nereim !3 reminder of that American patriotism which all Americans value so highly, and it instills a desire to protect the freedoms provided by our great nation and that, as a result, supports the organizations platform and desired policies that they are trying to protect themselves. Jumping into the second photo, the GOA further their cause to protect and maintain gun rights and the first thing we notice, like the first image, they designed it to be very text focused stating The second amendment just about firearms, about our freedom, and we plan to keep (Senators Hoeven and Corker). Before addressing the visible image the words used within the image itself do a great job of appealing to a viewer. To begin with the words makes the viewer want to act, so it appeals to the sense of timeliness (Senators Hoeven and Corker). Starting the image off with this phrase allows people to understand that the organization desires people to act immediately without hesitation. Continuing from there, the phrase second amendment just about firearms, about our gives the image some creditability and forces us to get emotionally involved. The creditability comes from the part that mentions the second amendment for the same reason that it did in the first image in that it is referencing a historical document that has been around for a long time (Senators Hoeven and Corker). Also, much like the first image, the second part of the phrase really appeals to our emotions in mentioning freedom which causes us to want to protect ourselves and the freedoms that we currently have (Senators Hoeven and Corker). This image continues to share similarities with the first, in it possessing a patriotic theme which causes people to relate to it in a form of belonging, as people feel they belong to their country, or their nation, or anything they could have allegiance to. So the picture gives off an emotional appeal in that sense and serves to get people to want to join in as a result. Nereim !4 In conclusion the purpose of the GOA and other organizations like it making images like the two of these analyzed here, are to convince people that gun rights need protecting. Using different rhetorical methods of appeals, such as an appeal to emotions, or defending their credibility, or an appeal to our logical side, and even making us want to act by appealing to our sense of timeliness, they capture the viewers interest showing how, not only should the viewer want to protect their rights, but also that they should act immediately. These photos are able to reach all four of the rhetorical appeals. So in a way, you could say that the whole entire purpose behind creating these images and using the method of appeals is to convince the viewer of the image to agree with their policies and support their campaigns to control legislation in their favor and protect the right to bear arms. Nereim !5 Image 1: (Candid Interview with Larry Pratt) Image 2: (Senators Hoeven and Corker) Nereim !6 Works cited Candid Interview with Larry Pratt - Gun Owners of America on The Hagmann Report -  YouTube. YouTube, 11 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gun Control: Implementation Of The National Instant Criminal Background Check System : Report To The Honorable Craig Thomas, U.S. Senate. n.p.: Washington, D.C. (P.O. Box 37050, Washington, D.C. 20013) : The Office, 2000. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.policeone.com/police-products/firearms/articles/59674-Handgun-safety-rules-and- procedures/. Handgun Safety Rules and  PoliceOne. Policeone.com, 16 Feb. 2003. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Senators Hoeven and Corker Wave the White Flag of Surrender (Gun Owners of  Senators Hoeven and Corker Wave the White Flag of Surrender (Gun Owners of America). Www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/3034037/posts?page=4, 21 June 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Velleco, John. About Gun Owners of America General General, Sen. H.L. Richardson, 2015, gunowners.org/protect.htm.