Student 1 Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Through the Homeless and the Nation Homeless People Have the Support They Need to Persevere Over 600,000 United States citizens are currently left without a steady living environment, which is 9% lower than the number of people homeless in 2007. Multiple organizations are acting to reduce and assist with the homeless situation throughout America. Two organizations in particular that are doing everything they can to aid the problem of homelessness are the National Alliance to End Homelessness and the Homeless Helping Homeless, Inc. Homelessness is a major issue throughout the United States, and the National Alliance to End Homelessness is doing everything they can to help to minimize the number of people who are homeless, while small organizations, like the Homeless Helping Homeless in Tampa, Florida, are assisting in providing amenities and support for those currently struggling. Both stakeholders have the goal of helping the homeless, but they have different approaches for going about doing this. With homelessness on a steady downfall, The National Alliance to End Homelessness is determined to keep this trend going at this pace. This main goal is to form strong resources to end homelessness nationwide. It is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that has taken it upon themselves to make it their operation to try and prevent, as well as terminate, homelessness in the United States. (About Homelessness.) The National Alliance to End primary goal is to try to put an end to homelessness nationwide through Student 2 volunteers as well as donations. This stakeholder argues that by working with the public, private, and nonprofit sectors, we can construct the individual abilities, which will lead to a reduction in homelessness across the border. The Homeless Helping Homeless, Inc. takes a different approach to try to help with the homeless situation in the country. Unlike the National Alliance to End method to try to put a stop to homelessness through predominantly donations and volunteers, the HHH is there to better the lives of the homeless people that exist on the streets today. This stakeholder provides administration for the homeless, as well as support from officers who are homeless themselves. It is a last resort shelter for populaces who are in dire need of help (Homeless Helping Homeless). This organization employs all homeless people as their corporate officers, administrators, as well as their support staff, to not only give these homeless people a job and better way of life. Both stakeholders share the common goal of wanting to improve the lives of the homeless; however, they have incompatible ways of going about this task. The way these organizations market themselves differ in both their style and layout in how they go about publicizing, as well as the intended audience they are marketing to. Advertising is a huge part of a business and needs to be approached in an appropriate manner for the intended audience (Peter H. Rossi). Homeless Helping Homeless, Inc. is there to help whenever a homeless person is in need. It is all too common for the homeless to get turned away from a shelter if they arrive too late or if their shelter is at capacity, leaving many without a place to go or any food to eat. (David Moxley, et al.) HHH markets through their website to the homeless that they are there to help them no matter the situation, whenever it occurs. They are working on expanding, but this organization currently is located with its main office in Tampa Bay, helping Student 3 the homeless of the Tampa community and a few surrounding cities. They are a small company but are making a big difference in improving the homeless lives that they touch. This stakeholder also wants to let anyone who comes across their campaigns know that they are there to help in other ways as well, whether it be obtaining important documentation like a birth certificate, or just to talk out their problems. The Homeless Helping Homeless, Inc. are marketing to the homeless of Tampa to help them in any way that they can. The National Alliance to End Homelessness markets to the public, trying to persuade them to volunteer or donate to the cause of ending homelessness. The American Academy of Social Welfare implemented the move to end homelessness as one of its main challenges (Heather Larkin, et al.). One of the ways in which this challenge is carried out is by working with other organizations and stakeholders to implement ways in which to end homelessness. The target audience is the public and anyone who wants to help. Unlike the Homeless Helping Homeless, Inc., this stakeholder advertises to everyone in the United States in hopes of receiving national support to back them so that they can better the lives of the homeless nationwide. Both stakeholders being discussed have an admirable end goal of bettering the lives. Instead of having incompatible goals, the stakeholders should create a compromise to improve both of their organizations and ultimately the homeless conditions across the country. If the homeless live on the streets for an extended period, it can have a permanent negative effect on their outlook on life and the way they view the world (Timothy Stablein). One of the main reasons these organizations are so incompatible is they reach a different plethora of people. The HHH does not have the resources that The National Alliance to End Homelessness has and, therefore, cannot reach nearly as many people as they would like to. The organization is working on expanding, but if the two stakeholders worked together, they would be able to benefit many Student 4 more homeless lives, as they would be able to reach a much larger target audience. The two stakeholders have different intentions and goals on ways to benefit the homeless, which can be viewed between the organizations as a competition for which organization is more effective in enhancing the homeless lives. In Adopting Best Practices: Lessons Learned in the Collaborative Initiative to Help End Chronic Homelessness, written by Sarah McGraw, et al, McGraw discusses the role that multiple organizations can play on helping the homeless to not only have altogether better lives but also how providing houses and supportive services to the homeless is crucial to get them into a stable condition where they can get back on their feet and take on the world again. The National Alliance to End Homelessness and the Homeless Helping Homeless, Inc. touch on both recommendations from McGraw in the way that they better the lives of the homeless, so if the organizations worked together, they would cover all their bases and be benefiting the homeless in multiple different ways. Not only would The National Alliance to End Homelessness better the Homeless Helping Homeless, Inc. by helping them reach a larger audience, but the HHH could help the National Alliance to End Homelessness find a way to work more hands-on with the homeless in bettering their lives. It was discussed in the scholarly article Homelessness Counts that 44 % of homeless people go unsheltered, without any type of housing to sleep in at night (Mary Cunningham and Meghan Henry). The HHH specialize in taking in any homeless person that needs help, no matter the issue, and The National Alliance to End Homelessness could benefit from creating a program like this. It would not only be good publicity for their organization, persuading more people to want to donate and volunteer for this stakeholder, but it would also help the existing homeless in having a safe place to go in their time of need. If both stakeholders compromise and work together to expand the HHH both Student 5 organizations will be able to assist many additional homeless people in more and different ways, which is the fundamental goal of both organizations, so it should not matter how the stakeholders reach this objective. Though most organizations that touch on similar topics have incompatible goals, there are typically ways to work through these issues to reach an end goal that is even more beneficial than the original goals of the organizations when they stood alone. By working together, the stakeholders discussed in this paper will be able to reach an even larger audience, as well as better the lives of the existing homeless. Homelessness is a major issue across the United States, and there are steps that can be taken to improve the situation if incompatible beliefs and goals are put aside and organizations work together instead of against each other. (Word Count: 1399). Works Cited About  National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Cunningham, Mary, and Meghan Henry. Homelessness  MyScienceWork. N.p., 10 Jan. Student 6 2007. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Homeless Helping Homeless, Inc. an Emergency Shelter  Homeless Helping Homeless, Inc. an Emergency Shelter Provider. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Larkin, Heather, Benjamin Henwood, Sondra J. Fogel, Amanda Aykanian, Katharine H. Briar- Lawson, Linda Plitt Donaldson, Daniel Herman, Samuel B. Little, Nancy Meyer-Adams, Deborah K. Padgett, Michael A. Patchner, and Calvin L. Streeter. Responding to the Grand Challenge to End Homelessness: The National Homelessness Social Work  Families in Society: The Journal of Contemporary Social Services 97.3 (2016): 153-59. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mcgraw, Sarah A., Mary Jo Larson, Susan E. Foster, Marilyn Kresky-Wolff, Elizabeth M. Botelho, Emily A. Elstad, Ana Stefancic, and Sam Tsemberis. Adopting Best Practices: Lessons Learned in the Collaborative Initiative to Help End Chronic Homelessness  The Journal of Behavioral Health Services & Research 37.2 (2009): 197-212. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Moxley, David P., Olivia G. M. Washington, and Joe Mcelhaney. have a Helping Homeless People Through Faith, Spirituality, and Compassionate  Journal of Religion and Health 51.2 (2010): 431-49. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rossi, Peter H. Troubling Families: Family Homelessness in  American Behavioral Scientist 37.3 (1994): 342-95. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Stablein, Timothy. Helping Friends and the Homeless Milieu: Social Capital and the Utility of Street  Journal of Contemporary Ethnography 40.3 (2011): 290-317. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Student 7