Student 1 Student Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 3 March 2017 Treating Depression Through Modern Medicine and Friendships Between 2009 and 2012 7.6% of all Americans over the age of 12 were suffering from mild to moderate depression (Pratt, Laura A). Very often it can be extremely confusing to try and decide what the best approach to treat this disease is for you. There is a disagreement as to whether people suffering from depression should use a non-conventional medical approach such as magnetic therapy, or they should just treat it by talking about it through support groups. As a stakeholder in this issue the Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance of Greater Houston (DBSA) believes that a successful way to treat depression is by providing free support groups to those influenced by the disease DBSA Greater An opposing viewpoint in this popular discussion is that of NeuroStar, a company that provides magnetic stimulation of the brain to those suffering from depression Does NeuroStar TMS Therapy Despite the difference in opinions on how best to treat depression both sides can agree that depression is a serious disease that needs to be treated in one way or the other. Keeping this common goal in mind, these companies could collaborate to create a broader and more successful treatment. On one side the DBSA of Greater Houston, a non-profit organization, has worked tire- lessly since 1979 to ensure that not only those suffering from depression but caregivers as well have access to free and confidential support groups in their area. The DBSA was founded by a group of people personally suffering from depression and bipolar disorder. The DBSA wants to Student 2 not only help those suffering from depression, but caregivers as well. There is research that sup- port groups have a positive effect on caregivers of people with mental illness despite any other factors such as race and social status (Heller, Tamar, et al.). More recently within the organiza- tion there has been a tremendous effort to educate the public on these diseases and to end the stigma surrounding them. The end to stigma surrounding mental illnesses could improve the lives of those living with these diseases tremendously. Having a society that is more accepting and understanding of those with mental illnesses could be the world of difference. The website also has several testimonials stating that through the services provided that those suffer- ing from depression have been successful in learning to live with their disease. Several of these people state that they better understand their disease and now have coping mechanisms to go through daily life. By providing free support groups and educating the public the DBSA hopes to make it easier for those suffering from depression to go about their daily lives. Alternatively, NeuroStar suggests that a highly successful method of treatment for de- pression is Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). This treatment can be performed in 37 minutes, has little pain involved, and is done in your office. website de- scribes other treatments such as antidepressants and side effects of those medicines as opposed to TMS, claiming that TMS is an easier version of treatment, with significantly less side effects. Although there are few studies to back up this method, it was approved in 2008 (Taylor, Stephan F), and has been increasingly used since. NeuroStar is also described as an alternative to drug therapy. Although it is still being researched there are several successful testimonials on this therapy. Both NeuroStar and the DBSA have one common goal in mind, to help those suffering from depression improve their lives. These two organizations provide treatments for depression Student 3 that are unique but function to serve the same overall purpose. The DBSA works to end the stigma surrounding mental illnesses as well as providing treatment in the form of support groups free of charge. NeuroStar similarly works to treat depression through use of magnetic stimulation to the parts of the brain that depression affects. Although these two stakeholders are on opposite sides of the spectrum when it comes to how to treat depression, with collaboration they can cre- ate a stronger and more successful treatment. To create a treatment where every need is addressed and met by those suffering from de- pression is a goal that both stakeholders strive for. If both stakeholders were willing to imple- ment new procedures and protocol there would be the opportunity to create a more well-rounded treatment. Often times depression can lead to more symptoms if not addressed swiftly and properly. An example of this would be, suicide. I am sure that both of these main goal would be to prevent suicide. To accomplish this new treatment both stakeholders would have to admit that their treatment is not the only way to treat depression and be open to trying new things. Surprisingly there is actually studies that have found that this type of magnetic stim- ulation therapy can lead to decreased thoughts on suicide (Sun, Yinming). It is also known that being open to talking about your disorder and emotions can lead to decrease in thoughts of sui- cide. NeuroStar is a for profit company where as DBSA is a non-profit organization so Neuro- Star would need to be willing to put the needs of their patients ahead of profit. Both of these stakeholders provide treatments that are successful on their own but are not one hundred percent effective, by combining services provided they can provide a more well-rounded service that would lead to more lives saved ultimately. There would need to be efforts made by both sides for a compromise to ever truly work. If the DBSA were willing to put a section on their website ad- Student 4 vertising other non-drug treatments such as TMS treatment, more people participat- ing in these support groups would have access to this new and progressive treatment. Similarly NeuroStar would need to recommend and possibly even require that the patients receiving their treatments seek out the assistance of a support group such as those offered by the National De- pression and Bipolar Disorder Support Alliance. Requiring patients to attend a support group will help to make sure that they do not become dependent solely on the magnetic therapy and gives them a chance to work through their emotions as well as receive empathy and coping mecha- nisms from those walking the same path in their lives. This compromise is easily achievable by both stakeholders. This compromise would require a change in the DBSA website as well as pamphlets from NeuroStar and knowledge by support group leaders on the services offered by the company. All that it would require from NeuroStar is that there is a referral program in place for patients so that they can easily find and attend these free of charge support groups provided by the DBSA. Although the DBSA and NeuroStar have significantly different viewpoints on the best approach in treating depression the one thing that they can both agree that it should be treated so that suicide and other effects of the disease can be better prevented. Through the support and ef- fort of both stakeholders a compromise can be easily achieved to create a co-dependent system between the DBSA and NeuroStar. Through this compromise and common goal in mind these two stakeholders can better serve those suffering from depression and improve their quality of life, and actually save lives. (WC: 1,217) Student 5 Works Cited DBSA Greater About DBSA Greater Houston /. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017 Heller, Tamar, et al. Predictors of Support Group Participation among Families of Persons with Mental  Family Relations, no. 4, 1997,p. 437. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?di- rect=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.20314773&site=eds-live. How Does NeuroStar TMS  NeuroStar. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. https://neurostar.com/neurostar-tms-depression-treatment/how-neurostar-tms-works/ Pratt, Laura A. and Debra J. Brody. Depression in the U.S. Household Population, 2009-2012 / Laura A. Pratt and Debra J. Brody. 2014. NCHS data brief: no. 172. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?di- rect=true&db=edsgpr&AN=gpr000942832&site=eds-live. Sun, Yinming, et al. Indicators for Remission of Suicidal Ideation Following Magnetic Seizure Therapy in Patients with Treatment-Resistant  JAMA Psychiatry, no. 4, 2016, p. 337. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?di- rect=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.452965039&site=eds-live Taylor, Stephan F., et al. A Naturalistic, Multi-Site Study of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation Therapy for  Journal of Affective Disorders, vol. 208, 15 Jan. 2017, pp. 284-290. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jad.2016.08.049.