Student 1 Student Professor Dr. Gaspar ENC 1102 5 March 2017 A Suggested Budget for Arts in America Arts and culture are essential to the elements that make this country so great. For society, arts and culture are some of the tools that keep us successfully functioning. The arts are throughout America in the schools, theaters, movie theaters, museums, and galleries. However, art programs in education are funded by a federal agency called the National Endowment of the Arts (NEA). The NEA is a federal agency and they get their money to support the arts as a whole from the government, American tax dollars. The problem then lies in what is the government spending our money on and is it necessary. Due to the importance of the arts within our culture and communities, the Americans for the Arts Action Fund is an organization that strives to keep the arts programs going in education. Their organization believes in the influential impact the arts has on education and communities. On the other hand, another key stakeholder point of view comes from a government organization called The Heritage Foundation who believes the elimination of the NEA would help minimize some of debt. This organization takes into consideration what American money could be better spent on and see the NEA funding necessary to support the arts. The continuance of the arts across America is a concern for both Americans for the Arts Action Fund and The Heritage Foundation, but these two stakeholders have very different ideas when it comes to how the arts should be supported. Both stakeholders, American for the Arts Action Fund and The Heritage Foundation, consider the arts culturally important in American, therefore, both would Student 2 benefit from a compromise that includes an agreement towards a reasonable budget that supports the arts community necessities. The Americans for the Arts Action mission is to get people to join in their movement to sustain the arts and arts education in America. Since their founding in 2004, their primary goal has been, as stated on their webpage, future where the federal government invests at least $1 per citizen in the nonprofit arts and local governments invest 5% of their local education budgets in arts (Americans for the Arts Action Fund, We Stand One point this organization stresses on is that the arts demonstrate culturally ability that is applied to various aspects of American society. A particular argument used by this stakeholder to prove the importance of arts in education is, with an arts rich education have better grade point averages, score better on standardized tests in reading and math, and have lower drop-out (Americans for the Arts Action Fund, the Arts According to a study called in the Arts and Success in Secondary Catterral found that, involved in his study with high arts participation linked to higher English grades, standardized test scores, lower drop-out rates, higher student self-concept, and positive behavior and attitudes about volunteerism and community (Maguire 369). By getting people to take action and join their cause, the Americans for the Arts Action Fund intends to keep the arts alive in schools and communities all across the nation. The Heritage objective is to eliminate the National Endowment for the Arts federal agency in order to lower the federal debt and terminate where money is being wastefully spent. This goal since their founding in 1973 has been to, communicate rigorous conservative policy research to Congress and the American (The Heritage Foundation, A main issue this organization has is that the NEA is Student 3 subsidizing that is disrespectful to a lot of Americans. They argue that the NEA has failed to strengthen the cultural life in America. Additionally, the NEA, to promote the worst excesses of multiculturalism and political correctness, subsidizing art that demeans the values of ordinary (Jarvik 12). In their 1997 article, Good Reasons to Eliminate Funding for the National Endowment for the The Heritage Foundation references evidence that the NEA funds pornography and promote politically correct art. According to Julia Duin, NEA granted $25,000 to Fiction Collective 2, which featured works containing sexual torture, incest, child sex, and sadomasochism with the excerpts depicting scenes in which a brother sister team rape their younger sister, the torture of a Mexican male prostitute and oral sex between two (The Washington Times). In The Heritage article is also an Appendix on pages 13 and 14 that lists all pornography the NEA has used tax dollars on. Jan Breslauer, through federal dollars, discovered that the NEA had, routinely placed on bills, in seasons, or in exhibits because of who they were rather than what kind of art made and artistic directors began to push artists towards expressions of the ethnicity they were paying them to (The Washington Post). Both the American for the Arts Action Fund and The Heritage Foundation are interested in the arts being supported through non-profit fundraising. These stakeholders believe that through non-profit resources the arts can still be successfully financially supported. The Americans for the Arts Action aims towards larger donations to arts contributions because that way would provide more significant funding than any arts institution would be able to provide individually. The Heritage Foundation displays proof that many art institutes are given greater funds through fundraising campaigns then what is federally given to the NEA annually. Both stakeholders hold great concerns for the decisions made by the NEA and neither want the arts Student 4 eliminated. Both these stakeholders are aware of a needed budget to support the arts in America that is beneficial for the government and the American people. While both stakeholders represent important groups in society, neither one of them has seen how they could potentially help the other. Seeking a compromise that is financially beneficial for the Americans for the Arts Action Fund and The Heritage Foundation could introduce a brand new idea in fulfilling the arts for everyone throughout America. If the arts as a whole was supported and funding financially through local governments and their communities then the arts can still be continued throughout all local education AND all art institutes in local communities so that the cost is less impacting on the federal government giving out such a huge annual appropriation. For this to start, both stakeholders would need to a in order to be aware of each position on a shared important issue. Both parties will also have to narrow down their assumptions as to who and what has destroyed the arts a whole. Both of their perspectives would need to mend together so that the arts can get the financial support that is both easier and deserved for America. The elimination of the NEA could be considered by both parties since both stakeholders think very highly of the NEA or believe they have helped the arts that much, this would contribute to The Heritage Foundation as well as the government. However, the government would have to approve an alternative in funding the arts since the NEA will be cut out. Half of the Americans for the Arts Action long-term goal can be proposed of which the local governments invest 5% of their local budgets in arts education, which would be an achievement for them if approved. The rest of the arts communities can then be financially supported by all non-profit organizations such as both of these stakeholders. By taking these steps in finding overall financial support for the arts to stay culturally important to America, the government can have a chance to fix our debt and the arts Student 5 can stay alive in communities changing the limits of growth within the arts as a better cultural aspect of our wonderful country. (Word Count: 1,317) Student 6 Works Cited Americans for the Arts Action Fund. a little about 2015. Web. http://www.artsactionfund.org/about/about-us. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Americans for the Arts Action Fund. We Stand 2015. Web. http://www.artsactionfund.org/pages/what-we-stand-for. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Americans for the Arts Action Fund. the Arts 2015. Web. http://www.artsactionfund.org/pages/why. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Breslauer, Jan. Real Offense: Agency Pigeonholes Artists by The Washington Post, 16 March 1997, p. G1. Bump, Phillip. reportedly wants to cut cultural programs that make up 0.02 percent of federal The Washington Post, 19 Jan 2017, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/01/19/trump-reportedly-wants- to-cut-cultural-programs-that-make-up-0-02-percent-of-federal- Accessed 1 March 2017. Duin, Julia. Funds to the Lawmakers Lip Arts Agency for Aiding Prurient The Washington Times, 8 March 1997, p. A2. Jarvik, Laurence. Good Reasons to Eliminate Funding for the National Endowment for the The Heritage Foundation, no. 1110, 1997, http://www.heritage.org/report/ten- good-reasons-eliminate-funding-the-national-endowment-orthe-arts. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Maguire, Cindy. a life one has reason to value: the role of the arts in fostering capability development in four small urban high Cambridge Journal of Education, vol. 42, no. 3, 2012, pp. 367-390. Student 7