Corrinne Warnke Ashley Tisdale Composition 1 13 February 2017 Nudity In Art When you think of art what do you see? You may see the image of famous works such as The Starry Night by Van Gogh or the controversial statue of David by Michelangelo. Art has many forms, all of which should be respected. In the past David by Michelangelo was criticized for showing the full male human form in a public so leaves were placed to block the areas that some would deem crude, but today the statue of David stands at Galleria in France with the leaf coverings removed. Michelangelo also painted the ceiling in the sistine chapel, in which he painted the figures in the scene in the nude which caused much outrage by the church and other people of the time. Sadly this beautiful piece of art was modified by the church to add more clothing to all the figures due to the fact they felt it was inappropriate for a religious place. However many sculptures or other works of art consisting of figures in the nude remain controversial today due to many factors such as: religion; the age, mindset, and experiences of the viewer; and if it is appropriate for the setting. This leads us to wonder where does the line between nudity in art and pornography lie in our society today? Lilley, Ed. Art, Fashion, and the Nude: A Nineteenth-century  Fashion Theory: The Journal of Dress, Body & Culture 5.1 (2001): 57-77. Art, Fashion, and the Nude: A Nineteenth-century Realignment. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. This article covers a brief history of nudity in art and how our views of nudity in art have changed from the to modern society. It shows how our mindsets change as we have become more open about artwork dealing with the true nature of the human form. It also explains why nudity in art is controversial and arguments for and against nudity in art. The author goes into why we are interested in the nude human form and what draws us to this style of art. The article also expresses opinions on why nudity was used in art in different time periods. He also explains why he thinks nudity in art is becoming more prominent. This connects to my research question because he talks about the controversy of nudity in art and gives background information on the subject that I need to establish my argument that nudity in art has been present a very long time, which could help my argument that the line between nudity in art and pornograhpic images may be more of a gray area than a clear cut question. It is credible because it comes from a journal that has produced many issues and would most likely have been checked by others as well. Yoder, Brian. Nudity in Art: A Virtue of  Art Renewal Center. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. My second article dives into the current discussions about nudity in art. It discusses the freedom of speech involved with making artwork with nudity in it and it discusses learning about the human form through this type of art. The main focus is to bring to light why nudity in art a bad thing all the time because it can show the human form and spirit in many different ways because you can view their complete form. However, it does discuss why some people do not like nudity and art and explains how they can avoid it or how to see the artwork in a different light even though they may have issues with it personally. Also it goes into technical training in art and how to be mature enough to handle art containing nudity. This connects to my research question because it gives me a lot of information to argue that nudity in art is not pornographic because you have to approach it was a mature manner. Also it discusses many of the benefits that are usually ignored such as studying the human form and spirit through these works and helps provides many arguments against the idea the nudity in art is pornographic and should be accepted. This website is credible because it is a website discussing one of the major problems in art. Bey, Sharif. Naked Bodies and Nasty Pictures: Decoding Sex Scripts in Preadolescence, Re-examining Normative Nudity through Art  Studies In Art Education 52.3 (2011): 196-212. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. My third article digs a little deeper into the ideas of art, nudity, and pornography. It discusses how boys and young men experience nudity in art education and why it could be considered pornography rather than nudity. This due to their perspectives rather than the work of art itself.. The main focus is to examine ideas about sex and professionalism and how it can limit educational experiences. Also it goes into how to examine nudity in art with a focus on the art and how to get your mind in the right framework to be able to discuss these topics in a mature manner. This connects to my research question because it gives me more specifics about how men in society experience nudity in art and why it may seem pornographic to them due to their state. Also it discusses how we can avoid this problem by helping young men in education be in the right state of mind to examine specific works of art. It will help me argue that nudity in art is not pornographic in itself because it is the mindset we view it in that makes it seem pornographic. This source is credible because it is from an academic journal that has had many volumes. Eck, Beth A. Nudity and Framing: Classifying Art, Pornography, Information, and Sociological Forum 16.4 (2001): 603-32. JSTOR Web. 11 Feb. 2017. This article covers the three frames in which nudity falls under that help us interpret an image which include: art, pornography, and informational. Depending on what cues are in the image the mind will go to the frame that helps us interpret it in a correct manner. This helps to give a more solid line between art and pornography when looking at a nude image. It also discusses how the age of the viewer affects the frame in which they view a nude image and how they interpret it. This article also address how people view nude images in popular culture and how it affects society to have these images present. This connects to my research question because it addresses where the line between pornography and art is and how it differs based on age and experiences. Also it will help me argue that the line is changing over time and as the years pass new generations are viewing nudity in art in a more mature manner rather than just viewing it as pornography. This article is credible because it has had many volumes and has been published in a academic journal, so therefore it went through a reviewing process. Arya, Rina. Constructions of Homosexuality in the Art of Francis  Journal for Cultural Research 16.1 (2012): 43-61. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. This article provides a specific example for my paper. It talks about artists Francis Bacon and his depictions of men in the nude in a time where it was very controversial. It discusses how these painters were defying social norms in order to bring more attention to the fact the male nude should be more accepted. It goes into why we have an aversion to the male nude and see it as more crude than if it were a women. Also it talks about how the artist was challenging norms openly by presenting them through art. I believe this is important to my argument that nudity in art be deemed crude and that it is important for people to challenge the social norms in order to change our views. This article will help me argue in my paper that we have preconceived notions in our mind that in nude art the female form tends to be more accepted. However, I want to argue that these should not be deemed crude or obscene just because of the sex of the human form in the painting. This article is credible because it comes from a journal with many issues and due to this was probably peer reviewed before publishing. Beale, Charlotte. Facebook in Landmark Censorship Case after Banning French User Who Posted Naked  The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media, 13 Feb. 2016. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/facebook-faces-trial-in-france-over- nudity-censorship-case-a6871791.html> This article covers the controversial banning of nudity in art on facebook. It deals with a user posting a painting deal while the nude female form and facebook removed it due to their policies. However the court in France, the country where this is happening, deemed that the user can sue the company for censoring their artwork. They ruled that this was an issue of free speech rather than inappropriate images, which shows a shifting view of nudity in art as artwork that deserves to be displayed rather than a crude image that should be censored. It will help me provide an example that it is a right in order to argue that this is a matter of freedom of speech and should not be considered pornography. This article connects to my research question because it proposes the argument that nudity in artwork is deserving to be displayed rather than censored by various sources. Also it shows the idea that artwork of any kind, even if it includes nudity is a right rather than a topic that should be . I feel that the source is credible because it comes from a news source in the united kingdom.