Antle !1 Glenn Antle ENC 112.078 Kristin Gocinski 27 February 2017 The Marines: Fighting For Us The Marines are one of the first people to arrive at a crisis situation out at sea Marine Corps The Marines mission statement is We are forward deployed to respond swiftly and aggressively in times of crisis. We are soldiers of the sea, providing forces and detachments to naval ships and shore Corps They are dedicated to being the best branch of the armed forces that the United States has to offer. They want people to know what they are all about so they release images that give the viewer some insight into what they do. The Marines have a huge say in the topic of women in combat. The rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos effectively represent the goals of the Marines in the two images. The two images use ethos is a very simplistic way. Ethos is simply defined as the appeal to credibility. It is used by the illustrator of the image to persuade the audience by demonstrating their credibility. This can be done in multiple ways, such as a logo of the company or organization, a celebrity that is easily recognizable, or a saying that the audience already believes Rhetorical In Image 1, the ethos is located right in the middle and it Antle !2 indicated by the logo of the Marines In the second image, there are two instances of ethos being used. First, the logo of the Marines is used to provide the image with credibility which is located at the bottom right. Because of the logo of the Marines is so well known and also because the Marines organization, the logo establishes trust in the audience. Second, the soldiers in the image also provide credibility because all the gear they are carrying around is a representation of what they actually wear in the battlefield. In both of the images, logos is exemplified in a couple different ways. Logos is the next rhetorical appeal and it is defined as the appeal to or like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and reasons Rhetorical After reviewing the two images many times, it took a while to find out where the logos was implemented in the images. There may some small hints into where logos could be used. In the first image, the text shows that the Marines have been around for a long time. The text that does that can be considered logical or reasonable because it makes the audience think about how long the Marines have been operating since its creation This same reasoning could be exemplified in the second image as well. In Image 2, the text can provoke some thought about the Marines into the mind Pathos is the third type of rhetorical appeal that is used in the two Marines images. Pathos is simply defined as the appeal to emotion but it originally refers to the elements of the image that appeals to the viewers sensibilities. Pathos can be demonstrated by using many methods such as, different colors, different facial structures, and different text font Rhetorical All these things can change the pathos of an image. In the first image, pathos is used Antle !3 by the different color schemes to demonstrate a feeling of acceptance by the audience. That feeling acceptance is achieved by the grey color scheme at the top of the image show a time where colored photos were not available and the colored photo at the bottom shows a more modern time where colored photos are available In Image 2, the soldier and the motivating text provide a feeling of pride for the audience Kairos is used in both images that were released by the Marines. Kairos defined as an appeal to timeliness. Elements in this rhetorical appeal are supposed to give the audience a sense of urgency and that is what I think these images accomplish. In Image 1, the sense or urgency is given to the audience by suggesting that the audience should join the Marines since they have been around for a long time In the second image, kairos is shown by presenting only two soldiers who look like they are in the middle of nowhere and that they need help and that if you join now then you can help them now The effectiveness of the rhetorical appeals on the first image was pretty good. Ethos worked in getting the point across by establishing credibility to the image which proved the Marines as a trusted source. Ethos worked with the mission statement by demonstrating that the mission statement is true and credible because of the credibility of the image and the source. Logos did not really work well with the image as much as I wanted it to. Logos really work well with the images because it was very complicated to find any appeals to logos. I say that logos worked well with the mission statement either. Pathos worked well the image because it got the message of the image across by using different colors to bring about a Antle !4 certain emotion. It also worked well with the mission statement because the mission statement gives the reader a sense of safety by using certain keywords. Kairos also worked well with the image because it gave the reader a sense of urgency to enlist in the Marines before the opportunity is gone. This rhetorical appeal also works well with the mission statement because the mission statement provides a sense that Marines are everywhere. The rhetorical appeals were mostly effective for the second image. Logos again was not very effective in getting the message of the image across but all the other rhetorical appeals did a good job in doing so. Ethos worked well with the image by ensuring to the reader that the Marines is a trusted source and that it is also credible. Logos did not work very well with the image or the mission statement. Pathos did work well with the second image because it gave a sense of pride to the audience. It also worked well with the mission statement because certain words in the mission statement have a sense of safety and security to the reader. Kairos also worked well with the image because it gave a sense of urgency to help the soldiers who seemed like they needed help. The Marines is a big factor in determining the roles of women in combat. They pride themselves in being the best at what they do. To help people understand what the Marines do, they release images about Marine life and their history. The goals of the Marines are effectively represented in the two images by the rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos, and kairos. Antle !5 Works Cited Corps Marines.com, www.marines.com/history-heritage/our-purpose. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Sproat, Ethan, et al. Rhetorical Purdue Online Writing Lab, 27 Apr. 2012, louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/handouts-and-resources/handouts-1/logos- ethos-pathos-kairos. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. usmarinecorps. Instagram, U.S. Marine Corps, https://www.instagram.com/ usmarinecorps/. Accessed 27 Feb 2017. usmarinecorps. Instagram, U.S. Marine Corps, https://www.instagram.com/ usmarinecorps/. Accessed 27 Feb 2017. Antle !6 Image 1 - Image 2 -