Boatman 1 Christopher Boatman ENC 1102 Mrs. Angelica Aranda 2 February 2017 Teacher Salary Education is a fundamental key to success. Without it we would not be where we are today, in a world surrounded by intellect and innovation. Teachers are the core providers of this knowledge, therefore they have one of the most important jobs. Contrary to this statement is the fact that salaries are among the lowest of them all in the United States. According to the National Education (NEA) Average Starting Teacher Salaries by the national starting salary average for teachers was $36,141, which is less than the national average wage of $48,098.63, provided by the SSA (Social Security Association). Two stakeholder organizations affiliated with teacher salaries are the American Federation of Teacher (AFT) and the previously mentioned NEA. Neither organization advocates against an increase in pay, but their individual approaches to solve their common issue are different. The AFT believes that all teachers should be granted a raise in pay because of the competitive environment that encompasses education. The NEA believes that funding private schools would public therefore only supporting the increase in pay towards public school teachers. If the two stakeholder organizations worked together, more than what they already have, they could successfully increase teacher salaries nationwide. This could be achieved by uniting as one larger and stronger organization that focuses on increasing pay for both private and public school teachers. Although the NEA does not believe in funding private institutions, this compromise Boatman 2 would be beneficial for both because it would meet the demands of their intended audience as well as their common values. The American Federation of Teachers values the wellbeing of teachers, both public and private. They strive to be the voice of the voice of justice for teachers and they fight for equal opportunity for quality education. In their mission statement, the AFT pronounces they aim to be union of professionals that champions fairness; democracy; economic opportunity; and high- quality public education, healthcare and public services for our students, their families and our (aft.org) The organization started as eight members in 1916 and grew to 1.6 million members in 2014 (American Federation of Teachers). president of the AFT, the second largest articulates Kristine Lamm West, author of unions and compensation: The impact of collective bargaining on salary schedules and performance pay schemes, has publically stated her willingness to consider merit pay and other in response to the promotion of professionalism yet the lack of attention towards teacher compensation. West further explains the evidence displaying the relationship between quality education and quality teachers and ability to attract and retain quality based on teacher compensation. This introduces a competitive environment within the school system in an effort to keep teachers and gain better quality ones as well. The proposed compromise would benefit the AFT by expanding the awareness of the competitive nature of education that affects teacher salaries. The NEA started as a backdoor organization with one hundred educators, all of whom were ready to defend equal opportunity for education and the rights of teachers and students. They believe in opportunity, just society, democracy, professionalism, partnership, and collective (nea.org). These original members chose to unite their voice into one powerful Boatman 3 call to action. Since then their organization has grown to over 3.2 million members and they have successfully earned the right to education for every American child (National Education Association). According to Richard Vedder of Private School Competition And Public School Techer competition for quality education could lead to a decrease in pay for public school teachers. The ideology behind this claim is that when private schools, which are already prosperous and viable, receive funding, it will decrease the number of students that attend public schools. This is because most private schools provide higher quality education than public schools. The biggest issue with the system is that compared to public schools, it costs a substantial sum of money to attend a private school. So if the better quality education ends up being the same cost as the education, why not choose to send your child to the private school? Similarly to the AFT, Vedder proposes an opposing theory; the more competition there is, the higher the pay. This is because there is an ever increasing demand for educators and the competition between private and public grows stronger. Nonetheless, the NEA strives to increase teacher salaries nationwide. While both organizations campaign an increase in salaries their approaches differ slightly. The NEA and AFT have a history of working together by trying to solve this common issue. According to Where We Stand by Sandra Feldman polls show overwhelming support among AFT and NEA members for a united The two organizations, however, did not merge due to their One of these views was teacher unions, something the AFT was born into and a concept the NEA believed incompatible with The AFT supports the use of the which is a tool used to gauge how much a teacher should make based on factors like grade level and greater qualifications such as certificates of education. The NEA believes levels Boatman 4 in institutions of higher education must be sufficient to attract outstanding individuals into teaching, scholarship, research, and service. Institutions of higher education compete with the government and private sector for outstanding college graduates and holders of advanced degrees from a narrow national and international applicant (National Education Association). A suitable compromise for both organizations would be for them to reconsider becoming a united organization, combining both of their views and principles. This merge would benefit both stakeholders by allowing them to further their efforts specifically in teacher salaries, as well as other efforts such as quality education for all students. This merge would have a short-run aggregate effect by increasing compensation. There would also be a long-run effect on students: if teachers get paid more, they will be more likely to stay, ensuring students an education, granted it is available to them. An increase in pay will also invite professionals into the system, creating more jobs in an area that so desperately needs them. When the two organizations first considered AFT convention voted for the principles of the merger, while the NEA convention turned them (Feldman 234). This is important because it exemplifies the difficulties surrounding the topic; here we have two large-scale organizations who want the same thing yet one of them want to merge with the other. This situation can be directly compared to the government and the back and forth discussions about an increase in teacher salaries. Through further negotiations and compromises it is possible the NEA and AFT can successfully merge and create one game-changing organization that will eventually be successful in increasing teacher salaries. Teacher salaries has been a topic of discussion for years and will be for years to come. Teacher unions have fought for a raise while others have sat in silence hoping for the best. Organizations like the AFT and NEA are the reasons change will be made. This compromise will Boatman 5 alleviate the stress and tension in schools because of the potential influx of money. The missions of both organizations are clear: warrant quality education, professionalism, and the opportunity to succeed. An increase in teacher salary would encourage our educators to regain faith in what they do and hopefully remind them why they started teaching in the first place. They deserve the right amount of pay for the service they provide and the outstanding results they bring out of children, our future. Boatman 6 Works Cited 2012-2013 Average Starting Teacher Salaries by  NEA. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. Feldman, Sandra. Where We  Phi Delta Kappan 3 (1998): 233. Academic OneFile. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.  American Federation of Teachers. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. Our Mission, Vision and  NEA. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Feb. 2017 Social  National Average Wage Index. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. VEDDER, RICHARD, and JOSHUA HALL. Private School Competition And Public School Teacher  Journal Of Labor Research 21.1 (2000): 161-168. Business Source Premier. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. West, Kristine Lamm, and Elton Mykerezi. Unions And Compensation: The Impact Of Collective Bargaining On Salary Schedules And Performance Pay  Economics Of Education Review 30.(2011): 99-108. ScienceDirect. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.