Kolman 1 Elle Kolman Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 27 February 2017 Images Can Relay a Message A healthy lifestyle is achieved through many different aspects. Blue Zones Project is an organization that seeks to aid in creating a healthier environment for people. Experts at Blue Zones Project accomplish this by working with cities and residents to help create cheaper and easier access to healthy foods, activities and more. Blue Zones Project hopes that by teaming up with cities they will establish surroundings that naturally promote nutritional eating, daily exercise, community involvement and rest and recovery. They use many different techniques to spread awareness about their mission including visual and rhetorical appeals through images. Blue Zones Project uses kairos, ethos, logos and pathos in two photographs to effectively portray the benefits of a healthy, active life. The stakeholder, Blue Zones Project uses pictures to convey a message. Blue Zones Project hopes to help transform the world into a healthier place through exercise, eating habits, community and more Secrets of Living Longer, Better Are All Around Their goal is to not only spread knowledge about living better but to also provide easier and cheaper access to resources to aid in living better. They achieve this by working with cities, restaurants, businesses and residents. Their mission is to  transform communities where the healthy choice is easy and people live longer with a higher quality of  Secrets to Live Longer, Better Are All Around They promote the principles of health: a mainly plant based diet, active lifestyle, social involvement and having a purpose, that were uncovered by Dan Buettner, a National Kolman 2 Geographic writer and explorer, who researched the healthiest places across the world or blue zones Zones Blue Zones Project is aware of the importance of the environment on quality of life and so they are on a mission to spread their knowledge and ways. Blue Zones Project utilizes rhetorical appeals in Image One to assist in their mission towards health. It is used to demonstrate healthy eating and living habits under Blue Zones Project Standards. The audience is supposed to trust Blue Zones Project and take their advice. The image helps give people knowledge about healthy eating habits and motivates them to act. Image one displays kairos for Blue Zones Project. Kairos can be defined as appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman and Sawchyn). In other words, kairos is seizing the Kolman 3 favorable moment to entice the audience to act (Hoffman and Sawchyn). Kairos is shown in the first image through the presence of the website because it is inviting the audience to take the next step right then. Ethos is known as method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the rhetor) attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Mckee and McIntyre). The three most common ways ethos is shown in an image is through intrinsic credibility, borrowed credibility or by reinforcing preexisting beliefs or experiences (Mckee and McIntyre). In the first image ethos is shown from a couple sources. The first is their logo on the picture Blue Zones Project by  Also the logo of Wellmark, the sponsor, shows ethos. In addition the website address is present in the photo. Image one also contains logos, or the to (Mckee, Lane et al). In the first image logos is shown many times, as it contains many facts and tips. Also, the words eat  try to connect the logic of wisdom with the information they present Pathos is an appeal to emotion that be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Mckee, Lee et al). For the first image pathos is shown mainly through colors. Different colors cause different emotions. The blue allows the reader to feel calm, at peace and trusting. The green relates to plants and nature. Through kairos, ethos, logos and pathos in Image One Blue Zones mission is effectively supported. Rhetorical appeals also aided Blue Zones mission in image two titled The second image is to show the positive effects of community and activity. The picture is supposed to make the audience feel warm and happy and motivated to go out, it shows Kolman 4 the audience the positive effects of being active and social. No kairos or call to action is clearly placed in image two. Ethos is shown in Image Two to help reinforce the positive aspects of living like people do in blue zones. For the second image ethos, or appeal to credibility, is shown solely from the logo of Blue Zones Project by  Labels add to the intrinsic and borrowed credibility of a photo. Logos, or appeal to logic, is found in Blue Zones Image Two. The second image displays logos through the fit bodies and the fact that they are being active in the photo, since exercise is linked to obtaining a toned body. In addition they appear to be very happy and exercise is proven to release endorphins which make you happier. The image relies upon logos to help show Blue Zones goals. The second image shows pathos, or an appeal to emotions, through the smiles, making the audience feel happy. The dog, especially his tail because it is up and wagging, also helps to make the audience feel joy. In addition, the sunlight coming from behind and the yellow shirt also give off a happy, light- hearted vibe. The green of the trees helps remind audience about nature and vibrancy of the Kolman 5 outdoors. The position of the couple and the dog and how they appear to be in motion inspires the audience to be active. Blue Zones Project goal to transform the world into a health stimulating environment, is aided by rhetorical appeals in Image Two. Through the rhetorical appeals, both images effectively add to the goals of Blue Zones Project to positively impact the overall well-being of people. Kairos is helpful for the first photo by providing an URL, which will take the viewer directly from the image to the website. The presence of the website adds to the effectiveness of the first photo because it takes the initiative of inviting the audience to take action and get more involved. At the website the viewer will be able to find more information about Blue Zones goals, their background information and their past successes. Often times people feel too busy to take the time to research a topic, by providing a website, Blue Zones Project makes it much more accessible and convenient for the viewer. Intrinsic and borrowed credibility add to the successfulness of both pictures through ethos, as the labels and website help the audience to trust the reliability of the information and image that is provided. The use of the labels and website show the audience that the images are not produced from nothing but are endorsed by a successful and legitimate organization that was founded on facts. Logos is helpful in aiding the message of Blue Zones Project through the multiple logical appeals in Image One and Two. Many facts and tips are added in Image One which logically expose the audience to a couple ways to achieve the goals of Blue Zones Project. Blue Zones Project offers tips to help maintaining a healthier lifestyle such as eating on a smaller plate, eating nutrition packed foods, and having a healthy balance of those nutrients. These tips appeal to the realistic side of humans and spark a craving in the audience for knowledge. Through the use of logos in Image One, Blue Zones Project fulfills a portion of its mission simply by sharing some of their knowledge. In the Kolman 6 second image, logos relies heavily on the appearance of the couple. The man and woman look to be happy and in good shape which are both factually linked to exercise and daily activity. By accurately showing an older couple exercising that are in good physical and mental health, Blue Zones Project shows the viewer the positive outcomes of living a healthy lifestyle. Both images successfully display pathos. Pathos in the first image is mainly established through colors. The colors not only grab the attention, but the blue encourages them to feel at peace and trusting. Since the blue puts the viewer into a sense of peace they will be more open to accept the information and ideas that Blue Zones Project has to share. In addition, the green reminds the reader of plants and nature which reinforce the idea of a mainly plant based diets and the health benefits. In the second image, pathos is accomplished through the couple and expression and body language. The smiling couple and the wagging tail of the dog convey joy to the audience, in addition to the sunlight and yellow that is present. These feelings of joy and warmth that are created convey the feeling that a healthy lifestyle will create. Also, the motion of the couple and the dog inspires the audience to be active. Overall, pathos in the images glamorize the outcome of eating healthy, being active, social involvement and having a purpose. These rhetorical appeals successfully add to the message that Blue Zones Project hopes to get across through their pictures because they reinforce and validate the mission to spread knowledge and resources for a healthier lifestyle. Images are powerful tools in conveying information. Through rhetorical appeals such as kairos, ethos, logos, and pathos, an audience can be further engaged by an organization. Blue Zones Project hopes to transform the world into a healthier place by spreading knowledge and real solutions on diet and lifestyle problems through the help of experts. They allow the viewer to develop deeper connections to their mission through, an appeal to timeliness, appeals to ethics, Kolman 7 appeals to logic and appeals to emotion in their images. Many photos have been posted by Blue Zones Project, specifically however, Image One and image two successfully aid the health goals of the organization. Kolman 8 Works Cited Zones Healthways, Healthways Inc., www.healthways.com/bluezonesproject. Accessed 27 February 2017. www.pinterest.com/pin/13159023885259668/, Blue Zones Project, www.bluezonesproject.com. Accessed 27 February 2017. www.bluezonesproject.com, Blue Zones Project, www.bluezonesproject.com. Accessed 27 February 2017. Secrets Of Living Longer, Better Are All Around Blue Zones Project, Healthways Inc., www.bluezonesproject.com/. Accessed 27 February 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Sawchyn, Alysia. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41. E-text. Accessed 27 February 2017. McKee, Jessica, and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27. E-text. Accessed 27 February 2017. McKee, Jessica, McIntyre, Megan, and Lane, Emily. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32. E-text. Accessed 27 February 2017. McKee, Jessica, McIntyre, Megan, and Lee, Kendra Gayle. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. Accessed 27 February 2017.