Sutton 1 Brandon Sutton Professor Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 20 February 2017 Gun Control Gun control in America has been a widely debated subject amongst Americans. There are many strong opinions on either end of the spectrum. Some people favor gun control, while others vehemently are against the idea that gun control should be a concern. Many people have argued that anybody having the ability to own a gun is a dangerous move. One article states that the issue is the gun, but the person wielding (Younge 12). This, in fact, states that it is a social issue and not an issue on guns. The problem with gun violence is most of it, while the mass shootings are tragic, it is usually in lower-income communities that suffer, due to criminals in these communities. This article also states how it is so common for colored families to see their loved ones lost in gun violence. One article states how big cities have a huge gun problem, while another one questions the Second Amendment and the way people in America interpret it. So the question is, should there be more gun control in America, or are they controlled enough? Bogus, Carl T. Gun Control And Cities: Public Policy And  Government Law Review 1.2 (2008): 441-482. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This is an article about gun control in cities, and murders involving guns in the United States. It discusses the violent crime rates due to handguns in American cities. In fact, the article discusses how in handguns were used in 60% of all (Bogus 441-82). Sutton 2 That is a staggering statistic considering guns were used only in of these homicides (Bogus 441-82). The article points out that most guns in America are not actually handguns, only of guns in America are responsible for of the deaths caused by guns. It is possible that handguns in America are an endemic in American culture. The journal article also mentions the issues amongst the African-American community involving gun violence. The author of the article discovers that of the murderers in the United States are Black and of those killed by gun violence are also Black (Bogus 441-82). According to the article, socioeconomic situations in America also lead to more murders. Lack of education due to in poor neighborhoods cause people in these neighborhoods to resort to violence (Bogus 441-82). The law review journal, Albany Government Law Review, is from the Albany Law School in Albany, New York. It is a valuable source because it is published in the state capital of New York. The author of the article, Carl T. Bogus, is a Professor of Law at the Roger Williams University School of Law, so he has insight on law in regards to the article he published. Collier, Charles W. The Death Of Gun Control: An American  Inquiry 41.1 (2014): 102-131. Search Alumni Edition . Web. 20 Feb. 2017. This is an article from the academic journal Inquiry. It discusses multiple shootings, including the murder of Trayvon Martin, the Aurora movie theater massacre, and the Sandy Hook shooting. The weapon described in the Sandy Hook massacre is described as a semiautomatic rifle that is similar to weapons used by troops in (Collier 102-31). This weapon was viewed as a very powerful and dangerous weapon, used for warfare. The article also mentions a statistic regarding the staggering amount of weapons Americans own, in Sutton 3 regards to the world population. The articles states how the United States less than five percent of the population and nearly half of the a staggering statistic (Collier 102-31). The article mentions how due to the amount of firearms, it is almost predictable that there will be so many of these mass shootings. It also mentions how if Americans did not plan these tragic events to occur, the article mentions steps Americans could take to prevent such tragedies. These include state and federal laws requiring gun owners to take out liability and steep taxes on firearms and (Collier 102-31). The author mentions that these laws would more or less not go into effect, because certain governors emphasized that guns are simply not part of the problem of gun (Collier 102-31). The peer-reviewed Inquiry, is a law review at the University of Chicago, so it is a reliable source in regards to law. The author of the article, Charles W. Collier, is a Professor of Law and Philosophy at the University of Florida., and received a Law degree from Stanford University in California, so he is a valid source. Payne, Brian K., and Riedel Jr., Robert Gun Control Attitudes And The Criminal Justice Student: Do Differences  Student Journal 36.2 (2002): 314. Source . Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article gives 254 opinions on gun control from students. The people questioned were a mixture of graduate and undergraduate students. From the results, most people who oppose the gun control laws are criminal justice majors, people who own guns, people who have experience with guns, and residents in rural (Payne, Reidel 314). However there is always another side to the statistic. Not everyone agrees that there should be Sutton 4 less gun control. In fact, females, urban residents, non-criminal justice majors, and non-gun (Payne, Reidel 314) favored the idea of stricter gun control. This proves that this issue has multiple and equally important facets to it. Also, many criminal justice students are more inclined own guns than their counterparts, probably because they study criminal justice, and are more vigilant about criminals. This was taken at a Southern university, so it is probably a little more biased toward more conservative policies, considering the South usually leans towards the right in political stances. On a similar note, according to the article, the study found that the correlation of gun experience and gun ownerships with criminal justice majors is much greater than people of other majors (Payne, Reidel 314). This might be an incorrect statistic because it is just from a single university, so it might be inaccurate. This article is from a reliable source College Student Journal. The journal investigates college students and takes surveys from students attending these universities. Brian Payne, one of the authors of the article, is a PHD at the Old Dominion University in Norfolk, and is part of the Sociology and Criminal Justice Department there. Robert Reidel Jr. is a Psychology professor at Lynn University in Boca Raton, Florida. Reynolds, Glenn Harlan. Foreword: The Second Amendment As Ordinary Constitutional  Tennessee Law Review 81.3 (2014): 407-415. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 20 Feb. 2017 Rostron, Allen. Gun Rights and Improving Gun Control after District of Columbia v. & Clark Law Review 13.2 (2009): 383-418. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Sutton 5 This article discusses the controversial Supreme Court case of of Columbia v. Heller, talks about the final outcome, and discusses how it impacts other sects of the government. The article discusses how the Second Amendment of the Constitution is questioned and interpreted in various ways. Justice view on the case a solid presentation of textual arguments and historical evidence for interpreting the Second Amendment broadly to protect non-military use of (Rostron, 383-418). This states that there is evidence supporting a claim that common man should have the ability to own a gun if they wanted to own one. However, there are also limitations rule. Scalia states how any weapon considered and is prohibited under (Rostron, 383-418). So to every rule, there are always limitations. The article is from & Clark Law Review law journal. It is an accredited law review journal at Lewis & Clark Law School in Portland, Oregon. The author of the article, Allen Rostron, is an Associate professor of law at University of Missouri-Kansas City and went to Yale Law School, so his viewpoints on the matter have validity in regards to Constitutional topics. Vizzard, William J. The Current And Future State Of Gun Policy In The United  Journal Of Criminal Law and Criminology 104.4 (2015): 879-904. Academic Search Premier. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 This article, as its title states, discusses the current and future state of gun policy in America. It also lists various mass shootings, such as the Aurora, Colorado movie theater shooting, the Virginia Tech shooting, the Columbine shooting, and the Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings as examples of necessary reasons the article states to tighten up on gun control in America. It mentions how the Sandy Hook shooting caused few to place additional Sutton 6 restrictions on magazine capacity of semiautomatic (Vizzard 879-904). This lowers the amount of bullets that can be placed in these semi-automatic weapons, increasing the safety of these weapons marginally. It also mentions how laws over firearms have changed from the early 1900s to the present day. The article makes a crucial point about an assault weapons ban. In 2004, because Congress to renew the assault weapons the ban expired (Vizzard 879-904). The article also discusses the landmark, controversial of Columbia v. Heller Supreme Court case. The article also mentions a lesser-known case known as v. Chicago in which, similarly to the previous case, was noted as a of a long, committed, and well-funded effort in pursuit of these goals by those who view gun rights as (Vizzard 879-904). Basically, the government was funded in order to ensure that gun laws would remain in place, as they were viewed as a part of basic, integral American values by these lawmakers. This peer-reviewed article is from the of Criminal Law and Criminology from the Northwestern University School of Law in Chicago, Illinois. The author, William J. Vizzard, is a Criminology professor at California State University, Sacramento, so he is a credible author of law articles. Younge, Gary. Why The Gun-Control Movement  303.19 (2016): 12-15. Academic Search Premier . Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article discusses why gun control is more a socioeconomic issue and less a gun ownership issue. This implies that maybe the person that owns the gun is the problem and not all guns are bad. He also states that most people of color that die in these sorts of incidents were brought up in the worst of situations. The victims of these shootings do not have the easiest Sutton 7 childhoods and were born around impoverished and very high-crime areas. The author of the article points out how pursuit and promotion of the ideal victim has long been a staple of social-justice (Younge 412-15). In his opinion, people seek out the victim, and then stirs up media into a frenzy. Also, while people dislike guns, people cannot simply just get rid of them. It is nearly impossible to make that happen. This article gives statistics on how many men are killed per year by gun violence, and makes a point to state that many of them are of color (regarding to Hispanic or Black populations) which is a tragedy. It is a matter of living in these harsh environments that plays a role within the governmental system. Parents who have children in these situations are genuinely afraid. (Younge 412-15). This article was published from a column in the journal Nation. It was also in book Day in the Death of America. Younge also happens to be a regular columnist in the journal. The journal focuses on political commentary and opinion.