Robert Hall Hall 1 Professor Davis ENC 1102 2/25/2017 Mercy for Animals Against Factory Farming Most never really consider where their food comes from. They just pick up a pre-packaged, bloodless chicken breast from their local grocery chain and continue about their day. Mercy for Animals is looking to change that. The fact is that much of what we eat today comes from a process known as factory farming, but the ethics of the process are being directly challenged by Mercy for Animals. Their effectively employ a variety of rhetorical appeals in order to convince the public that factory farming should be eradicated. As awareness increases, factory farming has come under fire at an increasing rate. Far from the traditional farm setting one might imagine, with cows grazing on a wide-open plain of green grass, modern farms have animals compressed within a couple feet or less of each other and are sometimes restricted from any movement at all for the duration of their lives. To make matters worse, these farms are not only common but account for 78% of all cattle and 99.5% of all chicken raised in the United States (Zacharias). Mercy for Animals was established in 1999 as a non-profit with the goal of preventing cruelty to farm animals and the promotion of compassionate food choices. Their methods of action include conducting undercover investigations, corporate outreach, and legal advocacy, although much of their efforts are directed to public education and lobbying. are posted and shared over social media and celebrities have given their voice in support of the organization their group boasts impressive statistics as well, claiming 1 billion animals spared annually thanks to their efforts. However, with such a large infrastructure to dismantle, the organization is in a constant battle against commercial farming. Hall 2 A major concern often raised over factory farming is the compact area in which these farms keep their animals. In fact, of egg-laying hens spend their lives in battery cages each chicken may be given an amount of floor space equivalent to less than a sheet of letter-size (Farm Sanctuary). Mercy for Animals highlights this concern through the first image that depicts a pig in a cage that is beneath the seats of a commercial airplane. Above and below the image is text that reads: being trapped in an airplane seat your entire By comparing the feeling of being trapped in an airplane seat to being forced to live life in a cage, the creator is appealing to the ethics. Compact economy airliner seats are a discomfort that most people are familiar with and can relate to. By getting the audience to associate their own discomfort to that of the pig, the author humanizes the animal which allows for the audience to better empathize with it. The image is strengthened further through the choice to include an actual photograph of a pig caged in unsanitary conditions. This appeals directly to the sense of emotion. If the creator had not included the image of the caged pig, the main idea of the PSA would still be understood by the viewer but its inclusion creates a darker tone to the image as a whole and fuels the sense of discomfort. While the dark tone, shocking imaging, and human connection in the first image successfully convey the of the creator, a shortfall of the image is found in its lack of logical appeal. Cage sizes and living conditions are easily researched and would add significant credibility to the image. The purpose of the PSA is to increase awareness of factory farming so the inclusion of statistics like those from farm sanctuary would only strengthen their case. The Hall 3 large statistical imbalance may also impart a sense of urgency in the viewer, leading them to take action. The second image by Mercy for animals down on emotional appeal by depicting a cow being kicked by a worker with the tagline: Got Misery? Right from the beginning the creator parodies the milk industries famous ad campaign which immediately connects the viewer to the subject matter without any further examination of the image. This also imparts a perspective shift in the viewer because milk is often associated with youth and innocence in American culture (Fritz). Milk is usually seen as a harmless product as it does not require the slaughtering of animals, but by shattering this pre-conceived notion shared by many the creator forces the viewer to reconsider their beliefs about food production. On further inspection, the image contains an actual photograph depicting the abuse of an animal. Beneath this, the creator claims that a dairy farm was caught punching, beating, and stabbing cows. This is the main bulk of the ethos as the combination of disturbing imaging and text elicits a sense of anger and disgust from the viewer. This intent of the message is to also appeal to the ethics. However, the actions of a specific individual, however unjust, are not necessarily the norm of the organization. The image does not necessarily imply that the acts depicted are common-place. So without the inclusion of statistics, more examples, or necessary evidence, the viewer can make no logical assumptions about factory farming as a whole. Therefore, this aspect of the argument is unsubstantiated and falls apart. Hall 4 Overall the second image is effective in its purpose. While the image contains some logical fallacies, the shocking imaging and strong emotional pull entice the reader to investigate the cause more. In conclusion, the rhetorical appeals presented by Mercy for Animals in these images are effective implemented, if not fully substantiated. The inclusion of real photographs of animal abuse is disturbing and brings out a powerful emotional response from viewers. However, some may find the images too disturbing to view, and may miss the message of the images even if they agree with the overall goals of the organization. Moreover, although it may weaken their appeal to emotion, the creators could have included statistical data or research in order to better their argument and build credibility. Hall 5 Works Cited Farm  Farm Sanctuary. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.farmsanctuary.org/learn/factory-farming/chickens/>. Fritz, Bill. Milk in Movies: Why Do Characters Drink  YouTube. YouTube, 04 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iKDtmV5xSv0>. Mercy For Animals. N.p., 05 Jan. 2015. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.mercyforanimals.org/about>. Zacharias, Nil. Time to End Factory  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 19 Oct. 2011. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/nil-zacharias/its-time-to-end-factory- Hall 6 Image 1 https://s-media-cache- ak0.pinimg.com/originals/77/05/92/770592dad8a5a17e9dd6e9a1c27d509b.jpg Hall 7 Image 2 https://s-media-cache- ak0.pinimg.com/236x/f5/e9/19/f5e9198df8f987eb521c02e68bdaf230.jpg