Salvinien 1 Camille Salvinien Ms. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 21 February 2017 Rise of Cyberbullying and Related Mental Illnesses As technology progressed, it seemed inevitable that a younger generation was going to access it. Although positive outcomes came from the worldwide connection, it negatively impacted the morals of the average teenager. The pressure to keep up with an unrealistic image can be too much for some teenagers and in some cases lead to mental illnesses, from food disorder to self-harm. The Pew Research Center conducted a poll and discovered that 32% of adolescents have dealt with cyberbullying in the past (Lenhart, 2007). Bullying happen face to face between the corridor of a high school anymore, but rather hidden behind a brightly lit screen. As one-third of the teenage population is affected, and that number being on a constant rise, it is reasonable for parents, doctors, teachers and many more have become truly concerned. Knowing the major increase of cyberbullying, is the rise of mental illnesses due to the soar of social media amongst teenagers rather than the neoliberal society we live in today? Society had struggled to find its balance between our personal and outside world. Many teens have found confrontations in social media, while others have found comfort in the community it created. Hopkins, Mark. Just What Is Social Media,  Mashable. N.p., 18 Nov. 2008. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. This article does exactly what the title asks: it explains what Social Media is. It compares traditional media to the growth of this new interface such as Facebook, Twitter, ect. Firstly, the Salvinien 2 word media is dissected and then separated into two categories the old media and the new media. It then compares the marketing of both aspects especially in the case of social media, acknowledging that money at the epicenter anymore. The article is then wrapped up by talking about the morals of monetizing on this new media. Overall, this gives a clear and simple recap on what Social Media is as a very recent platform. The author, Mark Hopkins, does not have any Ph.D. or Bachelor in the field of media, but he has been in production content since the He considers himself to be a Project has had a blog for a couple of years and has written many published articles. Hopkins is not an expert but has a firsthand experience of what is social media and how to use it. As for Mashable, it is a multi-platform entertainment and media business. The online paper is dedicated to the digital culture. With over 45 million monthly visits, it can be considered highly recognized. Lenhart, Amanda.  Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech. N.p., 27 June 2007. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. by Lenhart, connects the polls conducted by the Pew Research Center into their meaning. They discuss how 32% of adolescents have been bullied online, and how 41% of those are girls aged 14 to 15 years old. Lenhart divided the subject of cyberbullying under multiple headers such as: gender rumor mills and do teens Multiple charts and statistics have been incorporated to support the facts cited in this article. They also have a brief overview of the lack of privacy in their own life due to social media. Overall, this website denotes the gender and race inequality that is faced towards cyberbullying but also notes that face-to-face bullying still remains dominant. The article was written by Amanda Lenhart who is a researcher for the Pew Research Center. Lenhart is a Georgetown University Graduate and holds a Masters in Communications, Salvinien 3 Culture and Technology. Whilst the Pew Research Center is a data collecting center and analyzer about public issues. Their primary funding comes from The Pew Charitable Trusts. One of the main focus of the PRC, is to remain impartial to any data collected and subject. This article was written in 2007, as the boom of social media began and as many researches began devouring this subject. Norton, Mariel. The Dangerous Impacts of Social Media on Mental  The Next Web. N.p., 27 Sept. 2014. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Mariel Norton started off by mentioning two famous cases where cyberbullying ended in the tragic suicides of two teenagers: Tallulah Wilson and Tim Piper. Both teens were being treated for depression, one began finding advice online on how to commit suicide while the other shared her self-harm. It goes on to mention, with the proof of these two stories, that cyberbullying is still on the rise. This is also due to a constant comparison we have with what others posting on social media. A study made by the University of Michigan mentions, that the more access to social media a person has the most likely he/she is to compared what is provided online to their personal life. Norton concludes her article by mentioning the only way to prevent and stop this trend is to properly learn how to use social media. Norton is a writer for a digital marketing agency and for the blog WeLoveDates. She has previously written blog posts for Huffington Post UK about social media. Although she is not a doctor, professor or has intensively study the field of health or social media, she is truly embedded in it as she has made career in it. Mariel Norton has a first-hand experience with social media and is qualified to talk about the surface. As for the website the article is published on, The Next Web, its goal is inventing and advancing tech Yet, it has also grown to a news outlet for what they call Generation T, as they try to inform through stories and Salvinien 4 Paddock, Catharine. Facebook Use Feeds Anxiety and Inadequacy Says Small  Medical News Today. MediLexicon International, 10 July 2012. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Catharine Paddock reflects on the study made by the Salford University Business School, a study by the University of Waterloo in Ontario, an article written by The Telegraph, as well as a study conducted by Dr. Cecilie Andraessen and her team. All these study have a common idea: that the use of social media is tightly related to anxiety and inadequacy. Whether Dr. Linda Blair who mentions that society has become addicted to social media, or The Telegraph article that mentions how 51% of the people have found that social media has had a negative impact on their life. This article particularly examines the case of Facebook and found that it creates a low self-esteem in the people using it constantly. Overall it explains the negative physical and psychological responses due to the social media platform. Catharine Paddock has been a news and web writer for over a decade. She has previously worked in psychotherapy and stress counselling. Paddock has earned a Ph.D. due to a research on psychosocial factors and has also a Bachelor of Science in Physics with Chemistry. Medical News Today has for motto to original, timely and authoritative information from respected, credible Owned by MediLexicon International Ltd who is leading in the healthcare publishing company. MNT is highly recognized for its quality as it is amongst the 360 most visited website of the United States. Schwarz, Susan W. Adolescent Mental Health in the United  National Center for Children in Poverty. Mailman School of Public Health Columbia University, June 2009. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 Written in the middle of 2009, this article explains the how and the why behind teen mental illnesses. It begins by stating that adolescence is the most vulnerable moment for a Salvinien 5 human being. This is the moment where the human brain develops to its final form, yet it happens at the same time as the body produces huge amount of hormones. The article continues by talking about basics facts, such as how is the third leading cause of death in adolescents and young Lastly, Schwarz gives out recommendation for the prevention and the care of mental illnesses. Although this article mention social media, it does give a clear background of how mental illnesses develop easily amongst teenagers. Susan Schwarz, after studying at Columbia University and Emory University, earned her Master in Public Health (MPH). She has written many articles published on different mediums, concerning mainly health and the youth. This makes her a truly qualified and knowledgeable in her field of study. The National Center for Children in Poverty was founded in the late by the MailMan School of Public Health at Columbia University. It is a interest research that values family, strength and healthy child development. They state, that this organization to uncover facts, identify trends, and analyze policy Whilst the Mailman School of Public Health at the Columbia University has for goal to be the of public health research, education, and community Overall, this article has been written by top researchers of the health field and gives an important background on mental illnesses amongst teenagers. Watts, Jay, Dr. Social Media Make Teenagers Self-harm, Neoliberalism  The Independent. Independent Print Ltd, 9 Dec. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. The article written by Dr. Watts affirms that social media is not to be blamed for the way our society functions today but rather blame the concepts of neoliberalism. Watts does agree on the rise of self-harming and mental illnesses, yet reassures the idea that social media rather becomes a place to with one find allies who will hear of the She uses data from the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children Salvinien 6 (NSPCC) and her personal research at the British Psychological Society. She believes that society has created this boxes for people to fit in, and what is deemed to be considered successful, yet if this not achieve the individual feel pushed out of his place in society. Dr. Jay Watts is a Chartered Clinical Psychologist and Psychotherapist after multiple Bachelors, Diploma and Masters in her chosen field. She is also part of the British Psychological Society whose goal is to provide research and create development in the field of psychology. Whereas one of the main goal of The Independent, a respected online newspaper in the United Kingdom that has been alive for a couple of decades, is to be bias-free and have no affiliations with any political parties. The publisher of the article in Independent Print Ltd, and holds both The Independent and The Independent on Sunday. Overall, this article tried to move the blame from social media to the society we live in right now, and uses the idea that social media has also helped out many feel reassured in themselves.