Cortez 1 Daniel Cortez ENC 1102 Professor Davis 24 February, 2017 eBay: An Open Market The internet has created an open space for everyone to sell, purchase, and communicate with one another. Online merchants though are weary of the market being controlled by (Internet Service Providers) with the removal of net neutrality, the idea that ISPs cannot throttle or hinder internet access in any way. Without net neutrality, eBay fears that it will limit their market and other retailers due to the constriction by ISPs. eBay is an online retailer that sells every commercial product across the globe but is associated by its buyers as an auction site used by people to sell unwanted items. Over the years they realized the importance of showing that they are retailer like no other and started an on their website to expand their options. They have posted their ads on magazines and other websites to show that this expansion; the two ads show that the site is more than an auction site, but each image does that in their own way. Both of the images refer to women and clothing brands or styles that they wear. The ads provide ethos, logos, pathos and kairos to back up their claims and inform the audience of their selection of merchandise. The retailer is the champion of the open online marketplace and has defended net neutrality for that reason. eBay wishes to keep the online marketplace open for everyone and anyone so that their customers can receive the products that they need. Cortez 2 An open marketplace is defined as trading situation in which anyone can be involved and prices are not (Cambridge Dictionary). eBay has been one of the main proponents for keeping the internet as open as possible. They created a website called Main because they feel strongly about this idea and on their goals list. On the website eBay lists as one of the top goals of the company. They show topics about the marketplace that may limit or violate a rights and provide their stance to protect the customer and other businesses. They also show where these topics affect people and specify how they will help them in their location. One of the problems eBay faces is that most people still see them as an auction store and to help this they changed their image so they can help preserve the open marketplace for them and others. To do this they have started creating ads and other campaigns to show that they are a true marketplace. The two pictures that I chose are trying to catch the eye of the woman who cares about her appearance and the brands associated with it. The first image shows a woman with a phone colored in the eBay brand colors. It reads Chic At A Low and tells the reader it is a good way to and note about vintage accessories. The text itself is bolded on the Chic and is also bright red when the rest of the text is grey. This is to emphasize that the price and value are the most important things eBay can provide to its customers. The woman is dressed in a era outfit with a corded phone and retro glasses. The cell phone and glasses are colored in eBay brand colors to show that is where the woman bought them. The glasses themselves provide ethos and give her the stereotype of being smart. This could imply to the reader that smart people shop at eBay and that if they were smart, they would shop there as well. The woman looks intrigued about what she is hearing over the phone. This would make the Cortez 3 audience wonder what she is hearing, using pathos. Her eyes are also in the same color as the glasses showing that she can now see that eBay offers everything she wants or needs. The audience for this photo are people looking at clothing that is unique and different than what the current fashion trend is. The era clothing notes that she is someone that does not follow the trends of today. The second image shows a woman with a different colored clothing. The pose shows all articles of clothing that she could wear including: shoes, leggings, a dress, a coat, and other accessories. This is important in showing that customers can purchase anything from eBay including all the variety of styles of clothing she is wearing. The pose also looks like she is in a running stance, which implies kairos. The audience can infer that she is running to get more clothing on eBay and that there are timed deals. The clothing colors also have the colors that are used in the eBay logo are also present in the clothing and accessories she bought. eBay has the names of several famous clothing brands in the bottom left which gives them ethos, showing that these established brands are confident enough to sell them items on their website. If they did not have these brands, then their marketplace would seem weak and customers would search elsewhere. The audience of this photo are looking for the hottest trends with well-known and established brands. Most would say that her style is different than most, and that she combines the brands listed below to achieve this. Both ads provided eBay an opportunity to present their new outlet to its consumers, but did so in different ways. The first picture focuses on logos and the second picture focused on ethos. The target audiences are also opposites in terms of style, but this allows eBay to attract both types of customers and truly show that they are the kings of the open market. Having the ability to service any customer for any item is the message they are conveying to the public. Cortez 4 Without net neutrality ads like this could be potentially blocked or could also hinder an internet access to the website to make purchases. Therefore, this shows that eBay fights for having an open market guarded by net neutrality. The ads relate back to this in their ideas of the open market and the versatility of the internet in providing the customer with anything they wish. If an open market was hindered, then one of the foundations of the internet would be lost. For example, ToyNews notes that toys on Amazon Marketplace has helped bolster its trade and ease the pressure of the for Gem Gifts. This means that all the retailers mentioned in the second photo would be included in a more open market. This makes goal behind these images closer to being achieved. eBay shows that is wants the world to be connected by the internet to allow knowledge, information, and items. The two ads add to marketplace and gives their customers even more options to purchase the things they love, opening the market for consumers. Retailers also gain more accesses to the open market by using eBay as a service to sell their product through. The internet should never be a space for the innovation to be halted or markets limited because of the ISPs believe they are providing service to those who are deemed important. Net neutrality helps to keep the market as open as possible for everyone and the idea of an open market is why eBay supports its use. Cortez 5 Work Cited The  EBay Main Street. EBay, 08 July 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. http://www.ebaymainstreet.com/issues Connected  EBay Inc News. EBay, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.ebayinc.com/our-company/connected-commerce/>. Cambridge English  Cambridge English Dictionary. Cambridge University, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <http://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/open- market>. Meinrath, S., & Pickard, V. (2008). Transcending Net Neutrality: Ten Steps Toward an Open Internet.Education Week Commentary,12(6), 1, 12-21. Retrieved from Roberts, Katie. The open market: eBay and  Business Analysis of the toy industry ToyNews. ToyNews, 21 Feb. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.toynews- online.biz/business-analysis/read/the-open-market-ebay-and-amazon/030528>. Cortez 6 AD CAMPAIGNS - Bailey  AD CAMPAIGNS - Bailey Friske. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://cargocollective.com/baileyfriske/AD-CAMPAIGNS>. Photo 1 31, 2010 Sarah Shearman August, How Long? 1-1 Minutes, February 20 2017 David Golding, and February 17 2017 Emily Tan. EBay redoubles marketing efforts for fashion  Campaign: marketing, advertising and media news & analysis. Campaign, 31 Aug. 2010. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.< http://www.campaignlive.co.uk/article/1024923/ebay- redoubles-marketing-efforts-fashion-offering> Photo 2 Cortez 7