Patihk 1 Daniel Patihk Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 27 February 2017 A Thousand Words About These Pictures. The topic of gun control has become very prominent in modern American society, where recent events of mass murder, such as the shooting of a gay nightclub in Orlando in June 2016, have fuelled the debate against gun rights and gun ownership. The States United to Prevent Gun Violence is an organization that formed to help fight against second amendment rights and prevent gun violence. Part of the campaign includes releasing many images that support the need for gun control in America. Analysing two of their images under the rhetorical appeals of pathos, logos, kairos and ethos shows their effectiveness in conveying the mission and goals. The States United to Prevent Gun Violence is an organization that developed to advocate for gun control in America. According to their website, they identify as grassroots network of 32 state affiliates working to make our communities and families States United to Prevent Gun Their mission is to make all Americans safer by increasing gun laws and having background checks for all gun purchases. Some of their goals include keeping guns out of the hands of domestic abusers, felons and terrorists, banning military-style weapons to prevent mass killings, and to provide adequate education about the risks of gun violence in communities States United to Prevent Gun In order to achieve these goals, the organization has many different techniques, one being to release various images that each convey a particular message that supports the mission of the SUPGV. Therefore, the following is an analysis of two of these images released by the stakeholder. Patihk 2 The SUPGV uses pathos in the image below to appeal to the audience. Pathos is the appeal to emotion and is used draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Lee, McKee and McIntyre 37). In relation to image one, it depicts a woman being struck by a man both with and without a gun, and the words in the image suggesting that the victim dies at the hands of her armed abuser. This can cause the audience to feel a variety of emotions, depending on some personal factors. For an average person, the idea of a woman being abused to death can cause sadness and remorse for all who have died at the hands of an armed domestic abuser. However, for someone who can identify with a similar situation, it may invoke fear of meeting a similar fate. The image appeals to the emotion of the reader and hence uses pathos. The image created and released by the SUPGV uses logos to appeal to the audience as well. Logos is the appeal to logic, and is defined as the and clarity of the argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Lane, McKee and McIntyre 32). It also allows the reader to understand a different position of an issue. The image claims that gun can mean the difference between an argument and a (image 1) followed up by a statistic presence of a gun in a domestic violence situation increases the risk of homicide for women (image 1). The claim provides a different way to think about guns, holding it as the fine line between life and death in an abusive relationship, with the statistic simply supporting the claim. Hence, logos is used in the image. Image 1 Patihk 3 Kairos is another appeal that the SUPGV implemented in image one. Karios is the appeal to timeliness and is used to identify right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman and Sawchyn 41). The image speaks about death, which is generally a serious matter worldwide. Therefore, simply having this as part of the image sets an urgent tone and can therefore be linked to kairos. In the case where a reader becomes interested, they would act quickly to reduce the chance of another woman dying becasue of an armed domestic abuser. The SUPGV also used a little bit of ethos in the first image. Ethos is known as a of persuasion in which the rhetor attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (McKee and McIntyre 27). The only element of this image that can be linked to ethos is the fact that it is supported by the States United to Prevent Gun Violence and New Yorkers Against Gun Violence, two prominent organizations involved in gun control. Their seals can be seen at the bottom of the image and therefore adds credibility to the picture, meaning that the image uses ethos. The second image released by the SUPGV also uses ethos, and is very similar to the first image in terms of its ethos analysis. Just like image one, this picture is supported by the States United to Prevent Gun Violence, which as mentioned previously is a large independent organization that deals with the topic of gun control. Therefore, the fact that this organization supports the image, and even produced the image adds some Image 2 Patihk 4 credibility to the picture. This is how ethos is used here. Pathos is also heavily implemented in the image by the SUPGV. Pathos is the appeal to emotions. This image depicts a target of a man, woman and child, interpreted as a family, with the bullseye on the head, and at the top, right hand corner are the words leave bigger holes than you (image 2). This establishes a serious mood among the audience and can cause fear and sadness for those who live at high risk to gun violence and those who have lost loved ones to gun violence. The design of the target on the baby can also invoke fear in parents for their children. Therefore, this is how pathos is used in this image. The SUPGV also uses logos in this image. Logos, once again, is the appeal to logic and although this image does not have many words, the phrase leave bigger holes than you (image 2) coupled with the image is powerful enough to provide a different way for the reader to view this topic. The holes that the image is speaking about are figurative holes, specifically, the hole caused by the loss of a family member. Many people can relate to this pain, however, it is a different way of thinking of a bullet hole. Therefore, the image does appeal to logos. Both of these images released by the States United to Prevent Gun Violence effectively support the mission and goals of the organization by use of the previously mentioned rhetorical appeals. Both images had a similar use for pathos, making it the most prominent appeal and using it to cause fear for people who identified with similar situations to those depicted in the images. This fear can spark motivation among viewers to act against armed domestic violence in image case, and general gun violence in image case, and perhaps join the SUPGV to do so. This therefore supports the goals to end domestic violence and make communities safer, thus making this an effective appeal in both images. Logos is used in both images as well to effectively support the mission. Patihk 5 The first image establishes guns as the line between life and death in a domestic abuse situation, thus creating a reason for the audience to act for keeping guns out of the hands of domestic abusers. This directly relates to one of the goals of the SUPGV. The second image also effectively related to the mission statement by establishing guns as leaving the holes of murdered family members in lives. By extension, this relays yet another reason why gun violence needs to end by focusing on the families of victims, rather than the actual victims. Ethos had a small role in both images, but validating the information present in images is important as it adds some credibility, causing the audience to believe what they are reading, thus creating more impact by the information that supports the goals. Therefore, this is effective as well. Finally, kairos was only present in image 1, but by adding urgency to the information presented will cause more of a prompt response from the audience to act quickly in support of the SUPGV. Thus, the kairos is effective in the image as well. Generally, the appeals worked with the images to effectively get readers to join the same side as the SUPGV, while also representing some of the key issues that the stakeholder focuses on, such as domestic violence. This together helps the SUPGV to achieve their overall mission of keeping communities safer through gun control, and also achieving certain goals such as stripping weapons form the hands of domestic abusers. In summation, the States United to Prevent Gun Violence releases many images to support their side in the debate about gun control. The purpose of these images is to attract people to the side supported by this organization. Two of the images released were analysed based on the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos and kairos and were found to be an effective way of supporting and projecting the views and mission of the SUPGV. Patihk 6 Works Cited States United to Prevent Gun States United to Prevent Gun Violence. www.ceasefireusa.org/about. Accessed 30 January 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Sawchyn, Alysia. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. XanEdu, 2016. 41. New trajectory.com, States United to Prevent Gun Violence, 15 June 2015, http://newtrajectory.blogspot.com/2015/06/oregon-is-taking-decisive-step-in.html. Accessed 26 February 2017. Coloribus.com, States United to Prevent Gun Violence, May 2013, https://www.coloribus.com/adsarchive/prints/states-united-to-prevent-gun-violence- guns-leave-bigger-holes-than-you-think-17169855/. Accessed 26 February 2017. McKee, Jessica, and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. XanEdu, 2016. 27. McKee, Jessica, McIntyre, Megan, and Lane, Emily. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. XanEdu, 2016. 32. McKee, Jessica, McIntyre, Megan, and Lee, Kendra Gayle. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. XanEdu, 2016. 37.