Hnin 1 Myat Noe Hnin Dori Davis ENC 1102 048 12 March 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric of FBI Today technology is influenced along with internet all over the world. Ever since the advancement of the internet, most people have reduced the protection of their personal data. Some of people who do not care about their personal data are threatening other private information. For this paper, FBI stands for Federal Bureau of Investigation will be used as the stakeholder. FBI is one of the biggest government organizations which protects national security and privacy safety concerns to the citizens and their communities, places of business and most of all, their private information. However, they have one option, an option that infiltrate other information whom they do not trust and try to help them out by identifying the suspect. They are helping the country by revealing the information by hacking them back so if citizens ignore that hackers, they would have the advantage and try to attack other people. However, it is FBI really protecting personal information or using personal information for their By looking at FBI cases, most of them always include famous cases and criminals, counterterrorism and civil rights. Every time they have done is through infiltrate personal information to protect their people (Missions & Priorities). There are two images to analyze for expressing FBI goal more clearly. Both of those images are coming from official FBI programs called Biometric Center of Excellence (BCOE) and Safe Online Surfing (FBI-SOS) and they are related with FBI internet privacy system to prevent from hackers. The goal of first image is to prove that FBI is creating a program through internet privacy Hnin 2 to protect people. The program is called Biometric Center of Excellence and it is accessed through modalities such as Facial Recognition, Palm Print, Iris Scan, Voice Recognition, Fingerprint, DNA, and Emerging Biometrics. BCOE program needs to take people identity for using criminal investigations and enhancing national security. The goal of second image is The FBI Safe Online Surfing program which is designed to educate about the dangers of internet privacy especially for the children in grade 3 to 8. That program emphasizes the important of cyber safety topics such as safe guarding of personal information, smart surfing habits and password security. Both image focuses on one main audience and it is the people. The first image (FBI) is created by U.S Government. It says that FBI has the right to access personal information through their biogenetic profiles. By looking at this image we can know the goal of this image because the summary of BCOE is included in the picture. This image is related to ethos since it was credited by BCOE/FBI.GOV and it can be considered credible. Looking at the picture, we see small seven modalities that shows how to identify people identity through technologies. Considering what FBI is trying to do, it makes most of the people who know about that program are uncomfortable, terrified, and even furious. These emotions are possible for audience because they feel like FBI takes their identities easily and can use whatever they want without knowing where they use. This is related to pathos because it can give the audience many emotions. FBI is trying to make a program which is making the possibility for them to access private information through their bio gene. This is also one of their ways of protecting people from terrorism and to uncover the suspected victim through this program. This is also related to logos because this is part of the ways of fights against terrorism. In this picture, there has no Kairos because it is one of the future envisions that FBI is currently trying to create. Hnin 3 Therefore, it has not been created yet so Kairos be found in this image and there has only some information and icons which show how to process for the future. By looking at overview of the second image, we can see clearly it is program for children which involved cartoon characters and it does not look like that program is from FBI official website. But it is considered ethos, because in the bottom corner of the picture it shows that this program is making by the FBI organization and the image contains a FBI cyber logos so it can be considered credible and trusted information. For the pathos, the image has children friendly images so it is made suitable for them and children can find it easy to use since it is made in different sessions and children will want to use them as the images are cartoon friendly. Moreover, they used the program background with brown color which look like treasure maps and they make children are searching the treasure from several islands. Therefore, it can be considered related to pathos. For the logos, the FBI created this website not only to educate parents but also it is made for the children to learn about internet privacy. They can also learn how the internet privacy is important to them by using this program. In addition, in this picture, there have different sessions for children to learn about internet privacy. In the first left corner session, there have a monkey and the forest island but in the opposite of right corner session, there have a penguin and the ice island. Also, second right corner, there have a bird and nest and at the same time, in the second left corner, there have a robot and a lava island. These are divided by different grades with different sections. Not only children can learn themselves but also FBI make a session for the teachers to use their program as internet privacy education in their school. So that both children and teachers are becoming getting more knowledge about internet privacy and they can avoid from dangerous situation. Because if these information, this image can also consider as logos. This image has no Hnin 4 information about the time that it was created so it is impossible to find the information about how it is related to Kairos. To conclude, both images mainly targets on the safety of internet privacy and they are analyzed with four rhetorical analysis called Ethos, Pathos, Logos and Kairos. When comparing, the first image explains about taking the suspected private information and investigating for information to protect people. The second image is about education people including parents and children so that they will know better about how the privacy is important to their lives and they believe that it will further decrease the change of the theft of internet privacy in the future. Hnin 5 First Image Second Image (https://www.fbi.gov/investigate/cyber ) Hnin 6 Work Cited the Biometric Center of Biometric Center of Excellence. N.p. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 What we Investigate. N.p. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Halpern, M. the FBI: Expectations of Privacy: Balancing Liberty, Security, and Public FBI Audio. April 7, 2016, Web. 26 Feb 2017. Hoven, V. and Information The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University, 2016, https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/it-privacy/ . Accessed 26 Feb 2017. & FBI about. N.p. Web. 26 Feb 2017.