Viramontes 1 Zira Viramontes Harley Campbell ENC 1102.097 2/28/17 Project 2: Intermediate Draft Nowadays it seems like the world is only in black and white, you are either right or wrong, there is no gray area to fall into. This can be said for the topic of euthanasia, or assisted suicide where people are either for euthanasia or against it. Take into consideration, the National Right to Life Committee(NRLC). The National Right to Life Committee is pro life organization and are against euthanasia. They are a nonprofit organization trying to pass an amendment to ban abortions. The advertisements used by the NRLC try to invoke a sense of guilt as well as a call to action as both abortion and euthanasia are urgent matters. The two images for the NRLC both include a baby or fetus. This is to try to get a sense of sympathy or affection from the audience. The images want you to see that even a fetus has life and has meaning. In one image it tries to invoke a sense of guilt if you do not act as the NRLC wants you to. The images want you to change your views on abortion if you are in opposition or undecided. In the first image the NRLC primarily utilizes ethos and pathos, while the second image has strong kairos, pathos and ethos. In this first advertisement, it displays a simple picture of a feuts in front of a blue and white background. Appealing to pathos, the little fetus seems to be floating in the blue background that looks similar to water. This makes the fetus appear small, harmless and defenseless. The message in the image, We see a potential life. We see a life with , is supposed to make the audience evaluate what they think a fetus is. Is it a just a Viramontes 2 potential life or is the fetus truly a life with potential. Maybe somebody never thought of a fetus that way and they would feel enlightened and even a little guilty for not considering a fetus a human life. The way that this image displays ethos is by displaying their logo. The logo is printed on the bottom of the advertisement, as well as their website. This establishes credibility as some people might recognize the logo. Others might even visit the website to see what the NRLC is all about. By researching and becoming informed of the NRLC, people will begin trust the organization and ideally support the views and protests. Unfortunately, there is not a strong element of logos in the first image. There are no statistics or facts about abortions, fetuses or the like. A statistic like twenty-one percent of all pregnancies in the U.S. end in abortion (not including natural  would set a mental image in the audience brain so they can realize that abortion is very serious and not as uncommon as one might think(Abortions in America). Again, this image does not have a sense of kairos, or a great sense of urgency. If abortion was truly a serious matter to the NRLC, they would want you to act now. However this is not evident in this advertisement. In terms of logical fallacies, this image has the message on the advertisement oversimplifies the argument by reducing it to only two sides or choices. The fetus is either a potential life or a life with potential, and if the audience thinks opposite of the NRLC, then this image is underlying that you are wrong. All in all, the first goal is to make the audience reevaluate what he or she considers a fetus to be while invoking a sense of guilt if he or she thought opposite of the NRLC. The second image is not as simple as the first. From a pathos standpoint, the first thing that should be made aware of are the faces across the top of the image. Faces of the old and young give off a feeling of sympathy or compassion, as these are the types of people that need others to take care of them. Another emotional aspect of the advertisement is the message will Viramontes 3 you be a voice for the . By asking this question the NRLC gives the reader a sense of responsibility and again guilt, if they have been neglecting the voiceless. In terms of ethos there is an abundant amount. Like the first image, this one has the logo and website. However the NRLC also published their social media outlets, as well as the logos of two other organizations that are in support of the National Right to Life Educational Trust Fund. By putting out their social media outlets, people can follow the NRLC and keep up with daily information. The two additional organizations suggest to the reader that this is an important topic and many groups support the educational trust fund and so should the reader. Like the first image, the second image also has very little use of logos. However it does mention the National Right to Life Educational Trust Fund, which is something the audience might not of heard of but might like to support. Unfortunately, there are no numbers or statistics on what this trust fund is or does exactly. The National Right to Life Committee should include that the total revenue for the educational trust fund for the year 2015 was $1,453,262(National Right to Life Educational Trust Fund). This may not seem like a huge amount of money for a nonprofit organization, so people might want to help and donate when finding out the revenue. Another statistic that could help in favor or the NRLC is that in the U.S., Oregon, Washington, and Montana have legalized the practice of physician assisted suicide, and in 2013, Vermont declared that suicide with prescribed medications was a legal Surprising Physicians..). Euthanasia is becoming legalized and normalized here in the United States. Kairos is prominent in this advertisement. The bold and capitalized words LIFE AT , gives a sense of danger and urgency to the audience. If the reader does not act now, someone could die, whether a fetus from abortion or an adult from euthanasia. The image also invites the audience to email an  to learn more about their life saving . Viramontes 4 To reiterate, the two images provided by the National Right to Life Committee primarily wants to invoke a sense of guilt and sympathy. The images want you to see that even a fetus has life and has meaning. The National Right to Life Committee wants the audience to change their views on abortion if they are in opposition or undecided. By doing this it might seem to the audience that the NRLC is suggesting that it is their way or the highway. Although that might not be the best way to persuade the public, it will at least convince the some of the audience to reevaluate what his or her views are on such topics like abortion and euthanasia. Just by simple questioning or urgency the images do a job well done at advertising the National Right to Life views and goals. Works Cited: Abortions In America . Operation Rescue . N.p., 19 Sept . 2016 . Web . 02 Mar . 2017 Rating for National Right to Life Educational Trust Fund . Charity Navigator . N.p., n.d . Web . 02 Mar . 2017 . Wpadmin  . 25 Surprising Physician Assisted Suicide Statistics . HRFnd . N.p., 03 Apr . 2015 . Web . 02 Mar . 2017 . Viramontes 5