Lillia1 Matthew Lillia Project 2 Final Draft February 26, 2017 Dorinda Davis Moms Demand Action One of the youngest but most influential anti-gun organizations in the country is Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, or the MDA. The main purpose is to stop gun violence and teach kids how gun sense and how to stay safe around guns. The MDA was created by Shannon Watts who created the organization after the Sandy Hook elementary shooting (momsdemandaction.org). The organization has fought for much stricter gun laws and restrictions on gun owners and gun manufacturers. The MDA have lobbied in washington for background checks, stricter criminal gun penalties, and being all assault rifles. The MDA has come out with many different advertisements trying urge women especially moms to stand up and fight against the NRA. This essay is talking about two images used by the MDA to show the NRA in a bad light and clearly show which side is the side and which side is the side. Both images are urging people, specifically women, to stand up to Gun Violence; both images use rhetoric appeals to make their audience feel that they need to stand up now against the NRA. Both of the images try to use ethos to get their message across to their audience. Both these images are trying to reach out to women specifically The MDA is relying on women who think that the NRA and that side of the argument are wrong and that the MDA is fighting for the right cause. The first image has a women in boxing gloves and the caption reads: Lillia2 to fight the good fight and end gun The women in the boxing gloves is meant to urge women to stand up and fight against the NRA and gun manufacturers. There is also a lot of red throughout the image which is an aggressive color which again is trying to get women to fight back. The second image has a machine gun in the background and the caption reads: against democracy intimidation to stop This image is trying to paint the the MDA as the underdog against the NRA. The image has a massive machine gun flag hanging over some much smaller people below. That is painting the NRA as this big bad organization intimidating the people below. Both images are trying to convince women that they need all the help they can get against the big horrible NRA and that everyone needs to fight if they are going to win this battle, just like the women in the red boxing gloves in the first image. The MDA also uses a lot of pathos in their advertisements. Emotion is one of the biggest driving forces in their messages especially to women, it is no different for these two advertisements. The women boxing in the first image is really trying to motivate women to stand up and fight against the pro gun movement. Her boxing gloves are red which is an aggressive color which is showing the NRA that the CSGV is capable of fighting back. The second image also uses a lot of red and is urging women not to get bullied by the NRA. Again the big flag represents the NRA and supposed to make the audience angry and motivated to stand up and make a difference. Women in the MDA and other anti-gun organizations have dealt with a lot of opposition from the other side. In an article on CSGV.org Shannon Watts, the crater of the MDA talks about the opposition she has felt from the pro gun supporters. She said that one angry gun supporter told her this, personally feel you and your kind should lose your citizenship and be removed from this He also said, I sincerely hope Lillia3 that you and your family soon meet with a horrible and painful demise You will be hearing from me again, on the That is the type of aggressive intimidation the second image is talking about. This is the type of behavior both images are urging women to stand up and fight against. The advertisements use ethos to motivate women and get them to rally behind their side and fight against the NRA. Another rhetorical appeal the MDA uses to get their point across to their audience is using logos. Both images again try to paint the NRA has a horrible super organization that needs to be taken down. In the first image part of the caption reads: to fight the good This is trying to show women that there side is the logical is side if you stand up with the MDA you are fighting the good fight and for the logical side. For the second image it is again painting a bad image of pro-gun supporters and trying to show their audience that the NRA is horrible organization and that the logical choice is the MDA. The MDA uses advertisements like these and other ways to make the NRA look bad. The MDA along with many other anti- gun organizations has publicly criticized the NRA and has recently labeled them as a terrorist organization. An article called the Truth About Guns said the lead of New York Daily aptly named columnist Linda Stasi, The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence recently labeled the NRA a terrorist Farago). Organizations like the Brady Campaign work with the MDA and are trying to rally everyone behind pro gun law movement, and advertisements like the two used in this essay are ways for the MDA to rally support away from the NRA. The fourth and final rhetorical appeal the MDA uses is kairos. Timeliness is one of the biggest points of both of these advertisements, are urging women to stand up and to stand up Lillia4 now. The MDA is selling that the pro-gun supporters have bullied them for long enough and it is time for the women to take a stand against gun violence. In the first image at the bottom the caption reads action to end gun That is showing women that action needs to be taken now, that they can not sit back any longer and that action needs to happen now. The massive flag in the second image is again talking about how big the NRA is and if women do not stand up now the NRS will become to big to ever be defeated. The New York Times wrote an article about the MDA and other pro gun law organizations and their fight to stand up against the NRA. It talks about how the MDA is urging supporters to stand up now and demand legislation change (The Editorial Board). The MDA wants people to take action now and stop the hold that the NRA has on Congress. They use Kairos in these images to make women understand that now is the time to stand up and fight back before it is too late. The MDA used all four of the rhetorical appeals in there two advertisements to make women back the MDA in their fight for stricter gun laws. They tried to display the NRA has a horrible supper organization that has caused to many problems in America. They tried to scare and motivate women into fighting back. Public claims and campaigns have also contributed in the fight against the NRA. The advertisements did a good job of incorporating all the rhetoric appeals into their images and clearly getting their point across to their audience. Lillia5 Works Cited Board, The Editorial. Standing Up to the  New York Times . The New York Times, 16 Jan. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Farago, Robert. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence: The NRA Is A Terrorist  Truth About Guns . N.p., 25 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in  Demand Action for Gun Sense In America . N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. New Moms Leader Brings out the Misogyny in Pro-Gun  to Stop Gun Violence . N.p., 15 Sept. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/2d/e0/4f/2de04fff07c7937804b1a5295c42f30c.jpg Lillia6 https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/65/d3/82/65d382396f58f47a78d6c80daf2c8930.jpg