Rodriguez 1 Elle Rodriguez Professor Davis ENC 1102 2/25/17 The Human Rights Campaign For the past three and a half decades, the LGBTQ community has been experiencing an expansion of rights. From the repeal of Ask Tell to the Supreme Court ruling in 2015 that made same-sex marriage legal in all fifty states, it is undeniable that LGBTQ rights have had an unprecedented amount of growth in support from our government officials and the average citizen in recent years. One organization that advocates passionately for the expansion of rights is the Human Rights Campaign (HRC). HRC was founded in 1980 and to this day advocates for LGBTQ equality in the United States and abroad. As largest LGBTQ civil rights organization, the Human Rights goal is to advance the rights of the LGBTQ community so that they have the same rights as every other American. To illustrate the problems that the queer community experiences, HRC includes images on their website and social media accounts to help the average person better comprehend the struggles that individuals in that community face. The first picture that was produced by HRC is an illustration of a pie chart and a statistic that addresses how many LGBTQ youth live in a community that accepts them. The goal of this image is to make the audience understand the levels of acceptance and rejection among the communities of LGBTQ youth. This goal is achieved through the elaborate use of logos in the form of statistics and ethos through the use of the company logo. The second picture is an advertisement with Betsy DeVos, who is the current Rodriguez 2 Education Secretary under the Trump administration, with a statement explaining that she supports anti-LGBTQ groups. The goal for the second illustration is to persuade the audience that Betsy DeVos does not support the LGBTQ community but encourages conversion therapy. This is accomplished by using elements of pathos and ethos. Both pictures are very simple, yet just like the Human Rights Campaign, they advocate for LGBTQ equality by informing the public. The first image is a very powerful illustration of a pie chart that states 42 percent of LGBT youth live in a community that accept them, while the other 58 percent feel that their community is accepting of LGBTQ individuals. The goal of this picture is clearly to help the audience understand the percentage of LGBTQ children and teenagers who do not feel accepted by their community compared to the children and teenagers that are. The intended audience of this image would be parents of LGBTQ children, LGBTQ adults, and heterosexual individuals who might not be familiar with the topic. The goal of this image is achieved through the elaborate use of logos and pathos. Both rhetorical appeals contribute to the goal of assisting the audience to understand the percentage of LGBTQ youth who are not accepted by their communities. The use of logos in this illustration comes in the form of a pie chart and a statistic. The pie chart is just a visual aid for the core message, the statistic about LGBTQ youth that are not accepted. While this statistic conveys logos, the HRC company logo conveys ethos. Ethos factors into this image because the company logo is very well known and it is included in the image. The Human Rights Campaign is a very well established company and has gained a very good reputation within the last decades. This makes it a trustworthy organization. So, by including their logo in the image, HRC in a way gives their stamp of approval. The usage of this rhetorical appeals in this image help it convey its message to its audience that LGBTQ kids are Rodriguez 3 not as accepted as cisgender, heterosexual youth. This ties in with the overall goal of HRC because both aim to advance the rights of the LGBTQ community through advocacy. This image may be very simple, but plenty of thought and strategy went into creating it. The second advertisement includes a black and white picture of the current Secretary of education, Betsy DeVos. Above her, there is text that says Make Us with the word imitating the American flag. As for the rest of the image, it includes the HRC logo and a statement saying that Betsy DeVos supports anti-LGBTQ groups that advocate for the use of conversion therapy. All the elements of this image come together to achieve the goal to persuade the audience that Betsy DeVos is a hateful person who supports anti-LGBTQ groups that endorse harm gay conversion This goal is achieved through the intricate use of pathos and ethos in most elements of the image. The most powerful use of pathos in this visual is the black and white picture of Betsy DeVos. This part is very powerful because the LGBTQ community is often represented by a rainbow flag, which is a sign of pride. So, keeping that in mind, having the picture be in black and white makes the audience feel disconnected or unproud of Betsy DeVos. The other element of the illustration that conveys pathos would be the red coloring of certain words. For example, since the word is in red lettering, it is using pathos to make the audience to interpret this fact as a negative one. Considering all the ways that this image conveys pathos, it generally makes the audience feel negative emotions towards the Secretary of Education. As for the use ethos, including Donald name in the image severely diminishes the credibility of Betsy DeVos. This is because of the controversial nature of Donald Trump. The use of his name in an advertisement that is intended for an LGBTQ audience only has the purpose of turning off the audience by mentioning an individual who so many people despise. While HRC knows how to get its message across to its audience effectively, this Rodriguez 4 advertisement has a logical fallacy. The logical fallacy in this image that it leads its audience to believe that Betsy DeVos does not support LGBTQ equality and instead supports organizations that are homophobic or transphobic. Since there is no evidence that she is transphobic or homophobic, this assumption is misleading. The Human Rights Campaign is on the front lines of the battle towards LGBTQ equality. It advocates furiously for queer rights by educating the public, acknowledging the accomplishments of queer individuals, and by taking political action. HRC uses these two images because they send powerful messages about the struggles that queer youth experience. Both pictures utilize rhetorical appeals to capture the attention and educate them. Both images strive to educate and make the audience understand that LGBTQ youth face obstacles daily. These two images and HRC share one common goal. The goal to advance LGBTQ equality in the United States through advocacy. HRC will continue to advocate for queer rights in the future, but it is up to every individual to treat queer youth the way that they would treat their dearest friend. This is not an easy thing to accomplish. But through the advocacy of HRC and the collective action of passionate individuals, LGBTQ equality is achievable. Rodriguez 5 Statistic on LGBTQ youth created by HRC. Digital image. Www.hrc.org. Human Rights Campaign, 16 Dec. 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Advertisement created by HRC against Betsy DeVos. Digital image. Www.facebook.com. Human Rights Campaign, 17 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017 Rodriguez 6 Works Cited Dashow , Jordan . Racial and Religious Profiling Act Introduced in Human Rights Campaign. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Human Rights Campaign. for LGBTQ Human Rights Campaign. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Www.facebook.com. Human Rights Campain, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.