Ryan Meaney Professor Dori Davis English 102 22 February 2017 The NRA Mission The NRA promotes an idea that anyone from any demographic can own guns indiscriminately without restriction or unnecessary regulation. The NRA promotes this ideal in many ways whether it be through specific media outlets such as browser images and commercials or a wide variety of other credible sources. The primary objective takes the form of images presented on the NRA website. These select images are prime examples of the mission to promote safe and informative information by establishing ethos, pathos and logos in their own respective ways. The use of visual representation presented is an important trademark of the mindset of the NRA and the strong emphasis on its primary goals that it promotes. Although these images have their distinct differences the ideas behind them are similar. Starting off, the first image is an attempt to provoke a response from the beholder by proclaiming that the NRA strenuously believes that Will Speak for The NRA is a highly influential organization both in the political sphere and the civilian sector. According to the Washington Post, there are around 73 million to 81 million adult gun owners in America. This vast influence, represented by the image shown, emits the mission to speak for those who believe in open gun rights, and by the specific portrayal, for the people. The image uses ethos, pathos, and logos respectively to push forward the beliefs of little to no gun regulations, as well as the idea that weapons should be sold to the public with minimal government interference. The first visual represents the NRA statue through Ethos or a by the picture identifying the NRA as a body that will not speak for the elites, but for the common American. This is an essential marketing tool for the NRA campaign because it instills a sense of camaraderie around gun control. This idea of unity, as it pertains to gun control, can go a long way especially due to the polarizing nature of the topic. An vs. mindset helps boost morale and can attract more people to identify with the cause increasing the backing of the mission. The first image also uses pathos to establish an emotional relationship with its audience by the image exclaiming to the audience to and The image pulls on emotions with this simple, but effective technique and the message will speak for The NRA labels the media as an entity that only speaks for the elite and overly influential further backing the camaraderie associated with the NRA. This image also establishes logic and reason by identifying with logos. The first image exudes an aura of logic and reason by the statement will speak for Without the support of the people, the NRA has very little influence on gun laws and regulation. This is important to the goals of the NRA because if the people identify with the NRA as a group made of the people, for the people, the appeal in almost every aspect will increase. For further information for the allegiance one look any further than the NRA mission statement itself. The mission statement states protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, especially with reference to the inalienable right of the individual American citizen guaranteed by such Constitution to acquire possess, collect, exhibit, transport, carry, transfer ownership of, and enjoy the right to use This mission statement speaks dividends for the mindset of the NRA. In addition, the second image is also a prime example of the mission in culture. The second image, much akin to the first, uses ethos, pathos, and logos respectively to push the resolve forward to the general population. The second image uses ethos to connect with the audience on an emotional level by using an image of a minuteman. The minuteman is an incredibly symbolic and essential part of American history. The minutemen dated back to the American Revolution; they were a band of colonists that formed a well- regulated militia. These patriots fought back the British soldiers who represented a threat to American liberty and freedom. There is no coincidence that the minuteman is used here for a very similar reason in the eyes. The minuteman is essential by establishing that much akin to the minuteman the NRA is here to fight for the civil liberties of the people. The second image uses logos by persuading the audience to the Second This idea is an important part of the identity and the combination of ethos by the minuteman and logos by the statement the Second creates an image that likely resonates with supporters of the NRA as well as draws interest to those hoping to learn more from the general populous. The second image also uses pathos to affect the audience by incorporating the American flag in the background of the image. The minuteman gazing off into the horizon with the American flag dancing in the background likely resonates with emotions as it pertains to being American. This image is not only a very effective marketing tool but essential to the history of America. On one hand, it reminds the reader of the men who fought for our rights, and on the other it paints a portrait of how as Americans we must rise and fight for our civil liberties much akin to the minuteman. These two images represent the messages that drives the NRA to truly work for the people and allow those people to have access to firearms indiscriminately. The two images enhance this ideal by presenting arguments such as may speak for elites but America will speak for and the visual stimulant that comes alongside the image of the minuteman fighting for the rights of our constitution. Though the two images try to accomplish the same sentiments they have very distinct differences in style by which they go about persuading the general audience about the significance of their cause. The first images mainly resonates with ones emotions, pathos is present but it mainly focuses on ethos and logos to persuade the audience about the necessities of the cause. In contrast, the second image deals much more in pathos than logos while also establishing credibility through the image of the minuteman. Though the two images differ in practice the ideas behind them be any more similar than the other In conclusion, the NRA is an organization whose intention is to allow the 2 nd amendment right to be exorcised without government intervention. It is an organization that pushes for these ideals as passionately as they do persistently. These ideals are represented in two distinctly different ways. One image has emphasis on exposition, the other shows visual appeal. All images represented use pathos, logos, and ethos to push their argument forward, but these two images show distinct differences in practice. The first image presents its issues with a more logos and ethos inspired argument while the second image uses more pathos and ethos than the other presented. These images represent the NRA, the NRA supports civil liberties and emits camaraderie among its members by being an organization made by the people, for the people. 1) 2) Works Cited Protecting the Second  TexasGOPVote. N.p., 19 June 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.texasgopvote.com/government/protecting-second-amendment-007891>. NRA-ILA. We Will Stand And Fight With All  NRA-ILA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.nraila.org/articles/20160427/we-will-stand-and-fight-with-all-weve- got>. NRA-ILA.  NRA-ILA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.nraila.org/>. National Association for Gun Rights vs. NRA: How Do They  Newsmax. N.p., 12 Oct. 2014. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. <http://www.newsmax.com/FastFeatures/national- association-for-gun-rights-nra-differ/2014/10/12/id/600067 Ingraham, Christopher. Most Gun Owners Belong To the  The Washington Post. WP Company, 15 Oct. 2015. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. <https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2015/10/15/most-gun-owners-dont-belong-