Gutierrez 1 Ana Gutierrez Dr. Davis ENC 1102 3/8/2017 Project 2 Final Draft A New Hope for Conceiving Starting a family can be a special milestone in a life. Unfortunately, there are couples who struggle with infertility, and the idea of having a baby is seen as an unreachable dream. However, Srushti Fertility has developed successful reproductive technology, making these lifelong dreams into a reality. An organization based in India, Srushti Fertility Research Centre specializes in providing safe fertility treatments for couples who are not able to conceive. Srushti Centre has been recognized as a highly successful and professional fertility institute, with over fifty-five different nationalities traveling to India for these treatments. Additionally, they have been highly successful with in vitro fertilization (IVF) treatments, which Srushti Fertility Centre claims to specialize in. In vitro fertilization is an internationally well- known fertility procedure. In this procedure, fertilization occurs by eggs, retrieving a sperm sample, and then manually combining an egg and sperm in a laboratory (American Pregnancy Association). To advertise their successful fertility treatments, they have created images with a variety of rhetorical appeals. Overall, these images use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to raise awareness of their successful fertility procedures. In both images, elements of ethos are effectively displayed. According to Allyson book, Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition, the use of ethos establishes moral principles of the (25). However, in this case, the main purpose of ethos in these images is to display credibility. For instance, the awards on the first image display Gutierrez 2 a sense of trustworthiness. These awards remind their audience that this specific institution has on the (Hoffman 25). The main objective of these awards, is to catch their attention and legitimize their success. In the first image, one of the awards claims that in 2015 they were Top Rated IVF representing success with this treatment. The use of advanced words is another element of ethos that strongly affects the audience. In the first image, the sentence specifies the fertility experts only have one objective, which is creating life through IVF. Therefore, the audience sees this organization as a focused and determined institution. While in both images, words such as and indicate that this institution is one of the top institutions in the fertility field. These words appeal to the audience since they create a sense of professionalism and proficiency. Overall, the awards and advanced vocabulary result as strong elements in representing the rhetorical appeal of ethos. An additional rhetorical appeal incorporated in these images is logos. Important in consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and the appeal of logos provides statistics and numerical evidence to support their message (Hoffman 30). The first image does not include any elements of logos, however the second image does. In the second image, it clearly states that Srushti Fertility Research Centre has been an institution since 1992. According to their website, this institute has been couples fulfil their dreams to become for over twenty-two years (Srushti Fertility Research Centre). For twenty-two years, this prestigious institution has brought 4,500 babies into the highlighting the leading reputation they have in the city of Chennai (Srushti Fertility Research Centre), Because of their respected reputation, they rank highly among other fertility institutions across the globe. Additionally, this image states that year over 2,500 of patients will be smiling emphasizing the large number of parents whose results have been successful and are patiently Gutierrez 3 waiting until their due date. This informs their targeted audience, that there are couples who struggle with infertility and find methods to overcome their conditions. Providing the audience specific numbers, can emphasize how Srushti Centre is an international renowned fertility institution. In both images, there are elements that appeal to the rhetorical element of pathos. Stated by Hoffman, pathos appeals to emotions and helps the audience connect with the message. Hoffman notes that the rhetorical appeal of pathos is most often and be quite (Hoffman 35). For instance, in the first image, a picture of a very sleepy newborn baby is displayed, while in the second image it includes a picture of a smiling baby. This appeals to the audience that these young, adorable, and innocent babies could be theirs if they attempt any of Srushti successful fertility treatments. These images make their targeted audience feel they want a baby, or they need a baby. Additionally, using babies in these images aids in guiding the audience to the textual elements. It draws the attention, leading them to analyze the image and the information it contains. In the second image, there is another visual component; a picture of a smiling fertility expert at Srushti Centre. Displaying a picture of a fertility expert indicates that Srushti Fertility Centre consists of professional, compassionate, and kind clinical staff. An additional appeal to ethos in these images is the use of the color pink and white. The color pink is a very common color that represents femininity and evokes romantic feelings. Pink is incorporated to draw the attention of a women based audience. goal is to inform women who struggle with infertility that there is a solution, and the pink aids in getting their attention. Meanwhile, the color white represents purity and innocence. White can also associate with cleanliness, such as the hospital being a safe, hygienic, and professional. Gutierrez 4 Although the first image does not include elements of kairos, the second image does. Kairos is appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman 39). There are textual elements that are incorporated in the second image. Phrases such as to conceive? time to make it which make the audience feel a sense of urgency to contact the research center and schedule an appointment. Creating this sense of urgency might lead a woman to realize how little time she has, before it is too late to have a baby. As stated by Srushti Centre, there is a negative correlation with age and successful IVF implantation (Srushti Fertility Research Centre). Kairos appeals to couples who have been trying to conceive, therefore being exposed to this element of urgency, it results in these couples making a quick and final life changing decision. In vitro fertilization is a treatment that is becoming common within couples struggling with infertility. Additionally, it is a successful treatment provided by a highly ranked fertility institute. Srushti Fertility Research Centre is a strong advocate for fertility treatments, and will provide results to couples and parents without regarding the true intention of conceiving a child. As mentioned in their images, their main objective is to provide successful assisted reproductive technologies. These images manage to persuade their targeted audience into researching about the treatments they provide. Therefore, the rhetorical appeals incorporated in these images create a sense of hope for future parents and current parents. Gutierrez 5 Works Cited In Vitro Fertilization (IVF): Side Effects and  American Pregnancy Association. American Pregnancy Association, 15 Feb. 2017. Web. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Srushti Fertility Centre &  Srushti Fertility Centre, Chennai - Best IVF Clinic in India. Srushti, 2017. Web. Gutierrez 6 http://www.motherababy.com/images/provide4.jpg https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/9c/b1/79/9cb179722aa6ead0f8c11206893ff046.jpg Image 2 Image 1