Rismay 1 JoLynn Rismay Kristin Gocinski Composition II February 27, 2017 In Your Hands: How Dignitas Seeks to Reimagine the Dignity in Dying Since the late the organization Dignitas has supported people in their fight to gain self-agency over themselves and choose when they die. Though faced with much opposition, the institution continues to advocate for, live with dignity, to die with The organization has used many advertisements and events to help spread awareness. These images are also meant to aid the viewer in understanding goal. In the first image, a young boy alongside a campaign to fight HIV/AIDS is used to show viewers the need to create better lives for the less fortunate. The second is an event flyer that gives information on the message as well as the speakers expected to be present at the event. The combination of these pictures effectively give the message that Dignitas wants people to know that they are not an organization against life, in fact they support life the utmost, however they respect and actively support that people want the opportunity to end their own life. The use of the rhetorical appeals logos, Kairos, pathos, and ethos help to emphasize this message as well as give the reader a perspective on the topic of assisted suicide they may have never seen before. Dignitas is a Swedish company that was founded in 1998 near Zurich, Sweden. The original Dignitas was a very small, underfunded company with very little supporters. They gave counseling to those considering ending their lives, advocated for suicide and suicide-attempt prevention, as well as aiding patients with dying. Since then the company has expanded to the Rismay 2 German branch, where the motto, live with dignity-to die with was founded in Hannover. There are 7100 members of this association across 69 different countries, and each seeks to help people make their end of life decisions in a way best suited for the patient (Dignitas.ch). In the first image, the audience sees a young African boy, smiling wide staring up past the camera. The Dignitas symbol is found in the upper left corner, along with a few words on the Dignitas action plan in Malawi, Africa, to help spread medication used for the prevention of HIV/AIDS. Underneath the photo is another description of the importance of Dignitas involvement in transporting and distributing the medicine. Logos is a method used to logically appeal to the audience using statistics. Although no statistical or quantitative data is shown, each paragraph appeals heavily to logos, given the fact that it is commonly known HIV/AIDS is the most prominent in Africa, so medicine and assistance is always needed there. The idea of the audience needing to pay attention to the importance of the HIV/Aids presence in Africa also appeals to Kairos. Kairos is supposed to evoke a sense of timeliness from a viewer and encourage them to act as soon as possible. Since the need for help is always high, as supported by the sentence towards the bottom of the image, help us create living (Image 1) , the viewer can feel the urgency associated with helping this child and many others overcome the struggle to treat the infection. Another appeal, pathos, can also be seen in this advertisement. Rismay 3 Pathos is the appeal to emotion and is supposed to cause a certain feeling to reach the audience. The child is placed in the picture to appeal to pathos, because the idea of a child being harmed is disturbing to most. The color that stands out the most in the advertisement is green, which helps insinuate that there is a connection to life with the message portrayed. To add reliability, the organization added their logo as well as adding a quote from Michael Ondaatje. This is an effective use of the term ethos, which is meant to appeal to credibility. In the second image, a flyer for an HIV advertisement is used. It illustrates a globe covered in half bright red and half dark red. A mission plan is shown to meet the goal of zero; zero new HIV infections, zero AIDS-related deaths, and zero (Getting to Zero). Logos is portrayed in this image through the topics that are listed in the middle of the image. They are meant to give an overview of the conversation given at the seminar. This ad also attempts to appeal to kairos using a date, specific time, and building for the seminar to a happen. The color red is used in the background of Research (Getting to Zero) and the topics. Red can be associated with a sense of urgency or danger. Many know that HIV research is crucial to finding a cure. Using red in the advertisement supports the appeal to timeliness and catching the attention. Pathos is portrayed in the juxtaposition of red and blue. The areas that would need to attract more earnestness are highlighted red, such as HIV/AID Seminar. The areas highlighted blue can evoke trustworthiness such as where the names of the speakers are, most of which have the title Doctor. Using the speakers also relates to ethos. Credibility can be found in the links to the twitter as well as Facebook pages of the Dignitas International Youth Club. Rismay 4 The first image is the most effective with pathos. The mission statement of Dignitas emphasizes respect for the living, which is reflected in the innocence of the boy. Pathos is also found in the mission statement to get more medicine to smaller, more poverty-stricken areas of Africa. This is relatively effective because the target audience is all classes of people. Any human being can sympathize with the desire to avoid struggle and disease and live a prosperous life. Kairos is not as obviously effective in this because the appeal to timeliness is less obvious in the image and more so in the words, but the mission statement is related to kairos given that life is something we are all experiencing now, and death is something we will all experience. Lastly, logos is used somewhat effectively in the image, because many know that Africa is a continent that struggles heavily with disease. The general impact of the image is moderate, the reader can tell that the aim of the advertisement is to help bring awareness however the death in dignity motto that they stand by is not evidently present. The second image is also very effective in the use of pathos. The colors are prominent and they highlight the areas the organization wants to draw attention to the most very effectively. The use of the globe brings humanly perspective the reader, to remind them that everyone is on the same Earth. Kairos is also used well, because the dates and time give the viewer a specific way to get information and get involved on the topic. Logos is evoked less obviously in this advertisement but it can still be used to observe the topics at hand and their impact on people. This image also does not address the death with dignity motto, however does advocate for improving the lives of others, which is also a goal of DIGNITAS. In summation, Dignitas has continually advocated for dignity in life and death and supporting people in their end of life journeys. In the images used they attempt to bring awareness to the fight against HIV/AIDS. Through logos, kairos, pathos and ethos each image gives the Rismay 5 viewer an idea of the message DIGNITAS want them to receive; that if no action is taken, no progression will be made. Although not directly connected to assisted suicide, the advertisements are still effective in the fact that they support living people despite what health issues they face. Works Cited Rismay 6 Ondaatje, Michael. Dignitas International Facebook Page. Dignitas, 7576668. Accessed 13 March 2017. to Dignitas International Facebook Page. Dignitas,https://www.facebook.com/pg/DignitasInternational/photos/?tab=album&album Accessed 13 March 2017. Karin. is Dignitas.ch, http://www.dignitas.ch/. Accessed 13 March 2017.