1 ilamkhklA Abdullah Zayed K Alkhamali Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910 13 March 2017 The Thin Line between Self-Defense and Deadly Force Gun violence in the United States has increased in a terrifying way. According to the ABC News, a study by two New York City researchers found that the U.S. has 88 guns per 100 people and 10 gun-related deaths per 100,000 people - more than any of the other 27 developed countries they  (para. 2). These statistics give us a clear vision how dangerous guns are in the United States. One of the biggest anti-gun organization called Coalition to Stop Gun Violence which was founded in 1974. CSGV is composed of 47 national organizations working to reduce gun violence. Our coalition members include religious organizations, child welfare advocates, public health professionals, and social justice organizations. This diversity of member organizations allows us to reach a wide variety of grassroots constituencies who share our vision of non-violence, according to CSGV(para. 2). CSGV releases images to fight gun violence by using the rhetorical appeals Ethos, Pathos, and Logos. The two images are effectively representing goals. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence believes that all Americans have the right to live a decent life away from gun violence. This organization has a simple and straightforward mission which states, We seek to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy (para. 1). CSGV has many members and supporters, but they increased especially after the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting. when a Newtown, Connecticut of December 2012, in th This mass shooting occurred on 14 young male shot 20 children and six adult school members by Bushmaster XM15-E2S rifle. This was one of the most deadliest mass shooting in the United history. 2 ilamkhklA main goals is to build personal relationships with legislators and challenging them to become dedicated, long-term advocates for sensible gun laws. The victims and survivors of gun violence on our staff are the leaders in this lobbying effort. We are also looking to facilitate the advocacy of state/local activists whenever and wherever we (para. 5). Coalition to Stop Gun Violence chose this picture to show ethos by publishing an old credible image to Reagan Shooting Survivor. is very credible do to the fact that many famous news channels talked about it such as ABC News and Fox News. CSGV publish this picture to shows how guns are parlous even to a protected guy like the U.S. president. As a result, CSGV is using this picture to assist her goals which can be summarized of applying more gun restrictions and laws. According to Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, summarizing her mission and goals seek to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy (para. 1). shows pathos by applying the idea that no one is safe while guns are available for everyone. Coalition to Stop Gun Violence exploited this picture by using the importance of Ronald Reagan position. To illustrate, people were shocked and frightened . They love and admire their 1981 March th 30 the n when this horrible action happened o president, so people will condemn the main cause if something happened to him. As a result, CSGV used the idea that if guns spread all over the United States, people who they care about will probably hurt. shows logos by to Coalition to Stop Gun Violence chose this picture had, Ronald Reagan . With all protection that destructive that guns are people ing persuad 3 ilamkhklA someone with a gun shot four people including the president. CSGV used to say that this is a main reason why people should stop using guns of all kind. main objective of is to show logos by trying to convince Americans that no one safe while guns are available. shows ethos by using the idea that children should not hold guns at all. People did not used to see a child with a gun in his/her hands, so Coalition to Stop Gun Violence used this value and attract attention. is a credible source because it reflects what most people believe about the proper using of guns. Children should not use a gun for any circumstances. CSGV used to show pathos by choosing a child in the picture instead of anyone else, so people will automatically reject the idea of holding a gun. To illustrate, people are emotional when they see children in danger, so Coalition to Stop Gun Violence used a child in to attract emotions in order to make people believes that gun are dangerous. The organization wants to create this idea because of the mass shootings all around the United States. uns be accessible for g by showing the idea that shows logos were children. The reason that perpetrators children at all. Most of the mass . However, the common thing undetermined pushed these criminals to do their crimes is shootings is that criminals had access to a gun do not belong to them. between all mass Coalition to Stop Gun Violence used this fact to convince people that guns should be banded and hard to get them. 4 ilamkhklA . in the United States very effective on many people were and ethos showed in it by using a famous picture of Reagan Shooting To illustrate, in . eople that even the president of the United States got hurt from gun violence p to convince by using the perspective about holding a gun e ethos appeared Similarly, in to attract people in especially if the holder was a child. Moreover, showed pathos hate to create the showed pathos , Likewise way that can lead to a free gun society. feeling of guns among Americans, so they can achieve their goals such as gun restrictions, Furthermore, supporting the mass victims. banding assault weapons, and showed logos by discussing the idea that even the U.S president was in danger of guns, so guns are distinctive for all people. Comparably, displayed logos to show that children should not hold guns at all especially after the recently mass shootings in the United States. To illustrate, Gun violence has taken on a new form: we have seen the evolution, and increasing frequency, of attempted mass shootings which appear to have as their main objective the intent to hurt as many people as possible. No regard seems to be given to the individual traits of the victims; they are victims merely because they were in that location at indeed can help to support the organization and that (Taxman 1). . ogos and L , Pathos thos, E rhetorical appeals goals because it applies in it three kinds Coalition to Stop Gun Violence published two images that use the rhetorical appeals Ethos, Pathos, and Logos. These two pictures support the main goals of the organization. The first picture used Ronald Reagan position as the U.S. president. This makes the picture valuable and credible. After that, the picture shows that no one safe while guns are available for everyone even to the United president. The main reason is because guns are not always possessed by good people. The second picture shows a child holding a gun which is rejected to many people. CSGV wants to shows how awful guns are by making a child the only character in the picture. It does not make sense at all when children can hold guns 5 ilamkhklA because most the mass perpetrators are children. The two pictures published by Coalition to Stop Gun Violence are indeed will benefit the organization for even a long-term. 6 ilamkhklA Cited Works ABC News  ABC, http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/health/2013/09/19/u-s-has-more- guns-and-gun-deaths-than-any-other-country-study-finds. Accessed 25 February 2017. About the  CSGV , http://www.csgv.org/site/pp.aspx?c=pmL5JnO7KzE&b=3509221. Accessed 25 February 2017. Blog , Coalition to Stop Gun Violence 6 Mar. 2012 faggot-.should-have-died/. Accessed 23 February 2017. Blog , Coalition to Stop Gun Violence 13 July. 2013 Accessed 23 February 2017. Taxman, Jeffrey. Gun Violence in America A  Perspectives on Gun Violence: National and International Views, 2 Jan. 2016, pp. 113-123. Wiely Online Library, DOI 10.1002/aps.1490. Accessed 25 February 2017.