Belmore !1 Erin Belmore Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 13 March 2017 Rhetorical Appeal Through Images Stem cells are cells from an organism that has the capability to become any one of the bodies cells. They are then able to divide, creating more cells of a certain type that is needed. The Stem cells are useful as they can become any type of cell, differentiating them from regular mature cells, that have no way to transform into other more useful types (Stoppler 1). The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine, CIRM, is one organization that greatly works with Stem cells and believes in their potential. California Institute of Regenerative Medicine releases images advocating for the use of Stem cells. Using the rhetorical appeals pathos, ethos, and logos the two images effectively express California Institute for Regenerative mission. The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine is on a mission to stem cell treatments for patients with unmet medical our mission) The goal of California Institute of Regenerative Medicine is to fund research of stem cells. Since 2007 it has funded 16 clinical trials with many more in the process of getting approved for trials. Though these trials, the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine has worked on treatments for over 40 different diseases, that originally had no treatment, leaving the patients helpless, without a cure in sight. There are some treatments that have no other way of helping patients than with the use of stem cells, such as bone marrow transplants that use stem cell technology. Belmore !2 The first image released by the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine uses pathos in many different aspects to try and promote their want to stem cell (CIRM our mission). Pathos is an emotional appeal that use the viewers passion or subjectivity towards certain situations in order to get the attention and full emotional attachment towards the subject of the advertisement. (Moxley 188). The first image that was released by California Institute of Regenerative Medicine uses pathos in may different forms. The most obvious way is their use of a little girl as the subject of the advertisement. The focus of the advertisement is the young girl on a rocking horse, who looks not only healthy but happy. The young girl, Evangelina Padilla Vaccaro who was previously diagnosed with severe combined immunodeficiency disease. The fact that the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine put the girls name and diagnosis allows the reader to feel that there is a personal connection to the girl. The colors that the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine put into the photo are bright and vibrant, that are strong and hopefully. The last thing that the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine used for the advertisement with the use of pathos is how the girl is positioned standing on the rocking horse. She stands which allows her to fill most of the frame and making her seem that she is in control over her disease. Belmore !3 Ethos and logos are present to further influence the viewer to believe the CIRM wants to stem cell (CIRM our mission) in the first image as well. Ethos shows the authors credibility where logos shows the logic behind the advertisement or work (Moxley 186,190) Ethos is presented through the use of their trademark design of California Institute of Regenerative Medicine. On the image it says Stem Cell Agency 2016 Annual This shows the reader that the advertisement knows what it is talking about and should be considered a reliable resource in the field of Stem Cells. They include that it is from the 2016 Annual report to prove that the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine has real tests and data that come together to formulate real reports. The logos are used with the quotes on the side of the image. remain, but new cures are and in All These go hand and hand together to show just how the world can come together to find the new cures to the challenges that are still out there in the world, if one another come together to get rid of all the diseases. This uses logos by persuading the audience or the reader to think that with the help of everyone and support for their organization; through the use of stem cells the world can be made a better place treating the illnesses leaving all the patients happier and healthier. When looking at all the pathos, ethos, and logos that came together in the first image to promote the mission statement of trying to stem cell (CIRM our mission). This is done by showing the young girl with her name and diagnosis on the side, standing tall after overcoming her disease. This was able to be achieved through the organization CIRM and their research and treatment trials, which would not be possible without societies support for the organization. With more support and funding the organization will be able to do Belmore !4 so much more for all their patients so that they will all be strong and happy enough to stand tall and proud on a rocking horse. The image did its job for promoting the organization and causing awareness for what they do and how it greatly affects many peoples lives. The second picture that was put out by the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine again uses pathos to help further the attachment that the viewers have with the cause allowing them to gain a better understanding for what it is exactly that the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine does and is all about. California Institute of Regenerative Medicine again uses a young girl as their focal point of the whole add. This is done as a very strategic move to have the viewer instinctively think of the young girl as someone that is innocent and can not do anything for herself. Yet in the add she is climbing a rock wall to show that with each step she makes she is one step closer to getting better and being healthy. The young girl can symbolize many different things in this advertisement besides the sick patient that she is, for example, she resembles society and their part that needs to be taken in order to get to the goal and achieve maximum amount of support and funding for Stem Cell research and trials. Each word written above the rocks on the climbing wall are important steps that must be taken in order to reach the ultimate goal of treatment. Without the help of the society and their donations much of California Institute of Regenerative plans would only be that, a plan or a wish. With the support and funds of society California Institute of Regenerative Medicine is able to Belmore !5 move that one step up the wall at a time just like the little girl. The California Institute of Regenerative Medicine adds emotional words to the advertisement to give one feelings towards the situation as a whole. The words as well as are large enough to stand out and stay in the viewers mind. The last thing the pathos uses in this image is the words it has it in a handwriting font to make it seem handwritten and intimate. The California Institute of Regenerative Medicine used ethos with their new trademark as well as their new plan tittle; Strategic plan 2016 and beyond. Logos was used with all the words that were strategically placed around the rocks on the climbing wall. These words are there to show their plan to prove that there is reason behind their plan and their need for funding. All of the words are educational based promoting a strong background of research and science behind their plan. This image also does and effective job at promoting the CIRM and getting their mission out there for more and more people to be aware of the support and help that the CIRM offers to patients that may not have many other options. This image shows that there are difficulties that they have to go through in order to get where they can help support all patients. These difficulties can be easier with the support from society and everyone. Both of the images use pathos, ethos, and logos in order to portray the organizations missions statements of trying to accelerate stem cell treatments for patients. Through the use of pathos, ethos, and logos, the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine portrays their need to further education and research on stem cells in order to help those who need the treatments. Both of the images were successful in developing thoughtful and effective advertisements that support their mission. Belmore !6 Works Cited CIRM Strategic Plan 2016. 2016. https://www.cirm.ca.gov/sites/default/files/ 20 February 2017 Belmore !7 Moxley, Joseph. eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 186-197 Murnaghan, Ian. Stem Cell Controversy. Explore Stem Cells. 2017. http:// www.explorestemcells.co.uk/stemcellcontroversy.html. Accessed 20 February 2017. 2016 Annual Report. 2016. https://www.cirm.ca.gov/about-cirm/2016-annual-report