Arcay 1 Fernanda Arcay Dorinda Davis ENC 1102 12 March 2017 The Death Penalty Death. Death continues to strike people in every way. It is a natural occurrence that is very complicated to understand. Death has led to several debates and distinctions between humans today, the death penalty being one of them. The death penalty has not only raised numerous ethical questions, but it has split people into different groups, those in favor and those against capital punishment. Amnesty International is one of the many groups against the death penalty. This purpose, as stated in their portal, is as follows, International is a global movement of people fighting injustice and promoting human (Amnesty International). Amnesty International has many goals, however, one of their main goals is to stop the death penalty. They have released several advertisements with the idea of not only raising awareness worldwide, but also changing perspective and feelings in this issue. In the first image provided, raising awareness is the main goal. By combining evidence and appealing to emotions thanks to the hanging ropes, Amnesty International succeeds in doing so. In the second image, an alcoholic layered drink can be observed. The drink charms the audience, only to let them later realize it is really the mix used to kill inmates. Here, experts demonstrate the research done regarding lethal mixes. On both of the advertisements provided, Amnesty International uses a combination of ethos, pathos, and logos by including the top five practitioners of the death Arcay 2 penalty, the ingredients of lethal mixes, and hanging ropes; in order to reach their ultimate goal: raising awareness to stop the death penalty worldwide. Awareness, that is what Peter Benenson had in mind when he decided to found Amnesty International on July 1961 in London, United Kingdom (Amnesty International). Benenson was enlightened by the idea of founding a non-profitable and governmental organization after he read about an injustice on the newspaper. According to Amnesty International, Benenson became enraged after reading that two Portuguese students were arrested for raising their glasses during a toast dedicated to freedom. He decided to take action, which led him to develop Amnesty International. This group is an organization with its main headquarters in London, however, they have over 68 branches in different countries, as stated in Amnesty International (Amnesty International). They are an organization dedicated to protecting human rights from torture, to political prisoners, to the death penalty. Their mission, as formally expressed in their portal is as follows, Our vision is of a world in which every person regardless of race, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation or gender identity enjoys all of the human rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and other internationally recognized human rights standards. Completing these missions and goals is not an easy job. However, Amnesty International aims to complete these by conducting researches and later taking action in a global scale. Being an organization protecting human rights, Amnesty International has released several advertisements in order to raise awareness and change perspectives regarding the death penalty. Ethos is one of the main rhetorical devices used in their advertisements. On the first image, Arcay 3 it is observable how Amnesty International decided to portray the top 5 practitioners of the death penalty in 2015 in order to reach their main goal: the halt of capital punishment. By using evidence, they make the audience believe in what they are saying and at the same time they raise awareness on the issue. On the second image, ethos appears again when reading the actual advertisement. After reading the chemicals used for lethal mixes and their side effects, Amnesty International is building their credibility even more by demonstrating to their reader their seriousness and research done on the topic. This helps them maintain a strong stance in this issue, while at the same time it helps them get closer to their purpose. Not only is Amnesty International using evidence to reach their purpose, but they are also strongly appealing to the emotions with their use of pathos on the advertisements. On the first image, there is a very solid sense of pathos. When being first confronted by it, the image makes the audience feel shocked and sorry for inmates being executed. By deciding to include hanging ropes that stand out from the stark background, Amnesty International hopes to change the perspective on the serious issue of the death penalty. They use black as their background to make the words 5 in yellow stand out to reach their ultimate purpose: raising awareness and influencing the audience to take action on this topic. Hanging has been a method used for hundreds of years worldwide. According to researcher Rob Gallagher in his article, Before the Needles, 9,320 people have been executed by judicial hanging from 1622 to the present day, most being hanged in public and usually drawing a large crowd of (Gallagher). This ad makes the audience feel heartbroken and guilty for not taking any action to stop the death penalty in the countries shown. On the second image, pathos is used when seeing the words recipe to die The audience thinks that the alcoholic drink being shown is tempting. However, upon further analyzing Arcay 4 the ad, the audience may notice that this recipe would literally kill them. This is a strong appeal to pathos because the ad makes the audience develop empathy for the prisoner on which this recipe is being used on. Comparing this lethal mix to an alcoholic beverage makes it crueler. This propaganda has the power of making spectators feel as terrible people, for they realize that they were only attracted to this image because of the belief it was an alcoholic shot; leading them to want to take action and help Amnesty purpose, the abolishment of death penalty. Facts about capital punishment are not commonly known. Amnesty International in order to achieve their purpose, use a lot of information in their advertisements to inform people about the death penalty. On the first advertisement, they use logos by providing statistics about the top 5 practitioners of capital punishment worldwide in 2015. They named China as having more than 1000 people executed in 2015, and USA qualifies in this list in fifth place (Amnesty International). On the second image, logos is used by naming the three chemicals used to execute. Because Amnesty International identifies the three chemicals used and explain its side effects, this makes them appear as a strong, reliable organization. The ad does not only raise awareness, but it also makes the audience feel guilty for not doing anything about it. They then provide more facts when mentioning that people are not only killed by these chemicals, but that they can also be killed by hanging, firing squads, and beheading. Amnesty International also includes other facts in their advertisement, those of many inmates not giving a fair trial, being wrongfully convicted, and juvenile execution. Juvenile execution is sentencing teenagers under 18 years of age to the death row. This is a very huge deal for Amnesty International, seeing that they argue that sentencing a person under 18 years of age to the death row is prohibited upon International law. In their article Executions of Arcay 5 Juveniles Since 1900, they provide facts and statistics regarding child offenders. Amnesty International states, Since 1990 Amnesty International has documented 129 executions of child offenders in 9 countries: China, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Iran, Nigeria, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, the USA and Yemen. Several of these countries have changed their laws to exclude the practice. Executions of child offenders represent a tiny fraction of the total of executions worldwide recorded by Amnesty International each year. The article continues to express the impotence they feel and the immorality of executing a juvenile. They appeal to pathos by then providing a huge chart with the names of numerous children that were executed over the years. Injustices and executions are events that keep striking today. Amnesty International fights for the human rights of people. They are one of the biggest organizations dedicated to human rights, which led them to eventually win the Nobel Peace Prize in 1977 (Amnesty International). On both of these powerful images we get the message and the urgency of stopping the death penalty. Amnesty International appeals to our emotions while at the same time building their credibility to reach their ultimate goal. They use statistics, verified by other sources as well, to prove their stance and commitment to this topic. Arcay 6 Image 1 Arcay 7 Image 2 Arcay 8 Works Cited of Juveniles Since Amnesty International USA. Amnesty International, April 2016. Web. 8 Mar. 2017. file:///Users/fernandaarcay/Downloads/ACT5038322016ENGLISH.PDF Gallagher, Rob. BEFORE THE  BEFORE THE NEEDLES. Wayback Machine, n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. U.S. Death Penalty  Amnesty International USA. Amnesty International, May 2012. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. http://www.amnestyusa.org/pdfs/DeathPenaltyFactsMay2012.pdf Arcay 9 Images Cited A Recipe to Die For. Digital image. Amnesty International. Amnesty International Org, 20 Aug. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. <https://www.google.com/search?q=death+penalty+ads&espv=2&biw=1220&bih=604& site=webhp&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiAu9i8443SAhVHylQKHc +to+die+for&*>. Digital image. Amnesty International. Amnesty International Org, 6 Apr. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. <https://www.google.com/search?q=death+penalty+ads&espv=2&biw=1220&bih=604& site=webhp&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiAu9i8443SAhVHylQKHc QORdiFnl8mz2M:>.