Pawelec 1 Jakub Pawelec Ms. Tisdale ENC 1101 Sec. 017 18 Feb 2017 Do Smartphones Help or Hinder Productivity? During the last 10 years, smartphones have become one of the most important tools to make people more productive in their daily lives. Smartphones today have many capabilities like GPS navigation to guide people to their destinations, messaging applications to communicate with people around the world, and even the capability to purchase and display airplane tickets. Smartphones have basically become small computers that can be kept in a pocket. However, smartphones have also become a distraction, possibly hurting productivity more than helping it. Smartphones can both improve and hinder productivity depending on the type of workplace setting. Ahmad, Nabeel, and Orton, Peter. Smartphones Make IBM Smarter, But Not As  T+D 64.1 (2010): 46-50. Education Source. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. This article discussed a joint study conducted by IBM and Columbia University about the use of smartphones by IBM employees and their effect on job performance. The study also focused on design considerations for mobile applications, specifically the mobile version of employee directory. Over 400 employees were surveyed about their mobile device use for this study. The study found that employees use their devices for accessing needed information in the field and contacting colleagues for job-related support rather than for employee development courses as intended. It was found that employees were usually in the office using their desktop Pawelec 2 computers or in their home office when they needed to complete required employee development courses, so they use their devices for these courses. Mobile devices were found to be favored by employees and improved job performance when elements like ease of use, clarity of information, and speed of access all aligned. Employees tend to surprisingly prefer fewer options and less information on mobile applications of services available on desktop computers because the mobile version allows them to find needed information in the field quicker. The increased networking and communications capabilities also allowed employees to communicate more with 2 nd and 3 rd level individuals in the hierarchy rather than just the 1 st level original point of contact. Finally, it was also found that users had an increased perception of job performance due to the ability to locate other colleagues quickly, which in turn increased the confidence level. This article is a reliable source because it was published in the American Society for Training and magazine. Bertschek, Irene, and Niebel, Thomas. Mobile And More Productive? Firm-Level Evidence On The Productivity Effects Of Mobile Internet  Telecommunications Policy 40.(2016): 888-898. ScienceDirect. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. The authors of this study analyzed data from a massive survey of German businesses conducted in 2010 and 2014 about technology used by these businesses. In particular, business- provided mobile internet device usage by employees was the main variable studied from this survey. The data showed that business provided mobile device usage doubled from 2010 to 2014. The data also showed that businesses that had provided employees with mobile devices had much higher productivity than those businesses that did not. The study also shows the gains in productivity outweighed the difficulty of monitoring employees and the possible distraction from Pawelec 3 smartphones. This study was conducted by members of a European research center and published in a peer reviewed journal. et al. Modelling Smartphone Addiction: The Role Of Smartphone Usage, Self-Regulation, General Self-Efficacy And Cyberloafing In University  Computers In Human Behavior 63.1 (2016): 639-649. Education Source. Web. 28 Jan. 2017 study investigates the causes of smartphone addiction as well as the effects of smartphone addiction on the academic performance of college students. This study was performed on 614 undergraduate students at a university in Ankara with about half of the participants being in their first year at the university and the other half including second, third, and fourth year students. This study was conducted in the form of a 15 minute questionnaire sent out by email. The results of this study found that smartphone addiction naturally increased as smartphone usage increased. In addition, the study found that addiction might limit an ability to communicate with his family and immediate Furthermore, this study found smartphones to have a negative effect on academic performance. Cyberloafing, which is defined by the authors as using smartphones in class for purposes not related to class, was also found to increase smartphone addiction. This study shows that increasing smartphone addiction caused the grades of college students to drop. This study is a reliable source because it was conducted by multiple faculty members with experience in teaching and instructional technology as well as being published in a peer- reviewed journal. Pawelec 4 Kalkbrenner, Joseph, and McCampbell, Atefeh. The Advent Of Smartphones: A Study On The Effect Of Handheld Electronics On Personal And Professional  Journal Of Applied Global Research 4.8 (2011): 1. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. This study researched how people use smartphones in their personal lives as well as their professional lives and how they affected productivity compared to standard cell phones. The findings of the study state that smartphones are generally used for both business and personal applications rather than one specific application while standard cell phones are generally only used for personal activities rather than for business. Respondents also generally used smartphones more than their standard cell phone counterparts, with the majority of smartphone users utilizing their devices for at least one hour per day while the majority of standard cell phone users only used their devices for less than one hour each day. Smartphone users overwhelmingly reported increased productivity in their lives with over 80% of the respondents stating that their smartphone either or productivity. 50% of standard cell phone users reported that their phone affect their productivity at all while most of the other standard cell phone users reported an increase in productivity as well. The study also showed that these productivity gains held true for those over the age of 40 despite the belief that those over 40 would have a harder time understanding the technology compared to younger people. This study is a reliable source due to it being published in a peer-reviewed journal. McBride, Deborah L. Distraction Of Clinicians By Smartphones In Hospitals: A Concept  Journal Of Advanced Nursing 71.9 (2015): 2020-2030. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Pawelec 5 This article analyzes the effects of smartphone use by clinicians in medical settings, especially the effects it has on patient care. Smartphones provide easy access to patient information and medical references for doctors and nurses to use for treatment but they also provide a potentially major distraction. A survey of surgical technicians mentioned by the author states that half of the respondents admitted to texting during heart-lung bypass procedures and 55% admitted to taking phone calls during surgery. Despite the possible distractions from smartphones it was predicted that smartphones would be used by 90% of clinicians by 2013. It was also shown that clinicians in the emergency department use social media on their smartphones more as patient volume increases, which suggests that they use smartphones as a break from the stressful environment of the emergency room. Even with the benefits that smartphones provide, some hospitals have outright banned smartphone use by clinicians while other hospitals have implemented policies that specifically state how smartphones can be used. These policies were implemented due to a negative effect of electronic distractions on patient safety. This article is a reliable source because it was written by a college professor with experience in the medical field and was published in a peer reviewed journal. Yun, Haejung, Kettinger, William J., and Lee, Choong C. A New Open Door: The Impact On Work-To-Life Conflict, Stress, And  International Journal Of Electronic Commerce 16.4 (2012): 121-152. Business Source Premier. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. This study observed the role of smartphones in the workplace environment and how they affect productivity in the workplace. It also looked at work-to-life conflict and its effect on productivity. Work-to-life conflict in this study was defined to be effect on family as well Pawelec 6 as effect on general life outside of work like hobbies. This study was conducted through an email survey to 3,000 randomly selected smartphone users. The findings of the study show that smartphones do increase productivity in the workplace. However, they also increase the perception of work overload and create additional work-to-life conflict due to the increased flexibility offered by smartphones such as the ability to contact employees outside of work hours. The study recommends that smartphones used for work should feature tools to increase productivity such as easier access to information systems. The recommendations further state that work smartphones be focused on increasing flexibility by offering more locations and hours to work because expanded flexibility causes an increase in work-to-life conflict. This study was conducted by faculty at two universities along with a PhD candidate and was published in a peer-reviewed journal.