Ireland 1 Cameron Ireland Dori Davis ENC 1102 11 March 2017 Rhetorical Appeals in the Marijuana Debate The debate over marijuana has been thrust into the national spotlight in the past few years, with the conflicting sides having only grown more divided. One stakeholder on the side opposing legalization of marijuana is Citizens Against Legalized Marijuana, or CALM for short. This group uses many tactics to achieve their goal of stopping the marijuana movement. Two of the images from their website are a photo of two men representing their movement at a convention, and an easy to read facts sheet that provides facts disproving many commonly held beliefs on marijuana. They aim to use these images to rally people against marijuana. In all, CALM uses its images to highlight the detrimental effects of the marijuana industry, and convince people to join their opposition movement. CALM USA is a group that sprung up alongside the legalized marijuana efforts in California. As the efforts have spread, so has mission. Their vision statement, as listed on the CALM website is, are a dedicated group of individuals, parents, business owners, medical professionals, crime and safety officials, young and old-all working to defeat the legalization of marijuana in California and other targeted (calmusa.org). The end goal of this group is to keep marijuana illegal. While they employ many methods to achieve this, visual rhetoric can be considered one of the most effective. Their website does not include many images, but their official Facebook page has a Ireland 2 multitude, which the group uses to spread their message about marijuana. The first image to be examined is of two of members at the Unite Inland Empire Convention. This convention is a conservative conference hosted every year (uniteie.com). More specifically, the group states on their website that they are, concerned citizens to community groups that are bringing change to the inland (uniteie.com). A key rhetorical tool used in the image is ethos. The two people standing at the table in this image are both clean cut, and dressed in business casual. Additionally, there could be some form of influence intended by the fact that these two people are both men. This gives off the impression of authority and credibility on the subject of marijuana. The next strategic thing to note is the kairos in this image. In four places there is a marijuana leaf, with a bright red circle around it and a line through it. The phrases range from Pot Does  to the Demise of  The color and symbol indicate impending danger, while the phrases reinforce the risk. After this, attention could be drawn to the bottom right hand corner of the photo, where a sign with the phrase If you like big tobacco, LOVE BIG  This element uses pathos, as trying to draw in those who have been negatively affected by the tobacco industry in some way and elicit an emotional reaction from them. CALM also designed a package for marijuana, based on the cigarette brand Marlboro, which aims to say the two products are the same or that the marijuana industry is owned by the tobacco industry. Employing this tactic is also a form of pathos aimed at former smokers, or those who have lost someone to the detrimental effects of tobacco. In all, it can be speculated that this image was targeted at those on the fence about marijuana, as well as those who are against the tobacco industry. Ireland 3 The next image to be examined from CALM is a facts sheet, also found on their Facebook page. The first rhetorical appeal used in this image is logos. Facts from many different areas are stated in an easy to read format, which discuss and point out the negative effects of marijuana. The facts are presented, and then the group conclusively states at the bottom that marijuana, even medical, has not been proven to help people, and should therefore remain illegal. Next the image goes on to appeal to ethos. It does this by citing its information from such reputable sources as The American Medical Association and The American Society of Addiction. This establishes credibility for the graphic, and allows the target audience to understand the information just made up. Lastly, there appears to be an appeal to pathos in the image with the bottom line. It essentially says that there are better solutions than medical marijuana to treat someone who is sick. This could be targeted at parents or the friends and family of someone who is ill, and supported medical marijuana laws thinking it was the best solution. Overall this image is targeted at those who oppose fully legalized marijuana, but supported medical marijuana. Another thing to note about the image is its easy to read format, which uses simple language and short pieces of information. This may be an attempt to reach out to broader audiences who do not have a lot of scientific background. In comparing the two images it is important to note the similarities in their rhetorical appeals as well as their target audiences, and overall, if they could be effective. It would appear that both images adequately use rhetorical appeals to reinforce their argument, and therefore could be effective at swaying the opinions of people about legalized marijuana. Onto the specifics of each image, both images one and two employed ethos and pathos. This could mean that to the target audiences, doing what Ireland 4 authority deems right is important, as well as doing what is ethically right. This may mean that to these target audiences, the right thing one should do is to stand behind whatever is ethically right. It is interesting that there is no clear logos in image one, besides blanket statements and buzz words, which seek to grab attention, but then become circular in their argument. The kairos in image one is interesting, as it seems to want people to decide on the spot that marijuana is bad. In a psychological study by Bennet Murdock, it was found that people are most likely to remember the first things, and the last things in a list (psychology.org). This is called the Serial Position Effect, and can be translated into the picture used by CALM (psychology.org). By making the marijuana leaf, with the red symbol around it so large and prominent, it seems they want it to be the first and last thing people see, so it is what they remember. In all, both these images really use rhetorical appeals to get their message to a target audience. CALM USA is a group on the weakened side of a battle, as many states begin legislation in some way, to allow marijuana. While they may currently be losing, they have not totally lost. Currently 28 States have some form of legalized marijuana, but CALM is determined to fight these and any other laws that may be put in place (medicalmarijuanaprocon.org). One such way is through the images they share, and the two discussed do a very thorough job of employing rhetorical appeals to sway some undecided people on what is the best view to hold regarding marijuana. While CALM continues its battle, more images will likely be created to target new audiences, and employ the most effective rhetorical appeals to reach them. Ireland 5 Works Cited McLeod, Saul. Serial Position  Simply Psychology. N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. 28 Legal Medical Marijuana States and DC - Medical Marijuana -  Should Marijuana Be a Medical Option? N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Unite Inland  Unite Inland Empire. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  CALM USA. CALM USA, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Ireland 6 Image One https://www.facebook.com/CALMcalifornia/photos/a.991017354282871.1073741828.89 5511507166790/1098956696822269/?type=3&theater Image Two https://www.facebook.com/CALMcalifornia/photos/a.991017354282871.1073741828.89 5511507166790/991017150949558/?type=3&theater