Molano 1 Luis Molano Prof. Davis ENC1102 12 March 2017 Road to Legalization Marijuana as of 2017 has been legalized medically in 28 states, but the battle for its federal legalization is still going. In order for the legalization of marijuana to expand, efforts of protesting and advertisements are done to educate the audience. Through educating the audience, they will have a better understanding prior to voting, for which they can make an educated decision. One of the organizations that has strived to make an impact is The Drug Policy Alliance. An organization formed in July 2000, that stands for the rights in marijuana, medically and recreationally. Their goal is to help promote the campaign for legalization of marijuana. In the advertisements that I selected, they accurately reflect Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos to convey their message that should not be punished for what they put in their bodies but only for crimes committed against (DPA, 2015). In the first advertisement, it displays a bar graph made of humans followed by four bodies of text on a yellow background. The Drug Policy Alliance acknowledges a statement that people who use marijuana are drug users. The intended audience in this image is for anyone who goes on the world wide web, as the image has been floating around the internet through efforts of advertisement. The first thing that captures the attention is the overall design and color blocking of the ad. The colors include pink, blue and yellow, which are vibrant colors, and they also complement each other to grab the attention. An association that can be made with the graph and the colors used is that blue and pink are Molano 2 associated with male and female and this should give the audience a connection that the following ad is more than just a graph. Another influential visual appeal used is the design of the image, a graph formed by drawings of people which makes the ad friendlier to the audience since these figures are usually seen in restrooms to indicate male and female restroom. The element used to provide ethos is the use of statistics from the UNODC 2013 World Drug Report, this gives the audience a sense of trust and credibility. The second element used in the photo is pathos, which appeals to the emotions of the audience. The use of pathos is present in the image, in the aesthetics and design of the image as well as the quotes used. The quote directly associated with pathos is whatever the nature of drug use, they should be since most people can associate that drugs and going out are meant to be a time to enjoy themselves according to The Drug Policy Alliance. No one should be condemned for smoking marijuana when alcohol is just as widely used. The image also has a graph made of human figurines, which connect the audience that it is more than just a statistic it is about the people. In the image the color blocking helps attract the audience into its bright standout ad. The image shows a strong appeal to logic and reason as the quote as most people who drink alcoholics, most people who use (other) drugs do so without This gives the audience a new perspective that people who smoke marijuana drug addicts just as people who drink alcoholics. Most of the audience can relate to drinking alcohol as 86.4 percent of all people over 18 reported have drank alcohol at some point in their lifetime (NIAA, 2015). In the image, the last rhetorical appeal Kairos is present in the ad itself; it gives a sense of urgency to the audience through the efforts of the organization posting the ad through the world wide web and also paying to promote the ad. Molano 3 The second image, is an ad that shows a protest by the Drug Policy Alliance. This photo shows the amount of people in the protest, and what each individual is voicing in the protest through capturing their posters. An element in the photo that stands out is the recurrence of posters held up that read more drug followed by the Drug Policy website. This gives the audience who are viewing the image a hint of curiosity, something to look up and do research on their own time rather than forcing it upon the audience. This image also displays the rhetorical appeals. The first element ethos is present through the amount of people at the protest. Through the number of people there it shows the audience that it is backed up by many supporters which is an appeal on trust and credibility. The second element pathos helps establish a connection between the group protesting and the audience. In the image the people are protesting an issue in which they believe in and should give the audience an appeal that protestors are not just lazy, but hard working individuals that took time out of their day to protest for what they believe is right. The third element logos is an appeal to logic and reason, and in the image a single poster that reads mass stands out to this appeal. This quote is a logical reason to the people who are not in support of legalization, since more than 570,000 people were arrested for marijuana possession crimes in 2015 according to the Drug Policy Alliance. Why should tax dollars be spent on prisoners due to marijuana possession crimes, when marijuana itself is a drug just like alcohol and it is not illegal for someone to carry alcohol? This logical appeal provides more of an insight that removing the mass incarceration of marijuana related crimes would open up more spots for more serious offenders as well as saving tax payer dollars. The last element, Kairos is an appeal to timeliness and in this image the protest is a sense of urgency in which the people are gathering on a specific date to protest in something they believe in. Molano 4 Both advertisements accurately represented the views in which the Drug Policy Alliance stands for that citizens of this country should not be punished for what they put in their bodies. Each advertisement captured the attention, through the design and color blocking of the first image to the powerful capture of the protest in the second advertisement. The images also delivered a strong rhetorical appeal through the use of Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos, The Drug Policy Alliance gives a valid argument in favor of their views on marijuana. Through delivering powerful and informative advertisements, the audience can have a better understanding prior to voting so that they can make an educated vote. Molano 5 Works Cited Alcohol Facts and  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Drug War  Drug Policy Alliance. DPA, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mission and  Drug Policy Alliance. DPA, n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. http://www.drugpolicy.org/facts/drug-laws-and-you/are-you-music-fan/goal-1 Molano 6