Yasreeb 1 Ahmed Sadat Yasreeb Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 10 March 2017 Cleveland Clinic at its Best Healthcare is an important issue and it should be taken seriously. The food habit the atmosphere all effect our health so people should maintain their lifestyle to stay fit and healthy. Being healthy helps to stay active and improves our mental and physical health. If we cannot maintain our health properly then the only place, we would go is a hospital and the first name which comes now is Cleveland Clinic. Cleveland Clinic is a very reputed hospital and has been established in 1921. It has been owned by Cleveland Clinic Foundation which is a non-profit organization and its located in Cleveland Ohio. It has been doing very well in this short period and has been known very good for cardiac surgery. Cleveland Clinic releases images to show their position as one of the leading hospitals in the honor roll rank of 2016 to 2017. Using the rhetorical appeals logos, Kairos and ethos, the two images were released and it made people think Cleveland Clinic as more reliable as it represented Cleveland goals effectively. Cleveland Clinic has hit the world with its brilliant all-round performance in most of the departments. It has a lot of well-known and specialized doctors at each department who maintain a good synchronization with each other to keep the Cleveland Clinic reputation to the peak. Their logo which is the four squares it represents their four foundation which is Clinic, Hospital, Research and Education; it also shows their four founders and at last the large square shows the efforts of the people who are involved to care for the sick. Thus, Cleveland Clinic is a very Yasreeb 2 reputed and one of the best hospital around the world. It also has advanced now which also makes their services more better and somewhat cost effective. It is counted as first in Cardiology and Heart surgery in the world and second in Gastroenterology, Neurology and Urology. It shows that it is doing great in all its departments and is known as one of the best hospitals in the world per 2016 to 2017 Honor Roll. Cleveland Clinics mission statement is care of the sick, investigation into their problems and further education of those who This means they are customer orientated and they also provide higher education and make more talented doctors. In the first image the logos is shown by Cleveland hiring of different professional doctors as denoted by the golf bats. It shows that Cleveland clinic really wants to show logic by trying to give patients the best service to maintain their honor roll and performance and that is why they are hiring so many different occupational doctors so that patients are satisfied. Hoffman and Alison says that means logic and it denotes clarity of the argument with proper evidence and (Hoffman, Allyson, and Wiggs, Kimber 30). Here Cleveland Clinic shows logic perfectly to the patients by using this advertisement. Thus, this advertisement proves great logic to the patients as Cleveland Clinic wants to be as the best hospital is the mind. The second rhetorical appeal I want to mention is Kairos. According to Hoffman and Alison means timeliness it also Yasreeb 3 means to identify the right time to obtain a desirable (Hoffman, Allyson, and Wiggs, Kimber 39). It can also be a comparison of time to show improvements examples can be Here in this image the Kairos is that Cleveland Clinic opened in Canada so all the patients can now immediately go to Cleveland Clinic which is highly ranked in honor roll and get treated nearby their homes in Canada. So, this works as here. There is another timely comparison in here which is the 12-month executive health program given by Cleveland Clinic. This shows timeliness so it is also Kairos in here. In both the image ethos which means credibility, is shown here by the logo which denotes the brand or even by using a celebrity in the advertisement can act as ethos. acts as a method of persuasion in which the rhetor or the writer persuades the audience by showing credibility or authority. (Hoffman, Allyson, and Wiggs, Kimber Here in the advertisement image of Cleveland Clinic the ethos is the logo in the picture. It describes credibility of Cleveland Clinic and it helps to identify the brand and the goodwill of Cleveland Clinic. Whereas the logos which means logic here the logic is that Cleveland Clinic wants to say people that they take people as their center of attraction this means they care for people and their happiness. That is why they are opening new branch in Canada so that people can avail their services more easily and their goodwill and brand name improves more. Yasreeb 4 At last, the Kairos means timeliness and here kairos is that Cleveland Clinic opened new branch in Canada so they want people to come quickly to Cleveland Clinic to provide them with the best service and make them realize that they are their centre of attraction. These appeals which were used in the advertisements worked very well because their advertisements were very simple and clear as the first image they showed statistics and very clearly the ethos was mentioned in it because of the logo and the other appeals fitted perfectly except pathos though. Logic is the hiring of new doctors to establish their goodwill more and Kairos is the improvement within that time. By showing statistics and showing new improvements by Cleveland Clinic such as hiring specialized doctors at each position and even opening new branch at Canada will attract more people and make them trust more on Cleveland Clinic. On the other hand, it also goes perfectly with their mission statement as they are improving more to treat patients with the best care. The other image by Cleveland Clinic also met their goals and was successful to be caught in the eyes of the people. Ethos is the logo of Cleveland Clinic, no pathos in it again, logos is that they care for people and they opened new branch for convenience and kairos is that Cleveland Clinic wants people to come quick to their new branch in Canada. This is because their advertisement message was completely customer orientated and people will be attracted by their way of approach and their care towards their patients. In the end, the approaches and the way Cleveland Clinic is advertising their brand shows their excellent service and shows why they one of the leading hospitals. They also advanced in technologies and gathering the best doctors from all over the world. They also provide internships and gives on the job experience for young promising future doctors. As they are one of the best hospitals they are a respectable brand for the patient and a reliable one too. Yasreeb 5 Thus, the two images used by Cleveland Clinic met the ethos, logos and Kairos perfectly and this appeals were all successful enough to attract the consumers or the patients because the advertisements were all simple and easy to understand. Thus, Cleveland Clinic is right now one of the most reputed and leading hospitals in the world. 1269 words Yasreeb 6 Work Cited Founders Cleveland Clinic, http://my.clevelandclinic.org/about/overview/who- we-are/mission-vision-values. Date Accessed- 26 th February 2017 2. Wikipedia. Date Accessed 11 th February 2017 3. Vandertuin, Baker. Clinic Baker Vandertuin Inc. Cleveland Clinic, Accessed 11th February 2017. 4. Hoffman, Allyson, and Wiggs, Kimber, eds. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu,2016. E-text.