German 1 Emma German Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 27 February 2017 Finding the Appeals in Ads: Death With Dignity According to the National Cancer Institute (NIH), in the year 2012, there were 14 million new cases of cancer worldwide and of that 14 million, 8.2 million suffered a cancer-related death. The mortality rate, especially in America, is visibly high and is continuously growing. That means the number of people lying in their death beds suffering and losing their dignity without being able to choose to die is also gradually growing; not including the many other terminal illnesses that take a toll on the lives of many. In the United States, physician-assisted death is illegal in all but a few states. With controversial laws comes organizations, protestors, and the fight of the people to stand up for what they believe is right, and the laws involving physician-assisted death are those laws. Death With Dignity is an organization that stands up for the right to choose to die with prescriptions provided by a physician for those suffering from a terminal illness. One of the many reasons they have a steady count of supporters is due to their promotion methods. With their website, campaigns, and advertisements, Death With Dignity creates visual content that effectively expresses and connects their mission statement to the audience by using appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. For those who may not know, Death With Dignity, established in 1993, is a nonprofit organization that actively fights for the legalization of physician-assisted death for qualified terminally ill adults in the United States, and promotes the importance of having the freedom to German 2 make end-of-life decisions for oneself. They also educate families, healthcare advocates, and others about physician-assisted death as an end-of-life option, and offers legal defense of physician-assisted dying legislations. In fact, on their website, they provide the readers with their goals: mission of the Death with Dignity National Center is to promote Death with Dignity laws based on our model legislation, the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, both to provide an option for dying individuals and to stimulate nationwide improvements in end-of-life (About Us). Their goals are clearly well-intended and they continuously gain supporters, with a little help from advertisements of course. In Image 1 and 2, Death With Dignity uses ethos to gain trust from the audience. In order for advertisements to be effective, one must include something in the ad that uses ethos. As defined in the commonly referred-to textbook, Rhetoric Really Matters, is the way of establishing trust with his or her (20). In Image 1, the ethos, although not as noticeable at first glance, is presented in the text, that acts as the source of the quote. The quote presented in this image is only as powerful as the credibility of the source. The ethos in Image 2 is presented in the same way, by crediting the statistics presented with not their website, but with something more memorable; their logo. The presence of ethos in both images is key for Death With Dignity because without it, the advertisement becomes questionable in regards to accuracy and credibility, therefore showing that ethos establishes trust between the organization and the audience. German 3 One of the most effective ways Death With Dignity connects the audience to their mission statement in both images is by using pathos. Pathos is generally thought of as the appeal to emotion and empathy. In Image 1, the pathos lies in the beautiful vibrant landscape of a bright green field of flowers overlooking the vast blue ocean. The colors are vibrant and makes the audience feel happy, which is supposed to trigger the audience to have a positive attitude towards the mission statement of Death With Dignity, the legalization of physician-assisted death. The green element of the field of flowers seems to promote harmony and balance, which can make the audience feel a sense of peace from the organization. The vast blue ocean could create a soothing vibe. Altogether, the different elements of nature compliment each other in this image creating a peaceful and harmonious image for Death With Dignity. In Image 2, the pathos lies in the logo as well as the diagrams. The logo shows pathos because the vibrant orange colors trigger a happy, positive vibe, which the audience can connect to the cause. The colors in the image balance each other out and is pleasing to look at. These techniques using colors seem to trigger pathos the most in these two images. Death With Dignity uses logos in both images to back up their goals and mission statement. Logos, as some may guess by name, is the appeal to logic. Statistics and other forms of logical evidence or arguments are what give these images truth behind their underlying message. In Image 1, the logos is used within the quote aligned to the top right of the landscape. The quote states that greatest human freedom is to live and die according to own desires and (Death With Dignity). This quote is not only inspirational, but the logic behind it is accurate. The only two things that are assured in life is life and death. To not be able to choose how to die, especially for those suffering near their death seems to be immoral. The organization is pushing to allow for citizens to be able to choose when their death occurs as no German 4 one should suffer. In Image 2, the logos is shown more clearly than the first image. In fact, it is shown through a visual representation of a statistic. The image shows 10 human-like figures standing in a row, seven of them shaded darker than the other three. When first looking at the figures, one may be confused. However, the explanation to the right of the image reads, am one of 7 in 10 AMERICANS who support the FREEDOM of terminally ill people to make their own end-of-life (Death With Dignity). The number presented shows that a good majority of people who were asked supported this method of death, and the organization uses this statistic to show just how many people would like to see the freedom to choose a legal form of suicide during their time of close-to-death suffering. type of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right time. The last rhetorical appeal, kairos, although harder to see, was effectively used by Death With Dignity for both Image 1 and 2. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, kairos is defined as a of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right (25). For the first image, kairos is present in the sense that everyone lives and everyone dies. Everyone has that little voice in the back of their head that one day they will die, and everyone hopes to have a quick and painless death. The quote states that greatest human freedom is to live and making death a high priority. If one has the chance to have a quick and painless death rather than suffering, it is almost a gift. When they use the word it is telling us that how we die should be a choice, not a cause. For the second image, kairos is present in almost the same way as the first image. It is saying that with a majority of individuals supporting a choice of when to German 5 die, it should indeed become a choice that we should be able to make. Death is something that happens to every individual who has ever lived and who will live for the rest of eternity. Suffering is not the answer as to what they are getting across in this message here. With the amount of supporters and the gradual increase of them, one may say that this is in part due to the effectiveness of the rhetorical appeals in their advertisements, including, but not limited to the two images discussed. Both images used all of the four appeals: ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to effectively connect the readers, but they each had appeals that were dominant in each image. Image 1 was able to use a beautiful landscape that mainly focused on the appeal of pathos, by using vibrant colors and views of the ocean to bring about feelings of peace and harmony, as well as happy vibes. With this, the audience can feel as though Death With mission statement promotes peace and a sense of freedom. Image 2 focused more on logos with the statistical diagram that represented the majority of people that support their mission statement. With this, the audience can see that because a majority of people support Death With mission statement, it is only logical that they should too. With the help of rhetorical appeals that include ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, advertisements become more effective. By emotion triggering visions like beautiful landscapes or using reliable data and statistics, Death With Dignity has gained a number of followers over the years. The advertisements allowed this organization to connect the audience to their mission statement that seeks to help those suffering from terminal illnesses. German 6 Works Cited About  Death With Dignity. 2002. 27 Jan. 2017. Cancer  National Cancer Institute. 14 Mar. 2016. 27 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetorical Rhetoric Really Matters: Breaking Down an Image. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text.