Reynoso 1 Paola Reynoso Prof. H. Lay ENC 1102 12 March 2017 With Guns Come Abuse and Destruction Nowadays, many people own a gun, some for the right reasons and others for the wrong reasons. With guns comes gun violence. It is true that many own a gun to protect themselves or in case of an emergency or to stop intruders in their home, yet others own one with the purpose to use them for a hidden agenda whether it be an armed robbery or a terrorist attack. People who own guns for the wrong reasons, to kill or injure someone, is due to money, jealousy, revenge, or any other reason. For example, some gun owners are abusive to their family members, whether their kids, wife or husband. The abuser usually has bad temper and gets angry really fast, which can escalate into the abusive behaviors, whether emotional or physical abuse. According to Break the Cycle, the abusers exhibit other abusive dating behaviors, such as blaming their partner or claiming they provoked them, throwing household objects, kicking, punching, biting, or brandishing a (Spotlight on Warning Signs). As a result of the abuser taking out a weapon, there could easily be a victim due to gun violence, and it will destroy the family. Anyone who looses a person they love due to gun violence is hurt and vulnerable; their lives change because they do not have that person anymore in their lives. In other words, they are also affected because a part of them is missing. This demonstrates the importance of gun control. The States United to Prevent Gun Violence (SUPGV) is an organization in favor of gun control that wants the safety of the people; the SUPGV has provided two images that present the importance of gun Reynoso 2 control and the effects of gun violence through the use of rhetorical appeals, logos, pathos, ethos and kairos. The States United to Prevent Gun Violence (SUPGV) is an organization in favor of gun control. This organization is networking with 32 other state affiliates with the purpose of making communities safe by preventing gun violence through stronger laws, education and grassroots action States They want to reduce gun death and injury. The SUPGV fights to give Americans the right to be safe wherever they are, like in work, schools, and homes without being consumed by fear, loss and grief due to gun violence. SUPGV wants to create a safer environment by keeping guns away from abusers, felons, terrorists and the mentally ill. They think this can be achieved by the use of background checks before any purchase. They want the gun owners to keep guns locked, unloaded and stored, so that it would be out of the reach of children or any other vulnerable person. In addition, they want to educate children and their parents about gun violence and its consequences and prevent massacre by the elimination of military arms from communities. Most of all, they create awareness in the public. The of the SUPGV presents the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to communicate that guns are dangerous and can cause something more than an injury. This image presents a man hitting a woman with and without a gun. The asks the audience to be aware that a gun can make a difference in a fight, from an abusive fight to a death or a severe injury to the victim. Through the use of pathos, which evokes emotions such as sadness and pity, the person puts themselves in that position so they can understand the victim. Seeing a picture of someone pointing the gun to someone is easily ignored until someone points a gun at you. Once the audience experiences that empathy, they would fear that would happen to them and start being aware of the risks of gun violence when an abuser has Reynoso 3 control of a weapon. The audience will feel what the victim (woman, man or child) feels, pain and fear, and it will create an initiative to stand for themselves. Also, the portray uses the color red in the information provided to show a sense of urgency, threat, fear, and awareness towards gun violence. Through the use of ethos, which portrays sincerity and reliability, this image has credibility because it includes the name of the organization with its logo. Implementing the logo in the image makes it seem more professional, real and honest. The image also presents logos, which is logic, reasoning and statistical information. states that gun can mean the difference between an argument and a (New Trajectory). also demonstrates that presence of a gun in a domestic violence situation increases the risk of homicide for women (New Trajectory). As a result, it makes the audience think about possible situations of gun violence that can affect the safety of women. This image does not have a clear use of kairos, which expresses urgency, with the exception of the color red which can insinuate a sense of blood that if it is not stopped now, then it can become worst and harder to stop. In a way, the red would insinuate urgency. With this picture, the audience will finally understand the dangers of guns. The of the SUPGV presents the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, and logos to communicate that gun violence can take a live and destroy the lives of the people that surrounded the victim through grief and/or emotional trauma. The element of pathos is seen through the use of a baby and a woman inside the silhouette of a man. Usually, people are more concern with victims who are children and women, so this helps create a feeling of pity and sadness. The red in the middle of the silhouette affects every person in it, the baby, the woman and the man. Showing how it affects everyone causes a feeling of distress, depression and emptiness. This image asks the the audience to be aware that a gun can make a difference in a family. Having a gun Reynoso 4 increases the risks of accidents and deaths due to gun violence. This image portrays that if someone is shot at and killed, other people can be too. For example, a lady who is pregnant and gets shoot at, her and the baby can both die. That would be a literal example, but a symbolic example could be that the family is affected economically and most importantly, emotionally. So it would not only take the life of someone but also the routinely life of the people that surrounded the victim. Once a person loses someone else, their whole life changes. In a way the provokes fear due to the shape it has. It is the shape that people shoot at when practicing their shots. Knowing that there are plenty of trained people around us that know how to shoot can be scary and one can feel a lack of security. This depiction also uses ethos; it has credibility because it has the name of the stakeholder and their website. With the website, the audience can corroborate that the information presented in the image and what they stand for is accurate. The portrait shows the rhetorical appeal of logos through the statement: leave bigger holes than you (Coloribus). Although this is a simple statement, it has plenty of meaning. It can create awareness by teaching how others are affected by the death of a person they know. According to Child Welfare League of America (CWLA), gun violence not only affects the men, women and children who were killed but also those that were present during the tragedy and families and communities. Many of those that are affected are traumatized by the violence Impact of Gun CWLA also mentions that exposed to gun violence may experience negative short and long-term psychological effects, including anger, withdrawal, posttraumatic stress, and desensitization to and that they be at higher risk for negative outcomes if they are exposed to gun violence Impact of Gun The two images provided by SUPGV show the importance of safety and gun control with the use of the rhetorical appeals. These images help the audience understand the destructive Reynoso 5 consequences of gun violence and the effects it has to the individual, victim, and the the family and friends who care and love the person who was injured or killed. Helping the audience understand these images is a way to create awareness and as a result decrease gun violence. Reynoso 6 Appendix Image 1: http://3.bp.blogspot.com/- Yr6S4htz9K0/VX55ENOvnj wOUGk/s1600/domestic%2 Bviolence%2Band%2Bguns %2Bgraphic.jpg Image 2: https://files1.coloribus.com/files 5/file/states-united-to-prevent- gun-violence-guns-leave-bigger- holes-than-you-think-600- 70012.jpg Reynoso 7 Works Cited About States  States United to Prevent Gun Violence A 50 State Solution To End Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. http://www.ceasefireusa.org/about Spotlight on Warning Signs: Explosive  Break the Cycle. N.p., 15 July 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.breakthecycle.org/blog/spotlight-warning-signs-explosive- temper>. States United to Prevent Gun Violence. Gun Can Make a Difference Between an Argument and a New Trajectory. http://newtrajectory.blogspot.com/2015/06/oregon-is-taking-decisive-step-in.html States United to Prevent Gun Violence. Leave Bigger Holes Than You Coloribus. https://www.coloribus.com/adsarchive/prints/states-united-to-prevent- gun-violence-guns-leave-bigger-holes-than-you-think-17169855/ The Impact of Gun  CWLA. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. http://www.cwla.org/the- impact-of-gun-violence-on-children-families-communities/.