Thiha 1 Min Thiha Dori Davis ENC 1102: 048 27/2/2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric of a ESRB rating system ESRB, Entertainment Software Rating Board, is a non-profit self-regulatory body that assigns ratings for video games and they are assigned based on their different types of violence. ESRB is trying to give attention to the parents that their system is useful to protect their children by making them inaccessible to buy and play video games without their permission. ESRB was created by the Entertainment Software Association after consulting a wide range of researches on other rating systems and researches specifically made for parents. Today, consumers play games on their different devices on different gaming platforms such as consoles and computers. According to ESRB philosophy, parents wanted to place equal importance on guidance about interactive elements as they do about the specific content in a game (ESRB/Philosophy). There is hope that ESRB will successfully able to influence the parents to finally trust their safety by using the ESRB system. As the goal was to gain the trust, two images are used to define the system process and their progress . The first image represents that ESRB is showing how they became well known in community since creation. It represents about the awareness and the usage of ESRB ratings between 1999 and 2016. According to the survey conducted by Henry J. Kaiser family foundation article, parents said that among all entertainment rating system, ESRB is the most useful, with 91% Thiha 2 finding useful, 58% to very useful and 33% to somewhat useful (Henry J. Kaiser, June 2007). The goal of the first image is simply to show more parents, who know nothing about their system and let them know that it is safe to trust their system by showing this research program. The second image is about how ESRB is trying to stop the people who are below their restricted age purchasing the game which are not suitable for them. The survey was based on the percentage of underage purchases stopped between the years of 2000 and 2013. The source of the information was the Federal Trade Commission Mystery Shopper Audits. One of the most recent survey in this image was that 87% of individual under age 17 were turned away when they are trying to purchase Mature-rated or R rated games (ESRB/ FTC mystery shops). These two chosen images have one focus and it is about showing that they are desperately trying to persuade the community to give them a chance to protect their children by proving them in different ways. The rating board system is based on age appropriateness and parents can use it to determine that their children can play the game or not. ESRB was established in 1994 by the Entertainment Software Association (ESA) (ESRB/About). According to their official website, the goal of ESRB is to gain trust about their rating system with the guidance that enables the parents to make an informative decision about the suitability of the video games and apps for their children (ESRB/About). The system works with a three-part rating system including age-appropriateness and other systems such as Content Descriptors and Interactive elements. As these three systems are combined, it becomes a system that is widely used by game publishers, trustable by parents, supported by the retailers and considered as the best entertainment rating system in the United State. The reason they are called the best rating system relies on the two images. First is based on their parental awareness and use after the system was introduced at the end of 20 th century and the Thiha 3 second image is how the system is trying to prevent underage-people from purchasing video games that are restricted for underage people. First Image ( https://www.esrb.org/about/awareness.aspx ) The first image was conducted as a consumer research by Hart Research. and ESRB wanted to make a survey for parents to measure awareness and use of the ESRB system. Their target audience was the parents. The image is related to ethos because ESRB created this survey so this information can be considered as credible and trusted. Also, it has detailed information researched from year to year which another ethos can be found in this image. For additional ethos, it can motivate the audience to trust their system by looking at their progress. Parents can feel safe when they trust and use the ESRB system. They conduct this research to make a better world for people when playing games and the system is trying to be their guidance to let them have a suitable game for them to play. Therefore, this information can be also considered related to logos. As for Thiha 4 Kairos, it can be considered because the survey was made since 1999 till today and the research is urgent and important for ESRB. Second Image ( https://www.esrb.org/about/awareness.aspx ) As for the second picture, the goal of the image is to show that ESRB has stopped a considerably amount of people who are too young to play mature video games and ESRB was able to stop them from purchasing. It is related to ethos because the image was sourced by the Federal Trade Commission which is done by the Entertainment Software rating board for video games. Therefore, this information is trusted and credible. However, it is impossible to find pathos since it was a research information about prevent under-age people purchasing mature video games. As for the logos, it was made for the purpose of gaining parents trust and improving ESRB goal of age appropriateness so it can be considered relatable. However, for the Kairos, the image Thiha 5 mention about the urgency about the purpose of this image and therefore it was only made for research purposes when it was created. Because of this, it is impossible to find Kairos in the second image. To conclude, we are going to be parents one day and we should aware of these situations as a teenager for now. There are a lot of examples that some games can harm people with their adult violence. We should follow the footsteps of what ESRB has made for us. They showed us their progress to gain our trust and managed a lot of things to maintain their system. They even try to stop underage teenagers from buying adult games. As long as we trust the ESRB rating system and do little things like they want us to do, our generation might be the first one to prove that has progressed in a positive way to live a safe life through video games. ESA, creator of ESRB, is part of the system and will continue to make it better to strive in the progress of gaming. Now that our generation is fully aware of these situations, we can be the very first generation of parents who truly understands the purpose ESRB and we can truly educate ourselves and then try our best for the safety of our future children. Thiha 6 Work Cited  Entertainment Software Rating Board, About ESRB http://www.esrb.org/about/ Accessed Sat 25 Jan 2017  Entertainment Software Rating Board, ESRB survey: Parental Awareness and use https://www.esrb.org/about/awareness.aspx Accessed Sat. 25 Jan 2017 Kaiser H.,  Entertainment Software Rating Board, Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation https://www.esrb.org/about/awareness.aspx Accessed Sat. 25 Jan 2017  Entertainment Software Rating Board, FTC Mystery Shopper Adults https://www.esrb.org/about/awareness.aspx Accessed Sat. 25 Jan 2017  Entertainment Software Rating Board, Resource and Tips for Parents Accessed Sat 25 Jan 2017