Dean 1 Casey Dean Professor Basil ENC 1102 12 March 2017 The Reality of Teen Pregnancies Every year Planned Parenthood helps prevent numerous amounts of teen pregnancies by providing sexual education and promoting the use of contraceptives, but with word of defunding Planned Parenthood additional stakeholders are getting involved in helping to lower teenage pregnancies. A stakeholder known as the is an organization concerned with raising awareness of the devastating consequences of teen pregnancies. Unplanned pregnancies effect a significant number of teenage girls, whether it be the result of contraceptive failure, lack of contraceptive use or incorrect contraceptive use. Births resulting from unplanned pregnancies are often associated with adverse maternal and child health outcomes, such as delayed prenatal care, premature birth, and negative physical and mental health effects for children. Because of this it has become a public health goal to reduce the number of unplanned/teenage pregnancies in the country to both improve the lives of children and teenage girls. With Planned Parenthood losing funding unplanned pregnancies by teenage girls would only continue to increase. The Foundation has stepped up to help make a difference in the youth of the United States by bettering teenage lives and lowering the rate of pregnancies among adolescents. The Foundation is doing so by providing advertisements containing shocking statistics and famous figures. The use of specific rhetorical appeals in their images such Dean 2 as pathos ethos and logos effectively advertises the devastating consequences that come along with teenage pregnancies. The Foundation was created as an addition from the successful shoe company known as Neil Cole the founder of the Foundation stated in an interview with ABC news that we at known for selling high-heel shoes to mostly teenage girls. And we saw this issue that almost one million teenagers were getting pregnant. And we were astounded by the figures. So, you know, as a company, we decided to give (Cuomo). is a successful shoe company with a consumer group of mainly young women and teenage girls and because it is so popular and widely known among the same age group that is being affected by unplanned pregnancies, it gives the foundation associated with a greater chance at making a difference. The Foundation is known for using celebrities on their advertisements, in doing so they are able to speak to teens using their own language. The purpose of their campaign is to influence teen culture and impact the way they think about teen pregnancy and realize the resulting consequences (Mission). Since 2001 the number of births a year for teenagers ages 15-19 has decreased by an estimated 300,000, showing that since the Foundation was created they have been successful in reaching their main goal of decreasing teenage pregnancies (Division of Vital Statistics). The success is a result of clear and effective use of rhetorical appeals in their advertisements. The foundation campaign for teen pregnancy was effective because of the rhetorical appeals used in each advertisement. Pathos is the quality of the image that appeals to emotions. Both images from the Foundation use pathos to evoke emotion from the audience. The way both images are structured with a black background and a black and white Dean 3 picture of a celebrity shows the seriousness of the topic. In the first image Bristol Palin, who is one of the most famous teen moms is pictured with her son. Both her and her son have a very emotionless expression instead of a smile which provokes a negative emotion toward being a teen mom. The quote from Bristol placed next to her picture reads never thought I would be a the tone of regret in this statement adds to the negative feel of emotion in this advertisement as well. In addition, using words like in both advertisements appeals to pathos as well by making the audience associate teen pregnancies with bad endings. Overall, through the use of bold statements and images of people who are idolized by teenage girls the Foundation effectively makes a stand on the consequences associated with teen pregnancy. Ethos used in an image appeals to the creditability of the information displayed. The celebrities shown on each image are a common use of ethos. Bristol Palin, being a widely known teenage mom gives her relevance to the topic of teen pregnancies. The audience is likely to believe the information coming from her is true because she has lived through it. For the second image, using Hayden Panettiere as a figure to represent the foundation is effective because many teenage girls admire her. Being an actress in films directed toward the youth of America she is widely known by the intended audience and can support the trustworthiness of the information. In addition to using celebrities the Foundation also proves creditability by including their website on each advertisement. In doing so they are giving the audience the option to look in to the organization in depth if they wish to do so. The use of ethos in these advertisements strengthens the legitimacy of their campaign making it effective. Logos is the use of logic in an advertisement which can be seen in the Dean 4 Foundation campaign using factual information. If an argument uses logic and makes sense, then people are more likely to agree with it. The first image gives a statistic of than 750,000 teenage girls will become pregnant this which supports that teen pregnancies are an issue in the United States. Seeing such a surprising statistic is likely to persuade the audience into agreeing against teen pregnancies, and with a negative attitude toward them, teenage girls are more likely to take precaution toward not getting pregnant. The second image also provides logos using a statistic, a baby can cost over $10,000 a This is another surprising statistic that intended to make the audience think against becoming a teen parent because most teenagers from ages 15-19 are not financially stable enough to raise a child themselves seeing a number like this would make them think twice and be more cautious when getting involved in sexual relations. Another logical aspect of the second image is the way the question really the way you pictured your first crib, is worded. By phrasing the question this way they are directing the question specifically to teenagers by using words they understand. Most adults would not refer to a house as a crib but teenagers would and by phrasing the question this way they are trying to make a point that having a child as a teenager can change your intended future drastically. Using this logic within their advertisements successfully shows the reality and consequences of teen pregnancies. Teenage pregnancies are something that can happen unexpectedly but be changed once they happen. In addition to being able to have access to all the necessary preventatives of pregnancies it is also important for all teenagers to take into account what repercussions can come from being a teen parent and why the Foundation created a campaign directed toward exposing teen pregnancies for what they really are. Each specific rhetorical appeal used in the advertisements contributes to effectiveness of the advertisement making it Dean 5 successful in conveying information and influencing teenagers to consider the consequences of teen pregnancy and parenthood. Dean 6 WORKS CITED Division of Vital Statistics; Ventura, Stephanie J., Brady E. Hamilton, and T. J. Matthews. National and State Patterns of Teen Births in the United States. Rep. no. 4. 4th ed. Vol. 63. N.p.: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2014. Print. Cuomo, Chris. Bristol  Good Morning America (ABC), 06 May 2009, p. 1. EBSCOhost  The Foundation. The Foundation, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.