Singer 1 Molly Singer Professor Davis ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Stance Against BlackFish SeaWorld is a widely recognized aquatic themed park, providing entertainment using marine mammals such as killer whales, and dolphins in shows and other attractions. The foundation of this once beloved theme park was shaken in 2013, when a documentary by the name of Blackfish was released. The documentary covers the controversy of keeping animals like killer whales in captivity, and painted SeaWorld as a business that did not truly care for the animals it hosts. Since premiere at the 2013 Sundance Film Festival, public attitude has turned hostile towards SeaWorld with many people calling for the park to stop breeding its marine mammals and using them in shows. In response to all the negative feelings towards the theme park, SeaWorld has created many images, videos, and a calling for the public to see the truth about what goes on behind the scenes at SeaWorld with its marine mammals. Through the use of rhetorical strategies, both figure one and figure two relate to goal of clearing its name of the negative accusations that came from Blackfish, and putting forth mission to provide an interactive and educational experience to help connect and care for the natural world. What was originally supposed to be an underwater restaurant, SeaWorld has expanded into three parks in San Diego, CA, San Antonio, TX and Orlando, FL. First opened in 1965, the San Diego park was the first SeaWorld. Initially, it only had dolphins and sea lions exhibits, but following the fruitful first year the park experienced, the first Killer Whale, Shamu was captured Singer 2 and brought to the park in 1965. In growing the business, SeaWorld has helped develop many of the standard care and breeding practices used for marine mammals in captivity. Although SeaWorld has had a long and prosperous history, the theme park has recently come under fire from both the public and many animal rights groups since the release of the documentary Blackfish which showed SeaWorld in a less-than flattering light. The documentary depicts SeaWorld as a facility that does not truly provide the care for Killer Whales as it says it does, saying that the marine mammals are put under a lot of stress from having to perform and not having the appropriate social interaction with other Killer Whales as they would in the wild. Blackfish also calls SeaWorld out about not providing accurate facts about their animals, saying that the park twists the truth about the animals to fit what SeaWorld needs the public to know. Since the documentary came out in 2013, SeaWorld has been greatly trying to reinvent its image in the public eye. This has included turning the attention of the park more towards the conservation of marine mammals, advocating for their rights, and providing a more educational experience for guests. current mission statement is more than 50 years, we have been a leading theme park and entertainment company delivering personal, interactive and educational experiences that blend imagination with nature and enable our guests to celebrate, connect with and care for the natural world we (Who Are We, n.d.). In addition, SeaWorld has created a couple of teams to help brighten their image: Truth Team to discredit much of the negative image that Blackfish created for the park, and in July 2016, the SeaWorld Action Team, which anyone can join to help conserve, protect, and educate their local community about nature and the animals around them. The park has also announced that it will stop breeding its Killer Whales, making current family of orcas, its last generation. Even with all the improvements the park is making, SeaWorld Entertainment Singer 3 Executive, Joel Manby says he never expected this change in policy to completely alleviate the situation, but stays optimistic that future changes will help SeaWorld get back on the good side (Martin). Following the release of Blackfish, SeaWorld released many images with a goal to get the public to look past what the documentary was saying and to what SeaWorld really has going on behind the scenes. Figure 1 was posted on Twitter account, and includes a link to a SeaWorld website that clarifies what SeaWorld is trying to do for the animals. Since it was posted on Twitter, the main audience would be a large portion of the general population because many people now use this social media platform. Furthermore, it can be seen that the tweet was promoted, meaning that nearly everyone using the site would see it, if not just the people following SeaWorld. The purpose of sending out Figure 1 to the public can be found using the rhetorical strategies, ethos, pathos, logos and kairos, and some logical fallacies within the image. The image depicts a woman in a uniform and other trainers in the background with some of animals, thus giving her the credibility associated with being a trainer. This applies ethos to the photo because it is expected that as a trainer she would be a trustworthy source on how the animals are doing because she is working directly with the killer whales, knowing their condition and how they are treated at the park. Using ethos in this way could be seen as an argument from authority, which is when someone claims to be an expert on a topic and, on that basis, to be deserving of trust. This could work for sending this image out to a general group of people because not everyone who sees the picture would research to make sure that the woman is an actual trainer. Going hand-in-hand with ethos, logos is established because it seems logical that a person whose job is to work with and look after the well-being the animals would develop a relationship with those animals. A trainer being someone who is so Singer 4 close with these animals would not mistreat the animals, or want to have people think that they mistreat the animals. Pathos is displayed mostly in the words on the picture which read, thing I want people to know after watching the movie is that not This shows pathos through the way that in the quote is shown in yellow while the rest of the words are in white, not only pushing that word to stand out among the words, but of the whole picture. It is indicating a sort of strong emotion in the voice of the trainer speaking. Kairos, dealing with time, is important in the image because SeaWorld wants to send out an image discrediting the Blackfish propaganda as soon as possible to save some of their reputation, but maybe not right after many people have seen the documentary. They need to give the public some time to cool down about the situation. The main goal of Figure 1 is to get a large portion of the public to start looking into the facts about SeaWorld, and to show that the people who work for the park truly care about the animals they look after. Figure 2 has a similar goal as Figure 1, but it goes farther from wanting people to see the true facts about SeaWorld to having people joining Truth Team and spread the word about the park themselves. Again, it is seen that the projected audience for this image would be the public, yet instead of having SeaWorld being the direct source of the picture, it seems that it is intended for members of the public to post this on their own social media. In doing this, the strategies to improve image are changed into another form. On the grounds that Figure 2 is posted by a member of public, ethos is established from having someone the viewer would know be the poster of the image. Depending on what the relation is between the poster and the viewer, the poster would be a credible source since someone the viewer knows agrees with SeaWorld, making SeaWorld seem more positive. Along with that, pathos is invoked by making the viewer seem somewhat guilty or embarrassed if they join, or at least look into Singer 5 the Truth Team because someone they know has joined it. In addition, the way is presented as the biggest words, challenging the viewer. Using pathos in this way could be a play on the bandwagon fallacy; by having other people post the image and the words and make the viewer feel more obligated because it seems that so many other people have taken side on this topic. Kairos is important in this image because it cannot be sent out too soon after Figure 1. SeaWorld needs to give people time to look into what is truly going on in the park, so that they can gain a steady following and have people post this on their social media accounts. Overall both figures really played on ethos the most, and used logos to support it. While pathos was used, it was not a huge factor in having the photos make a lasting impact, and kairos was important, but kind of a given since they came out after the majority of people have seen Blackfish. Ultimately, both figures do help achieve the goal of promoting positive image and spreading the word of the good they are now doing for the animals. Singer 6 Works Cited Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. Introducing the SeaWorld Action  Introducing the SeaWorld Action Team. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &.  Where Imagination Meets Nature. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Theme Park History: A Short History of SeaWorld San  Theme Park Insider. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Think Turnaround Satisfied Animal-rights Activists? Think  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Singer 7 Figure 1 Figure 2