Rosa 1 Sydney Rosa ENC 1102 Ms. Lay 25 February 2017 GBCAT Visual Rhetoric Human trafficking is the focus of the organization GBCAT because they find it a huge issue in not only the US but all over the globe. For this very reason, this organization is made up of multiple huge corporations that support this cause. As a way to support the community and this cause, business community [is playing a significant in advancing progress towards ending human (About GBCAT). This organization focuses on training and educating businesses about sex trafficking in order to come up with solutions on how to address and solve the problem of human trafficking. David Arkless, Founding Counselor and Board Member of GBCAT, claims that by completely involving the business world in this world wide problem, solutions can be made and by taking action, human trafficking can eventually be eradicated. This mission statement claims that they strive to the power, resources and thought leadership of the business community to end human trafficking, including all forms of forced labor and sex The GBCAT supports companies who want to understand the necessity for partnerships between companies so that they can work together to better the community. Two of the images GBCAT uses to inform the community about human trafficking are similar but not completely alike. Both of the images use pathos, ethos, and logos. However, image one focuses more on pathos while image two mainly focuses on ethos. Rhetorical appeal is important for advertising because it will reach more people and affect them in different ways, causing them to react to the advertisement the way the company or Rosa 2 organization intended. The rhetorical appeals used by GBCAT are extremely useful because of how important this topic is. GBCAT uses the rhetorical appeals to inform the audience of the worldwide problem of human trafficking and they are trying to persuade them to help do something about it. GBCAT used pathos as a way to reach their audience because emotions are everywhere and because this topic is very emotional and impactful, pathos fits perfectly. The rhetorical appeal is defined by evoking emotion such as pity or sadness. Image one uses pathos by having the words in big, bold letters at the very top of the image. Underneath that it says, you can do about which catches the audiences attention. The audience sees that and immediately feels the need to continue reading. Human trafficking is a serious problem and if there is anything the community can do to reduce this problem, most people will take the time to read the advertisement to find out how they can help, even if the only thing they do is spread the word. The image lets people know what to look for, that someone may be and also who to report the signs to. This advertisement also shows a few products people can buy that have not been affected by the trafficking supply chain. Meaning victims of human trafficking were not forced to help make those products or manufacture them. The victims of human trafficking are 21 st century slaves. Most thought slavery was abolished in the United States however, it just took a new form. For example, human trafficking is slavery because these traffickers keep the victims against their will. Unlike prostitution, where the people get paid to do what they are doing, victims of human trafficking are not paid. Because of this, the advertisement evokes emotions from the audience, which influences them more. By influences them through a pathos angle, the audience feels more sympathy for the victims. This is exactly what the organization wanted to do so that the audience Rosa 3 would actually pay attention to the people in their lives to determine if there were any signs of human trafficking around them. Image two uses pathos as well. This image focuses more on the organization by placing the name large at the top. This image shows all the companies that are involved in this organization. The companies came together to build an organization against human trafficking. By doing this, the audience viewing this image should be inspired to come together to help in anyway they can. The least the audience could do is spread the word of GBCAT and what their mission is. GBCAT also used logos so that the audience would get that human trafficking is actually a huge problem in the world today. The rhetorical appeal is defined by using logic or reason. Image one uses the appeal logos by showing that anyone can contribute to ending human trafficking. When one sees an advertisement such as image one, it is logical to keep reading and understand what the organization is trying to accomplish. The audience should understand the reasoning for using this advertisement and they should do what they can to help out. This image uses facts such as what kind of signs there are for someone who may be trafficked. GBCAT must know what signs to look for in people who may be trafficked or else they would not put it on an ad. Thus, by putting what to look for, the audience knows that the signs must be real and they will not just be looking for signs due to false information. Image two uses logos as well. Due to the fact that the image shows all the companies that make up the organization, it is evident that the image is important and it also proves that the organization wants to be taken seriously. Each business represented on the image is well known and they each want to be known for their involvement in GBCAT. This reassures the audience that they can logically support what this image is showing. GBCAT used logos in these two images because they recognize the need to reach their audience from a factual and logical point of view. A lot of people are skeptical when Rosa 4 it comes to ads because a lot of companies lie just to get sales. However, this organization supports a very serious problem, and this image proves to the audience that they are serious about solving it. Finally, GBCAT used ethos to appeal to their audience. The rhetorical appeal is defined by using ethics and credibility. Image one uses ethos by putting real phone numbers to report info to about human trafficking. This proves credibility of the advertisement. If anyone were to see signs that someone may be trafficked, they would know that the hotlines and websites provided on the ad would be reliable sources for them to report the info to. They would have no need to worry about whether they did the right thing or not because this ad shows them that they did. Therefore, because this ad is credible and reliable, the audience can trust it and believe the words they read and images they see from it. Image two is more direct with how they use ethos. In image one, the organization name is large at the top and underneath, shows the board member companies that make up the organization. By showing all the companies that support the cause to end human trafficking, the audience of this ad finds credibility. All these companies are well known therefore, the audience believes in the ad that much more. GBCAT uses ethos for their advertisements because they have no reason not to be honest about who they are and what they stand for. By placing all the companies on the ad, they are being honest and they are allowing the audience to trust them. This causes the audience to be more likely to support them and spread the word about the cause. The more people who know about GBCAT and what they are fighting for, the better the community will be (Balch). There can never be enough people coming together to come up with a solution to abolish human trafficking. The two images used by GBCAT to advertise their stance on human trafficking are effective due to the use of these rhetorical appeals: pathos, logos, and ethos. GBCAT used pathos Rosa 5 to help their images impact the audience because they realized that by appealing to emotions, they would get help to end human trafficking. The same applies to showing logic and credibility in the images. If people see ads that are fake and full of false information they will disregard it and not pay attention. But once they see images that they are real and have to deal with real worldwide problems, that is when people pay attention. ads work towards the cause and impact the audience through rhetorical appeal. Spreading the word and reporting signs one might see, human trafficking is slowly being demolished. Rosa 6 Appendix Rosa 7 Works Cited About  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://gbcat.org/>. Balch, Oliver. Corporate Initiative Can Play a Major Role in Anti-trafficking  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 03 Apr. 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://www.theguardian.com/global-development-professionals network/2013/apr/03/human-trafficking-global-business-coalition>. GBCAT logo and founding members; <www.gbcat.org> Human Trafficking: What Can You Do About Coca-Cola Atlanta Headquarters, <http://www.coca-colacompany.com/coca-cola-unbottled/the-fight-against-human trafficking-gets-personal> Travelport Among Members Of Initiative To Combat Human  GTP Headlines. N.p., 02 Oct. 2012. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. <http://news.gtp.gr/2012/09/28/travelport among-members-of-initiative-to-combat-human-trafficking/>.