Copper 1 Corey M. Copper Sarah Basil English Composition 2 March 11, 2017 CDC Against Smoking The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is a professional health organization that works 24/7 on protecting America from any foreign or domestic health threats. CDC launched the-Tips From Former Smokers-education campaign back in March 2012. One of the Tips campaign main goals is to focus on, public awareness of the damage caused from smoking and secondhand (About the Campaign). The first image is a picture of woman named Kristy that has a scar on the right side of the chest because of long exposure of smoking tobacco products. The second image is a picture of a diabetic man named Bill who has received an amputation, kidney failure, and heart surgery because of smoking tobacco products. Both of these images use the four same types of rhetorical appeals and both of them also have the same goals. One of their main goals is convince all the smokers on the world to quit and make all free help available to them. These two images are really effective because use real people as examples of the terrible side effects of smoking. The Tips From Former Smokers campaign uses the rhetorical appeals of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos to help promote self-education and awareness of smoking to anyone that smokes in America. The rhetorical appeal pathos is the appeal to emotions of a human being, and the emotions that were used were the sense of sympathy, fear, and seriousness in this advertisement. The first image shows a woman named Kristy that has a huge scar across Copper 2 the right side of her chest. The reason she has this scar is because she suffered from a collapsed lung, which is caused by long-term smoking of tobacco products. The image shows the woman with a sad face, which makes the audience feel sympathetic for her. The reason this image makes us feel fearful, because it shows the after effects of getting a collapsed lung from smoking too many cigarettes. This image shows a sense of seriousness about smoking cigarettes, because it shows that this can happen to anyone that smokes cigarettes or tobacco products. The dark colors used in this image also bring out the intentness and fear to draw in the audiences attention. The main goal of the first image is to convince smokers to quit before it gets worse, and tell non-smokers to spread the news about the side effects of smoking are deadly. The appeals to pathos in this image are represented by the use of bold-white text, the background he is in, and the use of a real life example of a diabetic that smokes. The second image shows a man named Bill who is forty years old and lives in Michigan. Bill is a diabetic that smokes a lot of cigarettes. This advertisement provides the audience a sense of horror, sympathy, intentness, and community. The image shows the horror of the side effects of smoking tobacco products while being a diabetic. In case, if diabetics smoke cigarettes at anytime, they will need to plan for amputation, kidney failure, heart surgery, or all three operations. The image makes us feel sympathetic for Bill, because he is diabetic and he had to go through all three of those operations listed on the image. This image has a seriousness feel, because Bill tells his tip to other diabetic and common smokers with a serious face. The use of the big white text is to showcase the audience on what are the most important parts of this advertisement. This image provides a sense of community to the audience, because it connects to diabetics that smoke and to Copper 3 the people that live in Tennessee. The main goal of this image is to convince diabetics and common smokers to quit smoking, because it shows the horrifying effects of smoking cigarettes. Both images used the sense of horror, fear, sympathy, and intentness to drive the audiences attention to the images. The rhetorical appeal ethos is the appeal to credibility or trustworthy. The appeals to ethos in both images are represented by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention logo, the CDC website, and the use of real-life people that are victims of smoking tobacco products as examples in their advertisements. The use of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention logo in both images proves that credible sources, because it shows that came from a professional organization. The use of the CDC website link in both images is provided by the government, which is a trustworthy or credible source. It has the trustworthy appeal to both images because it connects the audience to real-life examples of people who are victims of smoking. The rhetorical appeal logos is the appeal to logic, and is also the way of persuading the audience by reason. The appeals to logos are represented by the use of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention company logo, recorded evidence about the person, and CDC state their own facts of reason at the end of both images. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is a well-known professional health organization that protects American from any foreign or domestic health issues. The CDC company logo persuades the audience that a logical source that can be trusted. The images uses facts about the persons age, which state the person is living in, and it also provides the persons first name. They even provide a picture of what the person looks like in real-life. This proves that not creating an imaginary person to convince people that smoking is Copper 4 bad for your health. At the end of each image, CDC states their own quick facts or statements about the dangers of smoking. For example, they say that diabetics that smoke makes diabetes much worse. This appeals as a factual statement that reasons the audience to believe that smoking is very harmful. The rhetorical appeal kairos is the appeal to emergency or timeliness. The appeals to kairos are represented by the images of the scarred people, and the hotline to help people quit smoking. These images have a sense of emergency to smokers and diabetics because it shows that if people keep smoking for a long period of time, then they will suffer the same fate as Bill and Kristy. These images also have the NOW is the time to act appeal, because it has the hotline to help people quit smoking at (1-800-QUIT-NOW). The most important appeal to kairos that was used in both images was the hotline to quit smoking, because this appeals to a sense of emergency if the audience feels the urge of needing help to quit smoking. Today, smoking is still a relevant issue that gets even worse every day. According to The World Health Organization, more than 5 million deaths are the result of direct tobacco use (Tobacco). CDC noticed that was an absurd amount of people dying, so they decided to start the Tips from Common Smokers campaign back in March 2012. Also, according to the American Lung Association, lead, tar these are just a few of more than 7,000 chemicals in tobacco (Smoking Facts). The first three are pretty much considered poisonous to our bodies, but the 7,000 other chemicals would be ridiculously more dangerous to our human health. These two advertisements are very effective because it shows the gruesome effects of smoking tobacco products on a human body. Copper 5 The use of the rhetorical appeals of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos in the Tips From Former Smokers campaign helps promote public awareness about smoking to the people across the United States of America. The rhetorical appeal of pathos is the appeal to our emotions from the images above. The rhetorical appeal of ethos is the appeal to our sense of credibility or trustworthy. The rhetorical appeal of logos is the appeal is the appeal to our sense of logic or being able to persuade the audience by reason. The rhetorical appeal of kairos is the appeal to our sense of timeliness or emergency. The simplest reason to quit smoking is that they will live much longer, and they will be able save money because a pack of cigarettes gets more expensive every year. Copper 6 Work Cited Kristy, age 35, Tennessee. Digital Image. CDCTips. Ad Council, n.d. Web. 25 Feb, 2016 Bill, age 40, Michigan. Digital Image. CDCTips. Ad Council, n.d. Web. 25, 2016  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Smoking  American Lung Association. American Lung Association, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. About the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 17 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Copper 7 Copper 8