Anderson 1 Taliyah Anderson Hannah Lay ENC 1102 Project 2 UNICEF Explained The world we live in is full of disasters and at the heart of each and every catastrophe, UNICEF is usually there. The Nations International Emergency Fund (UNICEF) is an organization designated to helping the needs of children in the developing world main goals coincide with the constant education, health, and nutrition of children in need. UNICEF states that they whatever it takes to save and protect the most vulnerable .Children are usually the innocents involved in world conflict, considering that all wars are started by adults. UNICEF believes helping children in developing countries in the hopes that a new generation can help benefit their home country. Because it is a non-profit organization, they densely depend on donations from governments, non-government organizations, and private individuals to keep their organization alive. Therefore, they have developed advertisements that can persuade an audience to help with the funding of the organization. In the two advertisements chosen, UNICEF has summoned strong emotions through pathos, stable dependability through ethos, sensitivity of time through kairos, and rationality through logos to get their reader to donate to the organization. Anderson 2 ) The first advertisement utilizes the rhetorical appeals pathos, ethos, and kairos. The advertisement depicts a fork that resembles a helping hand with a very simple background. It also has text that reads kills 2.5 million children every year. Your donation This ads features pathos, ethos, and kairos. As defined by Merriam-Webster, means element in experience or in artistic representation evoking or Pertaining to this picture, pathos is used by using the fork as a helping hand. This helps the audience feel compassion in the fact that this food is helping children in need. UNICEF could have just pictured a regular fork, but instead chose to make it look like a hand. Also, the words Anderson 3 used in the textbox are very vivid and strong in conviction. UNICEF says instead of a softer word for death. Then, the next sentence donation is like a call for action for those who think they can. Not only does this help the audience feel something for the children who need help, it helps them relate donations to a life-and-death situation. This may cause the rush of emotions to donate to UNICEF. Defined again by Merriam-Webster, means distinguishing character, sentiment, moral nature, or guiding beliefs of a person, group, or Because of the logo UNICEF placed on the bottom right corner of the picture, the individual seeing the advertisement can see who is responsible for it. Since 1946, UNICEF has been a reputable organization who devotes their donations efficiently to the people who need them and not to their administration. Their organization is well-trusted and people respect them. Because of this, people are not afraid to donate to them in fear that their money will not be handed to people who need it. The advertisement itself it put together well, but the fact that it was created by a high-principled, well-known organization makes the information more trustworthy. Kairos is defined as propitious moment for decision or by the Oxford Living Dictionary By saying that million are being killed from starvation annually, it calls to action that the issue is time-sensitive. It also pushes the importance of this issue very clearly. This means the audience can take this fact, and make their donation now rather than later. It makes the audience think that every second they wait, a child will be dead. Making the issue of world hunger time-sensitive is smart from a logical standpoint but also a Anderson 4 fiscal standpoint as well. This meaning that children in need have to eat logically, but also getting money now as opposed to later can help more people faster. #5 UNICEF Ad.) The second advertisement using pathos, ethos, logos. The advertisement is of a baby doll with its back on full displaying. It shows that the baby doll is empty of batteries. It also has the statement less than the price of a battery, you can give a real child a new included. This advertisement employs pathos, logos, and ethos. To reiterate, the definition of pathos is element in experience or in artistic representation evoking or By using the baby doll, a toy most young children have played with, it can evoke emotions of the own childhood, or compassion for the children in need being represented by the doll. Also, the wording of the statement makes it seem like anyone can save a life, including the person reading the advertisement. For as little as say five dollars, the reader can change the life of a child in need. Ethos is used in this image just like the first advertisement. The UNICEF logo is located in the bottom right corner. This again tells the individual reading the advertisement is by and if they can trust the information given. If it was a lesser known charitable organization rather than UNICEF, most people would not be as quick to believe the statement given. The information is seen as true because the organization is a well-known charity who invests their money into the people who need it. Because of their remarkable reputation, anything they say is taken as truth. This may in return cause people to donate solely on the assumption that they are a real organization, not a scam. The definition of is device that can be defined as a statement, sentence or used to convince or persuade the targeted by employing reason or In regards to the advertisement above, UNICEF equates the amount it takes to save a life to the inexpensive purchase of a battery. Thus, the individual reading the advertisements can infer that the task of donating to UNICEF is easy, as well as the task of saving a child. This in return can cause more people to donate as they logically see how easy helping UNICEF is. Not only is this beneficial for the organization, it also is beneficial for viewers to understand how accessible the opportunity to support a credible organization. These two advertisements chosen help readers donate to UNICEF. The work of United Nations International Emergency Fund (UNICEF) is important to many Anderson 6 developing countries who do not access to the things vital to a life. Because their organization is dependent on the voluntary funds of governments, non-governmental organizations, and private individuals, they need to appeal to their donors any way possible. Through advertisements like the two chosen above, UNICEF uses pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos to help implore the individual reading to help the organization through donations. Not only are these advertisements effective, they also help educate those in the world about the problems facing millions of people. UNICEF using advertisements like these help people in need who would otherwise be ignored. Anderson 7 Works Cited Ads  . Unicef (United Nations International Emergency Fund), n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.  . Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.  USA . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.  Dictionary . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Literarydevices.net . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Our  USA . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.  . Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. #5 UNICEF  V . N.p., 07 Nov. 2012. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.