Student 1 Student ENC 1102 3/5/2017 Welfare: A Perfect A common statement that you may hear from others is that there are two sides to every story. In the middle of both sides, you will always find a common ground. When looking at two stakeholders that have wildly different views, it is important that this concept still holds true! Animal welfare and conservation is a passionate subject in current media and is a hotspot of debate in the community. Each side feels that they know what is best and contain the only solution to the issue while demonizing their opposition. At the center of this issue lies to large organizations: People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (referred to as PETA) and SeaWorld Parks and Entertainment. Both are proponents for change and lead the industry in care for animals, along with research on animal welfare and caretaking. However, both organizations come from differing sides of the debate and routinely attempt to discredit each other in their marketing styles and material. PETA routinely places material that attempts to discredit SeaWorld on their conservation efforts and is a major critic of SeaWorld keeping in captivity. SeaWorld, on the other hand, dismisses PETA as an extremist organization and defends themselves against accusations from PETA that they are mistreating their animals. SeaWorld often cites their record within the community as a leader of conservation and rehabilitation for animals. When examining this argument, one must be reminded that the stakeholders are arguing for the same cause: the wellbeing and care of animals worldwide. While they may differ on how this may accomplished, they must be reminded that they often use similar tactics to win public approval, contain similar marketing material, and have the same end goal for their cause. By keeping this in mind, one can be lead to see that these organizations have much more in common than they would let others believe. Student 2 PETA is an animal welfare group that has become prominent with the development of social media and major news stories. The state that their mission is to its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (Our Mission Statement, 2017). They market themselves as the leaders in animal welfare and advocate against the mistreatment of animals, from laboratory testing to animals kept in captivity through zoos and theme parks. It is here that the reader can find their first major point of contention with SeaWorld. Since the release of Blackfish, a documentary that criticized SeaWorld for their orca program, PETA has become a vocal critic, calling for SeaWorld to the and for their animals to freed from the tiny chlorinated tanks at inhumane marine-mammal (5 Things You Can Do to Help Shut Down SeaWorld, 2017). With such critical rhetoric, the reader can gather than PETA is passionate about their subject. But why? Emma A. Maddux, the author of the article To Stand: Exploring The Past, Present, And Future Of Nonhuman Animal sheds some light on the importance of the role that PETA plays in animal welfare cases and promotion. Maddux states that, no longer live in a world where  means human being, where  means mere property, and where homo sapien (meaning wise ) reigns as dominant master to all other living creatures. The law is changing and (Maddux, 1266). It is here that we saw the ideology behind mindset; the fact that humans should not have the right to exert dominance over another animals simply because they can. In their website, PETA hold this ideology at the forefront of their message and it positions themselves similar to a line of defense for animals around the world. In doing so, the organization appeals to the pathos of their supporters in winning over their emotions and are able to sway people to their side. They also encourage their supporters to use their marketing materials, as seen when they say campaign is reaching a pivotal point, so more important than ever to keep the momentum going by getting your friends stoked, (PETA, 2017). By demonizing SeaWorld and encouraging their supporters to share the same viewpoints with others, it can make their goal incompatible with the ones that they are trying to sway people away from. Student 3 SeaWorld, on the other hand, takes a more business-like approach to their conservation method. What started as a few theme parks within Florida and Virginia grew to a handful of parks and conservation agencies scattered throughout the United States. With the development of Blackfish, they have come under scrutiny for their treatment of orcas within their parks and have faced lowered attendance due to organizations, like PETA, that criticize their company in main and social media. SeaWorld states that they remain our conservation support in four key areas: The rescue of ill, orphaned and injured animals; Supporting research; Funding and direct action in conservation; and Inspiring animal Conservation Efforts, 2017). A reader may note that, unlike PETA, the majority of their website remains focused on their conservation efforts and the promotion of the impact they are having within the animal conservation community. They rarely mention their critics within their marketing pieces, which is a stark contrast from the marketing that PETA makes against SeaWorld. They reader would note that SeaWorld attempts to avoid their criticisms and only responded when questioned about it further. The Arthur W. Page Society, who authored a case study on SeaWorld, does note the steps that SeaWorld took at controlling the damage brought on by Blackfish and further critics, like PETA. One of the most important steps that was noted is that, when questioned about criticisms, CEO Joel Manby stated the reputation side, early feedback on our campaign has been positive, however, we recognize that fully resolving our brand challenges in California will require sustained focus and commitment to correct (Page Society, 11). While PETA tackles it head on, one could say that SeaWorld refuses to acknowledge them unless prompted. With this sort of animosity, it could be difficult to find a compromise in which they could work together on. However, in examining the two organizations, they have one major point that they could work on together: the topic of animal conservation. Although PETA attempts to discredit SeaWorld and SeaWorld attempts to ignore PETA, they could work together in a world where animal conservation appears to take a backseat to the progressing mechanical and technological world that humans are building. Andrew Wright, author of outreach in the 21st century: Why we need conservation Student 4 explains that human behaviour is one of the most significant challenges faced by conservationists (Wright, 2015). Both organizations have displayed sentiments on their websites that humans are damaging the habitats of animals around the world and must be willing to change their mindset if there are to be changes made. Imagine if they decided to work together! With the amount of pull and influence that they have over their audiences, they could unite behind this front and have the ability to human behaviour for the benefit of conservation (and animal welfare) (Wright). The black bear does not care about who saves their forest and the orca does not care about who stops the pollution of their ocean. Their concern lies with the fact that these actions desist and allow them to leave without the stress of habitat destruction. SeaWorld and PETA are both major organizations that, at the end of the day, are dedicated to the same cause of animal conservation. However, the feasibility of this happening is very slim. PETA has dedicated much of their marketing to attempting to discredit SeaWorld. Maddux even mentions that, in a failied lawsuit against SeaWorld, that PETA has humans just as it has failed Tilikum and his (Maddux, 1266), regarding that their failure to indict SeaWorld has resulted in a worse world for humans and animals. With an ideology like this they has promoted by supporters of PETA, it is difficult to imagine a world where they are willing to set aside their differences and work together, even if it does benefit animals in the long run. PETA has made much of their fame from their contention with SeaWorld, so it does not seem likely that they would turn back on that. Likewise, SeaWorld does not seem likely to work with PETA in the aftermath of Blackfish and seeing their attendance at their theme parks drop. While the compromise could be beneficial, the feasibility is unlikely. The point of contention here is a major one, when looking at the items in conclusion. PETA has made a majority of their fame in criticizing SeaWorld and see themselves as the prominent animal rights activists in the industry. SeaWorld, however, is more willing to display their accomplishments and current activities. However, they remain silent on their critics and answer only when prompted. While a compromise to work together towards animal conservation would be beneficial to animals worldwide, Student 5 since it would be a combination of two superpowers in the field, it is not feasible that it would happen due to vast difference of opinion and the amount of criticism that flows between the two organizations. In a perfect world, they could put aside their differences. But, only in a perfect world. (Word Count: 1587) Student 6 Works Cited Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. SeaWorld Commits $1.5 Million to The National Fish and Wildlife  SeaWorld Commits $1.5 Million to The National Fish and Wildlife Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. 5 Things You Can Do to Help Shut Down  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. SeaWorld Conservation Efforts SeaWorld  SeaWorld Conservation Efforts SeaWorld Cares. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Maddux, Emma A. TIME TO STAND: EXPLORING THE PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE OF NONHUMAN ANIMAL  Wake Forest Law Review 01st ser. 47.01 (2012): 1243- 266. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. Page, Arthur W. SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment Crisis An Assessment of Effect on  (n.d.): n. pag. Web. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The animal rights  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Statement from AZA on Killer Whale Announcement by SeaWorld Parks and  Statement from AZA on Killer Whale Announcement by SeaWorld Parks and Entertainment. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Wright, Andrew J., Diogo Kathleen Pilfold, E.c.m. Parsons, Kimberly Ventre, Jenny Cousins, Rebecca Jefferson, Heather Koldewey, Fiona Llewellyn, and Emma Mckinley. Competitive Student 7 outreach in the 21st century: Why we need conservation  Ocean & Coastal Management 115 (2015): 41-48. Web.