Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 05 March 2017 Prevention and Reduction of Crime in Low-Socioeconomic Communities Crime has severely ridden the streets of low-Socioeconomic Communities and has stunted the potential of millions of young impressionable kids for decades. Although this news to the hundreds of millions of people in America been a severe lack of progressive aid and sympathy for these people. The idea that poor people have the means themselves to further their future and choose to remain in the rut is a widely-excepted belief. Organizations such as National Human Services Assembly (NHSA) has made it their mission to spread awareness and reach out to aid these neighborhoods. NHSA believes that poor neighborhoods need more resources and means of education because people in these neighborhoods want to escape but feel as though they cannot. On the other hand, the government through the National Institute of Justice (NIJ) has also taken their routes in progressing this group of people in ways they have found effective. Rather than further funding these neighborhoods they believe policing and video recording will ensure those we have done crime face the consequences. Although these two groups differ in their means of aid and the stage in which aid is needed, with some compromise these differing groups have the potential to impact this widely ignored population. The NHSA focus on prevention in their campaigns. Beginning with young individuals they teach these students to value themselves and their community and themselves as well. Giving these children options rather than guns and violence impact their views on life overall Student 2 and gives them the tools to turn away from that predisposed path. Studies have actually shown that involvement in a community greatly decreases the chances of someone committing a crime. The individuals just be stealing but rather taking from people they know and those in the same situation as them. It personalized the victims and makes it more difficult for someone to commit the crime of 1). The NHSA also educated women and men in the risks associated with sex. Many individuals get very little education on the implications and consequences associated with sex due to the fear that speaking on it will only compel individuals to do it more. Statistics have shown that those that have normalized the idea of sex through education tend to have it at an older age. Increasing awareness can also decrease early pregnancies as well (Gabe 2016). Early pregnancies have resulted in absentee fathers and resentment for children which causes a string of problems in itself. Another method of prevention the NHSA uses is giving troubled teens mentors and role models that have been through the same situations they have and have found a way out. This creates hope of a better future and a physical representation of their potential. The NIJ believes mostly in punishment. Unlike the NHSA the goal is to convict those guilty of crimes and place them in jail rather than preventing others from taking that path. They have created many programs that successfully decreased the crime in many neighborhoods. Increased surveillance and police in neighborhoods resulted in more people going to jail and remaining off the streets. The increased security decreased a ability of get away with certain crimes and also caused many people fear due to the high chances of them getting caught. Studies have also shown that a decrease in opportunity to commit crimes tend to decrease the likelihood of someone committing one. The NIJ has also worked to create community responsibility. Gang violence is something that has a large impact on low- Student 3 socioeconomic communities because it creates a brotherhood and dependency that many kids did not get in their own homes. The NIJ created a program that held multiple members of a gang accountable for their actions rather than individuals. Gangs were brought in and informed that if a member of their same gang committed a crime that was deemed gang related multiple members of the gang would also be held responsible. Accountability would also greatly decrease crime in these neighborhoods. Drive by shootings have also created a multitude of deaths in these neighborhoods. The NIJ in retaliation proposed an idea that would barricade large portions of each high crime area. This solution would decrease the ability for cars to smoothly maneuver through neighborhoods and decreased opportunity results in decreased crime of 2). Separately both organizations have great ideas in terms of resolution to the issues of these neighborhoods. Without incorporating each other the results are limited. Punishment without prevention only creates more savvy criminals and prevention without punishment creates a lack of accountability. To create compromise the NHSA and NIJ can work towards a better relationship between the police and the community. For minorities and low income individuals have feared contacting police when in danger. Instead of being served by police it changed to being targeted by them. This idea results in many crimes being left unreported and a lack of security throughout. Increasing the personal relationships individuals in these communities have with their local police has been proven to significantly decrease crime (Murgado 2013). The police will not be seen as an organization as a whole but instead individuals. The officers may also come and inform individuals of the risks in committing crime and through education prevention can be achieved as well. Student 4 Work Cited Assembly, National Human Services. NEW REPORT - Beyond Bars: Keeping Young People Safe At Home and Out of Youth  National Human Services Assembly. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. BBC - Intermediate 2 Bitesize Modern Studies - Causes and Types of Crime :  BBC News. BBC, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.  Evidence-Based Programs and Practices - What Works in Criminal Justice - CrimeSolutions.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Group Violence Reduction Strategy (New Orleans,  Program: Group Violence Reduction Strategy (New Orleans, Louisiana) - CrimeSolutions.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. L, Gabe. Why Sex Education Is  Stay Teen. N.p., 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Murgado, Amaury. Community  Police Magazine. N.p., 20 June 2013. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.