Shephard 1 Victoria Shephard Professor Davis ENC 1102 12 March 2017 The debate over whether or not marijuana should be legalized in the United States is very important in our country right now. Every adult has an opinion about it, and some feel that our politicians are not doing enough to either make marijuana completely legal or to make sure it stays completely illegal. Those who are not content to sit and wait to see what happens are taking initiative and making their own groups to support their views on the subject and get other to feel the same way they do. This is how groups like Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana, or C.A.L.M. are formed. C.A.L.M. wants to teach everybody why marijuana should not be legal, and they use tools like websites and social media platforms with images that use rhetorical appeals to prove their point. I have selected a few images from their website to analyze how C.A.L.M. uses their images and rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to convince viewers that marijuana should not be legalized. Citizens Against Legalizing Marijuana was formed in 2010 by Carla Lowe to fight Proposition 9 in California. She is a former K-12 teacher and mother of five that has spent the last 35 years fighting the legalization of jolly green (Abby Haglage). The first time that Lowe witnessed the use of marijuana was in the 1970s, when she substitute taught a class. She observed with long hair kept giggling in the back of the (Haglage) and suspected that they were smoking marijuana. Not long after that day, her son began smoking marijuana and she decided to start fighting the legalization of marijuana herself. The stakeholder Shephard 2 C.A.L.M is now an all-volunteer Political Action Committee that is dedicated to stopping the legalization of marijuana in California, Ohio, and other states in the United States. Both of the images that I chose for this project come from the C.A.L.M. website. The first image, a marijuana leaf behind the red no symbol, is the logo for C.A.L.M., and the second image is a graphic from a page on their website about the financial disadvantages of allowing marijuana to be legal. Because the first image is supposed to be a logo for the organization, it has the very important purpose of representing exactly what C.A.L.M. stands for. Lowe and her goal is to dispel the lies that are told about cannabis (Haglage) and make it known just how harmful the drug is for the user. This picture uses ethos, pathos, and karios to persuade viewers to think that marijuana should remain illegal in every way. The ethos in this images comes from the no symbol. The no symbol is big red circle that has a slash through it, and it is universally known as an image that depicts what is not allowed or accepted at a particular place or time. The use of the no symbol on top of a marijuana leaf represents that marijuana is unethical and should not be allowed in the United States. Because the no symbol is such a well- recognized figure of something that is not ethical, C.A.L.M. creates a stigma for the people who believe that marijuana is okay. Peer pressure is a very persistent occurrence that happens even through adulthood. If others will look down on you because you believe that marijuana is ethical even though it is behind the no symbol, then you would most likely feel bad and pressured to believe otherwise. This is how C.A.L.M. uses pathos in their logo to get viewers to understand how harmful and unethical marijuana is. Lastly, the kairos in the first image is very clever. The picture is kind of timeless. It does not contain any colloquial language that will date it, and the no symbol will always mean that the object or action behind it is not allowed. The fact that the image can remain somewhat timeless Shephard 3 also points to how important C.A.L.M. believes that keeping marijuana illegal is. This image says that it should also be illegal because it is just that wrong and dangerous, and the second image says nothing less. The second picture targets the work force of the country. It uses ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos to convince the viewer that there is no way that they will be benefitted by the legalization of marijuana. The purpose is to prove that the legalization of marijuana will affect all employers and even employees. C.A.L.M. believes that income, work environment safely, and productivity levels will decrease if marijuana is legalized. This picture basically targets employers and tries to make them associate marijuana legalization with a loss of important commodities for a business. This image uses ethics to appeal to employers. They want their work places to be safe and productive, and the image tells employers that both of those things will be compromised if they allow marijuana to be legalized. The most ethical thing for an employer to do would be to try and keep their workplaces as safe as possible for their employees, and employees would also want to keep the places that they work calm and safe environments. Nobody wants to lose money, and nobody wants to put anyone that they care about in danger. With this image, C.A.L.M. appeals to the emotions of employers by implying that both of those things will happen and more if they allow marijuana to be legalized. The picture of money going down the drain also evokes the feeling of sadness because wasting money makes everyone sad. There is a great deal of logos in this second image. It gives a number for how much money all employers will lose if they allow marijuana to be legalized ($81 billion a year), and then gives specific characteristics that will change in their workplaces if marijuana is legal, such as less productivity and more absent people. It is only logical that an employer, a person who makes money off of the efficiently of their workers, would rather have more productive, consistent, and Shephard 4 safe workers, all while keeping profit margins up. Employers get a sense of urgency when looking at this picture. If they could potentially lose $81 billion dollars of income, a safe work environment, and all of their productive workers, then it would be of utmost importance to keep marijuana form ever being legal. Money going down the drain is not something that anyone ever wants to see, but this picture suggests that it can only be stopped if we stop the legalization of marijuana. This image also calls on employees to resist the legalization of marijuana because they want to keep safe work environments and higher salaries as well. Everyone in the workforce is being targeted with this image, and there is a big loss involved for every second lost. Both of these images strongly suggest that the legalization of marijuana is unethical, harmful, and will cost way more that it is worth for the whole country. They do a very good job of communicating this message with rhetorical appeals, and it is up to the audience to decide how they want to take what the images say and learn from them. Shephard 5 Works Cited Haglage, Abby. Meet the Anti-Pot  The Daily Beast. The Daily Beast Company, 31 Jan. 2014. Web. Get  CALM USA. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. White House: Feds may up marijuana enforcement - CNN  CNN. Cable News Network, 24 Feb. 2017.