Rose 1 Kathryn Rose ENC 1102 Harley Campbell 01 March 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Advocates for Youth is an organization the advocates for young rights across America. They follow the core value of In summary, youth have the right to honest information, society has the responsibility to give it to them, and youth deserve respect (Mission and Vision). One of the issues they are passionate about is comprehensive sex education within the public school system. This entails teaching youth how to use condoms, contraceptives, and other safe sex practices. One of the platforms they use to spread their message is the social media website, Twitter. On Twitter they have posted numerous advertisements supporting comprehensive sex education. The first image selected utilizes ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to call educators, parents, and students to understand the effectiveness of comprehensive sex education; the second image uses mainly logos as well as kairos to illustrate the problems with the current sexual health information young people are receiving. The first image is described by a pencil like sketch of an next to a condom, with the plus sign in red. Below, it readS 88% of Millennials [in support [in COMPREHENSIVE [in SEX which is one of the many Rose 2 messages this ad aims to get across. The image uses a myriad of visual rhetorical appeals to send a myriad of messages to those who see it. One of the first details that pop out is the pencil-like writing of the A+ adjacent to the contraceptive. This is meant to resemble a school setting. The pencil like nature could possibly be trying to demonstrate that the ways to effectively use contraceptives should be taught in schools. It also could be attempting to use the logical fallacy, slippery slope by imply that if students are taught comprehensive sex education they will be more likely to succeed in school. By doing this, AFY is making an appeal to pathos, particularly aimed at parents. Parents want the best for their children and if they are taught comprehensive sex education they will do better in their classes. This attempts to move parents, using kairos, to demand programs such as teaching about contraceptives be implemented in schools. Another way this image uses rhetorical appeals is the specific colors used for every word. To start, the images and words are laid against a white background. This is meant to resemble notebook paper. In addition, the colors utilized are red, blue and grey. Blue, red, and white are all colors that are on notebook paper, and this is meant to mimic that. This further brings up images of classroom settings, meant to associate that comprehensive sex education is meant for the classroom setting. This is an example of kairos, AFY is stating that the timing of youth learning about sex education must be in the classroom; it is appropriate, and more importantly, necessary for their success. Also, specific words have the same colors for intentional reasons. For example, the of the is red and so is This associates comprehensive sex education with positive outcomes for youth. The usage of this is an appeal to pathos, Rose 3 aimed at youth that may come across this image. It implies that if young people use contraceptives and get educated about sex they will live positive and successful lives. Even more so, AFY appeals to ethos by using blue for of and their logo. By using the logo they are already establishing their credibility, but they do so even further by having millennials and sex education in blue as well. This color association aims to illustrate the credibility millennials have about the sex education they are receiving, and the sex education they want to receive. The first image also employs logos by using the statistic, of Millennials support Comprehensive Sex By using this appeal to logic it bring the question of so many millennials support this type of teaching why they have access to It also brings into play a hasty generalization; if 88% of youth want this method of education then it is the best thing for them. AFY fails so supply any statistical evidence as to why youth should be receiving comprehensive sex education. Despite this statistic, across the United States few regions require this type of sexual health information. According to the Guttmatcher Institute, only twenty states require that contraceptive use be apart of their curriculum (Content Requirements when HIV Education is Taught). On the other hand, the second image depicts what is meant to resemble a report card, except instead of classes it shows statistics of the success of condom teaching strategies and effectiveness among middle school and high school students. It displays a large, red across the top with the statistic to use a circled and written Rose 4 next to it, On the left side of the ad AFY poses a question, are schools doing at teaching about The information speaks for itself. First and foremost this ad highly utilizes logos. Most of it is reporting on information gathered from the School Health Profiles from 2014, which is written on the image as well. The first statistic on the is of using condoms consistently and middle school students scored a 40%, while high school students scored a 70%. This is directly followed by of using condoms with another form of It shows 39% to 73% for middle school students and high school students respectively. The statistics also mention how well condoms work, 48% to 79%; How to obtain condoms, 27% to 60%; and finally, how to use a condom, 23% and 53%. The employment of these statistics is to demonstrate to the public that although condom use and effectiveness is incredibly important and shows almost 80% effectiveness in high school students, yet only 50 percent understand how to use them. AFY also uses color to highlight certain aspects of this image. The use of red for the brings up ideas of failure, implying that schools have failed their in providing their students the sexual health information they deserve access to. This message is taken even further by stating at the bottom of the Here, AFY is using kairos to call parents, students, teachers, and policy makers alike to take action and improve the sexual health information youth are receiving. It should also be known that in a study conducted by Kristen E. Ito, an overwhelming 89% support comprehensive sexual health education. AFY is appealing to those parents. Rose 5 This image establishes credibility in two ways. The first, by dawning the Advocates for Youth logo and below it; this is done as a stamp of approval for the image. Secondly, the image specifically mentions the source of the statistics: the CDC. By using this widely known government agency, it solidifies the validity of their message. By utilizing the and coupled with the emulation of a report card, this image appeals to the desire for success; especially to parents wanting their kids to do well in life. This tactic tugs at the emotions of parents and teacher desiring the most out of education for their youth. Moreover, posing the question are schools doing at teaching about pulls in the interest of teacher, policymakers, and students. All being cognizant and wanting to teach, advocate for, and receive quality information this question, like for parents, stirs the desire for more. However, this question also is a form of framing bias. By asking this question, advocates for youth is setting up an opportunity for the answer to most certainly be Although a fallacy, it does the job of making whoever sees it want to know the answer. Overall, both of these images uses various rhetorical appeals to advocate for their cause: comprehensive sex education. Rose 6 Works cited: Advocatesforyouth.org. Advocates for youth, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Ito, Kristen Opinion of Sexuality Education in a State with Mandated Abstinence Education: Does Policy Match Parental Yearbook of Psychiatry and Applied Mental Health, vol. 2008, 2008, pp. doi:10.1016/s0084- 3970(08)70639-x. and HIV Guttmacher Institute, 3 Jan. 2017, www.guttmacher.org/state- policy/explore/sex-and-hiv-education. Image 1: https://twitter.com/AdvocatesTweets/status/715639812632481793/photo/1 Image 2: https://twitter.com/AdvocatesTweets/status/699624290522497024/photo/1 Rose 7