Jiang 1 Linzhi Jiang Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.909 27 February 2017 Effect Living in a century where everyone wants stuff, fast food becomes one of the necessities of our life. Fast food restaurants in America serve 50 million customers per day (Ohio Medical Group). However, overconsume fast food can cause energy imbalance in our body, which results in obesity. According to Rosenheck, consumption of fast food, which have high energy densities and glycemic loads, and expose customers to excessive portion sizes, may be greatly contributing to and escalating the rates of overweight and obesity in the USA (para. 1). one of the most famous American fast food restaurant chain, the most effective fast food restaurant in American society. In an effort to advertise their products, releases images on their Facebook in order to attract consumers and investors. In the two chosen images, they use ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to effectively portray their mission and goals. Red presents passion, yellow represents hungry, maintain their passion into food, delivery to people who needs. The passion of hungry, just like value, they committed to doing the right thing, they put people, processes, and practices into place to make quality food, more responsible sourcing choices journey towards insists on a five goods concept: Good Food, Good Sourcing, Good Planet, Good People and Good Community. mission statement is to help in guiding the strategic objectives and strategies for the development of business operations Company, Retrieved As the largest fast food chain, cheap and fast food becomes what known for Jiang 2 people who demand cheap fast food will choose to consume and because it is cheap, people will choose to eat a lot, high calories in the food can cause consumers become overweight. When things get worse, became one of the factors that the rate of American obesity increases. The fist image was released by which uses ethos, pathos, and kairos to convey their message. Ethos is a rhetorical device element that appeals ethic, ethos shows about one intention or support an argument of one credibility. used the inventor of Big Mac to inform the audience the goodness of Big Mac hamburger. In this image, the theme color of this Mac image is yellowish, this color is trying to tell the audience that the image is aged. Fit with the time period 1918 to 2016 showing on the bottom left of this image, the time is a strong evidence to support how long Big Mac hamburger has been favorited for, numbers inform directly to the audience, impress the audience how good Big Mac hamburger is and persuading them to buy it and try. This image also contains pathos. Pathos is a rhetorical device element that persuading people throughout their emotions, for example, stir up emotions of pity, sympathy. In this image, uses pathos by quoting words to appeal audience. According to the image, the caption shows would never have dreamed that my creation would turn into a piece of (Delligatti). This quotation expresses joyfulness of his dream come true, and his invention, the Big Mac, become one of the symbolic food in fast food industry. using the element of concept, the audience felt touched when they read this quote. Kairos can be representing Jiang 3 as timelines, in this image, listed out how long the Big Mac hamburger has been exciting, this shows the Big Mac is a hamburger which has been favored by consumers for so many years. Also, this quotation combines ethos and pathos together, because Delligatti said those words that can make people believe in the quality of Big Mac more. The second image, used ethos, logos, and kairos to attract more consumers and show engagement with them that can also be The image listed out six parts to explain how products support the environmental protect, for instance, sustainable beef, coffee, and packaging; energy efficiency kitchen and building equipment; and minimized waste and recycle. Ethos is one kind of rhetorical devices that appealing audience by showing ethic and creditability. Ethos embodied in the words of this image, in the words, explains where they get resources to make sustainable goods from, the words are very detailed which easier to convince the audiences, make them believe in the words. Makes Progress Toward Sustainability Also, because this image is made of supporting environmental protect, so many people who advocate environmental protection will be willing to consume product, this image not only shows their creditability also increased their creditability by doing good things, Jiang 4 itself is a brand with high creditability, when the company put their logo into the image, it is also a way showing ethos. Another rhetorical device shows in this image is logos. Logos is a device that convinces audience from a logical way. than over 472,000,000 sustainably certified all those are the data that provides support the words they say in the image. In a logical way, number data will provide a stronger sense of persuasion to people, and also put those numbers in bold to emphasize their meanings. Kairos is attempting to capture in words what will be appropriate and engaging for a moment or audience. This image is trying to make engagement with the audience who cares about environmental protection, separately explained how their business associate with environmental protection in six parts. This image combines ethos, logos, and kairos together, effectively affect target audience with ethic. released both images on their Facebook to attract more customers through image 1 and image 2, the images effectively convinced the reader to be interest in their products. released the first image in order to celebrate the 98 inspirational years of the inventor of the hamburger Michael Delligatti. The original goal of the first image is to show the audience how the Big inventor felt about Big Mac won favor, also is to show the audience how long Big Mac has been on the market. Linked with mission statement, this is a good way to advertise their product and bring them more profit. This image will cause some effectiveness due to there are ethos and pathos being used to appeal audience. For the second image, the original goal is to show their support of the White House climate pledge and environmental protection. With the additional goal to tell consumers that they are using sustainable goods, which attracts people who support environmental protection also and the people who loves This image will cause some effectiveness in the fast food industry because fast food gives a people sense of waste and Jiang 5 unclean, when shares their willingness on environmental protection and also shows their action on environmental protection, this will make them stand out from other fast food restaurants. In Conclusion, American obesity is a big problem in society, some part of the reason causes obesity is the epidemic of fast food. is one of the most famous representor of fast food restaurants. released two images on their Facebook page, those two images are in order to present standpoint and also attacks more consumers. The first image is attending to advertise their Big Mac hamburger with ethos, pathos, and kairos presenting in the image. The second image is to show engagement with the target audience that is doing environmental protection in their business. Two images with rhetorical concepts effectively portray their mission and goals, which is to appeal more customers and maximize their profit. Jiang 6 Work Cited Mac Facebook, 30 Nov. 2016. www.facebook.com/McDonaldsUS/photos/a.10150319191897014.332821.50245567013/ 10154010259147014/?type=3&theater. Accessed 27 February 2017. Makes Progress Toward Sustainability Facebook, 19 Oct. 2015. www.facebook.com/McDonaldsUS/photos/a.10150319191897014.332821.50245567013/ 10153097520707014/?type=3&theater. Accessed 27 February 2017. Company, Retrieved Accessed 27 February 2017. journey towards www.mcdonalds.com/us/en-us/about-us/values-in-action.html, Accessed 27 February 2017. Ohio Medical Group, Fast Food Statistics You Should University Hospitals, North Ohio Heart, 15 Jul. 2016, blog.partnersforyourhealth.com/blog/more-shocking- fast-food-statistics-you-should-know. Accessed 13 March 2017. Rosenheck, R. food consumption and increased caloric intake: a systematic review of trajectory towards weight gain and obesity Journal compilation: International Association for the Study of Obesity, vol. 9, no 6, 2008, pp. 535-547. onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-789X.2008.00477.x/full. Accessed 27 February 2017.