Ishaat Musrur Hussain Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 sec 51 11 th March 2017 Legalization of Assisted Suicide As societal beings, we are granted access to various rights. However, one such right has faced quite the controversy in the United States of America and it is the right to die. The organization with Dignity National believes firmly that people should have the right to make their own end of life decisions and choose how they die (Death with Dignity). The Death with Dignity Act has been operative in Oregon since late 1997 (Howard and Werth, Jr 501). Today, this act is in effect in Oregon, Washington, California and Vermont along with necessary safeguards (Death with Dignity). For the last two decades, this organization has strived to legalize the Death with Dignity act, which allows qualified people to choose physician assisted suicide as an end of life option when faced with a terminal illness. In addition to providing legislative support and supporting the Death with Dignity laws, they also provide information to patients, family members, professionals and media regarding the Death with Dignity laws. Through personal stories, news articles, statistics and graphical illustrations displayed on their website, this organization hopes to gain more support for the legalization of the Death with Dignity laws. Visual data used by the organization utilizes various textual data, graphics and color schemes to incentivize and educate the audience. The goal of Death with Dignity National Center is not only the legalization of Death with Dignity laws but also ensuring human rights. Their motto reads, greatest human freedom is to live and die according to our own desires and (Death with Dignity). This motto reflects their goal of ensuring equal and proper rights to everyone, even the right to die. The first image addresses prospective supporters of not the organization, but the Death with Dignity law itself. The law enables qualified residents who have been diagnosed terminally ill with a life expectancy of six months to avail medication to hasten their death (Death with Dignity). By displaying the sentence SUPPORT DEATH WITH in capitalized form, the image is trying to grab the attention of the reader. In addition to capitalized lettering, by using the word I, the image aims to deliver a call to action for prospective supporters. The statistical data in 10 displayed in the upper right corner of the image serves as a popular incentive. In addition, they also capitalize the words freedom and decisions to provide a greater sense of importance. These strategies aim to make support for the Death with Dignity law a logical decision. The text not only serves as a logical representation of data, but also conveys a sense of urgency. By starting both of the sentence with I, and capitalizing the word they aim to raise awareness that it is the American duty to act upon this now. The text in the second image is trying to motivate people into signing a petition to bring the Death with Dignity laws to the state of Florida. The image has but one sentence, THE The lack of text in this image demonstrates that the organization is trying to connect to the emotions of the audience through image rather than provide textual data. The aim of the second image is to connect to the emotions of the audience through the image of the old couple rather than more textual data like the previous image. Both the images employ distinct graphical representations to convey their messages. The first image is a graphical illustration. In the upper left corner of the image, a row of ten human figures are shown. Seven of the figures are darker shade than the last three. This offers as visual catalyst to the text in 10 In addition, there is also human figure in the of Support. This demonstrates that the organization wants readers to visualize themselves as part of the goal. In the bottom of the image, the logo connects the image with the organization but however fails to provide credibility. In the second image, the overwhelming graphic is an old couple. Statistical data reports that the average age of people who died of the Death with Dignity law in Oregon is 73 (Howard and Werth, Jr 503). This shows that key demography in support of the Death with Dignity law are people of older age. By using an image of an aged couple, the image is also establishing credibility by connecting it to the supposed demography using the law. However, this attempt of providing credibility is also a matter of controversy. The organization Not Dead Yet brings into light the possibility of discrimination against old people by physician assisted suicide. They mention that old people with physical impairments might be emotionally coerced to availing physician assisted suicide (Not Dead Yet). This in turn, may lead to possible involuntary euthanasia. In 1984, Governor Richard D Lamm mentioned that terminally ill old people had a to (Huntoon 99). Thus, demonstrating that old people can face possible discrimination through physician assisted suicide. Furthermore, the image provides no data for determining the health condition of the couple. Thus, making it difficult to distinguish the real cause of choosing physician assisted suicide as an end of life choice. Results from an implementation attempt of the law in a cancer center showed that the most common reasons for participation in physician assisted suicide was loss of autonomy (97.2%), inability to engage in joy (88.9%) and loss of dignity (75.0 %) (Loggers et al. 1). This demonstrates that age is not a defining factor for wanting physician assisted suicide. The image attempts to connect to emotion by using the image of an aged couple, however, it fails to provide a logical and credible incentive for the audience. In the first image, the logo is centered in a streak of orange. The overall color scheme of the entire Death with Dignity website is Orange which delivers a sense of warmth and comfort. By using this color scheme, the organization aims to deliver an inviting approach to gain support. As the first image employs the use of more textual data, the background is left dull so that the text is more readable. The capitalized sentence is centered so that it serves as the main attention grabber. The logo of the organization is in the form of two connected Ds. One D is for Death and the other is for Dignity. By connecting these two, in the logo the organization again aims to present their belief that death should happen with dignity. The second image uses capitalized lettering as well to incentivize audience to sign the petition. To make the sentence visible the text is white on a red background. To avoid overwhelming the rest of the image, the text box is placed in the lower right corner of the image. The lighting and shading on the skin, enhances their wrinkled age to represent their aging bodies. These presentation strategies, are aimed to provide an emotional incentive to the audience for supporting the Death with Dignity laws. The main goal of the Death with Dignity National Center is to provide the right of choice through legal means to patients, and put the decision of using physician assisted suicide into their capable hands. Death with Dignity National Center aims to provide this right to people through legalization of the Death with Dignity laws in all states of America. In addition to support, this organization aims to educate the public about the Death with Dignity laws. Their official website serves as an important portal of information about the organization and the law for the public. Through the various visual strategies, the organization not only strives to legalize the Death with Dignity law but also strives for ensuring the right of choice to patients. (1308 words) Work Cited About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Huntoon, Lawrence R. Physician-Assisted Suicide And Euthanasia: The Destruction Of Morals, Ethics, And  Journal Of American Physicians And Surgeons 4 (2016): 98. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. SUPPORT DEATH WITH 3.png?x43788 Loggers, Elizabeth Trice, Helene Starks, Moreen Shannon-Dudley, Anthony L. Back, Frederick R. Appelbaum, and F. Marc Stewart. Implementing a Death with Dignity Program at a Comprehensive Cancer  New England Journal of Medicine 368.15 (2013): 1417 424. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Not Dead Yet Disability Activists Oppose Assisted Suicide As A Deadly Form of  Not Dead Yet. N.p., 05 July 2016. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. THE Wineberg, Howard, and James L., Jr. Werth. Physician-Assisted Suicide In Oregon: What Are The Key  Death Studies 27.6 (2003): 501-518. AgeLine. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.