Jain 1 Shaurya Jain Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 051 26 nd January 2017 Felony Disenfranchisement: One Wrong Step, Judged Forever Everybody at a certain point in their life makes a wrong decision and are imprisoned for that action. They are punished for it and then they get a do-over. It would be unfair if they have to live with the consequences even after the term of their punishment. Ex-felons in United States of America, face the same problem. Because of their past actions, they are not allowed to vote. One of the renowned stakeholder and supporter for voting rights for ex-felons is The Sentencing Project. The Sentencing Project for a fair and effective U.S. criminal justice system by promoting reforms in sentencing policy, addressing unjust racial disparities and practices, and advocating for alternatives to (The Sentencing Project). Both images produced by the organization are trying to persuade the viewers to take a stand against the unjust law of the constitution. The organization uses statistics and data to demonstrate the severity of the problem. Using ethos, pathos, logos and kairos in their images, the organization spreads their message and persuades the viewers to take a stand for the cause. Ethos is the method to persuade in which the author attempts to establish his own credibility or authority. Both images consist of data and statistics collected by the organization. The source is credible and accurate as the information gathered by the The Sentencing Project is taken from the U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics and U.S. Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. After careful evaluation of both the data, The Sentencing Project came up with the data depicted in the pictures. The Sentencing Project is a reputable organization founded in 1986. Their Jain 2 Executive Director is Marc Mauer who is a leading expert in sentencing policy, race and the criminal justice system. He has directed several programs on criminal justice policy for 30 years. He is also an author whose work is often cited by other publications (The Sentencing Project). The images failed to mention The Sentencing name in the images. Simple mention of their name would have helped them a lot because of their reputation. Also, by using proper legal terms such as and author creates authority. It shows knowledge on the issue. The clear existence of ethos in the images allows the audience to trust the organization and further look into the issue. Logos is the appeal to logic. It also means that the argument should be consistent and clear with the use of logic of evidence and reasons. Without logos, it would be impossible to persuade and make an argument using the images. Both images are clean and clear and are straight to the point. In the first image, the data clearly suggest that the problem is widespread in America. The disenfranchisement law has targeted minority groups such as African Americans. Also, using the ratios such as of every and in every allows the audience to see the vast difference between the two groups. The second image also uses the data to appeal to the logic of the audience. The staggering number serves to astound the audience and serves as a good argument tool because it clearly indicates that the issue needs to be addressed. Using unusual colors like purple and green shows that the organization is not biased towards one race and so should be the government. Both images appeal to logic to convey their message. Pathos refers to appeal to emotion of the audience which helps the author to connect the audience with the argument. Highlighting the word their voting appeals to the emotions of the audience and tries to connect with the African American group. It also brings up the sensitive issue of racism which is still prevalent in America. The propaganda is targeted Jain 3 towards the African Americans. The second image is targeted to all the Americans who has lost their voting rights. It arouses the feeling of patriotism and suggest that every American need to stand up against the inequality. Highlighting the term makes the audience empathize with the ex-felons as they cannot practice the 15 th amendment like other Americans. Also, using the dropping the in the image contradicts the text This further stirs up the feeling of empathy. The images sways the audience by addressing a sensitive issue in an effective way. Kairos is appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to perform the correct action to obtain the desirable result. The data in the first image explains the gross inequality between different races. Therefore it urges the audience to take necesay steps as soon as possible. The second image has the staggering which itself astonishes the audience and at the same time advocates to take a stand against the disenfranchisement law. Although the 6.1 million only constitutes around 2.5% of the population but it means that 1 in every 40 adult cannot vote due to past conviction. Changing law is a long process and doing paperwork for 6.1 million is going to be a lenghty process. According to NCLS, there is often lack of communication among agencies which leads to delay in re-enfranchisement. Hence it is important that people put more pressure before the next election. If everyone participates in this campaign, they can restore their rights just like California due to constant pressure created by media and protest by people. If everybody participates in this campaign, 6.11 million people can vote for their next leaders. One of the main goal of any democratic government is to establish stability and gain trust of the population. To ensure true democracy or healthy representative democratic governments, citizens must engage in electing their leaders based upon their belief systems, ideologies and policy preferences (Ruth, Matusitz & Simi). The images play a vital role in advocating for the people Jain 4 who are victims of the disenfranchisement law. In a world full of hatred, people need to feel equal and should be given equal opportunity to maintain peace and harmony. Thus, it should be the priority of the government to look into the issue and make necessary amendments to maintain equality in the country. By using ethos, logos, pathos and kairos, The Sentencing Project made an considerable effort to influence the mindset of people and encourage them to fight for the cause. Jain 5 Jain 6 Work Cited Ruth, Terrance, Jonathan Matusitz, and Demi semi. Of Disenfranchisement and Voting Rights in the U.s.:Convicted Felons, The Homeless, And American Journal Of Criminal Justice (2016): PsycINFO. Web. 29 Ja. 2017. Sentencing The Sentencing Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Ncls.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. Brennan Center for  Brennan Center for Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.