Stamm 1 Melissa-Lynn Stamm Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 27 February 2017 The Non-GMO Project: The Butterfly Affect Out of the 64 countries that carry mandatory labeling laws, the United States along with most of Africa and the Middle East do not carry any laws on genetically modified food labeling (Ettinger 2). Therefore, The Non-GMO Project must use their own efforts to get the information out into the world explaining what GMOs are, what they do, and how to remain a non-GMO verified product. GMOs have been around for thousands of years appearing first with plants in the southwestern part of Asia. (Rangel 3- 5). Now, it is very common to find in most of the products and food consumed. As a non-profit organization, the Non-GMO Project uses funding and support from verified brands to create more programs and publication geared towards training, educating, and protecting manufacturers/consumers from the dangers of genetically modified organisms. This organization has become one of the most trusted verification labels for non-GMO foods and products in North America Non-GMO The Non-GMO Project supports their mission educating the public on the use of GMOs by projecting two different images on the public that utilize ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos productively. Before the famous GMO prevention label took flight in 2010 the Non- GMO Project was merely collaboration between two grocery stores in 2007. The two grocery stores Natural Grocery Company in Berkeley, California and The Big Stamm 2 Carrot Natural Food Market in Toronto, were consistently working to supply their staff and consumers with as much information on GMO prevention as possible Non-GMO Both stores combined their progress and research with the technological support from the global ID Group, an organization known to be the world leaders of experimenting, verifying, and educating on Non-GMO products. The three advisors reached out to form a committee, board of directors, and found many credible experts in the industry to give their general viewpoint in the form of a consensus-based document to create The Non-GMO Project Standard. The Non-GMO mission is dedicated to building and educating the public on non-GMO verification, all the while preserving organic agriculture and sustaining non-GMO seed growth. The Non-GMO project believes that people should consume as little products with GMOs as possible Non-GMO This organization works towards their goal by focusing on the expansion and participation with their product labeling. Most importantly conveying to retailers how essential it is to ensure that your crops do not become contaminated with through the use of public images. The first image with Alexia sweet potato fries utilizes ethos to represent the credibility of the Non-GMO Project. By presenting their verification label at the bottom of the image, the Stamm 3 audience is made aware that this is a product that they can trust. Ethos is defined in this image by referencing to symbols, which would be the Non-GMO logo that represent authority, they apply this rhetorical device so that the audience will look at this logo at the bottom of the image, and on the bottom left of the Alexia bag, and know that this brand ensures the best quality as well. In the first image, the Non-GMO Project uses logos to assure the audience that their argument or message is logical. In the first image logos is found in the little sentence in the middle of the image, because it is describing how natural the product is by saying it is with more Mother better for the consumer (Image 1). The audience reading this information will be convinced from reasonable information presented telling them that their product is the embodiment of nature itself. This sentence is comparing sweet potatoes to mother nature, and also their sea salt to mother nature as well, concluding that their product is the same as nature, organic with no added GMOs. In the first image the Non-GMO project utilizes pathos through the hand grabbing the carrots that look as if they are part of the bag. This picture is unusual and funny, and therefore the image is appealing to pathos through humor. The point of this image is to make the audience feel happy or possibly laugh at the idea of a hand grabbing a bag of sweet potato fries from out of the ground. Pathos is used when someone is trying to make the audience feel a certain way emotionally. The first image uses pathos with humor, and also with happiness through their choice of font. In the first image they say to with the word in cursive and the word condensed with rough edges. The word farm is written to appear straightforward and simple the way Stamm 4 farming is usually looked at, and the use of cursive font in flavor associates the extra joyfulness the audience feels when they see the word with the product, this has a similar affect in image two (Image 1). Not only does the first image utilize pathos with cursive writing, but the second image of Woodstock products released by the Non-GMO project does as well. Both images show pathos through the cursive font they choose to make the audience feel joyous and peaceful. The words because in the second image with the word in cursive font has the same affect the first image does, to convince the audience that the product is as wonderful and as good as the ad makes you feel (image 2). In the second image of Woodstock peanut butter, corn and blueberries, the Non- GMO Project utilizes ethos with the USDA organic label, and the Non-GMO Project verified label. With both labels in the middle of the picture by first glance the attention will be drawn to them, immediately crediting the Non-GMO project. This image also has the Woodstock website, the Non-GMO Project website, and their social media hash tag at the bottom of the image. This small image has a lot going on by first glance, however it also draws the attention right away. In the second image released by the Non-GMO project kairos is depicted through the saying at the bottom of the image, Stamm 5 insinuating that the audience needs to eat, and products is what will be good for them to eat. The words because are in all capital letters except for the word which is in cursive (Image 2). This sentence was put here to make the audience see how urgent it is for them to buy Woodstock products, because they are just that good. The Non-GMO Project has been able to convey their message to the public while building a trustworthy community of support by effectively using ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos in images ones and two. Image one clearly depicts the message the Non-GMO Project is trying to get across to the audience through ethos, logos, and pathos. These three rhetorical appeals grabbed the audience attention with valid information, logical reasoning, humor and joyfulness. The use of ethos in image one helped the organization gain the trust of the consumers by giving credit to the Non-GMO Project twice in the picture, and letting the consumer know the product has been verified. Both ethos and logos in Image one successfully represent part of the Non-GMO mission statement is to reach a worldwide goal for Non-GMO verification labeling, and therefore consumers will always know everything in their products. In image one, logos represents the mission statement supporting their goal to educate the public on what a verified product is. The first image uses pathos by appealing to the humorous side with the farmer hand grabbing the carrots out of the ground, and both images appeal to the joyful, and peaceful side with cursive font. Images one and two both successfully use pathos in their choice of cursive for their font. Both images helps support their mission statement, because the audience will feel happy and content supporting the Non-GMO Project thanks to the innocence the audience feels from the Stamm 6 choice of font utilized in both images one and two. In the second image, the rhetorical appeals ethos and Kairos successfully provide credibility for the Non-GMO Project, and following their mission statement by spreading awareness and knowledge of GMOs. Due to all of the credibility in image two, the audience will know that the Non-GMO Project and the products they support are reliable, and valid thanks to the notorious Non-GMO Project verification label. The use of kairos in the second image strives to achieve the Non-GMO mission statement informing the public of how much better Non- GMO products are for them. The words because use kairos to tell the audience exactly why they should try this product. The way this phrase is presented implies that this product is so good everyone knows about it except the audience, so they have to try it. The Non-GMO Project applies ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos in two different images, image one is of Alexia sweet potato fries, and the image two is of Woodstock products. They utilize these rhetorical devices to convey to the audience that consuming products with Non-GMO Project verification is the most successful route to good, natural, farm fresh products. Stamm 7 Work Cited NON GMO Project, https://www.nongmoproject.org/about/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Ettinger, Jill. Labeling Laws Around the World: The 64 Countries That Do Organic Authority, 13 August 2013, http://www.organicauthority.com/foodie- buzz/gmo-labeling-laws-around-the-world-the-64-countries-that-do-it.html. Accessed 29 March 2017. The Non-GMO Project, https://livingnongmo.org/2017/01/25/the-opal-of-my- eye/. Accessed 23 February 2017. Westgate: Megan Westgate leads the nonprofit Non-GMO Project, whose reach is Nutritional Outlook, Vol. 15, Issue 10, Dec. 2012, pp. 36. General OneFile, http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/retrieve.do?tabID=T003&resultLis earchForm&currentPosition=1&docId=GALE%7CA339015801&docType=Articl e&sort=RELEVANCE&contentSegment=&prodId=ITOF&contentSet=GALE%7 CA339015801&searchId=R1&userGroupName=tamp44898&inPS=true. Accessed 26 January 2017. Rangel, Gabriel. Corgis to Corn: A Brief Look at the Long History of GMO SITN, 9 Aug. 2015, http://sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/from- corgis-to-corn-a-brief-look-at-the-long-history-of-gmo-technology/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Stamm 8 Schaberg, James. The Non-GMO, https://livingnongmo.org/wp- content/uploads/2016/07/ALX-LivingNonGMOAd-430x200.jpg. Accessed 23 February 2017.