Milien 1 Miwolf Milien Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.909 13 March 2017 Analysis of Amnesty Images cannot kill the truth. You cannot kill justice. You cannot kill what we are fighting This is a quote largely supported by Amnesty International, spoken by Jean Dominique, a Haitian democracy activist. The World can a very happy place to live in harmony; however, it contains many flaws from corruption to injustice. Thankfully, many people and organizations stand for what is right and go out of their way to make the planet a place where justice and equality exists anywhere at any time. According to Amnesty International organization strives to help people suffering through many different One of its main goal is to bring society together and unite people to stand and fight for what is right. Amnesty International released two images (the first one is on the subject of domestic violence and the second one on police brutality) using the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos and kairos in order to effectively attract support for their mission. Amnesty International uses the rhetorical appeal of ethos in the first image in order to deliver a message that is credible to their audience. According to Purdue Owl, Milien 2 is frequently translated as some variation of credibility or Rhetorical In other words, ethos is the appeal to credibility and morality. In order to give credibility to the first image, Amnesty International integrated their logo in the lower left corner of the image. This represents credibility because it tells the audience that the image has been released by a very legit and respected organization with a big history. The fact that the logo integrated is Amnesty is very important because the organization is a specialist in the topic of domestic violence. The image also contains appeals to the rhetorical device of pathos. Amnesty International included the rhetorical appeal of pathos in the first image in order to awaken the emotional side of society when viewing the illustration. According to Purdue Owl, is frequently translated as some variation of emotional Rhetorical In other words, pathos is the appeal to emotions. Its main goal is to touch the heart of the audience to make them feel a certain way about a topic or issue. The main way that the first image is trying to use pathos is through baby who is present. Amnesty International used the baby as an appeal to pathos for many reasons. Babies have always been known to be adorable which stimulates the sensitive and caring side of the human brain. Taking a close up picture of the baby was done in purpose because it helps the audience focus on all of the adorable parts of the face. The appeal to pathos is even made stronger through the expression of the face and the tears running down. When most people see a sad baby crying, they automatically become more caring about the situations happening around them. One last rhetorical appeal that is used in the first image is the appeal to Kairos. Amnesty International made sure to add the rhetorical appeal of Kairos in the first image in order to place a sense of urgency in the head of their audience. According to Purdue Owl, Milien 3 is a term that refers to the elements of a speech that acknowledge and draw support from the particular setting, time, and place that a speech Rhetorical In order words, Kairos is the appeal to timeliness. An example of Kairos in the first image is the phrase: suffering from domestic violence need your The word is written in the present tense which mean that help is needed right now. The phrase only witness is also an appeal to Kairos because of the verb The way that the phrase is put together makes the audience think that domestic violence will keep on happening if people do not take actions, because the only witness present cannot speak right now nor tomorrow. The second image follows the same concept as the first which begins with the application of ethos. Amnesty International uses the rhetorical device of ethos in the second image in order to deliver a credible message. Ethos is the appeal to credibility and morality. Just like the first image, the second also demonstrate its credibility by integrating the logo on the lower right corner of the image. It represents credibility because of the legit position and authority that Amnesty International possess on violence. Pathos can also be found in the image. Milien 4 Amnesty International included the rhetorical device of pathos in the second image to pass on a message which touches the heart of society. Pathos is the appeal to emotions. The second image uses factors in order to get into the emotions of the audience. First, the image uses mainly the colors black and white to classify the characters as either good or bad. The police and the people just watching are in black and placed in the dark because the color black represents oppression. The image characterizes these type of people as being oppressors and evil which will make the audience feel like they are bad. The fact that the guy getting beaten in on the ground, brighter than everything else with the color white near represents his innocence and vulnerability. The blood and the expression on his face represent fear and pain. All of these factors are appeals to pathos because they make the audience feel pity for people who are victims of police brutality. Last but not least, the appeal to kairos is also present in the second image. Amnesty International uses the rhetorical device of kairos in the second image with the goal to create a sense of urgency. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness. The second image uses the appeal to timeliness in three different ways. The first is the tag written on the arm of the guy getting beaten which says is still It is an instant declaration which can mean two things. It can be seen as a way to tell police to stop using brutality against people right now, or it can see as a way to tell the people watching to stop enjoying the show and actually take action or the guy will get his life taken by the oppressors. The second way that the appeal to kairos is used is through the phrase: brutality is still is still The phrase let the audience known that this issue is nothing new. It has been there for a long time in the past and nothing has changed today. The third way in which kairos is used is by giving the web site in the following format: on Milien 5 is still It tells the audience to make an action right now as if it is urgent. It is always good that visual appeals used by organizations contains the rhetorical devices. However, the one thing to focus on is the effectiveness of the image in delivering the message intended. The first image is somewhat effective with the goal to bring people together to stand up for women who suffer against domestic violence. It is true that it gets the attention of the audience, and has the power to active to caring side of the human brain but the baby takes too much space on the picture. It is no doubt the focus point of the image which ends up hurting the delivery of the message. At first sight, a crying baby does not have much to do with domestic violence. The person affected the most by the issue (women) is not even present in the image. If someone was far enough to not be able to read the text, the image would really fail to deliver its message. The effectiveness of the second image is in a different level from the first. The second image is really effective while its main goal is to bring people together to stand up against police brutality by helping those who are victims of it. The image is really effective because all of the rhetoric device used are really focus on the main issue. All of the main people who have something to do with the issue are represented in the picture and their roles are specific. Everything is clear and at first sight, someone can know what is going on. Amnesty international also did a great job of making each characters seem either good or bad by the way they are represented. This is also made true thanks to the appeal to pathos. Bringing people together and make them fight for a good cause is attempted by many. Amnesty international is an organization with this exact mission. One way they succeed in this mission is by using visual appeals. The first image was on the subject of domestic violence while the second was on police brutality. The rhetorical devices of ethos, pathos and kairos were each Milien 6 used in order to make the images more effective. While the first image was somewhat effective, the second completed its goal completely. A perfect image is one that strikes instantly the eyes of the audience with the topic intended. Milien 7 Works Cited Amnesty International, http://www.amnestyusa.org/about-us/our-mission. Accessed 27 January 2017 Amnesty International, https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/campaigns/2015/10/inspiring-human-rights-quotes/. Accessed 09 March 2017 is still Osocio, http://osocio.org/message/violence-is-still-fashionable/. Accessed 25 February 2017 Jazarah, http://jazarah.net/amnesty-international-the-only-witness-wont-talk-stop- domestic-violence. Accessed 25 February 2017 Rhetorical Purdue Owl, https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/625/03/. Accessed 25 February 2017