Albright 1 Reese Albright Professor Gocinski ENC 1102.909 13 March 2017 Smirnoff Uses of Rhetorical Appeal Individuals and organizations often use visual rhetoric to attract customers or employees to their business. Smirnoff is an alcoholic drink company looking to sell different drinks through persuasive ads. Stakeholders incorporate different elements like color, text, or aesthetics to intrigue their audience. The company uses techniques like advertising as a product, the two-dollar discrepancy between bottles, who would want to purchase that cheapo Wolfschmidt when for just another couple bucks you could get a premium brand? (Waldrop 2013). Through visual rhetoric, rhetorical appeals become a constantly used tool in the persuasion attempt. Ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos are the four strategies appealing to credibility, emotions, logic, and timeliness respectively. Smirnoff uses two images to effectively attract customers to their drink, ethos and pathos are their chosen tools, appealing to credibility and emotions respectively, to sell the drink. Smirnoff incorporates mainly emotional appeal, pathos, in the first image to effectively sell their product, however ethos is also used at a smaller level. The first image presented by Smirnoff is a bottle of vodka proclaiming the idea that people can be whoever they want when drinking the product. It depicts what happens as people drink Smirnoff, becoming whoever they want, and Albright 2 goes down a list of famous people ranging from a more peaceful Gandhi to a powerful Superman.Each level of the bottle lists a different famous person or character you can feel like from the drink. In this case, Smirnoff is using pathos, a rhetorical device that is defined as an appeal to the emotions. Providing the names of varying famous personas, Smirnoff is reading out to all people of their audience because some do not want to be at level. The names appeal to credibility and character, as superman is a strong character that a potential customer could feel like. Ice is put next to the picture to portray how Smirnoff vodka is typically served, it gives the viewer the sense of what having it is like. The second image that Smirnoff uses incorporates ethos and pathos with a baby with devil horns and a devil tail inside the bottle, in between other babies. The stakeholder is trying to get across the idea that the drink brings out the wild or more free side of people. Smirnoff uses pathos again, appealing to the emotions of their audeience. Oftentimes people want to let loose to have a good time or take stress off. The baby turned around in the bottle looking at the audience further convinces customers to buy the product. Seeing the face of the baby brings the adverstisement to a more personal level.The babies represent the idea of purity and innocence, but the baby in the bottle presents the opposite idea. This is a way for the company to really explain what their product is and how it affects their customer. Albright 3 The original goal of Smirnoff is to effectively convince customers to buy their drink through the use of persuasive images. Alcohol is obviously a high commodity all over the world, but most of the companies all preach the same thing. Smirnoff takes a different route by making more detailed advertisements to get their point across. Whether customers buy the product is based on how the images make them feel and how good they make the product look. Smirnoff presents basic ideas in a fancy or artistic way, simply by listing names of celebrities or by depicting a baby as impure. The effectiveness of the advertisements can be measured by how many people buy the drink or by if the audience understands what Smirnoff is trying to put across. In this case, the presentations are effective because it is not difficult to realize that Smirnoff wants people to drink to feel like they can be who you want. Also, they want to promote that it is ok to not be innocent all the time with three regualar babies and one devil- looking baby. Pathos is the rhetorical device used by Smirnoff in these images as a way to attract customers to drink their product. This is one of the most commoon ways to advertise a product, along with the rest of any visually rhetoric tools. Smirnoff is known for using descriptive, or detailed, advertising to sell. The stakeholder wants to make sure that customers know that anyone and everyone can drink their alcohol. former czars and current stars. For vodka connoisseurs and people who just like vodka. For everybody About The images are two different ways to advertise smirnoff appealing to all audiences in the process. The second image depicts the side that comes out of people when they drink the product, making an innocent baby become bad, emphasizing the strength of the drink. The four rhetorical appeals are ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos as said above. Ethos is used when it comes to statistics or facts to establish credibility, logos is used for logic in situations where it is needed, kairos applies to Albright 4 timeliness or approptriateness. Pathos clearly applies to emotions, making people feel a certain way to become attracted to their product or service. All are effective in their respective advertisements, it is important to use them appropriately to not confuse or push away the audience. Pathos is effective in the case of these two images from Smirnoff, the message is obvious and not offensive or unappealing. Works Cited  Smirnoff - http://www.smirnoff.com/en-us/about/. Accessed 2 March 2017. Smirnoff: Be Whoever You  Ads of the World, 01 Mar. 2009. Accessed 2 March 2017. Waldrop, Andy. Clever Marketing Techniques: Lessons from Smirnoff, Go Daddy & Alka-  Healthgrades. 15 Feb. 2013. http://cocg.co/blog/2013/02/clever-marketing- techniques March 2017.