Vargas 1 Karina Vargas Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.909 13 March 2017 What Are They Really Saying? Ever wonders what advertisements are really saying? Or what is considered when it comes to advertisements? break down some advertisements from the Sunset Music Festival. Sunset Music Festival (SMF) is an Electric Dance Music (EDM) Festival that last two days, outdoors, with a lot of different artist and crowds of people. There are two ads that caught my eye and going to discuss how they both use mostly pathos and ethos and how effective they are to the audience if they show the party lifestyle that SMF is known for. Sunset Music Festival is a music festival with various EDM artists that crowds of people go to see for two days. Usually over the Labor Day weekend. Their main goals are: Your enjoyment of Sunset Music Festival is our first priority, and the times of your life are straight ahead. Enter our sunny world with a reminder to have fun and be safe. The health of our Disco dancers is of utmost importance to  (Safety Par. 1). They are very concerned with the health and well-being of their participants. They want people to have fun while at the same time having fun and looking out for each other. Their position is to promote fun times at a festival while being safe and making friends. The first ad is from official website, www.discodonniepresents.com, that shows the flyer that they used to shows ethos and pathos. This ad is trying to accomplish a sense of understanding to the audience by showing all of the information the viewer needs to know. The appeals from this would be ethos and pathos. Ethos is when the image it truthful or Vargas 2 credible. The ethos in this ad is the source on the bottom right. They list the days of the festival and the times. It also shows who performs on what day. This shows that these are the official dates times the event will take place. Another example would be the logos at the top of the essay that belong to the sponsors of the music festival, like the one that published this image. Pathos is when an ad makes you feel a certain way about what they are trying to advertise. The pathos is that they use bright colors like purple, orange, blue, green, and yellow. It gives off an almost tropical feel with the orange, yellow and green because those are colors that are typically associated with vacations. While, the purple is bright and makes the image eye catching, and makes the art on the poster look like it has a lot of energy. The art around the SMF16 are a variety of free flowing shapes that also give off a sense of freedom and high energy. The background of the SMF16 is an image of a beach which cloud also relate back to a vacation feel and a sense of freedom. This could mean they want people to feel relaxed and have fun. The palm trees go in that category as well, and it could be a symbol for Florida, since that is where the festival is held and because Florida is a tropical state, or at least a popular vacation area. The second image was found on Instagram, with the caption #Views from #SMF16. This image shows ethos, pathos, and a little bit of kairos. Ethos has to do with how credible and truthful the image is, while pathos is related to emotion and if the image makes you feel something, and lastly kairos is related to statements or commands that are given to the reader. The ethos represented in this photo is due to it being posted on the official Instagram page showing the sponsors at the bottom of the image. This image shows everyone at SMF having a Vargas 3 fun time together enjoying music. Which makes people who usually go want to experience this event for themselves, this would be an example of pathos. Not only does this photo look cool because of the 360-degree editing, but the colors on it scream Take me there, I want to enjoy myself at this  because of how colorful the crowd, lights, and the blue of the sky makes it all welcoming. Another aspect of this is that the image itself kind of resembles the Sydney Opera House in Australia, this would be effective because the opera house is known for the music and the liveliness of their events or performances. Now, kairos is just the caption of the post of this image because kairos describes what is happening in an image, or what is about to happen. Showing you a statement that the SMF is using to make people want to go. Now the real question would be if these ads are effective? And if they are how effective are they? Overall both ads are very effective the line up is good, in the sense that the artists are all popular EDM artists, and it makes people want to go and enjoy a colorful time with people they care about. The second image, overall, looks like a good time where people are joined together, the way the image was edited makes it feel like if SMF was its own world. That there is a portal and you can join something that seems a lot bigger than what we are. In the first image, the ad looks to be important, or that the people listed are important. The only reason these ads be effective is that they really show the safety aspect in either of the two ads. And one of goals is to be a safe fun environment. Vargas 4 Sunset Music Festival (SMF) and the two advertisements are for the most part effective. Like it was mentioned in the last paragraph, the only reason these ads be effective is that they really show the safety aspect in either of the two ads. The first and second image both showcase ethos and pathos, at the same time the second image also has a bit of kairos. They show off how colors and the digital design can change the effect an image has on people because if they were black and white it would not have the same effect. The imagery of the images and the drawings that are in the images are also a big factor to why these ads are effective. The colors make people want to go and be a part of this musical event, while with friends and having a great time. Vargas 5 Work Cited Hardwell at Raymond James Disco Donnie Presents, https://www.discodonniepresents.com/event/2016-0528-tampa- raymondjamesstadium Accessed 28 Feb. 2017  Sunset Music Festival 2017, https://smftampa.com/info/safety Accessed 30 Jan. 2017. from Instagram, Smftampa, https://www.instagram.com/p/BN5d5-uBm1M/?taken-by=smftampa&hl=en 11 Dec. 2016, Accessed 26 Feb. 2017 Vargas 6 BIGGER VERSIONS OF THE ADS: