Hegenbarth 1 Fritz Hegenbarth Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.909 27 February 2017 The Health around 6 million people die annually as a result of tobacco use, with most living in developing Health There are millions of ways in which people can die, but there are also many things that kill people with their consent. Some of these include smoking and not wearing a seatbelt. The World Health Organization, also known as WHO, has a main role and it is to direct the international health in the United system. Some of their areas of work are: corporate services, communicable diseases, noncommunicable diseases, promoting health through the life-course, health systems and preparedness, surveillance and response. As said by WHO, we strive to combat diseases infectious diseases like influenza and HIV and noncommunicable ones like cancer and heart disease. We help mothers and children survive and thrive so they can look forward to a healthy old age. We ensure the safety of the air people breathe, the food they eat, the water they drink and the medicines and vaccines they (World Health Organization). The goal of WHO is to build a better and healthier future to people all over the world. As said by WHO, support countries as they coordinate the efforts of multiple sectors of the government and partners including bi- and multilaterals, funds and foundations, civil society organizations and private sector to attain their health objectives and support their national health policies and Health WHO releases images in their goal to build a better and healthier future for the Hegenbarth 2 people. In the two chosen images the use ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos successfully portray their mission and goals. is the way of establishing trust with his or her (Hoffman & Wiggs 20). Image 1 appeals element of ethos which is the logo of WHO. The logo is located at the bottom of the picture and as soon people see it the image provides certain confidence because it is a big and known organization that began on April 7,1948 which was at the same time that the Constitution of the World Health Organization came into force. Also, this image provides a web page in which more information about tobacco and smoking is found. Image 2 appeals elements of ethos in the same way as the first image, but in this case it provides only the logo. Many people know the logo of this organization so it is not really necessary to put the name next it. Since this organization works through offices in more than 150 countries most of the world knows about it again creating a feeling of credibility. This image also provides the web page were more information can be found, such as how many people die on the road every day, sustainable development goals, and how to prevent deaths on the road. There are so many ways to convince the audience of something. Image 1 appeals to pathos because it uses children to make tobacco advertisers stop advertising tobacco. Pathos is an appeal to emotion and uses emotions from the audience to Hegenbarth 3 convince the audience of an argument (Hoffman & et al 22). In this case, tobacco advertisers can feel sorrow for children that do not know anything about cigarettes but see it everywhere and find it so normal that can start smoking. With this in mind they will at least try to prevent their advertisements to reach the children. Image 2 appeals to pathos because the dead man on the floor brings a certain feeling that it can be oneself or a loved one. With this thought people are encouraged to use the seat belt when driving and to make others in the car to use it too. By completing this the number of deaths on the road will decrease. Sometimes people just have to use their reasoning to think about something or learn something new. Image 1 appeals to logos by using the cartoonlike cigarette and font. Logos is an appeal to logic and persuades the audience by reason (Hoffman & et al 23). This makes the audience know how bad tobacco advertising can be. The audience uses reason to realize that tobacco can get to children and that they will be harmed. Image 2 appeals to logic because instead of having a white dashed line for the road it has a seat belt. The seat belt is not only in the road it is on top of the dead body. The audience has to use logic to realize that the white line used to separate the road is a seat-belt and that if the guy had used he might still be alive. Hegenbarth 4 Image 1 appeals to Kairos because it says: tobacco advertising before kids start Kairos is an appeal to timeliness. This is an appeal to Kairos because it is saying to do something now to prevent something of happening in this case kids smoking. Image 2 appeals to Kairos because it says: part of the solution: wear a and late to fasten your Both of these are saying to do wear a seat-belt now to prevent death. Both images goal is to promote health for better and longer living. Image 1 is effective because it uses the four rhetorical appeals making the audience to believe, feel bad for the kids, reason and a sense of urgency to stop tobacco advertising. The original goal of image 1 is to prevent tobacco advertisements to get to the children before they see it as something normal without harm and start doing it. Image 2 is effective because it creates a feeling of fear to be the dead person, reason, urgency to use the seat-belt always and credibility. The original goal of image 2 is to encourage people to use a seat-belt to lower the amount of deaths on the road. Both images fulfill their goal and their organizations role to direct the international health in the United system and build a better, healthier future for all the people around the world. The World Health Organization releases images in their goal to build a better and healthier future for all the people around the world. The two chosen images use ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos to fulfill their goal and mission to combat diseases and provide with the medicines and vaccines to cure and prevent the diseases around the world. Hegenbarth 5 Works Cited Health World Health Organization, 2017, http://www.who.int/en/. Accessed 27 February 2017. Free World Health Organization, 2017, http://www.who.int/tobacco/healthwarningsdatabase/en/. Accessed 27 February 2017. World Health Organization, 2017, http://www.who.int/roadsafety. Accessed 27 February 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. XanEdu, 2016, pp. 20-46.