Taylor Smith Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 27 February 2017 How Trustworthy Is Barbie Though? and women come in one shape, and now, finally, Barbie (Pearson). Barbie is a world- known doll manufactured by Mattel for nearing 58 years. The company has taken over toy stores and little bedrooms- which in effect causes a strong influence in said life. Ruth Handler, the innovator and spokesperson for Barbie, began the populous doll when she said, woman has which sparked worth of growth in the company. Barbie has made monumental strides within the company to relate to all girls of colors, sizes, and dreams. (Handler). In Image One and Image Two pathos, kairos, and ethos are effectively used to convey a sense of reliability and comfortability within the Barbie Dolls for young girls. Barbie utilizes pathos in image one to ensure young girls feel as though Barbie is friend of theirs by using racially diverse dolls in the advertisements. Pathos is the way an author or author/ illustrator utilizes methods for the reader to feel emotionally connected to the whatever the author/ illustrator is trying to convey (Pearson). In Image One, Barbie utilizes the color of the dolls skin to allow girls of color to feel included in the Can Be campaign. Barbie is an advocate for young girls doing whatever they set their mind to and young black females are no exception to said standard. Lisa Hex writes on the importance of black/ colored dolls being easily accessible in toy stores. She as a young black girl grew up with dolls her mom would spend hours in lines waiting to get. Samantha Knowles said, when you see a doll, such a wonderful reminder of that somebody took the time to make a doll in your and this is likely what most girls of races other than Caucasian would find to be true (Hex). If the Can Be campaign continuously plastered the stereotyped, blond Barbie people could quickly become enraged due to discrimination. By including women of color, it allows people of all races to believe they live up to whatever their dreams may carry them. Kairos is a big aspect in Image one for Barbie, as it encourages consumer to quickly act to get the doll of the year and enforces the idea that girls can be whatever they aspire to be. is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Pearson). By saying within the advertisement, Can be it gives the viewer a goal, or an endpoint to obtain. The image includes a Barbie doll dressed as a doctor, which implies that all girls have the potential to become, in due time, whatever they might aspire to be. The in the case of this advertainment is becoming a doctor, or another well-paying job. Image one also implies if one works hard enough, the goal will be achieved. This is exuded with a doll of color dressed as a doctor, being plastered on the advertisements; while in history African-Americans were not permitted the right to schooling. In addition, Image one evokes a sense of women empowerment, as the doll is dressed a doctor which can often be thought of as a job and a nurse is to be stereotyped as a job. This image exemplifies the tremendous growth our country has made in equality and the push for younger generations to keep believing in themselves and for equality in and minorities rights. In Image One and Two, ethos is used to establish a sense of trustworthiness with young girls by placing the iconic Barbie emblem at the bottom of the image and using a Barbie doll on both images. Ethos is the way in which an author/ illustrator utilizes sources to convey a sense of credibility the picture in bold letters. The logo allows readers to recognize that Barbie approves of the image and is further advertisement for the company. This is in case someone does not recognize the doll and the company wants to project their brand onto the advertisement. The picture of the doll is also to give a sense of credibility as Barbie is on such a high platform, she is idolized like a star nowadays. Image Two also does the same sort of idea in hopes that including the image of multiple jobs and dolls pictured in uniforms for said job, it gives the brand a sense of credibility. Barbie would not picture their dolls in an advertisement if it was an idea that the Barbie brand did not stand behind. Barbie wants girls to know that they can obtain any job or dream they set their mind to, and by including a young favorite doll pictured as that said job, the girl would put full trust in the brand and dolls themselves. There are multiple examples of pathos in Image Two, one of which being the multiple races presented in the image. This was used for multiple races to be able to identify with the advertisement and envision themselves holding a Barbie that resembles are all dressed up for work so girls can see themselves working a like firefighting, astronaut, or becoming president of the United States. Bethany Bulik noted that, Since creation she has always empowered girls to be whoever they want to be. Barbie was an astronaut before Neil Armstrong made it to the (Bulik, adage.com). jobs Barbie takes on is not only for girls to feel as though they can achieve such a dream someday, but so girls go out and work to become a firefighter, scientist, or do something before it is ever done. Ruth Handler wants girls to know of all the opportunities out there for them and by relaying the advertisement dressed as important, well- sought after jobs, Handler hopes girls will feel as though they tried their hardest and girls of ages will know they can obtain what jobs they wish to. Another aspect of pathos in Image Two is the color of the background- pink. There seems to always be a gender stigma around pink and the pink was placed purposefully in this image because as Barbie takes on a more job (e.g. games developer) Barbie does not want to lose its sense of femininity that younger girls can relate to. The pink tone enables girls to find a sense of comfortability within the wide range of jobs career takes on. The kairos in Image Two is placed beneath the feet- the years the dolls were released. The advertisement exemplifies Barbie growth throughout time, not only has Barbie included often sought after jobs, but she includes multiple races and the years they were released. The years in the image explain what year the doll was released and this is to show the public that Barbie is changing along with the public. The three most recent dolls are not the often thought of Barbie- the blond skinny Barbie. Instead they have different hair colors and different ethnicities. Also, the year that corresponds to the Barbie is the only year someone can find that Barbie in a toy store., and if the customer does not get the doll that specific year, they could be as the style of babies change drastically from year to year (e.g. in 2015 Barbie was a scientist and in 2016 she became a game developer). When the three essential appeals come together in the advertisements, pathos, kairos, and ethos were effective in Image One; meanwhile in Image Two, ethos and pathos were effective while kairos was near lacking. Image One was effective in pathos as girls are surely able to relate to wanting to be a doctor or become anything they want to someday. The doll of color also ensured minorities feel included in campaign empowering girls to be who they want. Pathos was effective because Barbie used a minority group as the campaigns face,to appeal to girls of color. Kairos found to be slightly effective as the in Image One is to be anything you wish to be when you grow up, just as Barbie did. Ethos was effective as the logo on the image holds the company accountable to continue to inspire and endlessly push the brand to always fulfill what the advertisements portray. Image use of ethos was in good standing because Barbie did not include a logo anywhere on the image, however; the image is found on About Me page. Pathos could be effective because as time went on they added more differences to the and jobs that are not typically seen as girl jobs. As for kairos it was lacking, because the image does not come out and explicitly state that these dolls are sold only during specific times of the year. The importance behinds the dates allow girls of color and other minority groups, to feel included and push the idea that brand is willing to include all types of girls. Barbie has been changing their style for decades and more changes can be anticipated within the coming years. By using pathos, kairos, and ethos, girls can expect Barbie to allows push to be to be whoever they want to be through variety of races, color usage, and the ever- changing overall look of Barbie. Both images utilized varying races to inspire all sorts of girls to believe in Ruth mission statement, have The advertisements released by Barbie were effective in grabbing a young attention and drawing the child into the product. Works Cited Bulik, Beth. Pushes Barbie as Model of Empowerment for Young Accessed Feb. 25, 2017. Handler, Ruth. Breaking Barbie. Mattel.com, Barbie. Feb. 18, 2017. Handler, Ruth. Can Be Barbie. Mattel.com Barbie Accessed Feb.18, 2017. Hix, Lisa. is Beautiful: Why Black Dolls 21, 2013. Accessed Feb. 24, 2017.