Ahmed 1 Danesh Ahmed Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 February 28, 2017 Scientists have studied climate change for decades now and have argued over whether climate change is happening. Some scientists believe that climate change is happening but that it is a natural occurrence. Today, the majority, if not all, of scientists agree that global warming is happening and human activities have contributed to the earths rapid increase in average temperature. Greenhouse gases are gases found in our atmosphere that help trap heat inside the atmosphere while also reflecting or absorbing ultraviolet rays (UV rays). Global warming is caused by a change or imbalance of greenhouse particles in the atmosphere. Humans have contributed to climate change by increasing the amount of greenhouse gases in the environment through emissions. The use of aerosols and other products have also released chlorofluorocarbons in the atmosphere which causes the ozone layer to break down. This allows more UV rays to get through the atmosphere. Scientists are researching the effects of climate change on the world around us. They have found that sea levels are rising, animal habitats are being destroyed, and even health is being affected. The increase in UV rays has resulted in many direct and indirect health risks to humans. How does global warming affect the human world? 1. Karl, Thomas R., and Kevin E. Trenberth. Modern Global Climate  Modern Global Climate Change. Science AAAS, 05 Dec. 2003. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. This article gives an overview on global warming in general. Karl and Trenberth tell the reader of how the earth has changed over time due to global warming. They do this by looking at how the atmosphere was normally in the past and how it has changed over time. The Ahmed 2 atmosphere of the Earth today has an increase in greenhouse gases. They attribute this to a rise in emission due to industrialization over the past century. Then they describe how greenhouse gases work in keeping heat inside the atmosphere and how an increase in greenhouse gases has cause temperatures to rise. This source is connected to the research question because it gives an overview on global warming. By being able to understand how humans have caused an increase in the rate of global warming the reader can understand the effects of global warming on the human world. This article is credible because it was published in the magazine which is associated with the American Association for the Advancement of Science. This association is recognized in the science community as legitimate globally. The author, Thomas R. Karl, does research with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the National Climatic Data Center, and the Satellite and Information Services. Kevin Trenberth does research with the National Center for Atmospheric Research. 2. McMichael, Anthony J., PhD, Rosalie E. Woodruff, PhD, and Simon Hales, PhD. Climate Change and Human Health: Present and Future  The Lancet 368.9538 (2006): 859-69. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673606680793>. This source is an article on a research done on climate change and the present and future risks to human health. This article initially focuses on the causes of global warming. Then it explains how the global change in temperature affects the environment and then it finally explains how these all end up causing a negative effect on health of living organisms. Some examples are thermal stress leading to death or injury, increase in bacterial growth therefore increase in getting infections, and increased allergic disorders due to longer allergy seasons. This article also writes about benefits caused by global warming. Some examples of this are a reduce in winter deaths, less change of being infected by mosquito due to impaired reproduction rate, and increase in locations where crops can be grown. Ahmed 3 This source relates to the research question because it specifically talks about the effects of climate change on human health. It also is a strong source because it gives some benefits to human health. This provides another perspective for the paper. This article is credible because it was published in which is a highly regarded United Kingdom medical journal. Anthony McMichael and Rosalie Woodruff both work at the National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health and they have both studied at the Australian National University. Simon Hales went to the Wellington School of Medicine and Health Sciences. 3. Bonan, Gordon B. Forests and Climate Change: Forcings, Feedbacks, and the Climate Benefits of  Science 320.5882 (2008): 1444-449. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. <http://science.sciencemag.org/content/320/5882/1444.full>. This article by Gordon Bonan gives a specific example of how climate change has benefitted forests. This claim is based on plants respiratory system which he explains in the article. Plants take in CO2 from the environment and use it to convert water with sunlight into glucose. This provides energy for plants and allows them to grow. Science proves that an increase in concentration of reactants results in an increase in production of the products. This is why global warming is helping the plant life in forests. Global warming is caused by an increase in greenhouse gases such as CO2 and an increase in greenhouse gases result in more UV rays to enter the through the earth. This article relates to the research question because it focuses on the benefits of global warming on plant life. Plant life is essential for humans to live because they are the only major group of organisms that release oxygen as a waste product which is needed in human respiration. This article is credible because it was published in the magazine which is associated with the American Association for the Advancement of Science. This association is recognized in the science community as legitimate globally. The author, Gordon Bonan, does research at the National Center for Atmospheric Research. Ahmed 4 4. Perera, Frederica P. Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate  Environmental Health Perspectives 125.2 (2016): n. pag. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. This article was written in 2016 by Frederica P. Perera. The title of the article is Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate This article looks at the threats of climate change to developing children as of 2016. 5. Xia, Longlon, Shuwei Wang, and Xiaoyuan Yan. Effects of Long-term Straw Incorporation on the Net Global Warming Potential and the Net Economic Benefit in a Cropping System in  Agriculture, Ecosystem and Environment 197 (2014): 118-27.Science Direct. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2014.08.001>. This source relates to the research question because it talks about how global warming has increased the production of rice crop in China. This benefits the economy of China and provides stable food source for people around the world. This source is credible because it was published in the Agricultural, Ecosystem, and Environment Journal. This is an international journal for scientific research. Longlong Xia does research at the State Key Laboratory of Soil and Sustainable Agriculture. Shuwei Wang also does research at the same laboratory and studied at the University of Chinese Academy of Sciences. Xiaoyuan Yan also does research at that laboratory and works in the Institute of Soil Science. 6. Disli, Mustafa, Adam Ng, and Hossein Askari. Culture, Income, and CO2  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 62 (2016): 418-28. Science Direct. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364032116300867>. This source relates to the research question because it talks about how CO2 emissions and global temperature change can benefit humans through an economic and cultural lens. The Ahmed 5 article was published in the Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews. The authors all study economics at their institutions.