Lloyd-Gage 1 Marissa Lloyd-Gage Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 13 March 2017 Saying No to Common Core If you thought your child was not receiving a fair education, would you fight it? Common core is a set of standards created by the American Government to regulate our students learning. This system maps out what each student should know by the end of each grade to ensure all students are at the same level. The question is whether this system is fair. The Parents Against Common Core is an organization of parents whom do not believe common core should be used in education. They find this system is unfair and believe that it does not allow parents to be involved in their education. The Parents Against Common Core released images advocating the abolition of common core, the country, parents and teachers have formed a network of grassroots activists dedicated to fighting the Common Core and restoring the right to govern the education of their The use of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, in both images effectively show the Parents Against Common opposition of the education system. Parents Against Common Core (PAAC) is an organization of parents that do not believe common core is a fair way to educate their children. Their mission statement mentions we are all created equal, endowed by our Creator with certain unalienable rights, and among these Lloyd-Gage 2 are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. There is no greater provider of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness than a quality education. Together, Parents Against the Common Core (. . .) will continue to support and nourish the successful efforts of anti-Common Core citizen (About Us). This organization refers to the Declaration Independence to highlight the belief that common core does not advocate equality. As mentioned Image 1, HR 5, also known as the Student Success Act, takes education out of the hands of the federal government and puts it in the hands of each state, something that the Parents Against Common Core believe to be unreasonable. The PAAC works alongside American Principles in Action, an organization that also fights against common core, to fight for what they believe is better education. Parents Against Common Core strongly believes that education should be taken out of the hands of the government and put back into the hands of those who are personally impacted by this system which includes teachers, students, and parents so that education may be personalized based on student needs. Image 1, released by Parents Against Common Core, uses rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to convince the audience to take action against common core. This image has a black background with red font, and a parental advisory symbol. At first glance, one may assume danger or importance. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal that refers to credibility of the speaker. Logos refers to the use of logic or facts. Another rhetorical appeal used is pathos, the appeal to emotion. And kairos is the appeal to timeliness. Lloyd-Gage 3 In Image 1, ethos is exemplified by parents themselves expressing that their own are being attacked. This cry for help to their fellow parents that implies credibility through the parents speaking up for themselves about their rights being endangered. Image 1 also contains the parental advisory symbol, something parents look out for to know whether something is appropriate or not for their children. Adding this symbol will grab the attention of parents because when they see this they know to look out. Logos is also used in Image 1 to show that the Parents Against Common Core knows what the supportive side of common core is trying to accomplish, 5: Expects enforcement of 95% As mentioned earlier, HR 5 puts education in the hands of each government. This shows that the Parents Against Common Core know what the opposing side expects from the education system and use it to show that it is not sensible or effective. Parents Against Common Core utilize pathos in the first image to appeal to the emotions of parents, teachers, and others. Parents Against Common Core uses color to appeal to the emotion of the audience. The image is all black with red font, some big and some small. The large, bold, red font is used to catch the attention of the audience and to imply importance to the situation. This color scheme can be used to show danger, which would appeal to the eyes of parents because they are always on the lookout for danger. Parents Against Common Core uses kairos in the first image by adding a telephone number for the audience to call to express their beliefs on common core. After viewing the image, some may feel empowered or concerned. With the contact information on hand, these people can simply call the number to take action on the situation and potentially create change. Lloyd-Gage 4 The second image also uses rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to persuade the audience to act against common core. This image contains a stack of papers, along with words using varying font sizes, and the PACC logo. Parent Against Common Core made their logo stand out from the rest of the image to show who is saying this. To do this, they used their blue and red logo on a softer background. This is an appeal to ethos, as the audience can quickly verify credibility of the image at first glance. Logos is used in Image 2 by including a statistic on an aspect of common core. It says, Every Child Achieves act is 20% longer than No Child Left For those who know, the Every Child Achieves act is a modified version of No Child Left Behind. The Parents Against Common Core use this to give the audience statistical information to prove that this system of education is not suitable for their children. Pathos is represented in Image 2 using color and the stack of papers. The color scheme of the advertisement appeals to the emotions of the audience by making important parts of the text bigger and bolder than the rest. As the background of the image is a relaxing, off white, color, the text is bold and black to show the importance of their words. The stack of papers in the image appeals to the emotion of the audience by creating a stressful mood, being that a stack of papers is never something to be happy about. Lloyd-Gage 5 The image also appeals to timeliness by giving a phone number for the audience to call to speak to the senator about what they believe should be done in regards to this issue. With stress from the image, the audience may feel the need to take action. This is made easy by the Parents Against Common Core by including the telephone number as a cry for action. The first image uses rhetorical appeals to effectively convince their audience to take action. The use of ethos in this image is effective because parents are speaking for themselves to convince their audience to take action against common core by using their credibility as fellow parents of students. Parents Against Common Core also effectively uses the rhetorical appeal logos, to prove to the audience that they know what they are talking about. This is effective because terms such as 1) and Child Achieves may not be well known by the audience but is well known by PACC, therefor causing viewers to do research on the meaning of the terms and potentially come back to the image to add the pieces together. This gets the audience more involved in the cause. The Parents Against Common Core utilizes color scheme to appeal to the emotions of the audience. This is effective because the majority of their target audience are parents. Black and red together may symbolize danger, something parents always have their eye out for. This color scheme attracts the eyes of the audience while proposing danger in the common core education system. Kairos is also used in image one to call the audience to action. Included in the image is a phone number. Parents Against Common Core expect that by including this phone number, the audience will reach out to congress and express their beliefs on this dangerous education system. The second image utilizes ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos as well to effectively persuade parents to take a stand against common core. In the image released by Parents Against Common Core, the red, white, Lloyd-Gage 6 and blue logo of the organization stands out from the calm, off-white color of the rest of the image. PAAC did this not only to have their name stand out, but to show that their organization represents the United States to show that they care about the education of our future leaders. Logos is represented where the image says every child achieves act is 20% longer than no child left this effectively gets the audience to further their research on the every child achieves act and the no child left behind act in hopes that their research will lead them to taking action against the common core. Pathos is represented in the big, bold text that stands out from the rest of the image to show the importance of the bold words. is in big, bold letters to emphasize the importance of the audience taking action. Kairos is also used effectively in this image, as in the first, by including a phone number for the audience to call and take action against common core, making it both quick and convenient for the audience to take action. All in all, The Parents Against Common Core released these images in hopes that parents will act against common core. The first image depicts danger with the use of color and the parental advisory symbol as the second image creates a stressful mood to get the audience to act quickly. The organization released these images with the use of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to effectively show the Parents Against Common opposition of the education system and potentially get the audience to take a stand against common core. Lloyd-Gage 7 Works Cited Facebook, Parents Against Common Core, 6 July 2015, https://www.facebook.com/parentsagainstthecommoncore/photos/a.385481594971498.10 73741828.353360564850268/423828677803456/?type=3&theater, Accessed 27 February 2017. Facebook, Parents Against Common Core, 6 July 2015, https://www.facebook.com/parentsagainstthecommoncore/photos/a.385481594971498.10 73741828.353360564850268/423578971161760/?type=3&theater, Accessed 27 February 2017. About Us Parents Against the Common  Parents Against the Common Core. https://parentsagainstthecommoncore.com/about/, Accessed 27 February 2017 Lloyd-Gage 8 Image 1 Image 2