Hnaing Ma Kha ENC American Energy Works American Energy Works is a huge producer of natural gases that aims on producing natural gas and fuels that are clean and can be used efficiently. Not only is producing energy their goal, they also plan on providing jobs for many American citizen and improving the economy. Their main goal is to follow the energy policy made by Washington and to a secure supply of abundant, affordable, and available energy for the American people in an environmentally responsible With the world entering an age of technology producers and organizations like these will be needed to provide energy to fuel all these technology as well as advancing them. American Energy Works supply many of energy as well as giving many people jobs. Not only that they also sometimes act as advocate of many oil companies and organization. They also plans on improving many equipment and educating people about natural gas and crude oil. They also seem to have a lot of activities on Energy Infrastructure, Offshore Access to oil and natural gas, one of the main energy suppliers of Alaska, Crude Oil Exports, LNG exports, Hydraulic fracturing Renewable fuel standard, Ozone NAAQs, Energy Taxes. American Energy Works has many safety rules and regulation and legal certificates that shows that they are true to their words. Two of the images that have been chosen shows a lot about their main goal. American Energy Works is also known as America Petroleum Institute (API) which supplies8 percent of the US economy as well as providing 9.8 million jobs to the US citizens. Although API was initially only to supply energy domestically, they have already started going international and is already recognized. As mention before they usually act as advocate for many oil related event. They usually negotiate with regulatory agencies, represent the industry in legal proceedings, participate in coalitions and work in partnership with other associations. Not only that, they also do research and take statistics on many things. Not only do they conduct those research, they also sponsor such research or collect statistics on imports and exports of the US industry operations. API has been the head at development of petroleum and petrochemical equipment and operating standards. They have experience using everything from drill bits and environment protection and has proven it with their engineering and operation practices and safe equipment. Not only that they also plan on educating other organization in the same field by providing workshops and conferences. The two images have many similar features. First of all the people in the image are all non-american which shows that American Energy Works not only able to provide enough jobs for the American citizen of all type of races and color. They both give some facts about how many people are supporting cause of producing more oil and natural gas with bold numbers with percentage which shows they have some sort of survey. American Energy Works have many talented and experience members with legal certificates which shows that they know what they are doing. The two facts may also show that many people are being told how American Energy works is also interested in protecting the environment and is trying to improve it by remodeling many of the standard equipment. Another thing it tell us something is the word This means that not only is American Energy Works making energy for construction and such, they are also supplying home allowing them to enjoy themselves. In the first image it shows a Minnesota male wearing what it looks like his work uniform. His job seems to have some connection to the Offshore sites mention at American Energy website. It also shows that American Energy works is keeping their word and providing jobs to all kind of race and skin color people. The second image is also trying to tell a similar message by showing a Minnesota family in front of a house. What this image is trying to show in addition to telling people American Energy Works is providing jobs, it is telling us that the jobs provided by them give enough salary to get marry have kids and start a family and purchase a decent house. The two images install a lot of positive feeling on us by showing us people smiling happily in the image. And the words gives us some reliability. And the other thing is these images might be intended to target all sort of people so it was made clearly and simple. The design and color of both of the images are the same. There is a lot of the color yellow and there is an icon of the state they took the statistic from. The overall coloring and lighting well suited as they look a bit gloomy and dark while they are trying to get people to support them. However as good as these images maybe, there are also some similar lacking factors between these two images. First of all there may be some facts but they tell us nor do they give us enough information. The only thing they tell us is that many people support increase production of gas and domestic oil and that many people agreed that they are important resources. The problem with this is that it only shows Minnesota people and not any other races. The other thing it does not tell us is which class do they belong to. Another thing that is lacking is that we know if the offshore site in the image belongs to American Energy Works or not. The most noticeable problem with these images is that the factor Karios: appeal to timeliness is entirely lacking. The other thing that is lacking is the images does not show many reliability nor credibility nor morality. Overall the two images show many evidence that supports American Energy goal but there are some factors lacking here and there especially the timeliness and the coloring and the shading of the images are not too good. The two images are presented below.