Hudson !1 Andrew Hudson Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 13 March 2017 Love is Love is Love There are approximately eight million people that openly consider to be either lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) constructing 3.5% of the United States populations Williams Institute LGBT Considering that, LGBT people construct a strong minority group in America. Especially in recent times, many issues have been occurring about transgender children equality in public schools. A long established organization that advocates for these issues and LGBT rights is the Human Rights Campaign (HRC). purpose is to create world where LGBTQ people are ensured of their basic equal rights, and can be open, honest and safe at home, at work and in the Gay rights and the for equality are issues that HRC combats for in two of their published images that exemplify strong usage of pathos, ethos, and kairos. With these rhetorical appeals, the two images present effectiveness to purpose while appealing to their viewers. Pathos, the appeal toward emotions and feelings, is strongly presented in image, image one, through several characteristics. The smile and hopeful look on president Barack face give the viewer a warm feeling that the future holds promise for the moral battles fought over LGBT people. Also the fact that Obama is pictured in black and white gives a seriousness to the subject. Portraits of past Hudson !2 presidents are usually seen in color, and for Obama to be in black and white gives him a certain mightiness to the subject matter. The colorful heading in the image is rainbow to connect to gay pride, which can have the viewer experience joy and happiness. The quote presented is eloquent and gives off powerful statements that make the viewer feel like work is going to get done. Ethos, the appeal to credibility, is presented in image one as well. Obviously, with the logo and name at the bottom of the picture gives this image credibility to HRC and their stance on equality for LGBT. Having president Obama in the image gives a very strong credibility that gay rights is an issue that is political and has been discussed under administration. Having Obama in the image most likely means that he is the one that stated the quote and promises to work hard to ensure minds and hearts are changed for message. Obama also gives ethos to the image as he was the leader of the legislation that legalized gay rights across the United States back in 2015; Obama is a very credible character to HRC. Kairos, the appeal to time and action, is slightly presented in the image based on the quote long as a single child in America afraid they wont be accepted for who they are, got more work to By saying that still work to be done, kairos is implying how there is no time better than now that people should begin to change their views on gay rights. Because America is a nation full of opposing opinions toward gay rights, there will always be work to be done because more than likely not every single mind will be changed at once, but ideally over time. What Obama addresses urges the audience that now is the time to gain new perspective to make sure LGBT children (and people in general, too) do not feel prejudiced. Hudson !3 Pathos is presented in a second image published by HRC which can be referred to as With this image of a young mother and who is presumably her daughter, the heart it softened to see a mother teaching her child the freedoms of speech that HRC and America represent. The mother and daughter have matching headbands that represent peace and express their beauty. Also to take daughter to a march or protest is a bold move and a harsh yet memorable experience for someone so young. The daughter looks off into the distance observing and taking in all her surroundings, probably not knowing what to feel. The viewer can not help but to imagine what is going through the daughters head and the experiences that the Marching Mother is exposing to her child. Pathos is furthermore shown in the poster that Marching Mother holds. The sign reads conquers a very similar phrase to the popular one trumps used recently amongst protesters that have made lashes to current president Donald Trump. The quote gives a positive message saying that one should put more love out into the world than hate. In the end, the awesome power of love will forever conquer the uselessness of ambiguous hatred; this is generally the message Marching Mother presents to her daughter and the viewer. Marching Mother presents ethos as well. She holds a sign with the HRC logo painted to the corner and wears a shirt also produced by HRC. Having these features present in the image gives HRC their credibility that they stand with the message presented in this photo. Ethos can also be represented simply for Marching Mother being a mother and for her daughter for being a daughter. For those out there that are or even have a mother, this image can appeal to them and Hudson !4 realize that if Marching Mother stands up for equality and love, that their mother can stand for the same idea. Similarly to the daughter, those who are daughter or child can connect to the daughter and realize that they could be marching with their mother to join the cause or even go on to want to teach their daughter or child to be raised to for equality. There is a very subtle pass of kairos in Marching Mother. By the looks of her, this mother could be no older than forty, so she is a fairly young mother. Her daughter is will one day grow up to be like her mother representing and teaching the same morals as her. Because the mother is old but also still young, it shows that people her age have been for causes like for a decades. As generations get older, more and more people will start to learn and become accustomed to how gay rights are no different than basic human rights. The more kids that are brought up thinking this way, the more conversation to be had about morality. As these children grow older, time will show how ideas have changed. In Marching Mother, kairos is shown with the age that gay rights have been fought for since her mother taught her, and she passes it on to her kids to spread the love. For image one and Marching Mother, the appeals all contribute to the effectiveness of the images and mission, but a slight fallacy is present in Image one. The appeals all work together in image one to show that President Obama is an advocate for HRC and he wants to see minds begin to accept change. His message, the candid photo, and colorful header all convince the viewer that change is happening, gay rights are being addressed at a federal level, and that they should check and consider their stance gay rights, but credibility is deterred by a fallacy of argument from authority. By not having an accreditation to Obama in the image, simply just a dash and his name following, the effectiveness from ethos is somewhat lost and the viewer can not be entirely sure Obama stated the quote, it can only be assumed it by the Hudson !5 heading with his name and his image present. In Marching Mother the appeals all work together to make the viewer have a connection between mother and daughter for equality. They show that it is a beautiful relationship to have when you can bring your child out into the streets and stand up for what you believe it. Putting themselves out there also gets the idea out that the viewer should take part in a stance that addresses how love is a more powerful and meaningful action than hatred and will call to more equal rights for the LGBT world. Gay rights has been a very heavy topic of discussion for many years. The Human Rights Campaign has been an advocate for gay rights for nearly thirty years and has performed innumerous movements and campaigns to gain support for the LGBT community. Their work is shown in two presented images that contain pathos, ethos, and kairos. For the most part, their published images are effective and display purpose in both images and speak to audiences and viewers to take action by spreading love. Hudson !6 Works Cited Instagram, Human Rights Campaign, 15 January 2017, https:// www.instagram.com/humanrightscampaign/?hl=en. Instagram, Human Rights Campaign, 29 January 2017, https:// www.instagram.com/humanrightscampaign/?hl=en. Falk, Robert, The Human Rights Campaign, Human Rights Campaign, 2017, http://www.hrc.org, 26 February 2017. Gates, Gary, Many People are Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and The Williams Institute LGBT Stats, UCLA School of Law, April 2011, http:// williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/research/census-lgbt-demographics-studies/how-many- people-are-lesbian-gay-bisexual-and-transgender/, Accessed 26 February 2017.