Prithipaul 1 Toshita Prithipaul Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.909 12 March 2017 A futuristic approach to developing science and new technologies. Science is evolving everyday and new technologies are emerging to improve current lifestyles and to prepare for the upcoming future. Space X is a private company founded in 2002 having the aim of exploring the universe and to pemit humans to settle on planet Mars. The company conducts the launching of rockets periodically and recently there was an announcement stating that the company is giving its consent to sending tourists on an expedition to the moon. Although it may sound unreasonable, Space X believes that humans can conquer Mars and wants to send humans on the planet. In order to make the public aware of the future projects and to share important information, images are released by Space X. These images make use of rhetorical appeals like ethos, logos, kairos and pathos to promote the goals of the company effectively. Ethos defines the credibility and authority of the image, how the image is associated to the goal. The colour scheme of the image shows the credibilty of the aim of Space X; promoting life on Mars. The poster reconstruct the surroundings on Mars with a mountain that can be found on Mars and having a sky with clouds. It points out the similarities of life on Earth while redefining the technologies used. The technologies used in the image are advanced but still can be developped this depicts credibiltity of the image. The wordings on the poster portrays ethos by sharing trustworthy information: Olympus Mons is solar highest by being largest volcano in the solar The Prithipaul 2 height ranges up to three times the height of Mount Everest (Redd). The cars on the zip line are designed in a similar manner with rays of light pointing backwards, enabling the car to move in the forward direction. The repeated design represents the credibility of the vehicle, it demonstrates that such a means of transport can be developed with future technologies. Pathos is associated to emotions; what the image wants the audience to feel. The image captures the moment where humans are achieving the goal of moving towards the summit of the volcano, which is also the highest in the solar system. This evokes the sense of achievement and success towards the future since the car is moving upwards effortlessly. The humans are comfortable with the motion of the car showing a sense of safety and trust in the technology. Image 1 also increases the thought process without restricting the level set to goals. The feeling conveyed is that progress can be achieved even outside of planet Earth. Prithipaul 3 is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman et al. 39). In image 1, the comparison of the zip line with the car going up and having two persons climbing the mountain using ropes only depict Kairos. People, using the conventional method, can climb the mountain but a futuristic design enables the user to not only complete the task but also to perform it faster. Image 2 define ethos by having the sun and sky as background. A similar color scheme of different tones of brown and blues with the yellow sun can be seen on Image 1. This depicts the credibility where the same world can be seen on two images. The proportion of the mountains to the height and the space vehicle also makes the image feel real and that life on Mars is possible. The person having a jet pack on his back is wearing a helmet on, this also shows the credibility of the image. The title of the image meaning Mariner Valleys shows the Prithipaul 4 credibility of the image 2 by informing the audience about a fact. canyon system Valles Marineris reigns as the largest canyon system on the red The image describes credibility of the depth of the canyon by not clearly showing the start and the end of the valley. The space vehicle found on the valley shows that transportation is available on the planet denoting the communication of people living on the planet. This shows the credibility of the image by the similarities of life on Earth. Pathos in the image can be seen by the action of the persons and mainly focus on the futuristic aspect of life on Mars. The image makes the audience to feel that soon humans will be able to conquer Mars by the use of technologies. The idea of exploring Mars and discovering new lands is portrayed in the image. It makes people want to travel to Mars and that it can be easily carried out since the humans have landed there and are exploring the lands. The belief that there could be life on Mars is conveyed in the image which connects to the organization mission statement. In image 2, Kairos can be depicted as the moment that is happening in the image, where in the early morning where the sun is rising, humans are conducting research on planet Mars. It feels like they just landed on the planet and the man on the picture is ahead on his research compared to his other partners. The image also shows that the man may be worried about what is going to happen next and he is checking on the spacecraft. The image conveys that with the use of technology even what could seem impossible can happen. The image shows that humans have already landed on Mars and are exploring new grounds. Surrealism is being portrayed in the images since they are describing events in the future. Image 1, depicts the action of humans conquering the summit and taking over Mars, Space X is promoting this idea. Image 1 is effective in the sense that it is conveying the Prithipaul 5 goal. The effectiveness can also be seen when humans are climbing the volcano effortlessly and are enjoying their trip towards the summit. Image 2 shows effectiveness of the appeals by depicting that life on Mars is possible and that humans can live there. This is confirmed by the man flying freely while checking on the ship that he came from in image 2. It also shows that no plants and living organisms are living there since both images show no signs of nature apart from the sky. This conveys the idea that even though some information is known about planet Mars, most of it remains unknown. Space X being a private company has been contributing to research and exploration in the universe. From now, it has launched numerous rockets to the atmosphere and owns important space vehicles. The aim of the company is to enable life on Mars and allow humans to settle there without difficulties. The findings and information that is released by the company is shared to the public through media. They use images to promote the goal of the company and to share the results of the experiment conducted. The images convey hidden meanings that are not direct and play with emotions of people. The use of rhetorical appeals make the task easier to understand and influence the message that the company conveys clearly. (1212 words) Prithipaul 6 Work cited Musk, Elon, Space X, http://www.theverge.com/tldr/2015/5/15/8613099/spacex-made-some-awesome-travel-posters- for-mars, Accessed 13 March 2017. Musk, Elon, Space X, http://www.theverge.com/tldr/2015/5/15/8613099/spacex-made-some-awesome-travel-posters- for-mars, Accessed 13 March 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Accessed 12 March 2017. Redd, Nola Taylor, Mons: Giant Mountain of Space.com, http://www.space.com/20133-olympus-mons-giant-mountain-of-mars.html. Accessed 13 March 2017. Redd, Nola Taylor, Marineris: Facts About the Grand Canyon of Space.com, http://www.space.com/20446-valles-marineris.html. Accessed 13 March 2017.