Alexis Campisi Professor Uddin Composition 1 1/31/2017 Animal Testing Animal testing is the process of using a living animal subject for experiments and tests on products later to be used for humans, or pets. The idea of poor defenseless animals being used for experiments is enough to make anyone shudder, however despite this, animals have been used for generations to yield better results on treatments. Animals recently are being used more and more for testing cosmetics like shampoo companies, or even makeup companies. There have even been accounts from the MARS candy corporation of animals being used in experiments to see how chocolate affects blood vessels and blood pressure. Because of these cruel and unusual experiments, other differing opinions are becoming more popular. In place of using animals for cosmetic and beauty reasons, should animals be used only to better extend the research of all different kinds of cures and medicine? 1. Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Original Article: Animal Testing Is Still The Best Way To Find New Treatments For  European Journal Of Internal Medicine (2016): ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Author Silvio Garattini wrote an article in 2016 about how animal testing is the best way to find new treatments and cures. While explaining how animal testing is good, it still shows how and is at work in all animal testing. Working with animals can be a good thing, but still prove to be unethical in testing these products on humans when they have only yielded good results on animals. This article relates back the research question because of what the nature of the question is. This article explains animal testing and new treatments directly in relationship to my research question, while still asking the question if the transfer between animal and man does not work? What would we do This article is a good research tool for anyone to use if basing their research only on the medicinal values of animal testing, and the author is a fellow of the new York academy of sciences and does a great job of explaining and teaching the reader all about what is needed to know. 2. Murnaghan, Ian. Background and History of Animal  Background and History of Animal Testing. N.p., 6 Jan. 2017. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. This article by Ian Murnaghan is about the background and history, as well as the future of animal testing. It shows that animal testing is fraught with controversy and differing opinions on the matter. It explains the history of testing on animals, that even resulted in a ban in Britain in 1998. It then moves on to the attack and backlash on researchers that practice testing on animals, and finally ends with the future of animal testing where it says that while everyone wishes for a positive alternative, the animal activists going to be able to shut down the entire animal testing way. This article shows the history and future of animal testing and is very reliable. The author shows the research done through the information and sourcing in his article, even using a story about how an animal activist placed a bomb under a researchers car. He mentions PETA as well as other groups who stand against animal testing. Still, the author makes his own bias point clear about how they completely wipe out animal testing from the planet 3. Taylor, Robert. Testing Drugs on Animals: A Test Case for Socially Responsible  N.p., Apr. 2005. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Author Robert Taylor wrote an article detailing the moral issues of animal testing. It explains that while most people do not like the idea of any animal testing at all, they have to come to facts that animal testing does have a good side along with its evil one. He quotes it is accepted that animal testing makes a positive contribution to the development of new drugs, the moral question that arises is whether the furtherance of human health and the saving of human lives justify the use of animals in the development of medical Meaning that even if animal testing for medicinal reasons becomes an accepted practice, would that mean we are favoring human health over other living beings? This article shows both the good and bad of animal testing for medicinal reasons, which helps the research question flesh out two different opinions in the body of the paper, all done by Robert Taylor who is a Ph.D candidate at the University of Newcastle, Australia. 4. McNamee, Paulinee. A Tiered Approach to the Use of Alternatives to Animal Testing for the Safety Assessment of  N.p., July 2009. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. This article written by Pauline McNamee discusses the use of eye irritants in animals. It explains the different cosmetic eye drops used in animals and what different alternatives there are to this. The article states date, no single in vitro assay has been validated as a full replacement for the rabbit eye Meaning that to this day, there still been a full replacement for the tests, but it also states that there are openings for other options that have yet to be researched, and need to be. Pauline Mcnamee has her skills and expertise in Biology. Her information in this article helps connect back to the research question by giving a strong bias on how there should be differing options being looked into for different alternatives to animal testing, giving one side of the paper a good, strong peer reviewed journal full of information. 5. Paul, Ellen Frankel. Why Animal Experimentation  SpringerLink. Springer-Verlag, 2002. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. This article written by Paul Ellen Frankel explains the need for animal experimentation and testing. It details the fact that there are no viable options for different cures and medicines besides animal testing, and that if the practice is made illegal, the world would be to the next deadly AIDS or Ebola as written in the article. Paul Ellen Frankel is deputy of social philosophy at Bowling Green State University, as well as a political science professor. This article is also a strictly biased source for not banning animal testing because of the fact society does not have any better options, which will work towards the in favor part of the paper.