1 Jorge Prof. M. Heiser ENC 1102.069 19 February 2017 Images Presented by PETA Everyday humans use products that make their daily quality lives better. But what they do not know is the process in which these products have to go through before being released and used by the public. The two images below can be seen how animals suffer from human abuse, either for entertainment like elephants getting trained in a circus, or animals being used for human purposes like killing sheep for the use of their wool. These images are presented by PETA, a non-profitable organization, concentrated on the protection of animal rights; and bringing to an end injustices and suffering by creating advertisements, slogans and campaigns, through the use of rhetorical appeals (like logos, pathos, ethos and kronos). Their slogan goes as this: are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other The organization only wants best for animals. That is why these two images presented by PETA show how humans use animals as objects and entertainment benefiting nothing from animals but death and suffering. What is PETA? PETA (People for the ethical treatment of animals) is a non-profitable organization that focuses on animal rights and the protection of them (from humans). PETA, throughout its lifetime, has made various advertisements promoting the rights of animals through the use of visual The very first advertisement presents a dead sheep being held in the arms of a man named Jona Weinhofen, an Australian guitarist and musician for a band named: Killed the Prom that was skinned so humans can use its wool to make coats, shirts, between various other things. The advertisement wants the viewers to feel pity, anger and remorse towards this image. A rhetorical appeal can be seen as it is being advertised by PETA, and logos can be seen as the dead sheep. The dead sheep represents the rhetorical appeal of logos because the image shows how much suffering and pain the poor sheep went through, just so humans can use their fur for their own reasons. A perfect example of the rhetorical appeal of Pathos can be 2 seen in the text of the image: the rest of your wool because PETA wants the viewer/s to feel disgusted when wearing a coat with fur and sadness for the dead sheep represented in the photo. objective in this image is to stop the production of wool coats. PETA wants its audience to regret the use of wool coats for clothing so they can stop buying clothes with animal fur in it and big companies stop murdering animals for their own means (which is to earn money). The second image presented is a man named Rohit Sharma (Rohit is a world-wide known cricket player. Rohit supports animals and wants what is best for them by participating in advertisements and activities which promote the of animals. He is also an active member in the protection of animals) with a huge scar on his face, and with a spear right next to him (Khelnama, Complete New Sport Destination.com). The image also presents a textual message saying: to relate to and Animal (the use of logos can be seen in the textual images). The image wants the viewer to relate itself to the life of an abused elephant circus. All the pain and suffering that this poor animal has to go through just so that it entertains the present crowd. It also wants the public to stop going and stop advertising (in a positive way) circuses. The image, in a certain way, shows (discretely) the viewer what an animal has to go through in a circus example: an elephant being abused by a circus trainer with a spear. Because most humans who attend circuses do not really know what goes the of an animal and its trainer. The advertisement made by PETA tries to convey emotional appeals like pity, anger and disgust, like the spear, and the scar on the face. The spear portrays the unfairness and injustice that humans give out to animals in circuses, while the scar on the face represents pity and suffering that circus animals have to endure while being trained to entertain a crowd during a show. Overtime, it can be seen that animals endure pain and suffering since they were little cubs to nowadays adult life. PETA strives to end the oppression that circus trainers use to train animals. main objective in both of these images is to promote the rights of animals and end their suffering from humans. Therefore, the both images presented a celebrity who is against the use of animals for either commercial, entertainment or cosmetic use. Most importantly, with the use of visual the images show the suffering and pain these animals endure. The stakeholder (very smart) put a rusty spear in the image to show its audience how serious and 3 important the matter is at hand. The stakeholder wants the audience to open its eyes and be awaken (metaphorically) so that these injustices that animals endure for whatever reason can cease to exist. Also, the images that PETA presents demands its audience to take a stand against big companies and entertainment organizations (not to be named) that uses animals for their own personal use. Both images reflect like a rebellious attitude towards organizations that promote animal suffering. Furthermore, what do humans feel when they see a huge scar in a face (this time a celebrity) with a rusty spear right next to it or a dead animal with its skinned peeled off? Disgust and sadness because that is what humans do, they feel and try to put themselves in other shoes. The of this image (PETA) demand the audience to feel the pain and become the wiser person who is there for them, help and serve the ones in need (in this case the animals). As a wise man once said: greatness of a nation and its moral progress van be judged by the way its animals are (Anne, PETA UK.org). Is it fair for animals to be treated like dirt while humans enjoy them as products and entertainment? The answer is simply no, and that is why the organization PETA aims to find different ways like advertising with the use of rhetoric images and appeals to end animal slaughter for human use. That is why the nowadays culture values animal life and strives for the protection of these defenseless creatures. That is why through the use of rhetorics, PETA is finding new ways to end animal suffering and aims to start a fresh beginning of animal fairness in the world. 4 5 6 Works Cited Anne, Julian. 17 Quotes From Famous Thinkers Who Got It Right About  PETA UK. PETA, 02 June 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Khelnama. Rohit Sharma in PETA ad against ill treatment of the tuskers in  Khelnama. Complete News Sports Destination, 06 Mar. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The animal rights  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.