Nguyen 1 Thuan Hoang Nguyen Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.909 13 March 2017 The Voice of Women about Gender Inequality Is it true to what most people believe that men are created For thousands of years, women were seeking for their value, equality, and civil rights. Back then, voice was rarely to be heard and they were seen as housewife, who stays home, cleaning, and cooking for the man. Until this day, inequality still exists in the society by one way or another. Many articles and studies show that women are less favorable than man in the U.S. workplace, where women are underpaid and have less opportunity to get a good job. Consequently, some women feel embarrass about themselves and that women are left behind in the society. As time goes on, the gender inequality was getting attention by the society, due to the women who stand up together to reclaim their rights. Nowadays, there are many organizations that unite women from many places despite age, race, or religion, to gain a louder voice and to get more attention from the society. The National Organization for Women (NOW) is one of the largest organizations of feminist grassroots activists in the U.S. and they are there to fight for women in general. Through many campaigns, NOW has drawn a lot of attention from the society, by embracing women and revealing the facts of gender inequality. The movement of NOW will be analyzed and discussed using two images that they published to promote their campaign. One is about embracing women in general and another is about revealing the evidence of gender inequality. Moreover, by applying rhetorical Nguyen 2 appeals such as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos into the images, NOW has increased the effectiveness of their published images. The NOW is the organization that embraces women to make them feel empowered. According to NOW website, purpose is to take action through intersectional grassroots activism to promote feminist ideals, lead societal change, eliminate discrimination, and achieve and protect the equal rights of all women and girls in all aspects of social, political, and economic We par 1). With the aim of protect women as well as girl, NOW has many foundations that created a lot of campaigns to promote feminism. In order to create an image that is reliable and affective, the NOW applied many rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, and pathos. For instance, one of the most important campaigns is Love Your Body, where NOW tells women first to love and embrace their own body. The image was a winning poster for the Love Your Body Campaign in 2014. Moreover, the image shows many stereotype levels of (Hu) women in the US. According to the NOW, Love Your Body campaign challenges the message that a value is best measured through her willingness and ability to embody current beauty Your The image shows that women should first love their body, no Nguyen 3 matter who they are. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, is the way of establishing trust with his or her (Hoffman 20). The credibility of the image was ensured by the link of the NOW foundation, where women can believe that it was a message from NOW that is to embrace their body. Moreover, in the text of Rhetoric Really Matters, pathos is defined as rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Hoffman 37). The color of the overall image is pinky in the background and in the clothing, so that the feeling of feminism or supportive to women were created. Furthermore, this image also shows the united of women and the women beauties, where there is a black face, a head that wears a hijab, a muscular arm, a student uniform, and other stereotypes of women. Lastly, Logos is defined as to (Hoffman 32). The logos here would be that the image shows the fact that there are many types of women and no woman should feel bad about themselves, but to love and embrace their body. The NOW not only helps women to empower their beauties, but also help in speaking up the truth about the unequal through the rhetorical appeals. In the second image, the NOW used ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos as rhetorical appeals to deliver a message. For years, women have been fighting for equality, but they still get the value that they are deserved. According to Stephanie Sipe, Donna K. Fisher, and C. Douglas Johnson that tend to work in dead-end jobs, Nguyen 4 resulting in a lesser likelihood of promotion, and women are less likely than are men to exercise authority in the (340). For that reason, the NOW promoted an image and it was posted on the Facebook page. As mentioned before, there are a lot of articles that show women are underpaid and have less opportunity to get a good job. The image shows the statistic of the salary of men in general and many types of women in the U.S. workplace. In this second image, ethos, which is the credibility of the image is proved by the logo of the NOW and since NOW is the largest organization that support women, so the images that were posted by them can be trust under their name. Moreover, the NOW had shown the unbalance in pay between men and women through this posted image. The pathos which is an to (Hoffman 37), was displayed by the black background and white font, the NOW makes the audience feel that they are making a solid statement and are serious about this, data speaks for Furthermore, the NOW used the statistic to show the unbalance pay between men and women. The logos here is obvious, since it use the data to describe the amount that men and women are getting paid. The data was represented under 100 dollar bills, where the amount of money was shown by the cut of the 100 dollar bills. In this particular image, the NOW utilized its name into an urgent case, where kairos has been applied in the image. Specifically, kairos is appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman 41). The word was used as for the name of the organization and was also used for time, which is the present and is called for an immediate action. The rhetorical appeals have been used by the NOW to deliver the message through image to the society about the gender inequality. Nguyen 5 Overall, the images from NOW are effective and helpful to women. They were used not only help women mentally but also physically, where women can feel empowered and embraced within the group. The NOW has delivered a messages to the society that women should be equal to men, since people should deserve for what they work for. Due to all the elements that were contained in the two pictures, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, the two images have been successfully delivered the messages to everyone. From those two images, the men audience might change their opinions about women, since they can acknowledge the beauties of women and the inequality in the society. On the other hand, woman viewers might feel embraced and empowered by knowing that there are also women who stand by their side to fight for the same thing. By the use of rhetorical appeals, the society will definitely change the perspective about the modern women, who love their own body and their choices. Moreover, with the use of rhetorical appeals, the two images can attract more attention from the audiences about gender inequality In conclusion, the NOW has drawn a lot of attention from the society to promote their movement about feminism. They not only fight for women rights and equality, but also embrace and empower women, so that women can become stronger and better. By applying the rhetorical elements into the images, both campaign and post, the NOW has successfully delivered the messages about gender inequality to the society, which women should embrace their beauties and women should being treat as equal as men. Nguyen 6 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. https://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters Accessed 13 March 2017. Hu, Alice. Winning  National Organization for Women. 2014. http://now.org/now-foundation/love-your-body/posters/winning-designs/ Accessed 13 March 2017. Love Your . National Organization for Women. http://now.org/now- foundation/love-your-body/ Accessed 13 March 2017. . Facebook. National Organization for Women. 8 September 2015. https://www.facebook.com/NationalNOW/photos/a.56638761951.66014.1690011 1951/10153618709441952/?type=3&theater Accessed 13 March 2017. Sipe, Stephanie. Fisher, Donna K., and C. Douglas, Johnson. University Perceptions of Gender Discrimination in the Workplace: Reality Versus  Journal of Education for Business 11th ser. vol. 84 no. 6, 2009, pp.339-349. USF Libraries. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=3&s id=e27e98ca-7074-4d9a-be7c-11a75f0382df%40sessionmgr4009&hid=4205 Accessed 13 March 2017. Who We . National Organization for Women. http://now.org/about/who-we-are/ Accessed 13 March 2017.