1 Ryan Denis Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 2/28/17 Taxed Marijuana Over the years the use of marijuana has been criminalized and been looked down upon by the federal government. It has been considered a harmful gateway drug to youth, but within last few decades the marijuana laws have been changing on terms of not being so harsh towards users of legal age. Some of the states have recently started legalizing the use of marijuana for medical and some have even allowed for recreational use. There are some people who will say that the legalizations in the states have not had improvements on the economies but then it will lead to the question should the United States allow for the legalization of recreational marijuana in all States to help accumulate greater tax revenue? Roussell, Aaron. Field Observations of the Developing Legal Recreational Cannabis Economy in Washington  International Journal of Drug Policy. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. This article talks about the problems that come with the legal marijuana. It discusses that the retailers and all parts of business that the marijuana must pass through pay a 25 percent tax on the value of cannabis. This allows the retailers to markup price by 300 to 400 percent. The black market plays a roll on the marijuana economy by more people looking for the cannabis cheaper so the article talks about how that many retailers had to cut prices to compete with black market. 2 Roussell has a PhD from the University of California, Irvine (UCI), Criminology, and Law & Society (CLS). He has many articles about drug use and enforcement. He is very interested in drugs and drug policy this is helpful when he writes his articles because he has a good incite on the topics. Roche, Edward J. Federal Income Taxation of Medical Marijuana By Edward J. Roche :: SSRN. N.p., 13 Aug. 2013. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. This article goes in depth about all of the different cost of production from the growing to the actual distribution. It shows different break downs of how the money is used in every section. But the overall take from the article was that no matter how the agencies break down the cost there is no simple way to tax the marijuana without going under initial costs. Edward Roche is a teacher at Strum College of Law. He mainly focuses on the Graduate Tax Program. He was in the office of Tax Legislative Counsel and in the office of Tax Policy of the U.S. Treasury Department. Edward has had experience with taxes so he is very insightful about the taxes on marijuana. Finn, Kenneth, and Rochelle Salmore. The Hidden Costs of Marijuana Use in Colorado: One Emergency  Journal of Global Drug Policy & Practice, 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. This article discusses the negative effects that cannabis can cause on the economy and become a public health concern. It talks with the use of cannabis it must take some money from other parts of the government. When this happens the other facilities of government then suffer with the loss of money. 3 The author Kenneth Finn is an experienced pain management doctor. He went to medical school at the University of Texas Medical School at Houston. With his knowledge of the cost that go into all the cannabis in the medical area his incite is very useful. With help from co- author Rochelle Salmore, MSN, RN, NE-B, Nurse Scientist, Penrose St. Francis Health Services (retired). With combine years of experience in the medical field it has allowed them to conduct the marijuana research in the paper. Pudney, Stephen. Drugs Policy: What Should We Do about  Economic Policy., Jan. 2010. Web. Mar. 2017. Pudney, in his paper talks about the harm that cannabis causes to users. He believes that the cannabis should not be legal. He sees that legalizing cannabis would make youth believe that is it a normal habit causing addiction and leading to harder drugs. Pudney says device for signaling a moral position or social norm, which may influence behavior either directly, by inducing individuals to internalize that norm and effecting a change in This shows how it is harmful to others without that even having to partake in the matter. Stephen Pudney graduated from the University of Essex, Colchester. He mainly focuses on econometrics, health, and public economics. With his strong knowledge of economics and his research about cannabis he can give detailed information on the topic. Conant, Eve, and Katie Maloney. POT AND THE  Newsweek. 11/1/2010, Vol. 156 Issue 18, P30-35. 6p. 3 Color Photographs., 1 Nov. 2010. Web. 2 Mar. 2017. The article by these authors discusses the support that marijuana is getting in California. There are some people who argue for the legalization on libertarian grounds but others see that the legalization of marijuana an economic and national security issues. 4 Author Eve Conant is a writer from Washington D.C. She has featured in The New York Times magazine and Discover. She is a well know writer with other works on drug trafficking a policy. Katie Maloney is well diverse in her background of politics, education and health care. With their combined knowledge, it helped them write about the effect of cannabis on the economy. Hazlehurst, John. Marijuana Sales, Distribution Major Part of Local  Colorado Springs Business Journal (CO), 27 Oct. 2006. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. John Hazelhurst in his article goes into the estimated cost and revenue that the legal marijuana businesses can generate. He then goes on to discuss and compare the cannabis business to local retail sellers. He compares the taxes that each business has to pay but that the marijuana business still generates more revenue. John Hazelhurst severed on the city council in Colorado. In his six years, he could gather research about his local government and see the economic gains that the marijuana business have had in Colorado.