Russell 1 Montgomery Russell Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.909 13 March, 2017 The UNHCR Brings Awareness to the Resettlement of Refugees On January 27, 2017, United States President Donald Trump signed into executive order a national ban of refugees and immigrants alike from seven dominantly Muslim countries. In detail, immigrants would be barred from the crossing into the country for 90 days and admission of refugees would be instantly declined for 120 days. Such an order would mean the deportation of any refugees and immigrants from these seven banned countries (the White House, Executive Orders). This of course caused an uproar in America and abroad. Refugees, specifically, set their eyes on America with the hopes of escaping religious persecution, terrorism, and other such injustice. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, is a refugee agency that aims to relocate refugees to safer locations outside of the country they are fleeing (UNHCR). Filippo Grandi, High Commissioner of the agency, is worried by the uncertainty facing thousands of refugees around the world who are in the process of being resettled to the United The UNHCR has openly acknowledged the U.S. withdrawal of support and strongly hopes to gain their assistance again (UNHCR, Alarmed at Impact). The agency has used media by releasing images meant to sway support for their movement, both images highlighting the rough conditions that many refugees are forced to live in. Each image can be broken down by its use of three rhetorical devices: ethos, logos, and pathos and their effectiveness. Russell 2 The mission statement of the UNHCR is protect and assist refugees This much holds true as they have invariably assisted refugees even from countries of current high hostility. The organization encourages that all people have the ability to seek asylum safely in another country and, additionally important, that they have the option to eventually be able to return home. The UNHCR, when caring for refugees, distributes water, sanitation, healthcare, shelter and more (UNHCR, Who We Help). Since the birth in 1950, The United States has been one of the largest partnering governments to the agency, especially in recent years under the head of the Obama administration when they admitted nearly 39,000 Muslim refugees (The Washington Times, Record Numbers). This movement of support would take a large shift after the Trump administration retracted all aid. The UNHCR the U.S. will continue its strong leadership in providing equal treatment and protecting and resettling refugees in need (UNHCR, Alarmed at Impact). Ethos, the first device to be addressed, is defined as method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the by primarily appealing to authenticity (Rhetoric Really Matters). An element of Ethos within the first image that can be identified is the UNHCR logo and verbiage seen on the tents. The use of their name on the tents allows viewers to know that the agency is directly involved in the refugee support and makes it clear that the facility is being operated by them. Additionally, the choice to include views of the dirt terrain proves the tough situation that these people must endure while they await relocation to harboring countries. Both examples make it real for the viewer that refugees, even Russell 3 after leaving their previous country, are still leading tough lives, and that the agency is aiding as best they can during the transition to a newer and more permanent home. Similar connections can be made in the second image. The cup that the Mother holds is blue, the official color of the United Nations and of the UNHCR agency. This allows viewers to conclude that the agency is the one supporting these refugees, offering the UNHCR a level of credibility in their execution of their mission statement. Again, in this image, viewers can see the sad faces of the refugees and the dirt they crouch on, making it more obvious to the reader that this is a real issue in the modern world. The second device, logos, is defined as an appeal to logic. To deduce the logic of an image enthymemes must be present and clear. There are three parts to enthymemes: the claim, the reason, and the unstated assumption provided by the audience. A claim that can be made about the both images is the poor state that refugees are forced to live in as they await relocation. For both images, the reason would be to address the dirt surfaces viewable in both images and additionally the tent structures that can be observed in the first image. The assumption is that viewers will likely agree that there are healthier, more sanitary living options that refugees could be living in with the support of harboring nations. Thirdly, the images use the pathos device. Pathos is used when there is an attempt to make an emotional appeal. Both images aim to make a strong emotional appeal to anyone that may be viewing the content by showing families that cling to one another with sad faces. Both additionally highlight the dirt terrains and sun exposure that the refugees are forced to endure as they await relocation. In the second image, the family is crouched upon the ground, likely to show how vulnerable they are and how much support they need. The level of emotion exhibited Russell 4 in the images is likely to curry support from those that may feel prompted and/or inspired to help better the conditions of refugees around the world. As addressed, the goal of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is to aid refugees from all countries. For the agency, the best way to gain support is through media. After analysis, these images seem to be very effective in their initiatives to gain awareness and support. Title, logo, and color are effectual elements that the UNHCR uses to provide credibility to their agency and to the refugee crisis. The inclusion of the environment that the refugees live in successfully makes an appeal to logic, as viewers may label these conditions as ungratifying. The use of families, all observably sad, and in, what some may deem, rough conditions, effectively makes and emotional appeal. The UNHCR aims to continue to play a pivotal role in aiding those refugees in need and encourages countries, like the United States, to continue their support in harboring these people that require it. As stated in their goals, the UNHCR will continue to provide resources for housing and nurturing refugees until more permanent residency and resources can be established. Images one and two, both aim to attribute support to the movement and to encourage viewers to help in any way that they can (UNHCR, Who We Help). Ethos, logos, and pathos are all used to help present the stance of the agency and to waiver support. The program is recorded to have increased its volunteer numbers from nearly 70 countries, thus proving the effectiveness of the media and its devices (UNHCR, United Nations Volunteers). Middle Eastern countries like Turkey and Pakistan continue to work with the agency and many Americans wait to see what role America will choose to play in refugee assistance under the Trump administration (UNHCR, Figures at a Glance). Russell 5 Works Cited EXECUTIVE ORDER: PROTECTING THE NATION FROM FOREIGN TERRORIST ENTRY INTO THE UNITED  The White House. The United States Government, 23 Feb. 2017. Harper, Jennifer. Record numbers of Muslim refugees entered U.S. in 2016 says new  The Washington Times. The Washington Times, 29 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Figures at a  UNHCR. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Remembering the victims of brutal  UNHCR News. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. UNHCR Alarmed at Impact of U.S. Refugee Program  UNHCR. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. United Nations  UNHCR. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Who We  UNHCR.