Austin Stooks Dr. Sabah Firoz Uddin English Composition 1 February 18, 2017 1 Internet Privatization and Net Neutrality Almost everyone uses the internet to connect with friends, play games, send emails, etc. a wonderful invention a vast web of information never available to people before now. But what if companies wanted consumers to pay more for more popular information? What if companies increased prices for specific movies, TV shows, and video games? As the internet has been officially privatized since 1997 internet providers can increase rates for those popular products and have absolutely no downside what so ever. In fact exactly what doing right now. They are increasing prices for more popular data and not treating the internet as a universal product. What should be done now is to look into the effects of net neutrality (internet providers treating all data as the same and thus charging the same) and how these policies would impact the net and the economy if they are set in place. Should the internet providers be allowed to increase rates for specific data that is more popular than other data? While the internet providers state that differentiating data types and files allow them to manage internet congestion better the fact of the matter still remains. A provider of information is blocking off more popular information and charging consumers a much higher price compared to other types of data. Should they be allowed to, in effect alter the course of the internet to meet their own demands? Austin Stooks Dr. Sabah Firoz Uddin English Composition 1 February 18, 2017 2 1. Greenstein, Shane, Martin Peitz, and Tommaso Valletti. Net Neutrality: A Fast Lane to Understanding the  Journal of Economic Perspectives 30.2 (2016): n. pag. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The authors Shane Greenstein, Matin Peitz and Tommaso Valleti focus on the economic issues and the idea of net neutrality and how they affect internet. He talks about the new broad policies on net neutrality and how internet providers have been trying to go around the policies. He also talks on whether content providers and internet providers have been colluding with each other to increase the cost of certain data like movies and TV shows provided by for example, Netflix. He also goes into the further economic impact of this collusion and how it would affect consumers in the long run and what net neutrality will do if further pushed. This is one of the sources that will be used to make economic points. One of the authors, Shane Greenstein is a professor and economist at Harvard Business School. He has written three books one of them being the Internet Became Commercial: Innovation, Privatization, and the Birth of a New and is the leading researcher in business economics of computing as well as communications and Internet infrastructure. He is the main author of this piece as well as the most qualified of the three. Another is Tommaso Valletti Professor of economics at the University of Rome Tor Vergata. He was also a chair member for the Innovation and Regulation of Digital Services. The last is Martin Peitz, an economics professor at the University of Mannheim. 2. Meinrath, Sascha D., and Victor W. Pickard. Transcending Net Neutrality: Ten Steps Toward an Open  Journal of Internet Law 12.6 (2008): n. pag. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Austin Stooks Dr. Sabah Firoz Uddin English Composition 1 February 18, 2017 3 In this journal the authors Victor and Sascha bring up ten points on how net neutrality show be implemented and what those steps entail. They also go over all of the previous failing of the internet privatization and how internet providers have basically created a monopoly for an inelastic good. As well as giving a brief historical context of the internet. They argue that without net neutrality and careful regulation big companies will ruin the open and free internet of today and stifle its evolving nature. Unlike my other sources this one lists steps on how to enact regulation and net neutrality laws. Sascha Meinrath received his Bachelor of Arts in Psychology from Yale University in 1997. He also received his Masters of Arts in Social-Ecological Psychology from the University of Illinois at Urbana- Champaign. He is an Internet Freedom Activist and the founder of an organization whose goal is to decentralize the internet and focus on local providers instead of big companies. Victor Pickard received his Ph.D. at the Institute of Communications Research at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. His research specializes in global media activism and politics as well as the history and political economy of media institutions and media policy. 3. Reed, Darren. Net Neutrality and the EU Electronic Communications Regulatory International Journal of Law and Information Technology 20.1 (2012): 48-72. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. In this source the author Darren Reed is relaying information of the effects of privatization in the EU. He is also detailing the specific instance of the EU trying to protect net neutrality through new policies but have not really been that effective as they set out to be. However the author also notes that trying to regulate too much is also a bad thing and should be balanced as well. He Austin Stooks Dr. Sabah Firoz Uddin English Composition 1 February 18, 2017 4 provides a solution by just making a policy for As of now though the EU is waiting to see how the new policies are taking into effect. The author Darren Reed is a Doctoral research expert or a Ph.D (German for research scholar) at the Norwegian Research Centre for Computers and Law at the University of Oslo. There he has done explicit research on the topics of net neutrality and how it will affect the internet in the long run and short run. His expertise in computer science and law study will be another pillar for this paper in terms of support and credibility. The author will also be valuable from the perspective of a member of the EU and how the EU is treating its internet compared the United States. 4. Shah, Rajiv C., and Jay P. Kesan. The Privatization of the Backbone  Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media 51.1 (2007): 93-109. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The authors Shah Rajiv and Jay P Kesan give a summary of the events that transpired in the mid to late that created the internet and who exactly owned it as well. The government that at the time controlled the internet was called NSFNET (National Science Foundation Network) which even in its infancy was subsidized by private companies to keep it running. Soon the government gave it over to another organization called NSF (National Science Foundation) which was only for a short time. It became fully privatized to four main internet holders of Sprint, MFS, Ameritech and Pacific Bell. Those companies bought others but the point remains that four major companies now held the internet in their hands. Austin Stooks Dr. Sabah Firoz Uddin English Composition 1 February 18, 2017 5 The source is basically a history timeline of what this paper will base the knowledge on the subject of internet privatization on. One of the authors Rajiv C. Shah is a professor in the Department of Communication at the University of Illinois with a PhD in Mass Communication with a BS in Electrical Engineering. The other author is Jay P. Kesan, a professor in Intellectual property and technology law also at the University of Illinois. This is relevant to the papers research because it is the foundation for which it will lay the rest of its points on in the future and provide context for readers. 5. Starr, A. Richard, Net Neutrality: On Mobile Broadband Carriers and the Open Internet, The Commercially Reasonable Network Management Standard, and the Need for Greater Protection of the Open Internet, 11 J. BUS. & TECH. L. 89 (2016) 3 Feb. 2017 This is a more recent source, thus will hold more relevance to the topic at hand. This will allow the paper to have a more recent and important source supporting it. It follows the logic and organization of the FCC (Federal Communications Commission) and whether mobile broadband providers have to follow the same rules and regulations that local internet providers must go through. This is an important part because most people access the internet through their cellphones today. The FCC is proposing a new regulation for the mobile providers as well as regular internet providers. Whether or not it gets passed is still up in the air at the moment. The author Richard A. Starr received his degree at the University Of Maryland Francis King Carey School Of Law. He also has a J.D. in law and that is where this paper will get credibility from a point of view to qualify the reason and credibility of net neutrality. The author will be valuable from the perspective of being purely from a law standpoint and show the effects Austin Stooks Dr. Sabah Firoz Uddin English Composition 1 February 18, 2017 6 of new bills and reforms to the internet and net neutrality in the future. From the authors point the paper will be supported now from a lawyer in support of reform for the internet and protection of net neutrality. 6. Yoo, Christopher S. Network Neutrality or Internet  Telecommunications & Technology (2010): n. pag. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Christopher S. Yoo analyzes all of the beneficial and negative effects of net neutrality. From one point he argues that the internet can no longer have a set rate on data. That companies now haggle and do business with the entertainment providers and price data based on popularity. He argues that like capitalism the companies that provide the fastest, cheapest and most popular services will thrive in the internet provider market. Also that the way the internet is shaped now after the fall of NSFNET trying to impose regulation on an ever evolving market would prove detrimental and only increase general prices in the long run. The author of this source is Christopher S Yoo a professor of Law, Communication, and Computer and Information Science at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, and founding director of the Center for Technology, Innovation, and Competition. From his perspective net neutrality is a detriment and will ruin the internet. He prefers a different method called which is a form of free open market. His qualifications include a bachelors at Harvard and a masters at U.C.L.A in law and technology. As well as being one of the leading researchers in network engineering and economics of imperfect competition. His knowledge will provide a different view from my own to show both sides of the argument.