1 Shawn Peed Sabah Firoz Uddin First Year Composition 2/27/17 Recreational Marijuana with Taxation With the state of economy being one of the biggest problems in modern society, we look towards taxation to better elevate this economic struggle. We use tax in the U.S economic system to help pay for public services and to help the economy. There a way of taxation that is in the form of legal, recreational marijuana however this tax is only in places that it is legal like Colorado. The tax revenue from marijuana has been given to the state and schools with minimal crime attached to recreational marijuana. The taxation of legal recreational marijuana could help the U.S economy in this time of struggle for America. First you would need to legalize marijuana which in itself could be helpful. It would help society in its many health benefits and lower the amount of people in prison with drug charges. Than after the legalization of marijuana you would have to mandate a tax for the drug that would tax the selling of it, much like a sales tax, and that tax would benefit the economy with another source of income. With all the benefits this plan would have it gives the question: Should marijuana be legalized and taxed to help improve the United States economy? 1. Hill, Kevin P. Marijuana: The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed. Center City, MN: Hazelden, 2015. Print. 2 This book was written by author Kevin Hill, leading clinical expert on marijuana. The pros and cons of marijuana are gone over with scientific facts and no biases. He goes over different myths about marijuana. This will help in the paper to prove why it is a good idea to legalize it for recreation. This would also give me some arguing points for the opposite side. In the book, it discusses some clinical benefits to the drug and how it could help people. The book also talks about the ability to abuse the drug and why people might not want to try it. He uses medical statistics to validate and justify his facts. He also looks at different films like to find myths and why people might think that the myth is true. The people expected to read this are those in the medical field or those who are curious on the effects of certain drugs. The author is credible because he is a clinical expert and studies the drug thoroughly. This book was published in 2015 in a time where marijuana laws were starting to show some leniency. This also helps inform the research question by giving information on what marijuana is and whether it is healthy to legalize in general. It helps those looking at the research question understand the true effects of marijuana 2. Caulkins, Jonathan P., Angela Hawkin, Beau Kilmer, and Mark A.R. Kleiman. Marijuana  Google Books. Oxford University Press, 2012. Print. This book is about the legalization of marijuana and what that would mean. It talks about the effects legal recreation marijuana would have on society. It explores the potential problems of 3 marijuana like drug trafficking as well. Just like Marijuana: The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed, this book talks briefly about the medical purpose of marijuana while also stating the benefits and the side effects of the drug. Also like Marijuana: The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed, this book is unbiased even stating Everyone Needs to Know will provide readers with a non-partisan primer about the This book will mostly help the argument to find out the current laws and the effects the legalization of marijuana will have on society. It may also offer arguing points on which marijuana could have a negative effect on society and force me to argue against it. The potential audience for this book are those who are interested in the laws pertaining to marijuana or those who might have the same argument as I do. The authors hope to educate the reader about the laws and the effects of legal, recreational, marijuana usage. It was published by Oxford University Press which is a very reliable, educational publisher. This was also published recently in the height of marijuana legalization which only helps its credibility. This connects to the research question by stating the different benefits and problems legalizing marijuana would imply. It helps inform the audience with an unbiased opinion. 3. Estoup, Ashley C. Substance Use &  The Impact of Marijuana Legalization on Adolescent Use, Consequences, and Perceived Risk: Substance Use & Misuse: Vol 51, No 14. N.p., 9 Sept. 2006. Web. 4 This is another article that writes about the risks of marijuana with very old sources and not that much facts proving their point. It is obviously an article declaring that marijuana is bad and that you should not partake in it. It states that the school children who partake in the drug are problematic and it negatively effects them in their school life. This again uses the causation and correlation fallacy assuming that there is no third variable causing both bad academic habits and the smoking of marijuana. They say that one of the consequences of legalizing marijuana is that it could lead to more intoxicated people driving because it is another drug that can effect motor response. However just because it is another drug that effects your responses does not mean that it is a consequence to marijuana because of the fact it is law enforcements responsibility to stop driving under the influence. This article is intended for persuading people and law makers not to legalize marijuana while also trying to scare adolescence from smoking marijuana. This article is credible because of the fact it is well sourced and for the time it was made it is very new sources. This, like the previous source, gives more information on marijuana and helps inform the research question by giving more information about the drugs and its effects. It gives the argument more facts and that can be backed by two sources. 4. Wallace, William McDonald. The Decline and Fall of the U.S. Economy: How Liberals and Conservatives Both Got It Wrong. Santa Barbara, CA: Praeger, 2010. Print. This book was made by William McDonald and published by Santa Barbara. It talks about the fall of the U.S economy and the history that we have taken to come this low. It was written in the time of 2008 around the midst of the recession. It he says there were two reasons for the downfall of the U.S. economy, one was financed deregulation and also engineering in (pg.vii). a lot of the problems financially were caused by the housing market. It talks heavily about the awful state that the 5 U.S. economy is in right now and why we are in such an awful state. Throughout the book, it gives ideas on how the economy could grow and get better, some ways are in changing those two problems. The book is intended for audience in the political economic field and is supposed to inform them about what is happening to the current U.S. economy. This source is helpful to the research question by looking at how our economy is in shambles and why it would need to be helped through taxation of recreational marijuana. This book is credible due to the publishing company and how reputable they are when it comes to informational material. 5. Bedesky, Baron. What Are Taxes? St. Catharines, ON: Crabtree Pub., 2009. Print. This is an educational book to make learning about taxes easy for young adults. It first starts off explaining exactly what tax is, talking about how it is created and how you already use it. The book than dives further into taxes by explaining its history and pass uses going all the way back to 6,000 years ago. The book explains the different kinds of taxes like income tax and sales tax. Later on in the book it talks about how taxes help our government strive and also help in public utilities like schools and buses. Finally it talks about the importance of paying your taxes and what will happen if you This book is written for those who are unaware of how the tax system works in order to inform them of the process and what taxes really are. This pertains to the research question because it gives a basic rundown of what taxes really are and why they are important. It shows that taxes can help the now struggling economy. Seeing as using a tax nationwide is one of the main topics of this paper, those reading it need a basic understanding of taxes. This book is credible due to the publication company and their reliable educational resources. 6. Christian Henrichson, Ruth Delaney, The Price of Prisons: What Incarceration Costs Taxpayers. New York: Vera Institute of Justice, 2012. 6 This is an article put out to show the amount of spending we use towards prisons and why we use the amounts we use. The article starts with the fact that prisons are very much increasing, as it states countries state prison population having grown by more than 700 percent since the 1970s.Today, more than 1 in 100 adults are in prison or jail (pg.2). it goes over data that was founded by the institute like staffing pay and benefits. The article goes over figures that the prisons spend statewide. The most important part the article goes over is total tax payer cost per (pg.9), which shows the figures for how much it usually cost on average for each inmate. This article is beneficial for the research question because if recreational marijuana were to be legalized we would see a decline in people imprisoned for the use, possession, and the handling of marijuana. This article would show since there is less people getting imprisoned it would further benefit the U.S economy. The article is credible because of the history and reliability within the justice field. They have published many articles before within the justice field and most of which having a skilled author/ reviewer who is a certified professional in this field.