Rodrigo Caldas Prof. Uddin ENC 1101 02/01/2017 Afghanistan War, to be continued? Introduction: The U.S. military was in Afghanistan before it went into Iraq and stayed long after U.S. troops were withdrawn from Iraq. Most U.S. troops have withdrawn from Afghanistan; however, this was done without a complete resolution to the power struggle in the country. While the U.S. military conducted operations against terror in Afghanistan, they also provided security for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) while aid was being distributed to the affected civilians in the area. The military carried out humanitarian missions that built infrastructure like schools and hospitals in addition to providing food and water to people across the land. While the military did a lot of good fighting against extremists, some issues were identified with the conduct of some military personnel. The International Humanitarian Law (IHL) was being avoided and in some cases ignored completely. Some cases were well documented and reported to the public like the abuse of detainees at Abu Ghraib prison by the military and the torcher methods of interrogation which included waterboarding and sleep deprivation conducted by CIA operatives and military interrogators, which have long-lasting effects on the Afghanistan and American populations. Worse still are the atrocities committed against U.S. troops, for example the live broadcasts depicting the beheading of U.S. military personnel and civilian contractors who were captured. As citizens of the world we expect that even countries at war abide by the articles of the Geneva Convention that cover the treatment of Prisoners of War. The Taliban, the Afghan people, whom they threaten with executing their families, and even some U.S. military personnel have shown a disregard for the IHL which led the U.S. people, NATO and the rest of the world to ask for more strict regulations concerning war crimes and for violators to be held accountable for their actions. Since the U.S. withdrew its military force from Afghanistan the situation is getting worse every day. So, the question becomes: Should the U.S. send an occupying military force back to Afghanistan? Rodrigo Caldas 2 P a g e Source 1: Nanda, Ved P. Preemptive And Preventive Use Of Force, Collective Security, And Human  Denver Journal Of International Law & Policy 33.1 (2004): 7-15. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In and Preventive Use of Force, Collective Security, and Human Ved Nanda reviews the role the U.N. currently plays in the determining the appropriate conduct of war, especially in its articles 2(4), 2(7), 51 and chapter VII of the U.N. Charter. These articles cover the relevant norms, the structure and mandate of the U.N. Security Council. The primary responsibility of the U.N. Security Council is to maintain international peace and security. However, the legal standards on the use of force remain vague. It is self-evident that the international community is not yet ready to accept restrictions on the use of force. Until recently, war was a valid instrument of national policy, and so states routinely settled international arguments with military force. The information provided by and Preventive Use of Force, Collective Security, and Human argues the need for U.N. approval for use of military force as a means of settling arguments between nations. It also distinguishes between preemptive and preventive use of force in providing national security. This information relates to the topic by providing restrictions to military actions, which do cover the U.S. opting to send troops back to Afghanistan. It expands on the Human Security and how it needs to apply to all of Humanity. Ved Nanda is an Evans University Professor and Thompson G. Marsh Professor of Law. He holds a B.A. and M.A. from the Punjab University in India. He is the founder of the Ved Nanda Center for International and Comparative Law which hosts programs for the lawyers, students and community participants as well as promoting scholarship in the field of international law. He has over 20 publications since 2009 concerning International law and human rights. Rodrigo Caldas 3 P a g e Source 2: Forsythe, David P. The United States And International Humanitarian  Journal Of Human Rights 7.1 (2008): 25-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In United States and International Humanitarian David Forsythe reviews the US and its adherence to the International Humanitarian Law(IHL). Beginning with the Vietnam war and its My Lai massacre, the United States increased its focus on complying with the IHL (also known as the laws of war). All that changed with the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington on 9/11. From those attacks to about 2005, Bush and his administration reversed the progress the US had been making and downplayed both IHL and international human rights law specifically with regards to the treatment of enemy prisoners. The U.S. view toward IHL has been and is still being debated, with the Bush administration being challenged both judicially and congressionally. The information provided by United States and International Humanitarian illustrates the neglect to human rights that was commonplace in the war on terror during the Bush Administration. An account of the disregard for the IHL during the creating of policy and procedures regarding military operations in Afghanistan and the interrogation of prisoners of war is also given. This sets the stage for the issues that arose from sending an occupying force to Afghanistan. This information relates to the topic by depicting some of the human rights violation that occurred in the initial military occupation of Afghanistan. David Forsythe holds a Ph.D. from Princeton University, was one of the Gladstein Visiting Professors in the Human Rights Institute at the University of Connecticut in 2007 and the Fulbright Senior Research Chair in Human Rights and International Studies at Copenhagen in 2008. He is the author of over 100 publications on different aspects of International Relations. Rodrigo Caldas 4 P a g e Source 3: Farrell, Brian. Application Of International Humanitarian Law By United States  Penn State International Law Review 28.2 (2009): 177-197. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In of International Humanitarian Law by United States Brian Farrell reviews the influence of IHL in US courts and domestic law. The US Supreme Court recognizes the law of war as being part of international law. However, few of the cases involved individual rights that discussed humanitarian law. In a recent case, the Court used humanitarian law to cancel the assembling of a military commission at Bay. The Guantanamo military commissions are military tribunals authorized by presidential order, then by the Military Commissions Act of 2006, and currently by the Military Commissions Act of 2009 for prosecuting detainees held in the United States Guantanamo Bay detainment camps. The Court refrained from addressing the relationship between domestic law and IHL, or stating if the Geneva Conventions are judicially enforceable. The information provided by of International Humanitarian Law by United States illustrates how IHL plays a part in American law. It demonstrates the evolution of IHL in US Law and shows examples of Supreme Court cases before and after The Bush influence. This information demonstrates how the Bush administration circumvented the IHL to pursue its goals in the war against terror. This information relates to the topic by depicting how the government skirted around the IHL with creative language that allowed for Human right to be ignored. Brian Farrell holds a Ph.D. from National University of Ireland, Galway, 2013. He directs the College of Citizen Lawyer Program and is an associate director of the Center for Human Rights. He is the author of over 20 publications ranging from Human Rights, International Law, Criminal Law and Wrongful Convictions. Rodrigo Caldas 5 P a g e Source 4: Atashi, Elham. Afghanistan: Transitional Justice in the Midst of  Nationalities Papers, vol. 41, no. 6, 22 Nov. 2012, pp. 1049-1064. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/00905992.2013.801414. In Transitional Justice in the Midst of Elham Atashi discusses the struggle to get Afghanistan on its feet after the war. The talks are ongoing in Afghanistan and there is international support for developing a transitional justice mechanisms to begin dealing with past injustices. Reconciliation is being promoted as a nation-building strategy. There are several challenges with the implementation of transitional justice. A component of this strategy is based on reconciliation taking place internally among ethnic identities and competing armed groups with the goal of transforming Afghan society. This assumes the cause of past to be internal and along ethnic divisions which limits the accountability for war crimes. It also considers violence and crimes of war as a thing of the past, ignoring the present situation. Furthermore, given the ongoing war between the US- led forces and the Taliban, insecurity and escalating levels of violence, one has to question whether transitional justice can take place during a war. This article concludes that transitional justice is interconnected to perceptions of security and stability. The analysis of the present situation in Afghanistan poses critical questions as to whether memories of victims can be considered as the past in the midst of war. The information provided by Transitional Justice in the Midst of describes how the country is trying to cope with the devastation and injustice left behind by the war. It details the plan for moving forward and helping the population find a sense of security and stability by implementing a transitional justice entity. The goal of the entity is to identify the atrocities committed against the population of Afghanistan and to hold those responsible, accountable for their actions. Elham Atashi is an associate teaching professor and Co-Director in Justice and Peace Studies at Rodrigo Caldas 6 P a g e Georgetown University, she holds a B.A. from Buckingham University, a M.A. from Georgetown University and a Ph.D. in Conflict Analysis and Resolution from George Mason University. She is a certified mediator and skilled negotiator having received her training from the Program on Negotiation at Harvard Law School. She has published on issues relating to violence prevention, peace processes, reconciliation, transformation of armed groups to political parties, indigenous and traditional justice processes. Her current research focuses on linking conflict transformation and transitional justice mechanisms to interpretative oral histories in Afghanistan, Uganda and post-genocide society in Rwanda. Source 5: Haysom, Simone, and Ashley Jackson. International Journal of Security and Stability: International Journal of Security and Development, 6 Aug. 2013, dx.doi.org/10.5334/sta.by. Accessed 10 Feb. 2017. In need to love Civil-Military Relations in Haysom and Jackson chart the evolution of the civil-military dialogue in Afghanistan from 2002 until 2012. Drawing on interviews with a range of staff of aid agency, military, and donor organizations who were present in Afghanistan in this period as well as audits, official guidelines, and other written documents, this article provides an overview of the development of stabilization approaches in Afghanistan and the strategies aid agencies pursued in response, the trajectory of mechanisms for structured dialogue. Lastly, it identifies several implications that can be drawn from this experience for aid agencies, NATO, and troop contributing nations. Stabilization in foreign policy, military strategy, and development aid assumed significantly greater prominence after the events of 9/11. Such approaches were antagonistic, especially in Afghanistan where troop contributing nations (TCNs) to the International Security Assistance Force Rodrigo Caldas 7 P a g e (ISAF) sought to use development and reconstruction activities to challenge the Taliban and enhance the legitimacy of the Afghan government. The information provided by need to love Civil-Military Relations in illustrates the need for aid regarding the necessities of life for the people in Afghanistan. The article covers the evolution of humanitarian services in Afghanistan during the U.S. occupation. Although it does discuss how the military took the opportunity of providing aid and made it part of its strategy to demonize and discourage support for the Taliban, the aid provided to the people of Afghanistan was welcome and essential in maintaining life in the war-torn country. Simone Haysom is an independent researcher and writer who specializes in analysis for the international development and humanitarian sectors. She is currently a Research Associate at the Humanitarian Policy Group at the Open Data Institute in London, she has several years of experience conducting fieldwork and facilitating policy discussion in conflict-affected countries. She has published widely on topics ranging from forced evictions to protection of civilians during conflict. Source 6: and NATO, 13 Oct. 2016, Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. and describes the role that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) played in the war against terror in Afghanistan. NATO commanded the United Nations-mandated International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan. mission was to enable the Afghan authorities to provide security to the people across the country and ensure that terrorists would never again consider Afghanistan a safe haven. ISAF helped build and improve the capacity of the Afghan national security forces. As these forces grew stronger, they slowly took responsibility for security across Rodrigo Caldas 8 P a g e the country before the completion of mission. After the withdrawal of most military personnel, NATO initiated a new mission in January of 2015 called Resolute Support with the function to train, advise and assist the Afghan security forces and institutions. NATO Allies and partners are also helping to sustain Afghan security forces and institutions financially, as part of a broader international commitment to Afghanistan. The NATO-Afghanistan Enduring Partnership provides a framework for wider political dialogue and practical cooperation. The information provided by and illustrates the good that was done to support the people of Afghanistan. NATO, with military support, provided direct aid like food and water to the public and trained the Afghan security forces to be self-sufficient and effective in protecting the country. This information comes directly from website and with NATO being the most visible entity in world relations, the credentials speak for themselves.