Bastis 1 Courtney Bastis Ms. Hannah Lay ENC 1102.006 12 March 2017 Taking Care of History Putting a needs and guidelines for what they want in regards to their healthcare is the backbone for the National Association of Hospice and Home Care (NAHC). The main goal of the NAHC is to . . bestow proper and affordable health care for the elderly and disabled individuals nationwide . . regardless of their position in their state of life (Garcia). The NAHCs mission statement stands for . . Americans described as being on the of . while advocating for citizens to receive the best top of the line care (Dragolis). With these advertisements the organization is able to reach out to the audience, letting them know that they are welcomed into a warm and caring community of Hospice Centers. The objective of using rhetorical appeals within these illustrated images is to develop a special sentimental connection with the targeted audience. Utilizing ethos, pathos, and logos, Hospice organizations and facilities, such as the NAHC, are able to embed these rhetorical appeals within their advertisements to prove to the audience that the NAHC cares for their loved ones while receiving care in a Hospice Center. Depicted with a red banner, the Red Image, and titled Taking Care of Families , the NAHC applies ethos, the method of portraying credible evidence to the audience in order to persuade them into choosing this Hospice Center within their advertisement. The main key points of ethos that are demonstrated in the photo is the company providing a credible address, Bastis 2 website, and phone number. By providing a physical location within their advertisement, the organization wishes to illustrate that the company has an established headquarters rather than being a possibly shady group on the internet. The audience could view the facility as being more credible since they included their address at the bottom of the image. Including their website address also tells the audience a lot about the organization. Seeing that the domain ends with a the audience views that as a credible source of information where families can research the facility knowing that it is a legitimate site. An address, website and phone number give the audience the ability to go to or call the center with any follow up questions they have regarding Hospice Care. main goal of using ethos in this image is to make the viewers aware that this is an established settlement and that if an individual has a question that they are more than welcomed to call the line, visit their website or go to the address provided. Along with ethos, the NAHC also uses pathos within the Red Image to make an emotional and psychological connection with the audience using colors, phrases, and still images. The colors used within the image allows for the audience to undergo an emotional feeling prior reading information on the advertisement. The use of the red on the banner and logo makes the audience feel warm and welcomed into the image and Hospice Center. Red splashes throughout also imply passion, desire, and love towards the audience, along with what the organization has to offer to their family and loved one. The faded greenish grey tone portrays current life in the home. Representing energy, harmony, and safety, it lets the audience feel secure and confident about enrolling their loved ones into the Hospice Care Center. The faded aspect of the green also shows that even though life in the Hospice Homes seem aged and dull it mean that individuals live an uneventful life within them. It allows for an open ended Bastis 3 interpretation by the audience, letting them have a creative idea of what types of experiences that their loved one could have within this certain facility. Not only do the colors make the audience feel welcomed, but so do the phrasings that the advertisement includes. The in the line can, lets the audience feel included and involved with the Hospice family. Admitting a loved one into a home makes a family perceive there is nothing more they can do , fabricating the feeling of helpless at times. The use of the word truly brings the family out from the dark, making them more involved with their loved care plan. Not only do color and words contribute to an emotional appeal towards the audience, but so does the still image embedded within the advertisement. A female employee and an elderly female patient are photographed together, cheek to cheek, appearing to be laughing, showing a strong bond and trust between the two. This can be portrayed to the audience as a genuine and heartfelt connection between worker and patient. This gives the audience a passionate feeling that if they enroll their loved one into a Hospice Care Center this type of bond with employees and other Hospice patients will be superfluous with enthusiasm. Working alongside with ethos and pathos, the NAHC utilizes logos, the appeal to logic and reasoning based off of providing information, by including their services on the Red Image. Though this image lacks a legitimate seal of approval, the organization offers many services that are provided under their roof. From personal care to meal preparation to companionship, it would be logical to send a loved one to this Hospice Center if they were in need of any of these services that this facility offers. Also in contrast to the opposite image, this advertisement gives the audience a list of their provided services. By providing what type of services that this business offers it makes choosing a Hospice Center straightforward because they are upfront with the type Bastis 4 of work they provide. Another rationale that becomes apparent in the image is the saying Care Providers Trust You can, This saying is similar to a seal of approval in a sense, because to the audience it shows that if Health Care providers trust this facility, then why the families trust this company? Though it is not as credible, it acts as a bandwagon effect. With what is being provided within the advertisement it would give the audience the motivation to enroll their loved one into this Hospice Center if they are searching for these provided services. Depicted with a blue color theme, the Blue Image, and titled Home Senior Care , the NAHC also applies ethos, the method of portraying credible evidence to persuade the audience into choosing this specific Nursing Home. The key components of ethos in this image relates to the ethics and credibility. The ethics are based on promoting dignity, respect, and compassion, showing which shows the audience that this Nursing Home is extremely cautious about how patient care is provided amongst their business. Alongside working with proper ethics, the company also has the National Quality Seal of Approval from The Joint Commission. This acknowledgement of approval lets the audience know that this business is not a fraud, but a legitimate company that is passionate about personal care, respite care, and companionship for all their patients. Increasing the credibility alongside with the seal of approval, the NAHC also includes the website link. The domain of the website ends with a which lets the audience knows that it is a credible site that has a primary focus on affordable senior home care. The website gives the audience the power to do their own personal research on the organization to see if the company would be well suited and credible for their loved one and also if it has a good correlation with the families financial budget. Along with the website, the company also provides a telephone number that is toll free Bastis 5 for all patients. This allows for the audience to ask for more information or go over any follow up questions that they have in regards to the information that they have been provided with. Utilizing this rhetorical appeal, the audience perceive emotions that is not exist prior to looking at the advertisement. Along with ethos, the NAHC interweaves pathos within the Blue Image to make an emotional and psychological connection with the audience by using colors, phrasing, and still images. The colors within the image allow for the audience to experience a various amount of emotions. The faded blue tone used in the heading and color of the words represents loyalty, trust, and responsibility that can also be found in this particular Nursing Home. In the eyes of the audience, the color blue puts a calming feeling as they analyze the advertisement. It advocates reliability, peace, and tranquility within a Hospice Care Center, allowing families to feel less stressed about the process of choosing and enrolling a loved one into a home. Swatch wise, blue is also represented in the clothing that is worn by both worker and patient. An employee wearing blue radiates a calm and caring atmosphere for the patient and family. The female worker in the picture will always be on standby for the patients needs. The older female patient wearing blue represents the tranquility and serenity that is found in this particular Nursing Home. She represents the epitome of what all female patients enrolled in Hospice would look like when they choose this company. Along with color, the phrasing in this certain advertisement also allows for a targeted emotional connection with the audience. The phrase in the heading of the image Care. lets the audience and families feel more included with the health care of their loved one. Especially italicising the word gives families and patients a feeling of some Bastis 6 type of power in choosing what type of care that is wanted and what is the best choice regarding their financial situation. Working alongside with ethos and pathos, the NAHC utilizes logos, the appeal to logic and reasoning based off of credible sources, by including a stamp of approval from another company in the Blue Image. The goal of using logos within this advertisement is to make the audience think logically about how this Nursing Home in particular is the best fit for their loved ones. Towards the bottom of the advertisement the business includes the locations where they serve. Contrarily, it also limits the number of patients and families that the company could help. Aside that the organization emphasises family and patient intervention by including Care. Your in the headline. To an audience, if a family wants to be more involved with their loved ones health care then they should consider this business as an option. Along with targeted audience phrasing, the stamp of National Quality Approval from the Joint Commission speaks a lot towards the viewers. The approval represents hard work and quality tested care that has been approved by a company. If a company says that this Hospice Home is approved by them then the audience should at least consider choosing this particular business as their own. The NAHC utilizes different rhetorical appeals, such as ethos, pathos, and logos, within both advertisements that have the visual ability to build up various connections amongst the targeted viewers. The work of ethos within both imagines demonstrates the credibility of each company by embedding some form of address, phone number or website within the advertisements. The use of pathos is to create a connection with the audience on an poignant level by interweaving colors, phrases, and still images throughout the image. The subtle hints of logos is to strike at the common reasoning by stating that if both of these advertisements Bastis 7 are from credible sources then the audience should highly consider using one of these businesses. The NAHC uses both of these advertisements to tell the audience that Hospice Care Centers do not only offer top of the line care, but are also compassionate, caring, and respectful towards any patients under their roof. These rhetorical appeals that are embedded within these images are how stakeholder organizations, such as the NAHC, appeal to an audience, families, and future patients. Bastis 8 Bastis 9 Works Cited Chuck, Philip, and Natalie Fernandez. Home Senior Association of Home Care Organization . National Association of Home Care. 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Dragolis, Danielle. Medical, Health Care, and Home Care Digest : Vol 14, No 9. Readers Digest. 20 Oct. 2016. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Garcia, Pedro. Association for Home Care & Hospice . http://www.nahc.org/about/mission-statement/. Lerry, James. Mifflin Harcourt . Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. 9 Apr. 2015. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.