Ryan Casey Dr. Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 January 17, 2017 Legalizing Marijuana Weed, hash, grass, green, gas, dope, pot, Mary Jane, are just a couple of the names for the drug marijuana. Marijuana is a psychoactive drug used worldwide by millions of people, however, it is illegal in most states in the United States. But recently that has begun to change, with the 2016 election came changes to many state laws. In the 2016 election, Florida voted yes on Amendment two, which is the legalization of medical marijuana. Making it one of twenty-six states and the District of Columbia that currently have laws legalizing some form of use of marijuana. The legalization of marijuana would be great for this economy for many reasons, police would be able to focus more of their time and resources on more violent crimes instead of wasting money hunting down marijuana and second the government would be able to make a huge profit off of taxing marijuana. This paper is will take up the question whether legalizing marijuana is advantageous of the U.S. economy. Hill, Kevin P. Marijuana: the unbiased truth about the most popular weed. Center City, MN: Hazelden Publishing, 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. This book is written by Kevin P. Hill, M.D. One of the leading scientists on the effects marijuana has on people. The book talks about how opinions have changed throughout history. It also touches on how media and politics have skewed and created false myths about the drug in order to better their position. It then goes on to talk about how legalizing the drug would do great for the economy and people that need to be using the drug medically but because of laws still preventing use Dr. Kevin P. Hill is a reliable source because he has conducted research on the drug for many years. He did his residency at Harvard, got his degree at Yale University, and the hospital where he now conducts his research is McLean Hospital, one of the leading hospitals in studying the effects of substance abuse. All these qualifications make Dr. Kevin P. Hill more than a reliable source to talk about what the effects of marijuana would be on a person and the economy. Kalteux, David. Does New Medical Marijuana Law Mean For Mondaq Business Briefing 2016: Web. 5 Feb, 2017 This article is discussing the new laws for medical marijuana in the state of Florida. It talks about how the process is working to change the law, what the terms of use for the drug will be, and how it will effect businesses. This is important because the people that need medical marijuana need to know how to get it, where they can get it and when they can use it. This article relates to my topic in that it is very recently written and it talks about how changing the law is going to effect the economy and business owners. This is a reliable source because the author is a lawyer in the Florida area who has been dealing with cases involving marijuana and helping people get the proper care they need. He would be good for understanding what legalizing marijuana will do for economy and how it will effect workers and businesses in the work place. Joffe, Alain and W. Samuel Young. Of Marijuana: Potential Impact On Pediatrics 113.6 (2004): Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article is discussing what could possibly happen to youth if marijuana is legalized. Not only would the legalization of marijuana make it easier for adolescents to get marijuana, it would make it seem less harmful and they will want to try it more. The article also talks about how alcohol and tobacco products target youth and that the same would most likely happen if marijuana was to be legalized. Thus, putting underage kids at an even higher risk of trying marijuana. This article is related to my topic because it is talking about how marijuana would not be good for the U.S. economy because it would make it much easier for kids to get their hands on marijuana and my question is whether or not legalizing marijuana would be advantageous to the U.S. economy. This article is a reliable source because both of the authors have extensive medical knowledge and have done research on marijuana and how it would affect the economy. Borodovsky, Jacob T., et al. Paper: Smoking, Vaping, Eating: Is Legalization Impacting the Way People Use International Journal of Drug Policy, vol. 36, 01 Oct. 2016, pp. 147-147. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. The article paper: Smoking, Vaping, Eating: Is Legalization Impacting the Way People Use is discussing medical marijuana laws and legalizing recreational use of marijuana and what effects this would have on the amount of people trying marijuana for the first time. More people in states where marijuana was already legal said they would be willing to try marijuana than people in states that have laws making it legal. Therefore, if more people are trying marijuana and liking it, more people are going to be buying. If more people are buying it, it will get taxed higher which is bad for the people already using it but will be great for the economy. The article is also talking about the increased use of alternative methods of using marijuana such as; vaping, eating, dabbing and how this is effecting how much is being smoked. This article is related to the research topic because it is talking about how legalizing marijuana would affect how many people try the drug and how this would affect the economy and the research topic is whether legalizing marijuana is advantageous to the U.S. economy. Borodovsky, Jacob T., Crosier, Benjamin S., Lee, Dustin C., Sargent, James D., Budney, Alan J., wrote this article. Their affiliation with the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth and this article has been peer reviewed. Thus, making this is a reliable source for the research topic. Newbern, Alistair E. Cop, Bad Cop: Federal Prosecution of State-Legalized Medical Marijuana Use After United States V. California Law Review, vol. 88, no. 5, Oct. 2000, p. 1575. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. In this article it is discussing the federal authority to regulate use of marijuana for medical purposes. If the government was given the right to regulate the use of medical marijuana then that would be a benefit to the economy because it would supply jobs, decrease crime rate, and taxes on it would create huge revenue for the government. However, this is all being discussed following the cases of United States vs. Lopez and United States vs. Morrison. Both cases related to this topic and United States lost both and deemed unconstitutional. This main idea is about whether or not the government should be allowed to regulate the use of marijuana for medical purposes and how that will affect the economy. This relates to the research topic because it is helping to answer the research question, whether or not legalizing marijuana would be beneficial to U.S. economy. This article is a reliable source because it has been peer reviewed and because it was discussing court cases with related arguments to legalizing marijuana. Clement, Kenneth, et al. Demand for Marijuana, Tobacco and Alcohol: Inter-Commodity Interactions with Empirical Economics, vol. 39, no. 1, Aug. 2010, pp. 203-239. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. In the article Demand for Marijuana, Tobacco and Alcohol: Inter-Commodity Interactions with It takes data collected from research done in Australia and applies it to the U.S. economy. The research that was collected was how much did the consumption of marijuana go up once it was legalized in Australia. They determined that the legalization of marijuana would bring in more than 24% more revenue from taxes than alcohol and tobacco combined for the U.S. government. This article relates to the research topic or not legalizing marijuana would be beneficial to the U.S. because it is talking about what legalizing marijuana did for economy and how it would benefit the U.S. economy more than alcohol and tobacco combined. This article is a reliable source because it was peer reviewed and the authors of the article are reliable because they went to the University of Western Australia Business School, Making them qualified to talk about how marijuana would affect a nations economy.