Ingle 1 Alexis Ingle Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910 13 March 2017 Helping the Deaf and Hard of Hearing In the United States, two to three children out of every one thousand are born with hearing loss Statistics About The Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (AGBA) promotes helping families, health care providers and education professionals understand childhood hearing loss and the importance of early diagnosis and We With the use of ethos, pathos and kairos, the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of two images effectively portray what they stand for in helping deaf and hard of hearing children and families thrive. The Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing encourages mainstreaming, which means deaf and hard of hearing children are placed in classes with hearing peers, and teaching deaf and hard of hearing children to listen and speak is They serve the deaf and hard of hearing community by supporting research of hearing loss, education of the deaf and hard of hearing and working to provide financial aid for families with deaf or hard of hearing members We This organization aims to help deaf and hard of hearing children lead a productive and successful life in the hearing and listening community Ingle 2 Both of the images released by AGBA portray ethos, which is method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (McKee and McIntyre 27). In Image One, ethos is portrayed in the top left corner where Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing is written. In Image Two, ethos is portrayed at the bottom of the image, also where Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing is written. Also at the bottom showing ethos is the phone number and website for the organization. Providing the name of the organization on the image is an appeal to credibility. The audience can see just by looking at the image that it comes from a trustworthy place that is legitimate. The audience can see that the AGBA is an organization that has merit. Another rhetorical appeal apparent in both images is pathos. Pathos is in large abundance in both of these images; it is defined as rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Lee, et al 37). In other words, pathos is an appeal to emotion. In Image One, the first and most obvious portrayal of pathos is the smiling children in the photo. The image is brightly colored and lit to portray a happy feeling to the audience. The audience can also see pathos with all the arms around each other. To the viewing audience, the children are seen as innocent and helpless. This encourages the Image One Find out how you can help a child who is deaf or hard of hearing listen and talk. Contact the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing. WWW.AGBELL.ORG 866.337.5220 Image Two Ingle 3 audience to help the kids because they cannot help themselves. In Image Two, pathos is shown in the smiles on the boy and his face. The audience can tell that they are happy about the events that have occurred. Furthermore, pathos can be seen in the text written on the image. The words say that the boy heard his mother say his name and he was able to speak the words, love (Carbonetti, Kathleen). These are emotional and exciting words, especially to parents. This photo is also brightly colored and lit to portray a happy, excited feeling, similar to Image One. The last rhetorical appeal portrayed in the images is kairos. Kairos can be defined as appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman and Sawchyn 41). In the first image kairos is shown on the bottom of the image, in the text that says a difference in a life (2015 Combined Federal Campaign advertisement). The part of this quote appeals to timeliness. This urges the audience to go out today, or as soon as possible and donate or find how to help the children of the AGBA. In the second image, kairos is also shown in the text of the image. The text in this image tells the audience to out how you can urging the audience to take action and make use of the website and phone number provided to help deaf and hard of hearing children. The AGBA employs this use of kairos so that the audience feels compelled to contribute to the cause that the AGBA is advertising. The rhetorical appeals in both images effectively convey the goal of the AGBA in helping deaf and hard of hearing children. The use of ethos, pathos and kairos Ingle 4 together create an inviting feel for the audience, which encourages them to find ways that they might be able to contribute the AGBA. One of the more helpful ways the AGBA employed the rhetorical appeals is by using images with children in them. Using children in images is effective in catching the attention and creating a feeling of empathy. It makes the audience feel that if they do help as the image is asking them to, they can take part in creating happiness for children as well. The use of kairos encourages the audience to find out how to help the children and more about the organization. This help needs to be done in a timely fashion; by employing kairos effectively, the AGBA encourages the audience to act quickly. The goal of AGBA is helping children who are deaf and hard of hearing. The image effectively portrays this purpose by showing children, who can assumed to be part of the organization and deaf and hard of hearing. The rhetorical appeals in Image Two are very effective in portraying the goals and mission of AGBA. The image portrays happiness by the smiling faces of the mom and boy, who are excited about the boy being able to hear and speak for the first time. This emphasizes the goals of AGBA in mainstreaming deaf and hard of hearing students and encouraging spoken language and listening. The quotes on the image are helpful in portraying an excitement that a parent might feel knowing that their child can hear and speak. This might make the audience feel that excitement, knowing that helping the organization could help another parent and child experience that same excitement. Conclusively, the images released by the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing use ethos, pathos and kairos to effectively convey their goals of helping deaf and hard of hearing children thrive in a mainstream Ingle 5 society. The images are used to encourage the viewing audience to help the deaf and hard of hearing children as well as encouraging them to find out more about AGBA. Ingle 6 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. XanEdu, 2016. pp.41-46. Lee, Kendra Gayle, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. XanEdu, 2016. pp.37-40. Mckee, Jessica and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. XanEdu, 2016. pp 27-31. Statistics About National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders 15 December 2016, https://www.nidcd.nih.gov/health/statistics/quick-statistics-hearing. Accessed 26 February 2017. is Clarke Schools for Hearing and Speech, http://www.clarkeschools.org/programs-and-schools/clarke- campuses/philadelphia/philadelphia-mainstreaming. Accessed 29 January 2017. We Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing, http://www.agbell.org/who-we-are/. Accessed 29 January 2017. 2015 Combined Federal Campaign advertisement, Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing, 2015, Accessed 26 February 2017. Ingle 7 Carbonetti, Kathleen. AG Bell in USA Today, Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing, Accessed 26 February 2017.