Khoo 1 Win Sheng Khoo Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.909 27 February 2017 The Effectiveness of Rhetorical Appeals No matter in what aspect, family issues like unpleasant relationship between parents, economic problems, single parent, children feeling lack of love and bad parenting model may create an unhealthy environment to children when their minds are still developing. According to Lisa Firestone, who is a clinical psychologist stated that children are often tend to have more anxiety and perpetual worry when they feel their parents are in bad relationship (para. 4). These subtle affections toward thinking could set them to have bad behavior and depression. To decrease such social issue and give out supports to those related young people. National Foundation for Youth Music (NFYM) is an organization who provides plenty of help not only for disabled kids and youths from broken families but also any young people who are interested in music. This public funding organization creates chances for folks to participate in music projects as they believe their projects are able to make changes in their life para. 1-2). Moreover, they have free music lessons for participants to learn musical instruments and theory so that they can have enough knowledge to contribute to the projects do things para. 1). National Foundation of Youth Music publishes two images that are related to their projects as for the motivation of helping children in difficulty. In the two images, they contain the rhetorical appeals of pathos and ethos as they use them effectively to show out their goals and mission statement. Khoo 2 NFYM uses rhetorical appeals such as ethos and pathos to reflect their message through image one. For ethos, the word originally came from Greek with the meaning of By character, ethos means the conviction of credibility. To utilize ethos effectively, the message must contain elements that are able to portray credibility to gain trust. So, that people are willing to believe and be affected by the message. For example, in image one, the print of words IMPs on the shirts gives credit to the image and therefore the image is trustworthy. This is because IMPs stands for terms Inclusive Music Projects and is led by a well-known organization in York called Accessible Arts & Media (Partner of Youth Music). With the fame of the organization to support the credibility. People often choose to believe that their projects successfully bonded the disabled and non-disabled children together and reconnected them back to the society. For the second image, the little girl herself is the credit for the image. This kind of strategy is designed for targeted audience such as random parents and children because the random girl in the image may cause them to think that the girl could be themselves or anyone around them. Therefore, this method is useful for public as it is able to link the one in the advertisement to themselves. At last, these images were published by Youth Music. This organization is a charity company with and the support from Arts Council England by using public funding. With the support from more famous stakeholder, it shows that images published by Youth Music are even more credible and trustful. Khoo 3 For the second image, it uses the same appeals as image one which are ethos and pathos to project message. NFYM uses pathos mostly in their images as it often plays with emotion and feelings. The way of pathos is to convince an audience with the expectation of triggering their emotional responses through words, colours and the only sides of the image that they want you to see. Both images resemble to each other in the use of pathos. In the first image, NFYM uses the disabled child to create the effect of pathos as people tend to show sympathy and feel sorry towards disabled people. The hand sign of the two children shows the interaction between the disabled and non-disabled kids as it reflects non-disabled kid is willing to interact with disabled one who participates in their project. Additionally, the purple colour of their shirts is also crucial to emphasize the effect of pathos. The colour of purple gives people to have the feelings of creativity, wisdom and nostalgic. Feeling nostalgic while looking at this image emphasize the effect of nostalgia as it makes the audience recalls the young ones in their family. Thus, the audiences are more easily to be persuaded by the image. Similar to the second image, the text in the image provides us the background of the girl. These given information allows us to imagine either the girl is one of the disabled participant of their project or some unpleasant events she have had gone through which caused her to be quiet and withdrawn until she participated into their project as it opened up her heart. It causes the audiences to feel bad for her as the method used is just same as the first image. The pink colour Khoo 4 in the image compliments well with the girl as the colour makes us to feel love, sweet, and warmth. Hence, these images are using subtle ways to persuade the audiences without their notice. Remember that NFYM is a public funding based organization that creates chances for youths with difficulty or any young people to participate in their music projects. The purpose of publishing these images is to encourage people to continue to make donation. Moreover, they could gain more supporters and therefore the increase of donation. The expected goals of the two images are the same. That is to ask for support by donating money to Youth Music so that they can have more resources to continue creating chances for those children with complicated situation or in difficulty to join their music projects. So, it can help them to walk through their tough journey with the music knowledge they learned while participating in their projects. These images show the effectiveness of ethos and pathos strongly with the use of characters and colours. Even more, those little details in the images like the text and print on the shirts show us the related information about the message. In the image one, Youth Music tries to gain our sympathy with the less fortune boy. Meanwhile, the non-disabled girl who sits next to the boy shows the connection between disabled and non-disabled children. It creates the urge for the audience to click on the attached link to donate money as a way of support. Furthermore, the text from the second image about the girl tells us that Youth project successfully helped the girl to open her heart and start to communicate with people. Thus, similar motivation to the first image as all of these feelings created by the images build up our desire of offering helpful hand to these children. That is why the two images are effective in persuading people to make donation in order to offer helps. Khoo 5 In conclusion, National Foundation of Youth Music posted two images with the primary quest of helping those children in tough circumstance. They use the ingredients of persuasion such as ethos and pathos effectively to encourage people to donate money. So, that they are able to continue offering opportunity to the children. Khoo 6 Work Cited Firestone, Lisa. Your Relationship Impacts Your Psychology Today, 1 Oct. 2010, www.psychologytoday.com/blog/compassion-matters/201010/how-your-relationship- impacts-your-kids. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Youth Music, www.youthmusic.org.uk/. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Facebook, Youth Music, 29 Nov. 2016, www.facebook.com/youthmusicuk/photos/a.62538644698.68104.46787764698/1015473 8787739699/?type=3&theater. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. and Facebook, Youth Music, 30 July 2016, www.facebook.com/youthmusicuk/photos/a.62538644698.68104.46787764698/1015436 6383134699/?type=3&theater. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. do things Youth Music, www.youthmusic.org.uk/we-do-things-differently. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017.