Jacqueline Langley Sabah Firoz Uddin Composition I February 1, 2017 With almost 100,000 public schooling systems across the United States, it is hard to know whether or not schools all around follow each and every law under education that the government has written. One particular important law today is Title IX. Title IX states that there is to be equal funding for male and female for all sports, extracurricular activities, and programs in publically funded schools. In 1972, Richard Nixon signed this under the Education Amendments. Universities, high schools, middle schools, elementary schools, and any other programs governmentally funded fall under this act. Whether it is the football team or the tennis team it should all be treated as one. Along with that, it helps prevent sexual violence. If there is a boy or girl who feels scared or harassed by someone else in the school, the government must provide ways to help make the victim feel safe. The school itself cannot try to mediate the issue. They must provide a new living arrangement and do whatever it takes for everyone to feel safe. In this decade this law is still widely profound. This main purpose is to help all people feel equal and not discriminated. With such a vast amount of schools today, it is a wuestion amoungest us all to know if schools all around are following Title IX. Source 1: Ware, Susan. Title IX: A Brief History with Documents. Boston: Bedford/St. Martins, 2007. Print. This article talks about the very early years and the basic written parts of the law of Title IX. The article starts before the law was even created and discusses why and how it was made. It discusses how sports are still not fair for women in the year this was written which was 1977. Football is a huge topic in this article. Football is supposed to have the same treatment along with all the other sports for male or female. Yet football programs in high school and college is the sport that pays the bills and makes the most money for all. The main purpose of this article is the topic of discrimination. The law says boys and girls under are not to be discriminated under any circumstances when it comes to the governments funds. Departments of health, education, and welfare all met to discuss this topic and came up with all the different parts. This book by Susan Ware gives a brief history of the law. She is a woman who lived in the times when Title IX was not a law and she is still living now that it is a law. Her living in both times helps her have a great idea of what times were like with Title IX and without it. Her object was to reach and get out the works behind Title IX to all people who are unaware. This source is all about Title IX. Source 2: of the Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C.A 1681 Et. Seq. of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C.A 1681 Et. Seq. Department of Justice. Civil Rights Division, 7 Aug. 2015. Web 24 Jan. 2017. In this article, it discusses the meaning and definition behind the Title IX. It tells you that this amendment was passed by President Richard Nixon in 1972. This law states that under any circumstances you could not discriminate the schools finical funding because of race, sex, or type of discrimination. It states that everyone should be treated equally whether male or female. This was passed on June 23 of the year 1972. This law applies to any school whether it is college, high school, middle school, or elementary school as long as it is federally funded by the government. Even government funded programs are required to follow these laws. Many of the regulations are written about and gone into detail in this article. The writer of this article intended for people to read this article so they understand that Title IX is to prevent discrimination against gender when it comes to government funds. This source has plenty information on my topic. The writer probably hoped administrators and students all around would see this. This source is a government website so it must be valid and correct. Source 3: Stader, David L., and Jeanne L. Surface. Second-Class: Title IX, Equity, and Girlsa High School The Clearing House: A Journal of Educational Strategies, Issues and Ideas 87.3 (2014): 119-123. Web. This article shows the day by day life of one high school named Sweetwater. It talks about how like at most high schools, all the different types of sports such as basketball, football, tennis, swim, and so on all use the same practice and playing fields. A researcher noticed that all the teams were getting the first and best options and priorty over the teams. Even the girls softball coach was not paid he was a volunteer dad. The salary that should have been for the coach was being used to buy other things for the sports programs. That is unfair treatment. People in the county put in a plan to even this out within 45 days at Sweetwater high school. Coaches and administrators need to take all of these laws more seriously all around the United States. Judge Lorenz was on this case immediately and helped mediate the terms for both sides for both gender. This article is very helpful because it is filled with information about Title IX. The author does a good job at being descriptive and giving very detailed examples. This is also very helpful because it is based on information all from Sweetwater High School so it is multiple issues all in one area and town. Instead of being spread out all over the United States, it is beneficial to have one article from one whole area. Source 4: Thro, William E. IX and Sexual Encyclopedia of Education Law (2015): n. pag. Web This article is about another part of Title IX and still discusses the question as to whether. Title IX is being carried out or not. Another part of the law talks about sexual harassment and sexual misconduct. University of Montana has strict rules against sexual mistreatment and it has become a big deal becuase students feel their freedoms are being taken away from them. They demanded that they redefine the definition of Title IX at their school which currently states unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature can include unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, nonverbal, or physical conduct of a sexual nature, such as sexual assault or acts of sexual  -- eliminates the critical standard of reasonable They say that everyone falls under these words making the whole school sexual harassers. Many lawyers and the OCR and DOJ were brought into this fight. It also talks about cases where females and males are uncomfterable and have been is wrong situations such as sexual harassment. This article may not have to do with sports but it still has in depth stories about whether Title IX is being carried out for both sexes. This is helpful to add because it shows that both male and female are affected in this law. In this section of the law they feel like they are all being put down. It is a different perspective to look at. The author did a good job researching thoughts which will help me with my paper because we are similar in age and understanding. He put this paper out so people are aware of this situation. Source 5: Steveson, Betsey. THE CLASSROOM: USING TITLE IX TO MEASURE THE RETURN TO HIGHSCHOOL The MIT Press. 2010. Web This article discusses statistics of Title IX. For instance, before the law was passed one in every twenty seven girls who attended public high school played a sport. Once the law was passed, the number changed to one in every four girls who participated. The boys remained at one for every two. Also in this article, they talk about the effects and benefits of Title IX for a body. By playing a sport it helps you get rid of certain aggressions and it also helps the body be healthy and fit for male and female. Therefore, high schools should do whatever they can in their power to increase participation in sports at their school. A chart is provided in this article that contrasts male and female are participation number before and after Title IX in sports, clubs, and others. This author is a reliable source because she has tested and proven facts related to my topic if Title IX is being carried out for males and females. This is also a fairly recent article that has been peer reviewed. The intent of the author was for people to gain knowledge about the effects of playing sports on the mind and body. Also, how post Title IX numbers are continuing to change. It gives you a visual look at important numbers and facts for Title IX. Source 6: Barr, Kerensa E. THE OF ARE FAILING TITLE UMKC Law Review, 2013/10/01, Vol: 82, p181. Web. This article talks about the boys of fall which is another name for the high school football team. It is known that football teams are the most popular most of the time at high schools all over. This article talks about how the boys football team is what is making title IX fail. Most of the scholarships and supplies needed go straight to the football team. They are first on the priority list. It gives the example of how at Auburn University and how they made of the athletic programs earnings. This article also gives examples of how women sports are more ahead than male sports in some ways. The Team USA in 2012 Summer Olympics out medaled the boys. Also, the Team USA soccer team for women had more players than the team. Each player on the team costs more money. It gives examples of accommodations that have been made by schools to reach the guidelines of Title IX. It also has a whole section on places where there is equal treatment for both genders in high schools and universities. This writer gives very informational facts and gives his readers much valuable information to use. His intent was for people to know facts that have been made post Title IX. This is new and relevant information to society. He makes good points that are helpful to my paper and topic as well as other people who just want to know more information on the topic of Title IX.