1 Student: Esteban Ruibal Instructor: Sabah Firoz Uddin Composition I 2/28/2017 The Impact of Debt on the American Middle Class With consumer debt at its highest levels in US history, this investigative paper searches to better understand the impact that debt has had on middle-class America. By tracing the shift in American attitudes towards debt from the early 20 th century to present day, there is a strong transition away from a mentality of savings to one of excessive spending and growing reliance on the use of credit and borrowing. Financial institutions, government agencies, marketing and technology all have contributed greatly to this shift and have facilitated what is known as the and of credit in American society today. With low barriers to credit access and the ability to be approved for home loans with no money down, at the surface it may look like more tools than ever are available to help make the American Dream a reality, but beneath the surface it is a very different picture. It is a twisted world full of over-indebted families whose incomes are consumed by car payments, high-interest credit card bills and exorbitant mortgages every month, leaving them with no money to save or invest in their future. Living in an age of material excess where anything can be had at the click of a button, easy to see how so many people fall victim to wanting to keep up with the Joneses, but does anyone ever stop to ask themselves at what price? It is in this spirit that this paper seeks to answer the important question: When it comes to debt, are low barriers to entry and little regulation helpful or harmful to achieving the American Dream? 2 Lupica, Lois R. The Consumer Debt Crisis and the Reinforcement of Class  Loyola University Chicago Law Journal, vol. 40, no. 3, 2009, pp. 557-610. In this article, Lupica explores the history and evolution of the credit industry and how American consumer habits have shifted over time. The author also looks at the impact that increasingly high levels of debt has had on opportunities for socioeconomic mobility and how it has kept them from being able to advance. The article points out how the evolution of technology, marketers and financial institutions have played an important role in this reality, driving consumer demand and making consumer credit easy to access with little regulation and a low barrier to entry. The author also references an cultural that has occurred where we see consumers that share similar consumption habits despite notable differences in income levels and wealth (Lupica, 575). This article effectively shows the historical evolution of how American consumer spending and saving habits have changed over the years due to easy access to credit. Additionally, the article provides support for how having lots of debt has become generally accepted in American culture. This will also be a reliable source due to the large amount of statistics and citations present as well as the fact that the article was published in a peer-reviewed academic journal by an author respected in her field of study. The author, Lois R. Lupica, is the Maine Law Foundation Professor of Law at the University of Maine School of Law, where she teaches Bankruptcy, Secured Transactions, Commercial and Consumer Arbitration, Mediation and Negotiation and Professional Responsibility. Currently she serves as Special Counsel to the Rights Group, Thompson & Knight, LLP, located in New York. Professor Lupica is also on the Advisory Board for the American Bankruptcy Institute Law Review, as well as The Journal of Bankruptcy Law & Practice. 3 Hodson, Randy, Rachel E. Dwyer, Lisa A Neilson. Credit Card Blues: The Middle Class and the Hidden Costs of Easy  Sociological Quarterly, vol. 55, no. 2, 2014, pp. 315-340. This article exposes debt as being a double-edged sword. The authors seek to make readers aware of the importance of understanding the consequences of taking on unsecured consumer  (Hodson, Dwyer, Neilson, 315). They do this by exploring the consequences that easy credit has on different socioeconomic classes, explaining the types of credit in the marketplace and discussing how credit can be used as a tool to smooth transition periods. The article introduces readers to the idea of the democratization of  and how through the years it has become easier for consumers of all socioeconomic standings to access credit (Hodson, Dwyer, Neilson, 315). The authors explore the correlation between social class and borrowing habits while also examining how different classes used credit before and after the Great Recession and the effects of carrying debt on the mental health of consumers. This scholarly article is peer-reviewed and provides a lot of insight and investigation into how and why middle class Americans use debt. Of particular relevance to the research question was the finding that the middle class carries almost as much debt as the affluent class. This, the authors states, supports the observation that affluent consumers use credit as a convenience while the middle class uses it more broadly to compensate for stagnant or even declining  (Leicht and Fitzgerald 2006). Regarding the authors, Randy Hodson was a professor of sociology at Ohio State University (recently deceased) and Rachel Dwyer is an associate professor and director of graduate studies at the same institution and has a Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Some of her areas of expertise are gender, race and class as well as work, economy and organizations. 4 Santorum, Rick. Wealth creation in the new millennium: transforming poverty in  Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics & Public Policy, vol. 16, no. 2, 2002, pp. 383-393. In this article, Santorum acknowledges the increasing gap between the wealthy and the poor in America. This is considered a key issue facing Americans in the 21 st century and was a hot topic of debate among politicians and society at the time this article was written in 2002. With respect to this wealth gap, he explains that while some say that simply raising wages is the answer he disagrees and shows the reader that it is not as much a lack of that is the problem, but the inability to gain assets that keeps lower income Americans from being able to build wealth (owning a home, savings, investments and access to capital) (Santorum, 385). The author mentions the success of the US social welfare system that helped many people on welfare get out of poverty and transform their lives and he explains that additional welfare reform is needed to help provide families with opportunities that address asset Throughout the article the author educates the reader on different solutions that have been implemented. For example, non-profit groups/credit unions that provide savings incentives (matching programs) to low-income families as well as the creation of the government-sponsored enterprises and that make the American Dream of homeownership more accessible by increasing funding available to lenders and consequently allowing families to purchase a home with very little money down (Santorum, 392). In general, this peer-reviewed article shows the important role that the accumulation of assets plays in helping build personal wealth which is relevant to the research question. Also of particular interest is that the article is written from the perspective of a politician who reveals how much America is invested in making the American Dream possible for everyone, even those who are not in a financial position to afford it. The article also helps provide historical context 5 for so many Americans being overextended on their mortgages as result of homeownership being made more accessible in the early 2000s with the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac programs. This article will prove valuable in investigating the research question as it provides support of the counter argument. The author, Rick Santorum is a lawyer and former US senator representing Pennsylvania from 1995 to 2007 and ran for the 2012 Republican Party presidential nomination. Huston, Sandra, Danielle Winchester. All Financial Advice for Middle Class is not  Journal of Consumer Policy, vol. 38, no. 3, 2015, pp. 247-264. This article shows the reader that although the American middle class was one of the demographic groups hit hardest by the 2007 Recession that only 2% of the 108 million of these households utilize financial advising/planning services (Walters, 2007) in comparison to the almost 60% of affluent households that do (Chang, 2005). The authors, Huston and Winchester, share that in their study that aimed to better understand the reasons for this gap, they discovered that the gap was largely attributed to the perception of the expected benefits of financial advising relative to income level. In other words, there is a general belief by many middle-class households that financial advice is focused on accumulation of assets and investing strategies and therefore is not as relevant to their financial situation. The authors state that this idea is only partially correct however and argue that the middle class is missing out on important financial advice citing that middle-class households do not take full advantage of their 401(k) plans, buy the right kinds of insurance in the right amounts or build emergency funds to insulate them from unforeseen events (DeVaney and Anong, 2007). The authors also express the importance of these findings to society as a whole and hope that financial advisors will use the information to more actively serve these misinformed populations in need of guidance. 6 This peer-reviewed article is helpful to the research question as it highlights the middle extreme lack of financial knowledge and understanding. This lack of knowledge exposes the middle class as being extremely vulnerable to the dangers of complex financial products they do not understand and is a red flag when evaluating whether or not low barriers to accessing credit and little regulation are helpful in achieving the American Dream. Author, Dr. Danielle Winchester received her Ph.D. from Texas Tech University and is an Associate Professor of Finance at North Carolina A&T State University. Dr. Sandra Huston received her Ph.D from the University of Missouri, Columbia and is an Associate Professor of Personal Finance Planning at Texas Tech University. Best, Eric. Debt and the American  Society, vol. 49, no. 4, 2012, pp. 349-352. This article explores how mortgages and student loans are used as a way to finance the modern day American Dream. In particular, the author examines how the US government has contributed to extreme rates of growth of these Dream through easy access and incentives while also revealing the unintended consequences. The article points to the government and a trusting American population as being the main proponents for making education and homeownership widely available since they are commonly associated with upward mobility and are the foundation of the American middle class. In his article, Best explains that lower barriers to entry mean that more and more people are unable to repay these loans because they lack the economic means. In response, the government effectively relaxes regulation of these markets in order for growth to continue. The article points out that generally, consumer debt deregulation proposals are a topic of hot debate in the legislative branch of government but that these unique Dream classes of or mortgages and college loans, are openly 7 encouraged by both the Republican and Democratic parties. As a result, when more growth was desired the government went beyond deregulation measures to actually providing subsidies to people borrowing money for homes and college education. An interesting unintended result of American Dream legislation and incentives is the fact that, have almost doubled in size and colleges frequently recruit students with increasingly luxurious lifestyle amenities instead of focusing on academic This article is very useful in responding to the research question as it helps to provide evidence of a counter argument that exists on behalf of the US government. It shows the extreme measures that the American government has taken to perpetuate the idea of the American Dream and their belief that it is something that must be available to everyone. At the time this peer- reviewed article was written, the author, Eric Best, was a Ph.D. student in the Disaster Science and Management program at the University of Delaware. Dickerson, Mechele. Financial Alabama Law Review, vol. 61, 2010, pp. 1079-1120. Using the financial crisis of 2008 as an example, the main focus of this article is to investigate how giving consumers the ability to take on large amounts of debt only provides the illusion of when in reality it is taking away any real possibility of financial freedom. Throughout the article, Dickerson, shows how the US government and financial institutions are committed to perpetuating the idea of the American Dream and the mission to democratize credit so that the American Dream can be available to all. Using historical context, the author shows that they seek to achieve this by financial by opposing the idea of creating legislation that would American consumers from dangerous and predatory credit card and lending practices. The article also traces the expansion of so-called 8 or availability of credit throughout US history. Here she also draws attention to the shifting views of American society toward debt and even the resulting creation of formal US bankruptcy laws that were to give people greater financial freedom by shielding them from the harsh consequences of their improvident borrowing (Dickerson, 1092). The article also takes a close look at the impacts of debt and the free market and how confidence in the US market economy has led to consumers being given access to, and the right to participate in, a wide range of complicated financial (Dickerson, 1096). Here the author states that giving consumers this increased access to credit is not an inherently bad thing since consumer spending is key to an and the US prosperity. Furthermore, she argues that making credit low-cost and easy to access for less attractive borrowers provides them with financial freedom in being able to contribute to a market economy by taking part in borrowing allows people to finance productive long-term activities, such as buying a home, paying for college or other educational expenses, or starting a business over a longer period of (Dickerson, 1096-1097). This is a peer-reviewed scholarly article that successfully responds to the research question. There is an abundance of internal citations and statistics within the source and the author actually at times defends both sides of the argument of whether access to easy credit and low regulations are helpful or harmful in achieving the American Dream. Michele Dickerson is a graduate of Harvard Law School and teaches federal civil procedure, remedies and consumer debt at the University of Texas.