Nicholas Chiaramonte Sabah F. Uddin Composition 1 January 28, 2017 Should Strong Laws Be Imposed for Gun Control to Help Reduce Crime Rate Debate of strict gun control has been going on for years in the U.S. The discussion is whether the government should greatly restrict gun use and ownership to help reduce crime rate, theoretically, cities with the strictest gun control laws should have the lowest gun related crime. Or would enforcing very strict gun control become unconstitutional and hurt civilians who wish to protect themselves from crime. In the end, both these arguments aspire to reduce crime rate. According to current statistics over the past couple of decades Gun related violence has be decreasing substantially, and the number of guns per household has also deceased. Nevertheless, gun related violence is still a major topic and problem for every major city in America. Why is this problem so complicated? Major factors contribute to the increase or decrease of gun control laws in a city. Whether its of popular opinion of the citizens, or having better background checking systems and overall crime rate dropping due to the current laws in place. Gun control is constantly looked at and changed due to those factors. So, should strong firearm laws be imposed for gun control to help reduce crime rate? Zimring, Franklin E. Elimination of  Is Gun Control Likely to Reduce Violent Killings? 4th ed. Vol. 35. Chicago: U of Chicago, n.d. 721-37. Print. Dec 12 2006. Author study explains where crime is committed in cities and why crime happens. Often crime is correlated to the impoverished and can rise and fall with current economic status. Often not the laws in place but how many people are losing homes and jobs. Those factor in and can change the expectations of laws in place. Zimring goes over extensively that most guns own in these impoverished areas are illegal and. Meaning that making laws stricter for law obeying citizens affect those guns already in circulation and ones often used in crime are not legally owned. Basically, showing that if we want to reduce crime in cities, creating strong gun laws is not the way to do it. Criminals will find away, you just take a tool away and think crime will also drop. Frank Zimring is an American Criminologist and a law professor who studied at the University of Chicago. He has written several books on the topic of gun control and how crime rate is affected by it. The book Is Gun Control Likely to Reduce Violent Killings discusses topics of how crime ignores laws and creating the strictest laws halt crime but only lengthen the sentence of those accused. He also discusses how removing guns the only way to stop crime. A criminal will often resort to other means, and the lack of fear that the person they are going to commit a crime to will own a gun will drop. Kleck, Gary, and E. Britt Patterson. The Impact of Gun Control and Gun Ownership Levels on Violence  Journal of Quantitative Criminology 9.3 : 249-87. Web. Feb 23 2010. Authors Kleck and Patterson conducted a study on the impact of gun control through out 170 cities in the U.S. From the study, 7 cities showed improvement of reducing crime rate from drafting stranger laws. The rest showed no exponential improvement or, in small cases, resulted in more crime from drafting stronger laws. These factors could indicated that majority of the crime could have been due to high poverty rates. These statistic help show that making guns more difficult to get had no effect on lowering crime rate. Crime rate rise or fall from those changes in cities. These studies, however, show other factors and comparisons of poverty rates and dropout rates for schooling. These could have shown us factors of crime rate and are correlated. Gary Kleck and Britt Patterson have taken studies from 170 U.S cities with a population of at least 100,000. They work for the Journal of Quantitative Criminology. Their findings show that gun prevalence generally have no net positive effect on total violence rates, homicide, gun assault, and rape rates. Also gun control restrictions generally have no net effect on violence rates. So increasing the gun control laws in major cities have any net effect on lowering crime rate. There just was no correlation. Lott, John R. How to Test the Effects of Gun  More Guns, Less Crime Understanding Crime and Gun Control Laws. Chicago, IL: U of Chicago, 2013. 22-37. Print. Ser. 3. Lott briefly discusses how both sides of the argument are trying to solve the same problem, crime. The text explains some examples for both sides of the gun control argument. He brings up the April 2007 Virginia Tech shooting, 32 people were (22), how it could have been stopped if it was a lot harder to obtain the (22). Lott then brings up attack on the New Life point Church in Colorado with seven thousand people attending, an attack was stopped by a concealed- carry permit (23). John Lott is an American economist and gun rights advocate. He has done multiple studies on gun related crime and how it affects overall crime rates for cities. He is currently the lead research scientist at the University of Maryland. The book he wrote More Guns, less Crime explain a bit of both sides of the argument. Furthermore, It goes into detail on the restrictions imposed and how it help reduce crime, which is ultimately what everyone wants. Lastly, he gives a rundown on how the statistics show anything exponentially working towards the goal of lowering crime. He even quotes the study with Kleck and Patterson. McGinty, Emma E., Julia A. Wolfson, and Tara Kirk Sell. Sense or Gun Journal of Health Politics, Policy and Law. Duke University Press, print. Vol. 41, Num. 1, Pg. 3-40. Nov 13, 2015. 2012 mass shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, opened a rare window of opportunity to strengthen firearm policies in the United (4). These three women looked at correlations between massive attacks and how the popularity of enforcing more strict gun control. Stronger laws were imposed, federal and state. laws were strict and were directed at semiautomatic assault weapons and those with metal (5). These laws also strengthened background checks and closed loop holes for private sales. The study conducted showed the support for these laws percent in favor who were gun owners, 92 percent for respondents who identified as liberal and lastly, 83 percent of respondents who identified as conservative (5). So people on both sides of the argument agreed on these more strict laws. That shows that there is a compromise for public opinion. These journalists conducted and compiled statistics on the effectiveness of background checks for before and after a major shooting. number of shootings and shooting coverage went down dramatically after a bill was passed in (19). The Study mainly talked about how effective these laws were in Colorado, Nevada, and Delaware. It also explained public opinion and how the new laws were affecting their everyday lives. Duke university published the findings, all three writers are doctoral candidates for the department of health policy and work extensively on health politics and laws. Kopel, David B. The Great Gun Control War of the 20th Century - And Its Lessons for Gun Laws  By David B. Kopel :: SSRN. N.p., 30 May 2012. Web. The Author, David Kopel, took a different approach at the argument. He wanted to look at all the spectrum of laws that might have also been unconstitutional that argued today showing that the right to bear arms could be interpreted differently. Examples like the U.S technically have an air force because not in the constitution and matters like that. He also gave arguments of cases where enforcing strict gun control has worked well for countries like Germany and Japan. Those areas have very low crime and homicide rates. the First Amendment in the 1930s, the Second Amendment today is in its early stages of doctrinal (185). The Author talks about how these amendments are being tweaked and showing how we could interpret these amendments so people argue that it would be unconstitutional. David Kopel is an American author, attorney and a political science researcher. His research was done at Denver University. He is currently an Adjunct Professor of Advanced Constitutional Law and a Research Director. He looks more toward how the right argues about the constitution and how we should take it more literally but gives counter examples and looks in depth how of we should interpret and abide by is. He backs his arguments with facts from the constitution and gives many of examples of laws that argued. Sharmila, Devi. The Long Road to Gun Control in  Lancet (London, England). U.S. National Library of Medicine, 16 July 2016. Web. The Author discusses how to reduce crime rate with gun control just take one law, it could take hundreds. violence has been described as a biopsychosocial Of the 90 deaths a day in the USA caused by gun violence, some two-thirds are (2). Sharmila makes gun violence into a bigger mental health issue. Just making stronger gun laws help reduce crime on its own. If we really wanted to act and lower crime rate, we should be focusing more on mental health. She says that laws can only do so much for people but we should be helping people get on the right track. Devi Sharmila has written for the Lancet and has done lots of research on the topic of gun violence and mental health. The Lancet is a medical journal followed by the Journal of the American Medical Association. Devi takes a stand on how we could treat mental health patients better and how we should not narrow our focus on laws that would only affect ways to obtain a firearm. She also states that people need to be educated more on guns and how easy it is, without proper safety, to hurt yourself or people around you.