Hall 1 Samantha Hall Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 12 March 2017 Meaning Behind Advertisements of the NCPA College athletics make a large impact on lives every day. People follow their favorite teams and become fanatics by wearing their team colors and having team gear. But, what they know is what is being cheated from these athletes behind the scenes. The (National Collegiate Player Association) main focus is to establish college rights across the United States. They want to make sure each and every athlete is comfortable playing for their university by allowing them rights including: raising scholarship amounts, covered sports related injury medical bills, increasing graduation rates and protecting educational opportunities. To get their message out, they use a variety of advertisements that spark interest and curiosity amongst their viewers. The two images presented for this essay creates an idea that college athletes are being taken from or cheated on what they deserve. They present these ideas through a variety of rhetorical appeals, creating meaning behind every aspect of the advertisement. In the first advertisement, there are multiple ways it use rhetorical appeals to portray the purpose behind the image. The advertisement is a robber dressed in professional business attire and running away from a locker room with a briefcase. One of the key phrases in this advertisement references rule of college athletes. According to sports management journalist, Alex McKechinie, there was a study released showing that the uses amateurism as a tool to deny athletes billions of dollars per year in revenue that Hall 2 they would otherwise receive in a fair (Drexel.edu). This study was the billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes under the Guise of in which the advertisement shown represents. The purpose behind this ad is that people higher up in the athletic associations are receiving the financial benefits that the athletes are working for. This assumption may not automatically come to the audiences mind, but the use of rhetorical appeals helps the message be clearer. Some of the specific rhetorical appeals used in this advertisement are logos and pathos. The elements that represent logos would be the simple fact that there is someone robbing a locker room. It would get the audience questioning why a business man wearing professional, and most likely not cheap attire, is robbing a locker room. Nothing about this seems logical which is what the NCPA was aiming for. This starts the thinking to move towards the direction of what exactly the higher up associates are taking from the athletes and how they may be getting cheated from what they deserve. Because it shows the thief stealing directly from the locker, it represents that the athletes are the ones being directly stolen the universities. According to a law review, written by John Niemeyer, 2012 alone, the organization (NCAA) retained a $71 million surplus after it disbursed a majority of its revenue to the NCAA member (Niemeyer 883). So, how is it logical that the NCAA and even universities are receiving so much money, but the athletes are the ones working for it? The idea of used by the NCAA and noted in this advertisement, is another appeal towards logos. According to the NCAA official website, amateurism means that the athletes cannot nor ever have received an income for playing as an athlete (ncaa.org) The audience may start questioning if amateurism is really the best way to go about recruiting college athletes. This Hall 3 means the athletes do not have an idea of what financial benefits missing out on because they have never experienced being played for playing. The NCPA uses pathos in addition to logos to bring extra attention to what they are trying to say. The thief, as mentioned before, also brings a sense of emotion into the advertisement. Everyone loves to watch their favorite college teams whether it be football, basketball, soccer, etc. Everyone also knows every team they love to watch, has their own locker rom. When the audience sees the robber stealing directly from the locker room, it can spark a feeling of unfairness and even sorrow for the athletes. In addition to these emotions, the feeling of confusion may also be there which relates to the logical aspect of this idea as stated before. The fact that in the locker that has been opened (broken into by the thief), it specifically shows a football and a football helmet inside. And then on the floor, there is a basketball lying there. NCPA specifically picked these two sports because they are what bring in the most money and attention from fans across universities in America. So much money that the athletes would receive an additional $6 billion across the 4 year span of playing in addition to their scholarship (drexul.edu). The fact that there is a 6 billion dollar heist can be an element of pathos alone. 6 billion dollars is obviously an abundant amount of money and if this is what athletes could be earning, it can create a huge shock to the audience. Disbelief or even anger could come from the audience who look at this, because of how much financial benefits the athletes are being cheated from. In the second advertisement, the purpose behind it is very similar to the first one as they use the rhetorical appeals of pathos, logos and ethos. In this advertisement, there is a grey football helmet that is sitting on a pile of money. title Price of Poverty in Big Time College and the information behind this advertisement comes from a study conducted by Hall 4 the NCPA and Drexel University that colleges sports scandals on a black market created by unethical and unpractical NCAA restrictions on college (ncpanow.org). The irony in this is that the helmet is sitting on a huge pile of cash yet they are relating the athletes to poverty level living styles. This comparison may be a little exaggerated in sense of how poverty is a major problem in the United States. However, it opens the readers mind to questioning why they would compare athletes to such extreme measures. One of the rhetorical appeals used is logos. The helmet sitting on the pile of cash may address the logical thinking of college athletics. At first, it looks normal. pretty obvious that any major college sport (basketball, football, etc.) brings in a lot of money to each university. But the question rises--how much are the athletes really getting? According the official NCPA website room and board provisions in a full scholarship leave 85% of players living on campus and 86% of players living off campus living below the federal poverty (ncpanow.org). If these athletes are bringing in so much money per year, it would only be logical for some of that money to go towards living arrangements rather than living in places that can be considered line It also sparked interest that they used a football when there are other major college sports across the nation. However, football is easily the dominant college sport when it comes to fanatics, income, and popularity. Included in this journal, they further describe how basketball and football players are valued at hundreds of thousands of dollars annually while the NCAA restricts the value of their scholarship to a level of compensation below poverty level for majority of athletes (Huma and Staurowsky 6). They also used an all grey helmet. This keeps the advertisement from presenting colors tied to specific teams. It represents all football teams across the United States. Hall 5 In addition to logos, other rhetorical appeals demonstrated in this advertisement are ethos and pathos. Multiple credentials are presented to back up this research project (what is being advertised) such as Romogi Huma, president of NCPA, and Ellen J. Staurowsky, professor in Sports Management at Drexel University. Including these scholars on the front page of this study gives it credibility before the reader even opens it. For the NCPA to be running this study, it seems like a very efficient and reliable source. Their whole organization is geared around benefiting college athletes from what they have been withheld from and giving them their well- deserved individual rights. Knowing this, it only seems right to believe and understand what they are trying to say. However, the idea of relating poverty to college athletes is a huge comparison that can spark a lot of opinioned debates on that quote alone. Poverty is a very large and struggling thing people across the United States are struggling with and this title could be looked at as exaggerated. This is an emotional element used in the advertisement falling under the appeal of pathos. To some people, poverty can be a personal thing and despite what we know about their pay, college athletes are known to have it better than people in poverty. Even though this is a major comparison that comes across too strong, the study behind the advertisement may not be over exaggerating which could intrigue the audience to look into it more. In conclusion, the appeals in advertisements have a major impact on how we view them and how effective their message is. It is important to be aware of these tactics. People view advertisement everywhere and every day. Each one has its own message to tell with its unique use of rhetorical appeals. The NCPA advertises projects and studies they have done to make people aware of what is going on in the National College Athlete Association and how these athletes deserve more than what they are receiving. People need to be aware of this because college athletics are very much involved with everyday lives. These athletes that people are Hall 6 fanatics for and spend much time following are being cheated from benefits they have worked for. It is the main goal to make sure that happens, and these advertisement are their way of making it known. Hall 7 Works Cited Huma, Ramogi, Staurowsky, Ellen J. Price of Poverty in Big Time College NCPA, p. 6 McKenchie, Alex. and NCPA Study Shows Use of Denies College Athletes Billions in Revenue DrexelNow, Drexel University , 25 Mar. 2013, Niemeyer, John. End of an Era: The Mounting Challenges to the Model of Amateurism, the  Pepperdine Law Review, no. 4, 2014, p. 883. EBSCOhost Price of Poverty in Big Time College More About NCPA, NCPA,