Ferris 1 Tyler Ferris Sabah Uddin ENC1101 01/30/2017 Modern Pollution With 123 million people a year commuting within the United States alone, we can safely say fossil fuel based transportation is a key to the functional ability of society. Having said that, it is also one of the biggest metaphorical clouds looming over society, waiting to rain. Carbon dioxide deposit numbers have never been higher, not only in our atmosphere but now our oceans. But ever since the people have been taking note to the horrendous impact our environment is taking from fossil fuel pollutions. Although there are numerous records dating back to BC times, proving that humans have been documented being creative with their engineering in energy, it has not been until recent times that people from all over are recognizing this ominous threat and have begun to speak out and try to make an impact to maintain our home and our previous resources. In return alternative energy research has had its funding and resources exponentially increased recently to prevent the ever- looming threat of pollution and resource extinction but it just recently we have experimented with energy sources other than toxic fossil fuels. After learning this, you are left asking yourself, what are the true effects of global commuting based on fossil fuels, and what progress has actually been made to preserve our livelihood and environment. Rodrigue, Dr. Jean-Paul. The Environmental Impacts of  The Environmental Impacts of Transportation. Hofstra University, 5 Feb. 2006. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Ferris 2 Environmental Impacts of First and foremost, analyzes the immediate effects of the mass public having private and communal commuting methods. For example, Over the past 30 years the number of noise and odor complaints have soared immediately following the development of highways and other methods of express commuting. Another serious, and immediate effect is the increase in cancer and the potential correlation between the increase and carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide being emitted. With a 40 percent increase in lung cancer cases in the last 20 years there is room for serious debate on the potential correlation to the boom in modern fossil fuel based transportation and cancer rates. On a long-term scale, he goes into detail explaining the effects on our ecosystems and future populations. With 15 percent of CO2 emissions worldwide being attributed to the transportation sector, we know that fossil fuel based commuting is one of the biggest proponents of our current global crisis. This all comes into connection with my research topic in the way that he truly depicts the on- setting health and environmental issues with statistics to back it up. Now it may seem easy for us to just slow down our consumption but major political lobbyists as well as a large portion of our economy banking on the oil industry and private transportation. With those obstacles, it will force a collective effort towards change to make any sort of impact on this ever so urgent issue. This source is reliable because it was published by an accredited University, Hofstra as well cited in other articles. Us EPA, Region 4, Air, Pesticides And Toxics Management Division, Jefferson Co. KY.Jefferson Co. KY Local Implementation Plan: Regulation 8 Mobile Source Emissions Control: Regulation 8.03: Commuter Vehicle Testing Requirements(2006): 1-3. Print. The regulation file Plan: Regulation 8 Mobile Source Emissions Control: Regulation 8.03: Commuter Vehicle Testing is an article stating the progression of emission laws with new implementations. It portrays how ever since the when these pollution Ferris 3 issues were defined, local and federal lawmakers have put forth effort to try and regulate these harmful emissions to not just save the environment but save their people too. Beginning in 1993 with phase one of the emission standards there were five categories in which vehicles were classified in, but these classifications were ultimately inaccurate due to the numbers being based strictly off vehicle weight. In 2004 phase two of the national emissions standard was implemented. Phase two went away from the weight classification and organized levels in 11 decided by weight class and overall emissions. This proved to be an effective system for a good amount of time until maximum fuel consumption rates were implemented on a federal level. This article is a great depiction of how the government slowly began to regulate and attempt to improve emission levels. They progressively became more and more restrictive until the progress was noted on a federal level and began to make leeway on a monumental process that would ultimately give our society a chance to slow the ongoing slaughter of our ecosystem. This article is legitimate since it was actual documented laws and statistics by the government on a local, state and federal level. Zhang, Yanxu, Daniel J. Jacob, Hannah M. Horowitz, Long Chen, Helen M. Amos, David P. Krabbenhoft, Franz Slemr, Vincent L. St. Louis, and Elsie M. Sunderland. Observed Decrease in Atmospheric Mercury Explained by Global Decline in Anthropogenic  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 113.3 (2016): 526-31. USF Library. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. The article Observed Decrease in Atmospheric Mercury Explained by Global Decline in Anthropogenic  goes into very intricate detail as to how levels of mercury (hg), nitrous oxide and other toxic pollutants produced from coal burning fossil fuels have significantly decreased over the years. The world has done this through using flue gas desulfurization (FGD) to control the hg levels in pollution, and by using selective catalytic reduction (SCR) to control nitrous oxide levels. The study also goes into an explanation of how the statistics that were pulled were from major commuting centers Ferris 4 such as China, United States, and most of Europe. That information shows how the article gave a great portrayal as to how we have done a lot to begin to improve our current conditions on a global scale and how toxic pollutant numbers are improving but in small increments and in very specific areas. This is important to the argument of increasing awareness of pollution because now not only specific nations are beginning to take initiative to attempt to mend or even reverse the destructive matters we have brought upon ourselves. Yes, the statistics show steadily decreasing numbers of these harmful chemical deposits but the residual value is still far greater than the progress that has been made. This article is sound, since it was located through the University of South Florida Library Database. NASA, and RUSD. Down To Earth Climate Change -  Down To Earth Climate Change Resources. Down to Earth Climate Change, 1 Nov. 2016. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. to Earth Climate Change is an article composed by NASA and RUSD in coalition to show and explain to the public how global warming is a real potential through providing factual evidence and data. The evidence it shows is concise based on the information dating back 400,000 years. Within the given time periods the statistics show how CO2 levels have steadily fluctuated until the early When the automobile and locomotive came into play they created monumental changes to society and transportation as well as the environment. Levels of CO2 in our atmosphere more than doubled in less than 100 years from 180 particles per million to over 400 particles per million. This information is important because it depicts how as a society we have destroyed our atmosphere with pollutants. Even though efforts to mend may begin to increase now, the damage we have already caused is evident and detrimental. Modern transportation alone has been one of the largest, if not the largest, negative impacts on our atmosphere and environment. This source is viable because it was constructed federally regulated and recognized organizations like NASA. Ferris 5 Chen, Bingheng, and Haidong Kan. Air Pollution and Population Health: A Global  Environmental Health and Preventive Medicine. US National Library of Medicine, 1 Mar. 2008. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The article Pollution and Population Health: A Global goes into detail as to the differences in air pollution between lesser and more developed countries and how it effects the population and its health. It explains how the forces of air pollution include economic development, urbanization, energy consumption, transportation and Although modern, developed countries have shown an actual, significant decreases in pollutants released, lesser developed, now developing countries are increasing in levels of emissions. This is a result of less capital and resources to be picky about the way they develop, therefore causing a lack of consciousness of the increasing damage being done. This is relative to my research question in the way that it explains that we may be doing an ok job of targeting these mega cities and nations to reduce emissions on a mass scale but as these lesser developed societies do develop, they will be recreating the same scenario that we are in with countries that have already gone through the developmental process. This source is legitimate from the fact it was published by the US National Library of Medicine and the National Institutes of Health. Cohen, A. J. Outdoor Air Pollution and Lung  Environmental Health Perspectives. U.S. National Library of Medicine, 1 Aug. 2000. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. This article written by Cohen mainly goes into detail as to how both air pollution levels and lung cancer levels have traditionally both had increases in their residual levels. He explains how we have seen a direct correlation with the increase in both. The information states how we have limitations that hinder our findings greatly such as outside factors, pollutants, and other causes of disease that cause error in findings related to pollution. On the note of variables effecting research, Cohen makes a great Ferris 6 point of how the percentage of cigarette smokers over since the has significantly dropped consistently while the number of lung cancer cases since then have stayed relatively consistent. This is not believed to be strictly because of new pollution but also from ambient pollution that lingers, destroying our ozone, atmosphere, and health altogether. I included his research and findings in my paper because I believe his information proves that as our society progresses and improves from a health standpoint, it allows us to uncover more definitive underlying reasons to consistent problems. By uncovering these other causes too, it not only allows us to have more accurate research and information about pollution, but to also find other issues with society whether it be environmental, structural or health based. The information and article included in this source are reliable because it is published by the US National Library of Medicine and the National Institute of Health. Ferris 7 Works Cited Chen, Bingheng, and Haidong Kan. Air Pollution and Population Health: A Global  Environmental Health and Preventive Medicine. US National Library of Medicine, 1 Mar. 2008. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cohen, A. J. Outdoor Air Pollution and Lung  Environmental Health Perspectives. U.S. National Library of Medicine, 1 Aug. 2000. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. NASA, and RUSD. Down To Earth Climate Change -  Down To Earth Climate Change Resources. Down to Earth Climate Change, 1 Nov. 2016. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Rodrigue, Dr. Jean-Paul. The Environmental Impacts of  The Environmental Impacts of Transportation. Hofstra University, 5 Feb. 2006. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Us Epa, Region 4, Air, Pesticides And Toxics Management Division, Jefferson Co. KY.Jefferson Co. KY Local Implementation Plan: Regulation 8 Mobile Source Emissions Control: Regulation 8.03: Commuter Vehicle Testing Requirements(2006): 1-3. Print. Zhang, Yanxu, Daniel J. Jacob, Hannah M. Horowitz, Long Chen, Helen M. Amos, David P. Krabbenhoft, Franz Slemr, Vincent L. St. Louis, and Elsie M. Sunderland. Observed Decrease in Atmospheric Mercury Explained by Global Decline in Anthropogenic  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 113.3 (2016): 526-31. USF Library. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Ferris 8