Stefan Dimitropoulos 1 Stefan Dimitropoulos Dr. Uddin ENC 1101 28 February 2017 Intermediate Draft For the average non athlete, fulfilling the goal of staying healthy is more the focus than anything, whether that means to build muscle or to cut fat. Although nobody should ever encourage peer to restrict their forms of exercise, the average non athlete does not always have the opportunity, nor the desire to broaden their range of exercise. Therefore, it seems fit to ask the question, which single type of exercise should people consider the healthiest for the average non athlete? Source 1: Zavanela, Plinio M., Crewther, Blair T., Lodo, Leandro, Florindo, Alex A., Miyabara, Elen H., Aoki, Marcelo S. and fitness benefits of a resistance training intervention performed in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. 26.3 (2012): 811. Authors Zavanela, Plinio M., Crewther, Blair T., Lodo, Leandro, Florindo, Alex A., Miyabara, Elen H., and Aoki, Marcelo S. conducted a study to find beneficial effects on the body gained from resistance training in the workplace. These authors have also conducted several other studies about implementing a workout regimen in the workplace. Forty-eight participants underwent a twenty-four week resistance training program, and forty-eight participants were told to continue their daily routines as they currently were. All ninety-six participants were bus drivers. At the end of the period, the participants who were exercising showed a large decrease in blood pressure, pain incidence, and absenteeism, as well as a large increase in muscular endurance and flexibility. Stefan Dimitropoulos 2 This text can serve to inform the average non athlete of the benefits of exercise, as well as health and wellness experts the importance of staying physically active. It also proves that it is very possible to create time for exercise in the average working daily routine. This study could potentially be taken in another direction, and that is to fight against common misconceptions people hold of exercising, such as making a person too tired to continue their week. According to the study, exercise was directly correlated to decreased absenteeism. The work was published by the National Strength and Conditioning Association. The Association functions for the purpose of providing knowledge about fitness and helping professionals in the fitness industry expand their career, as can be read at www.nsca.com. aerobic exercise on a number of categories of participants. Source 2: Authors Monteiro, Paula Alves; Chen, Kong; Lira, Fabio Santos; Cicotti Saraiva, Bruna Thamyres; Mello Antunes; Barbara Moura; Campos, Eduardo Zapaterra; and Freitas Jr. Ismael Forte. and aerobic exercise training promote similar benefits in body composition and metabolic profiles in obese Lipids in Health & Disease. 11/26/2015, Vol. 14, p1-9. Authors Monteiro, Paula Alves; Chen, Kong; Lira, Fabio Santos; Cicotti Saraiva, Bruna Thamyres; Mello Antunes; Barbara Moura; Campos, Eduardo Zapaterra; and Freitas Jr. Ismael Forte gathered evidence on the effects of cardio activity by completing a study having obese adolescents undergo aerobic activity. The participants that underwent the twenty week aerobic exercise program showed a decrease in percent body fat from 2.9%-3.6%. The control group, which did not exercise for twenty weeks, showed no significant decrease in body fat percentage. They also showed beneficial changes in lipid levels. This study is affiliated with the Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Obesity Branch, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Disease, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA. The authors have published other articles of their comparative studies of exercises. Even more so, studies on how exercise effects the body on a biological level. Stefan Dimitropoulos 3 Source 3: Ross Edgley. calisthenics: body-weight training can work as well as weights to build a physique that looks as good as it Joe Muscle & Fitness. 4/2016. 92. Ross Edgley informs readers on the benefits of calisthenics exercise. Although Edgley does support other styles of working out, he speaks in this article of all the benefits one can gain from calisthenics. His list of five major benefits are burning more calories, building a stronger core, building muscle, training different stimuli, and the personalized benefit of the OF The article even consists of a workout guide that shows examples of how to incorporate calisthenics movements in workout regimen. What is interesting about the article is that Edgley points out some goals that are not as much within the scope of exercises such as strength training and cardiovascular activity, and explains that calisthenics does achieve those benefits. It may not achieve it as well as another type of exercise, but universally, it can hit the most amount of benefits. Source 4: Madanmohan, D. P. Thombre, Bharathi Balakumar, T. K. Nambinara Yanan, Sachin Thakur N., Krishnamurthy and A. Chandrabose. OF YOGA TRAINING ON REACTION TIME, RESPIRATORY ENDURANCE AND MUSCLE Department of Physiology. 1992, 36(4): 229-233. Madanmohan, D. P. Thombre, Bharathi Balakumar, T. K. Nambinara Yanan, Sachin Thakur N., Krishnamurthy and A. Chandrabose published a study on the physical and mental effects of yoga. Their participants were students between the ages of eighteen and twenty-one who were not physically active prior to the beginning of this study. They tested for changes in reaction time, grip strength, breathe holding strength, and respiratory pressure of the participants after undergoing a twelve week yoga training program. Stefan Dimitropoulos 4 On average, participants significantly increased in all aspects. Relevant to the topic at hand are the tests of grip strength, breathe holding strength, and respiratory pressure. An increase in grip strength shows that it is possible to develop muscular strength using yoga. This does not yet say anything for the rest of the body, but we may predict that the training will develop the muscles in the rest of the body as well until further reading. Respiratory pressure and breathe holding strength are often correlated with cardiovascular stamina. Therefore, this study also suggest that yoga training can yield cardiovascular benefits. Having seen this study, one may want to propose that yoga training has just as universal, or more universal, physical benefits compared to calisthenics training. Continuing forward, we will explore the benefits of all the exercises mentioned thus far in an attempt to decide which one promotes the best overall health for the average non athletic person. Stefan Dimitropoulos 5 References: Zavanela, Plinio M., Crewther, Blair T., Lodo, Leandro, Florindo, Alex A., Miyabara, Elen H., Aoki, Marcelo S. and fitness benefits of a resistance training intervention performed in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. 26.3 (2012): 811. Monteiro, Paula Alves; Chen, Kong; Lira, Fabio Santos; Cicotti Saraiva, Bruna Thamyres; Mello Antunes; Barbara Moura; Campos, Eduardo Zapaterra; and Freitas Jr. Ismael Forte. and aerobic exercise training promote similar benefits in body composition and metabolic profiles in obese Lipids in Health & Disease. 11/26/2015, Vol. 14, p1-9. Ross Edgley. calisthenics: body-weight training can work as well as weights to build a physique that looks as good as it Joe Muscle & Fitness. 4/2016. 92. Madanmohan, D. P. Thombre, Bharathi Balakumar, T. K. Nambinara Yanan, Sachin Thakur N., Krishnamurthy and A. Chandrabose. OF YOGA TRAINING ON REACTION TIME, RESPIRATORY ENDURANCE AND MUSCLE Department of Physiology. 1992, 36(4): 229-233.