Samuel Fonseca Guimaraes Professor Sabbah Uddin Composition I 02/13/2017 Does the early use of marijuana cause brain damage? The effects of marijuana during youth is a polemical topic, where researchers claim it can cause permanent damage to the brain, whilst some activists claim it cannot cause any harm at all. Recently, the legalization of marijuana has been widely discussed, with most people being in favor of it; however, we need to overlook whether or not it should be recreationally legalized for teenagers (16-21). Before legalizing the use of marijuana, politicians and voters should ask the question marijuana do damage the brain when used early in 1. Jacobus, Joanna, et al, performance in adolescent marijuana users with co-occurring alcohol use: A three-year longitudinal Neuropsychology, Vol 29(6), Nov, 2015. pp. 829-843. USF Library. Web. 01 February 2017 In the article, Joanna Jacobus and her team talk about the increase of the number of 12 th graders using Marijuana compared to 12 th graders two decades ago. They claim that during adolescence, the brain passes through many changes, in which our brain is developing its capacities; also, smoking causes changes and inhibits the brain to pass through these changes. They recruited 108 teenagers (ages 16-19) from San Diego and observed them for three years and found out that the majority of them had tried smoking within the three years. They found out that heavy drinking and marijuana smoking teenagers performed badly with attention, memory, processing speed and visuospatial functioning when compared to teenagers who barely smoked or have never smoked at all. The researched showed that smoking marijuana during youth does inhibit brain development. Although the brain can recover after some years, the brain keeps as a short-term effect of the use of marijuana, it takes a long time to our body recover the neurons connections (synapses). Jacobus, Assistant Professor, UCSD Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, made a deep and long research on the subject in order to evaluate the effects of alcohol and marijuana use in teenagers -, and showed us what most people expected to see, marijuana does affect brain development when taken on youth. This research is an essential key to development of this article, once it is coordinated by a group of UCSD graduated students. The focus of the paper was sharing the results of a long experiment involving teenagers and marijuana/alcohol, and how the use of both of them affects their brain. 2. Anderson, Jane E., Development in Adolescents: New Research - Implications for Physicians and Parents in Regard to Medical Decision Issues in Law & Medicine; Fall2015, Vol. 30 Issue 2, p193-196, 4p. USF Library. Web. 01 February 2017 Jane E. Anderson, clinical professor of pediatrics at UCSF, briefly demonstrates in her article Development in Adolescents: New Research - Implications for Physicians and Parents in Regard to Medical Decision the influence of dopamine on the process of addiction, and about the damage marijuana causes to every lobe of the brain, specially the frontal lobe. She uses anecdotes for an easier understanding of the brain, when she says that frontal lobe is the CEO of the which is the lobe responsible for thinking, processing information and other complex thoughts. By damaging the frontal lobe, the frontal lobe does not work at full capacity, inhibiting the brain development. Anderson also talks about the hippocampus, and how crucial it is to the development of the neural system, and also said that the earlier it is damaged, the longer the effects will last. Based on her years working with teenagers, Jane E. Anderson, a clinical professor of pediatrics and residency program side director at UCSF, summarized all her experience in a brief and layman language, talking about why adolescents become addicted easier, the reason why the brain is more damaged and why the damage lasts longer. In the paper, Anderson tries to get the parents into the subject and get them to help their kids to not use marijuana, by clearly talking about what she has experienced and researched throughout her career. 3. Canady, Valerie, use by youth, schizophrenia genetic risk Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter; Oct2015, Vol. 31 Issue 10, p3-4, 2p. USF Library. Web. 01 Februrary 2017 Canady discussed on her paper the relationship between the use of marijuana during youth and schizophrenia. She interviewed Dr. Tomaz Paus, leader of a team of international researchers, who were the first team to do discover a link between smoking marijuana and the risk of developing schizophrenia; there were previous researchers on this link, but study was the first to look into the brain. The team analyzed 1,024 teenagers both male and female -, and then they collected Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain and information about the cannabis use. Then they replicated the study with a sample of 504 young males, who used cannabis, and collected their MRIs when they were 18-21 years old. The second and last replica of the study was made with a group of 426 adolescents from eight different European cities. The three samples 1,574 participants -, showed a negative relation between cannabis and cortical thickness on teenagers who had higher chances to develop schizophrenia. As the brain is passing through changes during adolescence, it is more vulnerable, and smoking marijuana can accelerate the process of developing schizophrenia and other brain diseases. Valeria Canady, editor of Mental Health Weekly, wrote the article based on her interview with Dr. Tomaz Paus, the Tanenbaum Chair in Population Neuroscience, Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at the University of Toronto, about the research made by him and his team on the links between smoking marijuana and schizophrenia. After analyzing a sample of over 1,500 teenagers and young adults, the team found that cannabis can speed the process of developing schizophrenia in teenagers once their brain is not fully mature. The research also found that men tend to develop schizophrenia five years before women because brain takes longer to get entirely mature. 4. Ewing, Sarah W. Feldstein, et al, Has Legal Recreational Cannabis Affected Adolescents in Your State? A Window of American Journal of Public Health. Feb2017, Vol. 107 Issue 2, p246-247. 2p. USF Library. Web. 01 February 2017 Ewing and her team talked about the aftermath of legalizing the use of marijuana in seven states and in the District of Columbia, and how it influences teenagers to smoke it in these states. Marijuana has been legal for just for years in the majority of these states, thus it is hard to say that the legalization of cannabis made more teens start to smoke; until now, no studies have found a difference in numbers between the number of teenagers using cannabis before or after it became legal. The majority of researches tend to focus only on broad topics, or no cause-effect topics. To examine the effects of legalization, more focused questions should be asked, e.g. having cannabis dispensaries in neighboring areas increase cannabis and the form of cannabis packaging (e.g., candy and other edible forms) contribute to the risk of accidental consumption by underage (Ewing, Sarah W. Feldstein, et al). They also talk about the three things that make hard to study the use of cannabis effects, e.g. usually adolescents combine it with alcohol. On the paper, Ewing, Sarah W. Feldstein (Ph.D., Clinical Psychology, University of New Mexico, 2007) and her team try to change the view on the current marijuana effects on teenagers researches, trying to promote a narrower and specific set of questions. Currently, the question Has Legal Recreational Cannabis Affected Adolescents in Your cannot be answered, due to the lack of specific information on it. One of the causes of this lack is how recent marijuana was legalized in some states just four years. The team tries to warn other researches on how important it is to answer this question before the country end up in a cannabis epidemic. 5. Lawton, Graham, much, too New Scientist. March 26, 2005, Vol. 185 Issue 2492, p44, 4 p. USF Library. Web. 22 February 2017 On this article, Lawton talks about the coffee shops in the Netherlands, and also about a research done by Van a psychiatry of the University of Maastricht, who studies the effects of marijuana in the brain, especially in brain; Van claims that the use of marijuana has increased in 13% the number of schizophrenia in the Netherlands. The author also goes on the old reports on mental disorders caused by the early introduction and long-term use of cannabis; he mentions one of the first times researches started considering a link between marijuana and brain injury. It was in 1960 in Jamaica, when some researchers related the use of this drug to psychological disorders in Rastafarians. The author shows a myriad of studies that demonstrates a link between marijuana and psychological illness, especially when used in an early age. Lawton also quotes Les Iversen, professor of pharmacology at the University of Oxford, who says that cause and effect conclusion cannot be taken from epidemiological studies, thus showing a contrary opinion to the one developed on the text. Graham Lawton is the Executive Editor of New Scientist, and in his article he quotes specialists on the subject, such as Van a psychiatry of the University of Maastricht, who claims marijuana does do damage in the brain, and Les Iversen, a Professor of pharmacology at the University of Oxford and a member of the UK Home Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs, who says we cannot take the studies as true, once they do not offer a cause and effect relationship. Throughout the text Lawton talks about many different researches that have been done through the last 50 years, starting in 1960. His intention with this article is showing that everything indicates that marijuana does damage the brain, especially in teenagers, but he also gives space to some opposite opinions. 6. Jager, Gerry, et al. Use and Memory Brain Function in Adolescent Boys: A Cross- Sectional Multicenter Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, v49 n6 p561-572.e3 Jun 2010. 12 pp. USF Library. Web. 23 February 2017 On this article, Jager and her team describe and share the results of the study they have conducted with 47 teenager boys, and how it was used to support their theory. The theory claims that adults who have used marijuana during their youth were more likely to experience psychological problems. The team has found on this study a link between IQ levels and the use of this substance; they have found that the average IQ of the group researched was lower than 80. The boys were examined on fMRI (Functional magnetic resonance imaging) machines, in order to analyze their brain activity. Jager also briefly talks about other studies that have found connections between marijuana and schizophrenia, and also other psychotic events experienced in youth due to the abuse of cannabis. Gerry Jager is an expert in Psychophysics, Cognitive Science, Cognitive Psychology, from Wageningen University, and also has 104 articles published. On this article, the author, who is famous for her work with fMRI machines, talks about the results of an experiment conducted by her and her team of experts on the link between cannabis abuse on adolescence and psychotic events in adulthood. She shows how marijuana does affect the brain, especially in teenagers; according to her, it happens due to the brain is not mature yet, and is still developing. The most affected area in the brain is the hippocampus, the core of the limbic system, according to her.