Tanzila Tasnim English Composition Professor Sabah Uddin 28th February 2017 Annotated Bibliography: Final Draft As the times progress, they bring with it new technologies to make life easier than ever before. Technologies have led to innovations that used to seem unrealistic even just a few years ago, such as smartphones. When the first form of telecommunication was invented in 1876, the telephone was a big, bulky, wired machine that people could not carry anywhere. Throughout the years, the method as well as the devices used for telecommunication have changed drastically. In recent years there are smartphones in hands, whether it is a college student, fifth grader, or a five year old. Not only can people carry their smartphones everywhere, it also minimizes the amount of things a person has to carry. Almost every smartphone is equipped with numerous apps that allow them to also function as a camera, phone book, calculator, clock, music player, gaming device and various other devices. However, with all the new functions that can be performed with a smartphone, it also leads to new worries amongst the parents. Is the smart phone with various applications a good option to introduce to the children at an early age? Tasnim 1 Source 1 Barnes, Brooks. to Introduce New Apps Focused on The New York Times, The New York Times Company, 2014, United States. This article talks about Disney Publishing newest project, Disney Imagicademy which is made for children aging three to eight. Imagicademy has been developed with the help of experts in various departments with subjects like math, science, language arts, emotional and social skills which are designed to make children better prepared and confident. Although this is not one of the most detailed article that can be found on the topic, it is significant to one of the arguments of the paper, which is that introducing smartphones to children is a good idea, as it has its benefits . Since numerous children are exposed to the Disney brand, whether it be through its movies, tv channel, parks or merchandise, and therefore, forms a part of their childhood experience and memories, when Disney introduces apps for kids to learn from, it is very likely to spark a attention and interest towards learning. These apps have the potential for children to learn things at home before they start schooling. This article can be used to prove that introducing smart phones to children at an early age can help them become technologically savvy and also make learning fun with resources and apps like Imagicademy. The writer of the article, Brooks Barnes, is currently a reporter for the New York Tasnim 2 Times and has served as a media and entertainment reporter in Hollywood for the past fifteen years. When he joined his work at Times, his primary focus was on the Walt Disney Company for many years. Source 2 Thomas. Kleimann, Matthias. Rehbein, Florian. Pfeiffer, Christian. Media Use and School Achievement--Boys at Risk?British Journal of Developmental Psychology, vol. 28, no. 3, Sept. 2010, p. 699. EBSCOhost, United Kingdom. This article takes a whole different approach with children and the usage of media. Not only does it talk about the different usage of media: television, computers, smartphones, but it also compares them with gender. For instance, data has shown that boys are equipped with media and that their usage time is higher than that of girls. The article states that the gender difference is much more noticeable when it the content viewing is put into consideration. It argues that while girls use the media for social experiences or play games to pass time in general, boys as a nature tend to be more competitive whether they are playing against their friends or the computer. This article also observes the link between the hours spent engrossed in media and the poor school performance. There are many good points and data in this article that will make an outstanding argument against the usage of smartphones at an early age and it also brings an interesting new Tasnim 3 point across which can be mentioned in the argument as well. This study is done by Thomas who works in the field of Developmental Psychology and has wrote many other papers including: Abnormal Psychology in Context: The Australian and New Zealand Matthias Kleimann who has written around twenty-one articles on the influence on adolescence. Florian Rehbein has studied Media Psychology, Differential Psychology and Clinical Psychology and has written around fifty articles. Christian Pfeiffer is the former director of Criminological Research Institute of Lower Saxony and has studied law and social psychology. Source 3 Patchan, Melissa M. Puranik, Cynthia S. tablet computers to teach preschool children to write letters: Exploring the Impact of Extrinsic and Intrinsic Computers & Education, ScienceDirect, 2016, United States. This source is a study that acknowledges both the gains and loss regarding the use of tablet computers. While introducing the use of tablet computers to primary schoolers in UK, it took time for the children to get used to the changes in the tablets but once they got used to the changes, most of them reported the tablets to be easier to use than the traditional materials. When the studies were performed at a school in USA on students from fourth to ninth grade who were diagnosed with specific learning disabilities, their handwriting, spelling and syntax abilities were Tasnim 4 improved significantly after completing thirty-six hours of writing lessons. Another study mentioned was with first and second graders who also showed improvements in both reading and mathematics when the use of tablet computers were incorporated in their studies. This study provides a strong argument in favor of the usage of handheld technology for learning improvement and is supported by a research study done by Melissa M. Patchan and Cynthia S. Puranik. Melissa M. Patchan has a Ph.D. in cognitive psychology and is an assistant professor in the department of Learning Sciences and Human Development in the West Virginia University. Cynthia S. Puranik is an assistant professor of Communication Sciences and Disorders in the college of Education and Human Development at Georgia State University. In addition to their research, the study also mentions previous studies done by other researchers regarding this topic. Source 4 Radesky, Jenny S. Schumacher, Jayna. Zuckerman, Barry. and Interactive Media Use by Young Children: The Good, the Bad, and the American Academy of Pediatrics, 2014, United States. The article provides a good point that although television programs such as Clues and Sesame Street can help with early learning for preschool aged children, children that are less Tasnim 5 than thirty months can not learn from the television. It is theorized that interactive media on the other hand helps the children learn faster because they are involved in an exercise that is related to their learning material. It also argues that although interactive media such as learn-to- read apps help in vocabulary development and reading comprehension, it can also lead to children being distracted by some of the features such as sound effects and animation. The article provides a few points of both the pros and the cons of children using smartphones at an early age which can be incorporated on arguments on both sides of the paper. One of the Jenny S. Radesky, is a pediatrician specializing in child development. Jenny Schumacher is a faculty member in the Division of Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics at Cincinnati Hospital Medical Center. Barry Zuckerman is a professor at the Boston University school of Medicine in the Pediatrics department. Source 5 Strasburger, Victor C. Jordan, Amy B. Donnerstein, Ed. Effect of Media on Children and US: American Academy of Pediatrics, 2009, United States. This article talks about how the such as television, movies and such as smartphones can have an impact on children whether it be violence, anger management, substance use, aggression etc. It states how media is the fastest way to get the recent information Tasnim 6 and with the easy access to new information, there is also misinformations that are everywhere on the media. It also serves as a platform for bully and harassment for many. One example given in the article is that children who are younger than eight who are not able to comprehend the intent will be more vulnerable to advertising. While the other three sources focused mostly on the positive sides of smartphones and media, this article provides a few disadvantages of them which will help make an argument against the use of smartphones at an early age. The article is written by Victor C. Strasburger who is currently in the Department of Pediatrics in the University of New Mexico School of Medicine. Amy B. Jordan who is in Annenberg Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania and Ed Donnerstein who is in the Department of Communications in the College of Social and Behavioral Sciences in the University of Arizona. Source 6 Vandewater, Elizabeth A. Lee, Sook- Jung. Media Use in the Digital Age: Issues and American Behavioral Scientist, Vol. 52 Issue 8, p1152- 1176, 25p, April 2009, United States. Tasnim 7 This article studies how to get the most accurate data of just how much of media is used by the children. Researchers explore questions like how much media do children use and the kind of message children are exposed to and how often. Although the research questions itself seems simple to answer there are many variables that need to taken into consideration before answering them. Media is so involved in our day - to- day lives that getting an accurate measurement of just how much of media children are exposed to is quite difficult. This article also mentions the various methods used to extrapolate the data as well as the issues with those methods. It has an almost neutral tone throughout the entire paper discussing the methods used for their research and such but it also stresses on a key point of the paper in the end that is content of what children view is as important as the type of media viewed and the amount of time spent using The writers of the article are Elizabeth A. Vandewater who is a Senior Research Scientist in RTI Public Health and Environment Division and Sook- Jung Lee who is a lecturer at Chung- Ang University in the Department of Mass Communication.