Black 1 Javares Black Instructor Uddin ENC 1101 3 February 2017 High School Players in the NBA For many, if not most, high school basketball players, the goal is to make it to the National Basketball Association (NBA), which is the biggest stage for the best professional athletes, and to earn millions of dollars. But the truth of the matter is the chances of making it to the NBA, much less any professional league, is very thin. This is a major reason why the NBA makes high school students have certain eligibility qualifications before they enter the draft. Although some may agree with the standards set forth by the NBA, there are many opponents to these standards, as many believe in the option of entering the NBA draft because of the potential opportunities that may arise. Both perspectives bring forth the question, should high school basketball players be allowed to enter the draft right out of high school? High School Basketball Phenom LeBron James Launches New Era in the NBA; Nine Blacks Chosen as Lottery Picks.  Jet, no. 3, 2003, p. 51. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.105556880&site=eds-live. In this source, it shows a precedent established by one of the greatest basketball players to ever play the game, LeBron James. This precedent is black high school basketball players entering the draft and being selected as lottery picks, or the first 14 players selected in the NBA Draft. What is evident is that, since most of the players drafted as lottery picks were minorities, Black 2 who did not grow up in the neighborhoods, they looked at this opportunity to financially secure their lives and the lives of those closest to them, hence entering the NBA Draft. This source is credible because it has actual accurate information and quotes from the players, providing authentic perspectives not found in non-credible sources. This information and quotes were taken around the time of the draft, which also shows how that time affected their perspective. Rossen, Jordan Michael. The Age Minimum and Its Effect on High School  Virginia Sports & Entertainment Law Journal, vol. 8, 01 Oct. 2008, p. 173. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edslex&A N=edslex9E2BC4C3&site=eds-live. This article by Jordan Micheal Rossen discusses the age minimum and how it effects high school phenoms. It goes on to mention how the NBA age minimum came about and why they made an age minimum. It also discusses how player feel about the age minimum and shows varying perspectives on the issue. This is reliable because it provides prospective from the NBA, NCAA and the prospects. It also mentions how the age minimum rule came about, and why it was installed to give the audience a better understanding of the topic. Also, the Virginia Sports & Entertainment Law Journal is a journal, which focuses on all aspects of both sports and entertainment law. Published biannually by the students and the Law School, and the journal features articles written by sports and entertainment law professors. Black 3 Litman, Joseph A. Tremendous Upside Potential: How a High-School Basketball Player Might Challenge the National Basketball Eligibility  Washington University Law Review, vol. 88, 01 Jan. 2010, p. 261. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edslex&A N=edslex6CBD0BAD&site=eds-live. This academic journal is about how a high school basketball player might challenge the National Basketball eligibility requirements. That player is named Kevin Garnett, who is now retired from the NBA with an NBA Championship, Most Valuable Player Award, Defensive Player of the Year, and 15 NBA All-Star selections. This academic journal also goes on to mention how many of the players drafted out of high school go on to be some of the best players in the NBA, most notably Kobe Bryant and LeBron James. This source is credible because Washington University Law Review is a full-text Archive with full text of all articles published from 1915 to the present. It also is credible because the information provided on Kevin Garnett is accurate and can be backed up by other sources. McAleavey, Susan. Spendthrift Trust: An Alternative to the NBA Age  St. Law Review, vol. 84, 01 Jan. 2010, p. 279. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edslex&A N=edslexAD1206DD&site=eds-live. Black 4 This source talks about the Spendthrift trust, which is an alternative to the NBA Age Rule. It also talks about how some players like Brandon Jennings chose to go overseas to play professional basketball so that they can receive a portion of jersey sales and earn an salary. This source is credible because St. Law Review is a student-run organization that publishes scholarly articles of legal significance across all topics. The Law Review publishes four issues each year. Hollis, John. PRO BASKETBALL: SKIPPING COLLEGE, PLAYERS GOING STRAIGHT FROM HIGH SCHOOL TO THE NBA HAVE HAD LITTLE PLAYOFF  Atlanta Journal-Constitution [Atlanta, 25 July 2003: G7. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. This academic journal questions if drafting players straight out of high school has worked in terms of their success in the National Basketball Association (NBA). It goes on to list and mention players who were drafted out of high school by 2002 and what their post-season accomplishments were. The results of their findings were that drafting players out of high school resulted in minimal playoff success, with only Kobe Bryant with any success: 3 NBA Championships. This academic journal is credible because it provides actual quotes from the Director of Scouting, Marty Blake, and college coaches, such as Georgia Paul Hewitt. Also, it was purchased through the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, which posts daily, and is very Black 5 well-known, and respected, in Atlanta, Georgia. They have also had full text coverage since 1996. Mariotti, Jay. On High School Players in the NBA  The Sporting News, no. 28, 2001. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.76627451&site=eds-live. This article, titled is about the situations where players appear good enough to be in the NBA, then flop and are stuck in real life without a plan B. The article mentions that when players get drafted, and since the players go back in time and try something else, they get stuck in minor or lower division colleges because they were not as good as they once thought. This article is trustworthy because it has actual quotes from coaches like former Georgetown coach John Thompson. It also presents instances where players that were drafted out of high school were successful, and players who were not successful, as well as where they ended up.