Miller !1 Noah Miller Instructor Heiser ENC 1102-69 12 March 2017 Justice or Profits? The American Civil Liberties Union has always fought for American rights and liberties. One of the main issues the ACLU has been combating is the private prison industry and their unethical business model. The ACLU believes the private prisons industry abuses a broken justice system with obsolete laws and unjust arrests to make money. They infringe basic human rights and liberties, are purely in it for the money. The ACLU does not believe that a business should exist when it benefits from more people going to prison. By using visual rhetoric, the American Civil Liberties Union effectively shows how private prisons are exploiting the American people for profit rather than for justice. The ACLU has been around for nearly a hundred years. The organization started in 1920 when US citizens rights were being infringed upon when they were being unlawfully arrested. Since 1920 they have expanded to protect every constitutional right with over 200 lawyers being employed (ACLU.org). In fact, Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates stated that the federal government will either to renew the contracts for private prison operators when they expire or substantially reduce the (justice.gov) This is largely due to the ACLU and the awareness they have raised. The ACLU have made many ads and signs that attempt to bring awareness to the general public. I picked two of these images which specifically focus on Miller !2 private prisons. These images shine light on the moral issues that for-profit prisons present and attempt to make the viewers feel strong emotions against them. In the first image, the two visual rhetorical appeals that stand out are ethos and pathos. The ethos in this picture is from intrinsic authority. The ACLU logo below provides credentials based off of their authority on these subjects. Past experiences fighting for individuals rights and liberties allows the ACLU to legitimize this ad. The rest of the image shows pathos. The first thing that draws the viewers attention are the bars made of money. However, they specifically used twenty dollar bills, which features Andrew Jackson. Andrew Jackson was probably most famous for the Indian Removal Act of 1830, which led to the trail of tears. The trail of tears forced Native Americans to move from their homes and live on small reservations that were essentially prisons (LoC.gov). The twenty dollar bill draws similarities between private prison companies to people like Andrew Jackson, who was known for famously imprisoning people. There is also no face in this image, the only part the viewer can see are the hands. Without a face, it really dehumanizes the person behind the bars, which is what the ACLU is trying to convey. There are so many people being exploited for profit that their basic human dignity is being taken away. These private prison corporations are treating prisoners more as a way to make profit rather than rehabilitating them. Even the short phrase at the top evokes pathos. on is short but effective at driving home the point of this message. The word bondage is typically associated with being enslaved or even bail bonds. So the phrase essentially means that these corporations depend on incarceration, because without people being arrest they can not make a profit. Miller !3 The second image is similar to the first in regards to the rhetoric appeals, ethos and pathos. Again, the logo allows for the image to have legitimacy through intrinsic authority and credentials. Pathos can be seen in a couple of ways with the image. The prison cell is empty, which can represent how no one really knows who is put in these prisons, further dehumanizing the prisoners. The image is also in black and white which definitely makes it more dreary. This makes the viewer feel the hopelessness that the prisoners feel. The short two word phrase ties the whole thing together and really drives home the message the ACLU wants to promote. These prisons are just a business to the corporations. They do not care about who comes in or how they were arrested, as long as the money keeps coming. There are a lot of similarities between these two photos, however there are a couple of differences. Both images have the same goal and audience in mind. The ACLU wants to let the general public know that the private prison industry is motivated by profit rather than the justice and rehabilitation they claim to provide. They are also in black and white trying to invoke pathos and a sense of empathy towards prisoners. Although one shows part of a prison while the other does not show any, they both have similar purposes. It is trying to show the viewers that these prison companies dehumanize and stripe away any human dignity towards the prisoners. They are a means to an end for these for-profit prison industry. However the major difference between the two images is that the second image relies more on the phrase rather than the image. The first image used more imagery. The dollar bills, the hands, and lighting all drive home the point and makes it easier for the viewer to envision whatever the ad is trying to tell them. The words at the top are secondary to the imagery and just help emphasize what the picture is already conveying. Miller !4 Private prisons have been taking advantage of archaic laws and capitalizing on mass incarceration for over thirty years. Many people are not aware of this unethical business which is why the American Civil Liberties Union has created these ads. Ads are the perfect way to tell people about this industry because of the rhetorical appeals they have. These photos have a lot of emotion while also being very credible which gets a lot of attention. This allows the ACLU to continue spreading awareness to the general public. Without organizations like the ACLU standing up to these corporations and spreading awareness, the government would still be planning on funding these facilities. It is important to know when a company or industry is infringing on civil rights which is why the ACLU has not only been lobbying to end them but also getting the general public involved. Without the support of the American people, the government is forced to listen. Miller !5 Work Cited ACLU  American Civil Liberties Union. ACLU, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Indian Removal  Library of Congress Research Documents. LoC, n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Phasing Out Our Use of Private  The United States Department of Justice. Department of Justice, 18 Aug. 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Miller !6