1 Thiago Leal Figueira Instructor: Sabah Firoz Uddin ENC 1101 Composition I Annotated Bibliography Immigration is a polemic subject, particularly in the United States. It has been a target of discussions since decades ago, and these have only intensified with the 2016 presidential elections, that incited radical opinions. Immigration is polemic, in part, because of its social aspects. Immigrants come from other countries, bringing different cultures, thoughts, and physical characteristics. They can promote a healthy cultural exchange or they may not be well accepted and racism issues may appear. However, one of the main discussions concerning immigration is about its effects on native employment. Some people, mainly the conservatives, claim that the presence of immigrants is a threat to job opportunities and contribute to lower wages. Therefore, they defend that immigration policies should be as strict as possible, regardless of the immigrant skills level. Others say that immigration effects are really hard to predict. Depending on what factors are important on the industry, like exportation/importation rates and native skills levels, immigrant effects could be negligible, prejudicial to some classes, or even positive to others. In this context, the purpose of this paper is to contribute to this discussion: Is legal immigration of high-skilled professionals into the US harmful to both wages and job opportunities to the American born labor force? 2 Hainmueller, Jens, Michael J. Hiscox, and Yotam Margalit. Do Concerns About Labor Market Competition Shape Attitudes Toward Immigration? New  Journal Of International Economics, vol. 97, 2015, pp. 193-207. The article is about a survey that tries to answer the question of its title. The authors contextualize the discussion and talk about different economic models that predict a variety of employment impact due to immigrant workers. Some models, mainly the closed economy based, predict that the presence of immigrants (both low-skilled and high-skilled) decrease wages and job opportunities to native workers. However, in open economy models, this might not be true, and immigrants can even contribute to native employment, depending on the skill relation of both. Other predictions say that depending on the industry, effects of immigrant presence can be neglected. The article focuses on a survey that was made utilizing voters from 12 different industries. They concluded that, despite the fact that results vary according to skill levels, about labor market competition do not have substantial effects on voter attitudes toward (198), i.e., most of the people interviewed did not feel their jobs threatened by the presence of immigrant workers. The authors are professors of Stanford, Tel Aviv and Harvard Universities and have a lot more other articles in the area. The paper is peer reviewed and it was published in a scholarly journal of economics. This article is important to this paper because it contextualize the discussion in the current decade and it defends one of the positions in the discussion, the one the immigrant impacts on native labor can be neglected. 3 Scheve, Kenneth F., and Matthew J. Slaughter. Labor Market Competition and Individual Preferences over Immigration  The Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 83, no. 1, 2001, pp. 133-145. This paper is also a survey, and they basically ask Americans what they think about immigrant inflow, if the voter thinks it should be reduced, increased or stay the same. They conclude that low-skilled Americans are most likely to support harder restrictions on the immigration policy, and high-skilled Americans, on average, support less restriction. The paper says that immigrant workers in United States decrease the wages in the country. Besides that, immigrants form a class with opinions that goes in their own best interest, which might disagree with the native workers interests. The author also cites that people may dislike immigrant presence because they change local culture. The authors are professors at Stanford University and Dartmouth College and they have additional written papers about immigration. This article supports the other side of the research discussion. It stands by the idea that immigrants are harmful to native wage. It also provides some economical fundamentals and more references of other papers that discuss ideas related to immigration impact, which can be used as further sources on this discussion. 4 Peri, Giovanni. Immigrants, Productivity, and Labor  Journal of Economic Perspectives, vol. 30, no. 4, 2016, pp. 3-30. This paper brings information about expansion of immigration all over the world, including United States. It contextualizes, why immigration happens and offer explanations for the movement of peoples. According to the article, most immigrants go from mid- economies to high-economies, and it is mostly because of the difference in wages between the countries. This difference is even greater in high-skilled positions. The article offers data about the growth of foreign-born people along a history time-line for the United States, Europe and other countries. It talks about reasons that might have led to this growth, and emphasizes that it is also more noticeable among high-skilled workers. The paper also discusses the influence of political regulations to the growth rate of foreigners, but it says that the political aspect in United States had not been a reason either to decrease or increase immigration until 2016, which is the article date of publication. The author is a professor of economics at University of California-Davis and has more peer reviewed papers about the immigration topic. The paper is also peer reviewed and it was published in an academic journal of economics. This source is important to the introduction of this paper because it brings a lot of information about immigration all over the world, with the reasons and dynamics associated to the phenomenon over time. 5 Linton, April. Immigration And The Structure Of Demand: Do Immigrants Alter The Labor Market Composition Of U.S.  International Migration Review, vol. 36, no. 1, 2002, pp. 23-58. This paper discuss the role of immigrants as or (58) to native workers within the United States economy. According to Linton, there are certain job positions that would not exist if there was not the immigrant presence. For such positions, one could cite immigrant native food, importation supplies, jobs that require the immigrant language skills, etc. There are also jobs that require certain level of expertise, where there might not be enough native workers to supply the market needs. In this case, the immigrant presence helps the industry to grow. For these types of jobs, the author says the immigrants are complements of the natives, i.e., they occupy positions that would not be filled for natives or would not even exist. But the paper says that the immigrants pose as competitors when they occupy positions with same skills level of the native workers, in an industry that has already sufficient ratio between job opportunities and workers. In that situation, the immigrant presence contributes to lowering the wages of the workers. The author is a sociology professor at University of California, San Diego, and has published more papers about the topic. The source is an academic peer reviewed journal about international migration. This article is helpful to answer the research question, providing information of how immigrant presence can influence the American-born labor market. It offers different points of view, claiming that immigration can be harmful or not, depending on the aspects involved and provides information about the immigration scenario in the last decade. 6 Gaston, Noel and Nelson, Douglas. Immigration and Labor-Market Outcomes in the United States: A Political-Economy  Oxford Review of Economic Policy, vol. 16, no. 3, 2000, pp. 104-114. In this paper, the authors write observations analyzed in many other published works about the topic. Gaston and Nelson conclude that immigration impact on native labor market can be mostly neglected. Based on previous studies, they say that there is no empirical evidence to support the claim that the presence of immigrant workers can be harmful to either wages or employment of domestic workers. According to them, negative effects of immigration are only noticeable among native high-school drop-outs. The authors also talk about politics against immigration. They state that, as the labor market impact can be neglected, these positions are mostly due to nationalism feelings, mainly involving issues about difference of races. Nelson is a professor of Economics at Tulane University, New Orleans, and he has researches on globalization and its relations with national labor markets. Gaston is the director of the Globalization and Development Center at Bond University, Australia, where he is also a professor of Economics. The peer reviewed paper was published in a scholarly journal of Economics. This source is important to the paper because it joins the conversation about the immigration effects on American born wages and employment opportunities. It defends that its effects can be mostly neglected. 7 Malhotra, Neil, Margalit, Yotam and Hyunjung, Cecilia. Economic Explanations for Opposition to Immigration: Distinguishing between Prevalence and Conditional  American Journal of Political Science, vol. 57, no. 2, 2013, pp. 391-410.77 The authors talk about reasons that lead people to form anti-immigration opinions. They say that the main two reasons for it are labor market competition and cultural modification. This last one, according to the authors, has become the biggest motivation to such positions against immigration. They say that foreign culture can be a threat to (392), influencing and changing native traditions. According to the paper, labor market competition, is a debatable reason. Some scholars claim that the threat of decreasing job opportunities and lowering wages is an undeniable truth; while others say that there is no evidence to support it, and immigration does not have significant effect on native labor market. Malhora et al join the discussion claiming that the immigration impact is real, but there is lack of evidence because it is not prevalent, i.e., immigration incidence happens on a scale that does not generate measurable macro-economic effects. The authors are professors of Economy and Political Sciences at Stanford, Columbia and Vanderbilt Universities. The paper was published in a scholarly peer reviewed journal of Political Science. This source joins the research question discussion, standing by the position that immigration is harmful to native job opportunities and wages. However they say that it can only be seen locally and on specific markets, and there are no significant effects on the general labor market.