Todd 1 Elijah Todd Dr. Uddin ENC 1101 02/27/17 Decriminalizing Marijuana Intro: The legalization of marijuana has been a controversial topic for years. Quite a few states have already legalized marijuana, such as Colorado, Washington, and Alaska, while many more have legalized it for medical purposes. For decades people have been arrested and incarcerated for years just for being in possession of a negligible amount of the substance. In fact, marijuana is currently classified as being a drug that is worse than cocaine in terms of its criminalization. Now that so many states have legalized marijuana, one could argue if marijuana should have the same drug-sentencing laws as drugs like cocaine and heroine. Now that states have gone so far as legalizing the recreational use of marijuana, should states that have not legalized marijuana adjust drug criminalization laws accordingly? Source 1: Bushan, Aparna. An Evaluation of the Effects of the Legalization of Marijuana in Colorado and Washington From An International Law Canada-United States Law Journal 39. (2015): 187-201. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. Evaluation of the Effects of the Legalization of Marijuana in Colorado and Washington From An International Law written by Bushan, looks at how the legalization of marijuana in Colorado and Washington could not only affect Todd 2 laws nationally in the US, but also in the international environment. For example, Bushan mentions that by permitting weed to be legalized in Colorado and Washington, the US has violated the SCND (The Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs), which stated that the production, trade, and possession of illegal substances outside of scientific or medical reasons is considered a punishable offense. The SCND was put in place to limit the distribution and possession of illegal substances across the world, which marijuana falls under, but with its legalization in various states in America, this law has to be put into serious review on whether distributing or being in possession of marijuana can even be considered a crime. The article seems to be directed towards the colleagues. The article evaluates what marijuana has done to existing laws, and how the creation of laws impacts respective areas it is legal in. The author of the article is a graduate of the University of Western Ontario. She has a dual degree from the Faculty of Law and Ivey School of Business. The article selected was published on January 1 st , 2015., by the Canada-United States Law Journal, and it is peer-reviewed. This article fits well into the modern times because it discusses the impact that the recent legalization of marijuana will have across the world and current society. Source 2: Rosenbaum, Carrie. (And Whom) State Marijuana Reformers Forgot : Crimmigration Law and Depaul Journal for Social Justice 9.2 (2016): 1-52. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. Todd 3 (And Whom) State Marijuana Reformers Forgot: Crimmigation Law and is an article written by Rosenbaum that was published on June 1 st , 2016. This article discusses the effects that the decriminalization of marijuana will have on immigrants and even Latino citizens in general. The article mentions how marijuana criminalization law was originally a backdrop for anti-Mexican bias. It also talks about how marijuana laws has led to a disproportionate rate of arrests for African-Americans and compared to whites, and states that for decriminalization of marijuana to be truly affective, the racial undertone that is behind it has to be dealt with. The article seems to be directed towards anyone interested in learning how decriminalization of marijuana can affect the lives of certain people. The author of the article received a J.D. from the University of King Hall School of Law, and also received an undergraduate degree in Film Studies, Political Science and French from the University of California, Santa Barbara. The article was published on June 1 st ,2016 by the Depaul Journal for Social justice. The article fits well with the question because it discusses how previous marijuana laws have greatly affected groups of people, and how future marijuana laws can affect them. Source 3: Blumenson, Eric. Rational Basis: The Pragmatic Case For Marijuana Law Virginia Journal Of Social Policy & The Law 17. (2009): 43. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. The article by Blumenson discusses how marijuana is classified in the system Todd 4 as a drug that is worse than cocaine and on par with heroine in terms of sentencing people for possession of it. It talks about how the war against drugs, specifically marijuana, has been a failure, and that the current time period is the best time to have reforms towards marijuana criminalization. The article seems to be directed towards the cohorts or even people with positions of power. The article fits well with the topic because it highlights current marijuana policies and how they can be changed in places that legalized marijuana. The author earned a degree in Political and Science and Government at Wesleyan University, and went on to earn a J.D. at Harvard Law School. The author is currently a Professor of Law at Suffolk University. The article was published on October 1 st , 2009. Source 4: Graham, Dana. of Marijuana: An Analysis Of The Laws In The United States And The Netherlands And Suggestions For Loyola of Los Angeles International & Comparative Law Review 23. (2001): 297. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. The article compares the difference in laws in regards to marijuana in the United States and the Netherlands. The article talks about how the Netherlands focuses on rehabilitating drug users and giving them much less charges than those who traffic drugs, while the U.S. gives those who possess drugs the same or even harsher charges and sentences compared to drug traffickers. The article discusses how reforms can be made in both countries. Todd 5 The article was published on March 1 st , 2001. The article seems to be aimed at politicians and the colleagues. The articles fits with the question because it gives an example, such as the Netherlands, on how marijuana laws could be, and benefits and consequences of both the U.S. laws and having more lenient laws on marijuana such as those in the Netherlands. Information on the author could not be found. Source 5: Blumenson, Eric and Eva Nilsen. Rational Basis: The Pragmatic Case for Marijuana Law Virginia Journal of Social Policy & the Law, vol. 17, no. 1, Sept. 2009, pp. 43-82. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=a2h&AN=48617742&site=eds-live. The article talks about marijuana prohibition at the time that the article was published, which was in 2009. It speaks on how the criminalization laws at the time did far more harm than good. It also brings up several approaches that could be used to reform the laws around marijuana. These approaches address decriminalization and legalization of marijuana. The article was published on September 2009. Virginia Journal of Social Policy and published the article. The article appears to be aimed at lawmakers, since it gives a critique on the then current marijuana laws, and offers possible reforms to them. The article fits with the topic because it discusses previous drug criminalization laws and the effects that they had while also discussing how those laws can be adjusted to be better in the future. Eric Todd 6 Blumenson is currently a Professor of Law at Suffolk University and received his J.D. from Harvard Law School. Eva Nilsen is a Clinical Associate Professor of Law Emerita. She received her B.A. from Yale University and her J.D. from the University of Virginia Law School. Source 6: Joffe, Alain and W. Samuel Yancy. of Marijuana: Potential Impact on Pediatrics, vol. 113, no. 6, June 2004, pp. e632-e638. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aph&AN=13164462&site=eds-live. The article focuses on how the potential legalization of marijuana can impact adolescents. It mentions how perceived risk of using marijuana can influence the rate at which adolescents use the drug. If there is low perceived risk, there is data that shows that adolescents are more likely to use the drug. This can be an issue because it can lead to more adolescents being arrested for drug possession. It also mentions how availability of marijuana can affect the illegal use of the drug by teens. If legalized, adolescents will have higher access to the drug, and will be more likely to use it because of this. The article was published in June 2004. The article was published by Pediatrics, in one hundred thirteenth volume. The audience appears to lawmakers, and it could even be parents. The article relates to the topic because it shows the negative affects that decriminalizing and legalizing marijuana can have on the youth in America. Alain Joffe graduated from the University of Michigan Medical School in 1975. He is currently working in Baltimore, MD, specializing in Pediatrics Todd 7 and Adolescent Medicine. W. Samuel Yancy is an Associate Professor of Medicine at Duke University School of Medicine. He received his M.D. from East Carolina University in 1995.