Krishna Patel Dr. Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 02/28/2017 Immigration: Is there any effect of immigration on the economy of the USA? Today, it can be said that the United States has been hailed as a haven for immigrants. Historically, from 1860 to 1920, a total of nearly 30 million foreigners arrived in the United States. The amount of American immigrants has fluctuated over the course of the last century, due to political and economic circumstances. Every year hundreds of thousands of immigrants, legally or illegally, from around the world, come into the United States (Nadadur 1037). These immigrants come with different motives: for better labor market prospects (Cadena 910), unification of their families, better lifestyles and job opportunities. Other immigrants are refugees suffering from persecution, civil wars, natural disaster, and economic inequalities in their home country, in quest of freedom, better economic fortunes, protection, and benefits (West 427). Also, Approximately, 1,052,415 legal permanent residents came to America in 2007 (West 427). As a result, this vast immigration affected the U.S. economy, population, business, culture, politics, and many other aspects in both positive and negative ways. There are many reports and research papers available which show how the economy of the United States has been impacted by immigration. Some of the existing studies argue that the economy of the U.S. is affected 1 negatively by immigration whereas, others argue in opposition of it. Therefore, this paper will look to the question: Has immigration had a negative or positive affect on the U.S. economy? Source Borjas, George J. Labor Demand Curve Is Downward Sloping: Reexamining the Impact of Immigration on the Labor Quarterly Journal Of Economics , vol. 118, no. 4, 2002, pp. 1335-1374. In the article Labor Demand Curve Is Downward Sloping: Reexamining the Impact of Immigration on the Labor the author George Borjas discusses about the negative effect of immigration on labor market and how that affects the native workers of America. He also uses some data, evidence and formulas in his paper to prove his research topic. He also discusses how to reduce or to control the flow of immigrants to the nation. Presently, George is an American economist and a professor of Economics and Social policy at Harvard Kennedy School, who has received his Ph.D. in Economics from Columbia University in 1975. Additionally, he is a research associate at the National Bureau of Economic research and a research fellow at IZA. He is the author of several books, including Economy and or Strangers: The Impact of Immigrants on the U.S. Economy . He has also published over 150 articles in books and scholarly journals. Lastly, his work has also appeared in major magazines and newspapers. With the help of this article, it would be easy to show different sides of the research topic, as this article argues in opposition to the other authors. Therefore, this article is relevant to the research question, on hand. 2 Source 2. Cadena, Brian C. Competition And Low-Skilled Immigration Journal of Human Resources , vol. 48, no. 4, 2013, pp. 910-944. In the article Native Competition And Low-Skilled Immigration which is divided in five parts, author Brian C. Cadena investigates how geographic differences in expected earnings within the U.S. influence newly arriving low-skilled immigrants decisions to locate. He starts his paper by giving a overview about the topic and discussing regarding the topic of his paper. In the second part, he talks about the welfare reform and native labor supply. Also, he explains the graphs of 1) Female employment rates from 1979 to 2003 and ages 18-54, and 2) Low-Skilled female employment rate by pre reform welfare participation. In the third part of the paper, he discusses about the expected earnings, location choice and various formulas about the same. At last, he gives various types of data and results in respect to prove his main argument. Cadena is an American author who is an Associate Professor in Economics department and a Faculty Affiliate at the University of Colorado Boulder. He is also an Associate Editor for Journal of Human Resources, a Research Fellow at IZA institute for the study of labor, and a National Fellow at Stanford center on Poverty and Inequality. He has written many other articles and research papers relevant to immigration and the U.S. economy. He received his Ph.D. and M.A. in Economics from the University of Michigan in 2008 and 2005 respectively, and a B.A. in Economics and Psychology from Northwestern University in 2003. The article 3 Competition And Low-Skilled Immigration is from the peer reviewed Journal of Human Resources which is published by University of Wisconsin Press in 2013. Further, the publication only publishes peer-reviewed books and journals. However, this article shows the different reasons for immigrants to inflows to the U.S. therefore, it is related to the topic at hand. Source Hatton, Timothy J. and Williamson, Jeffrey G. Impact of Immigration: Comparing Two Global Development , vol. 36, no. 3, 2008, pp. 345-361. In the article Impact of Immigration: Comparing Two Global the authors Hatton and Williamson projects light on immigration impact in both the global eras. The article examines the relationship between migration labor market impact and capital flows before 1914, the first global era. It then assesses the effects of immigration on wage and employment with and without international capital mobility today, in the second global era. It then explores the links between these economic relationships, welfare burdens, and immigration policy. It concludes with an explanation for the apparent difference in impact in the two global eras, and thus on policy. Presently, Hatton is Professor of Economics at the University of Essex in the UK. He is a fellow of the Academy of Social Science in both, Australia and UK, and a research fellow CEPR and IZA. His research interests include the causes and effects of international migration, and policy on immigration and asylum. Whereas, the co-author Williamson is now the Laird Bell 4 Professor of Economics, emeritus, Honorary Fellow in the Department of Economics at the University of Wisconsin (Madison), Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research, and Research fellow for the Center for Economics Policy Research. The article was published in 2008, which is from a peer reviewed and academic journal, published by Elsevier. The publication also publishes innumerable books and academic journals. As the article, gives the information of both the eras it would be more interesting for the readers to know and to compare the effect of immigration. Also, this article can be useful for the next project as well, as it talks about past and present both. Source 4. Gordon H. And Economic Journal , vol. 32, no. 1, 2012, pp. 25-34. In the article and Economic author Gordon H. Hanson explains the role of immigrants of the U.S. and how they contribute in innovation. The author starts the article by talking about what was going on at that time politically, socially and economically. He also focused on the role of government and what it should do to improve the economic growth of the country. Additionally, he also argues on how the role of immigrants is important in innovation. Moreover, he clarifies how the low skilled immigrant greases the wheel of the U.S. labor market. Consequently, it shows how the immigration is beneficial to the U.S. economy and therefore, it relates to this topic. 5 Currently, Hanson holds the Pacific Economic Cooperation Chair in International Economics Relations at UC San Diego, and has faculty position in the Department of Economics, where he also is the director of the Center on Global Transformation. Additionally, he is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and co-editor of the journal of Economics Perspectives. Hanson is the author of numerous article such as Economics and Policy of Illegal Immigration in the United and Economic Logic of Illegal Hanson received his Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1992 and his B.A. from Occidental College in 1986. The article And Economic which was published in 2012, as part of peer reviewed CATO journal published by CATO Institute, which also publishes books, journals and reports. Source 5. Ramanujan. Illegal Immigration: A Positive Economic Contribution To The United Of Ethnic & Migration Studies , vol. 35, no. 6, 2009, pp. 1037-1052. In the article Illegal Immigration: A Positive Economic Contribution To The United author Ramanujan Nadadur argues that illegal immigration has a positive impact on the U.S. economy . He starts his paper by giving a brief introduction on the topic and then the paper characterise the nature of the illegal immigrant population in the U.S. and examines statistical methods of calculating their numbers. Furthermore, it gives a brief history of illegal immigration to the U.S. Moreover, the paper also studies the economic consequences of illegal immigration in 6 the U.S.by focusing on the effects that illegal immigration has on jobs and wages in a dual labor market model. It also focuses on the fiscal impacts of illegal immigration (taxes paid and costs imposed on the society through the use of public services). Presently, Nadadur is a lawyer, who did his in Forced Migration at Oxford University and B.A. at Princeton University in 2007. He also wrote other articles and periodicals such as crimmigration and the civil-criminal dichotomy-apply Mathews v. Eldridge in the immigration and Selecting International Judges: Principal,Process And Politics The peer-reviewed article is from the academic Journal of Ethnic and Migration studies. Additionally, in 2009, the article was published by Taylor and Francis which also publishes peer-reviewed journals and academic books. This article relates to the topic on hand because it proves how thousands of immigrants influx within the U.S. Source 6. Darrell M. Costs And Benefits Of Science Quarterly (Academy of Political Science) , vol. 126, no. 3, 2011, pp. 427-443. In the article Costs and Benefits of author Darrell West argues that the benefits of immigration are much broader than popularly imagined, and the costs are more confined. In the article, the author first gives a brief history of immigration, which gives a rough idea of how many immigrants come to the U.S. and from which countries. Secondly, he states the different ways and reasons why immigrants choose to come to the U.S. In addition, the author explains how the cost of immigration is lower than the benefits immigration bring to the 7 United States. For instance, this benefits includes the use of government services, tax payments, wage levels and social security contributions by immigrants. Then he shows how skilled immigrants are a big part of the rise of high-tech and bio-tech industries. Lastly, he mentions how the computation of economic and intellectual contributions are challenging, and as a result, social costs and benefits are harder to measure. Therefore, this article is relevant to this topic because the author provides information about the history and different reasons for which immigrants come to the country. Darrell West is an American author, political scientist, and political commentator. West is the Vice President of Governance Studies and Director of the Center for Technology Innovation at the Brookings Institution. Furthermore, he is a former political science professor at Brown University. West is also the author of various books such as Government , Wars , Gain: Rethinking U.S. Immigration Policy , and many more. He earned his B.A. from Miami University in 1976 and his Ph.D. from Indiana University in 1981, both in in Political Science. The article Costs and Benefits of was published in 2011, which is from a peer reviewed and academic journal, published by WILEY Blackwell. The publication also publishes innumerable books and academic journals. This article can be considered timely, as in the first quarter of 2011, state legislators in the 50 states introduced 1,538 bills and resolutions relating to immigrants and refugees. 8