John Keever Sabah Firoz Uddin 9:30 - 10:45 1/31/2017 Annotated Bibliography In 1971, United States president Richard Nixon officially declared a on on a global scale. Since then, drug prohibition policies have been implemented within the United States in an attempt to minimize drug abuse. These prohibition policies are focused around the idea of brute force; the ideology that if we oppress, incarcerate, punish, and destroy drug abusers and drug trade routes- drug use will end altogether. This aggressive approach towards eradicating drug use influences policy makers to enact policies that; incarcerate drug abusers and traffickers, eradicate the supply of drugs, and prohibit the use of drugs in mass. On the other side of the spectrum; a harm reduction based approach influences policy makers to enact policies that focus on the drug users as individuals, and rehabilitating them back into the working class. Harm reduction in a nutshell: are policies, programs or practices that attempt to reduce the harms that come with the abuse of psychoactive drugs in people who are unable or unwilling to stop their use. Drug rehabilitation centers are opened using these policies; allowing abusers access to clean drugs, and social workers that assist them with finding affordable housing. Discussion about this topic mostly revolves around these two approaches (harm reduction and drug prohibition) and argues which is more successful in minimizing drug abuse. Which begs the question: are drug prohibition based policies more effective at reducing the abuse of illicit drugs in comparison to harm reduction based policies within the United States? The Harvard Law Review Association. the War on Drugs: A for Nonviolent Drug Harvard Law Review, vol. 113, no. 6, 2000, pp. Keever The Harvard Law Review Association goes into detail in four total parts about the negative effects of War on Drugs. In part one, the authors discuss the major economic and social consequences that have occurred due to the on Due to increased incarceration and drug enforcement since the war on drugs began; the amount of federal and state prisoners has increased by about ten fold. Each prisoner requires a bed, resulting in one-thousand six hundred new prison beds each week. in order to keep up with new arrests and convictions. In addition to economic costs, many social costs have occurred. In particular, the African American community. been effected due to the prejudice that the typical identity of an illicit drug abuser is a, according to a 1995 survey. Even though seventy six percent of drug abusers are white. Part II talks about non-violent drug offenders; and their specific needs and wants and how prison sentences effect the drug offenders. The authors discuss how ineffective the prison system is, due to federal and state prisons abandoning all rehabilitative efforts within the prison system. In Part III, they introduce their own alternative drug policy created by Harvard Law School Professor Charles J. Ogletree, Jr, Former New York City Mayor Ed Koch, and civil rights activist Reverend Al Sharpton called: Chance, proposed federal legislation that seeks to provide nonviolent drug abusers with the tools to overcome the stigma of their criminal Part III goes into great detail of their program, going over the possible benefits of the program, the likelihood of achieving these benefits, and the costs of the program. Part IV adds final thoughts and concludes their alternative idea. They conclude that the our focus on punishment and incarceration has been a massive failure and we continue to waste billions of dollars each year on incarcerating drug offenders. And that the Second Chance will be beneficial to the drug problem within the United States. the War on Drugs: A for Nonviolent Drug provides a paramount amount of credible evidence towards my research question. It gives logical supporting evidence about the effects of incarceration and the effects of United States drug policies. It identifies, in detail, how the on effects individuals and identifies drug abusers needs. This allows me to make a logical argument on what is best for the drug abusers. The author Harvard Law Review Keever Association, publishes articles by professors and lawmakers that undergo a rigorous editorial process. In addition, former president Barack Obama was the President of the Harvard Law Review. Patten, Daniel. The mass incarceration of nations and the global war on drugs: comparing the United domestic and foreign drug  Social Justice 43.1 (2017):85-106. Web. Patten argues that the current war on has a close correlation with the current ideas of the United domestic war on drugs. Patten argues that ever since the implementation of domestic drug policies within the United States, other countries have followed suit, or have been by the United States. To prove this, he uses as evidence of how the United States have justified their of other countries. He also explains the economic burdens a country has to go through in order to implement drug policies. In addition, he discusses the main methods of these policies, and the effects of such methods. Patten excerpt is vital to providing me with evidence that helps support what method we currently are using to deal with substance abuse on a global scale. Although this source does not deal with the United States directly, it allows insight into the methods that are used on other countries. It provides more examples of the effects of implementing drug policies in an attempt to stop drug trafficking, drug violence, and reduce gangs and cartels. It shows the effects that drug policies have on nations other than the United States. This provides evidence that allows me to argue the ineffectiveness drug prohibition has on other countries in comparison to the United States. Daniel Patten, has a Masters Degree in Sociology from Old Dominion University. He is completing his doctorates degree in sociology at the Western Michigan University. Csete, Joanne, et al. The Lancet Commissions: Public Health And International Drug  The Lancet 387.(2016): 1427-1480. ScienceDirect. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Keever The Johns Commission on Drug Policy writes this article in an attempt to inform and encourage drug policy debates. To accomplish this, they want to ensure they use grounded and emerging scientific evidence. They argue that this idea that all drug use is considered detrimental and has led to hardline based policies. These policies focus on prohibition and the outlawing of drug use all together. Csete and her peers argue that the these policies are ineffective, and actually create more problems rather than solve any. To move into this idea, they discuss how the United Nations recently implemented Sustainable Development Goals. These goals were implemented with the idea of human well being based approaches that will benefit the health of all man kind. In April of 2016, the United Nations discussed how they would go about the control of illicit drugs; sparking the Lancet Commission into writing this article to add their opinion on the topic. Having article as a source provides evidence that supports the claim; drug prohibition policies are ineffective and the world agrees. This article suggests other effective alternatives towards drug prohibition that are proven to be effective. It gives credible evidence that we are currently, globally moving towards harm reduction based policies. And that the United States should follow and join the global bandwagon movement. Csete is a professor at Columbia university, and has a PhD from Cornell University in philosophy, and public health nutrition. Most if not all the extra authors working on the project also have a PhD, MD, or are notable professors. Ritter, Alison, and Jacqui Cameron. A Review Of The Efficacy And Effectiveness Of Harm Reduction Strategies For Alcohol, Tobacco And Illicit  Drug And Alcohol Review 25.6 (2006): 611-624. PsycINFO. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Ritter and article focuses on how effective harm reduction policies are in producing results. They discuss how well it works on alcohol, tobacco, and other illicit drugs and brush over how little data there is to support the effectiveness of this approach. Whether the method is cost-effective or Keever not is also talked about, and they go into great detail of the process and some of the key principles of the harm reduction approach. How effective are outreach when trying to reaching their intended audience? And how effective are they in producing results. They go into detail in this same way with education about illicit drugs, brief interventions, and how well peer network support works. Although this article focuses on alcohol, and tobacco- it also focuses on illicit drugs as well. Their article gives a birds eye view into the opposite end of the spectrum. Which is; even though harm reduction policies are adopted universally as a Is it logical to implement them? What are the pros and cons of these sort of policies? and how does this policy compare to abuse of non-elicit drugs, such as: alcohol and tobacco? Alison Ritter is a professor and a leading drug policy researcher and director of the Drug Policy Modeling Program at the National Drug and Alcohol Research Center at the University of New South Wales. Kyser, Nicole Marie. Counselor Attitudes toward the Harm Reduction Approach in Substance Abuse  Dissertation Abstracts International Section A: Humanities and Social Sciences, vol. 71, no. 11-A, 2011 dissertation describes that the United States treats drug and alcohol addiction using an abstinence based approach. They provide evidence that relapse rates are high within individuals that recovered using this method. Kyser compares the United States to countries within Europe that utilize harm reduction based approaches; these countries are shown to have a decrease in crime, wages lost, and hospitalization within the countries. The study also measures the attitudes of many counselors within the United States, and concluded that many counselors favor the idea of harm reduction based approach. Even though the status quo within the United States to treat substance abuse is through the use of abstinence. They also conclude that the more experience a counselor has with treating substance abuse, the more likely they are to favor the use of harm reduction treatment methods. Keever Having dissertation within this paper allows strong evidence that can support an argument towards the use of harm reduction stylistic policies. Evidence that suggests counselors are generally in agreement over harm reduction as a preferred method strongly supports the argument that harm reduction is the more favorable method of treatment. Also, the paper provides evidence of harm reduction policies providing results in other countries, evidence that provides a reduction in: crime rates, hospitalization, and wages lost all support the claim of harm reduction being the more efficient option for the United States. Dr. Nicole Kyser is an assistant professor at South University. She attained her doctoral degree as a doctor of philosophy in counseling. Cohen, Michael M. Jim Drug War: Race, Coca Cola, and the Southern Origins of Drug  Southern Cultures, no. 3, 2006, p. 55. Cohen goes into great detail of how drug abuse came to be within the United States of America. He gives us direct insight on how the United States came to be a drug riddled nation. Going into detail of the history of Coca cola; how they used to actually put cocaine into their products to increase sales. He skims over the southern origins of how drug prohibition came to be. And he provides information informing how large of a role cocaine played in history of drug prohibition within the United States. article provides insight on the history of drug prohibition and the use of narcotics within the United States. Providing evidence that shows how drug use and prohibition has evolved overtime. This gives direct insight on why drug prohibition is the way it is today, and how it is such an outdated ideology that the United States still upholds to this day. Dr. Michael M. Cohen obtained his undergraduate degree from the University of Houston Texas, with a Bachelor of science in science and mathematics in 1980. He received an honorary Doctorate of Laws degree from Barry University in 2004.