Final Draft DJ Roberts Final Draft 2/28/17 Comp 1101 In society athletes can be looked at as role models. Once an athlete commits a crime, the general public thinks it is okay to commit the same type of crime because they would get away with it or get the same type of punishment the athlete gets. After an athlete commits a serious crime and gets arrested for it, a criminal record shows up on their profile. However, sports organizations do not always worry about an athletes criminal background. If sports organizations create stricter punishments for athletes that commit a crime, could that cause crime rates to decrease among athletes? Should a Player Who Is Arrested or Convicted of a Crime Be Allowed to Continue to Participate on a team And/Or Stay in  JOPERD: The Journal of Physical Education, Recreation & Dance, vol. 69, no. 5, May/June 1998, pp. 14-16. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eft &AN=507642344&site=eds-live. The article Should a Player who is Arrested or Convicted of a Crime Be Allowed to Continue or to Participate on a Team or Stay in  asks if athletes that commit a crime should either stay in school or be kicked off a sports team. The article states different opinions about athletes getting second chances, an athlete that completes rehab or if it is their first offense they could be reinstated where all positive things would not be taken away from them such as sports. However if the crime is a major one such as murder, sexual assault or domestic violence athletes should not be allowed to participate on a team. This source relates to my topic because it states how athletes that commit a crime should not be allowed to participate on a team. It also relates to my topic because if athletes commit a crime and it is their first offense they could be reinstated in a positive manner. This source is a credible source to use because it supports my research question as well peer-reviewed from the USF library. The source states issues and other readers opinions on athletes and crime. Kim, Janine Young, and Matthew J. Parlow. Off-Court Misbehavior: Sports Leagues And Private Punishment  Journal Of Criminal Law And Criminology 3 (2008): 573. HeinOnline.Web 26 Jan. 2017. The article Off-Court  explains off the field/court crimes committed by athletes. These athletes are looked at as role models in society making it seem like committing a crime is okay for a regular citizen to commit, as well as still getting a multi-million dollar check after committing a crime. This article also explains public law, which means it is a more standardized punishment to where if an athlete commits a crime they get the same type of punishment a regular citizen would get. Because of their position athletes want to avoid public law. An example the article explains is the case of Michael Vick and dog fighting. This example shows that sports organizations handle the situation appropriately yet he was still signed to other teams and continued to play football down the road. This source relates to my topic because it explains how athletes are looked at after committing a crime, also it gives an example of what my research question applies to. This article is also a credible source to use because a USF library source as well as peer reviewed. The authors who wrote this article, both went to Yale law school and both were the editors of a newspaper while studying at Yale law school. M.M. Blue-Collar Crimes/White-Collar Criminals: Sentencing Elite Athletes Who Commit Violent  Marquette Sports Law Review, vol. 12, no. 1, Fall, pp. 427-447. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=sph&AN=SPHS-814028&site=eds-live. This article talks about no clear evidence on star athletes who are mostly young males yet break the law more frequently than other young males, however crimes that are committed by athletes is on the rise. According to sport pages, critics argue that the criminal justice system does a poor job of handling crime cases involving athletes. Critics suggest there are two types of argument forms including athletes and crime. Athletes who commit a crime can get off more easily than non-athletes who commit the same type of crime as well as their high visibility, athletes should be treated more severely than non-athletes. This source relates to my topic because it states how athletes and crime has risen or is on the rise. It also relates to my topic because it discusses the unfair advantage for athletes who commit a crime gets off more easily than non-athletes. This source is a credible source to my topic because it supports my research question as well as a peer-reviewed source from the USF library. The author of the article Michael M. is an assistant professor at Marquette University Law School, Yale University and JD. Yale Law School. Regenstein, Elliot. These Are The People In Your  Michigan Law Review 97.6 (1999): 1956-1970. Business Source Premier. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. This article states how all types of athletes from any sport can commit a crime. It also discusses how race can play a big role as well as where an athlete comes from. This article provides examples of big media cases and really discusses how a society perceives them. The main example in this article is about high school  who committed a sexual assault against a mentally disabled girl and compares this case to many other cases in the athletic world. This source relates to my topic because it discusses examples of all types of athletes committing crimes at a young age. It also explains how being at a young age, high school for example and being a high profile athlete in the community can cause these kids to do whatever they feel like doing. This also relates to my topic because allowing athletes to recognize that outside of the law because organizations could make their rules stricter. This article is a credible source to use for my topic because a USF library based article as well as the author being from University of California Berkley which is a big research institution in the country. Winfree, Jason A. College Athletes and NCAA  Criminology & Public Policy, vol. 11, no. 4, Nov. 2012, p. 661. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login? url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx direct=true&db=edb&AN=83585337&site=ed-live. This article explains how the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) felt the need to loosen up their rules regarding athletes committing a crime or a minor violation. However it also states athletes feel the sense of entitlement as well. It also discusses when an athlete feels entitled to what the author said financial  meaning they feel like they should get paid because currently college athletes get paid instead many get scholarships. Therefore athletes getting compensated for participating in sports could possibly reduce the athlete breaking the rules or committing a crime. This source relates to my topic because it discusses how an association are less restrictive on their rules regarding athletes committing a crime or minor violation. My research question asks if organizations should create stricter punishments in order to reduce crime rates this article considers the opposition of what my research question asks. This article will be a good perspective because different then what my other sources state. This source is a credible source because peer reviewed and from the USF library. The author is also a professor at the University of Michigan.