Knight 1 Mateo Knight Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 27 February 2017 Food Waste Crisis In media, there are a plethora of controversial conversations, including politics, immigration, and economics. Of the many things being discussed in media, environmental policy is also a brewing topic. Energy consumption, air pollution, and deforestation are just a few controversial topics that major organizations, as well as environmentalists, believe are majorly impacting the planet. These environmental issues are directly linked to the theory that is of higher order concern to leaders worldwide. A cause of the rapid temperature increases that is not as commonly discussed is the proper disposal of waste. 2009 report, Opportunities to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions through Materials and Land Management Practices, shows that approximately 42 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions are associated with the energy used to produce, process, transport, and dispose of the food we eat and the goods we Change and Watse). The Environmental protection Agency (EPA) is a federal organization that promotes proper waste disposal. The EPA releases images advocating for the proper disposal of food waste. The two images use the rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, and pathos to accurately represent the goals of the EPA. The Environmental Protection mission statement is to protect human health and the environment To accomplish this goal, the EPA develop and enforce regulations, Knight 2 give grants, study environmental issues, and educate people about the environment. This agency also represents the United States when discussing environmental policies with other nations Thus, the EPA has a large audience in media as well as credibility, which is why it plays a large role of informing the public of environmental issues. The Environmental Protection Agency uses rhetorical appeals, such as ethos to apply use their credibility to appeal to the audience. For example, Image 1 uses the method of ethos by having the abbreviation for the Environmental Protection Agency in the bottom left corner of the image in bold, with the logo next to it. The picture is environmentally friendly and trying to inform people on an environmental issue, and the EPA is a credible organization when it comes to that topic. Image two uses ethos in the same way, by placing the letters and logo in bold in the top right corner. By placing the logo and abbreviation of their company, the EPA is authorizing the image. More importantly, the EPA is approving of the message behind the picture. The Environmental Protection Agency is a federal organization and would not endorse images that do not align with their mission statement. Thus, the credibility of both images are reinforced by the credibility of a recognized organization, such as the EPA. Image 1 Knight 3 The images released by the EPA also take advantage of the rhetorical appeal, logos. Logos is the manner in which the author uses logic or reason to appeal to an audience. The use of logos in image one is present in the sentence provided on the right side of the picture. donating, and composting excess food protects the environment and cares for the global human family (Image This logical statement makes the audience think of a way they can personally have a positive influence on the reduction of waste. Logos in image two is more obvious, having a statistic in bold in the middle of the image. of American waste is food. feed people-not landfills (image statement uses logic by simply stating that almost one fifth of the waste that Americans produce, is food. By stating of American waste is food (image the audience gets a concrete number of the amount of food that is being wasted, which appeals to logic. The Environmental Protection Agency appeals to the emotions of the audience in their released images. This is known as the rhetorical appeal, pathos. This technique can also be seen heavily in both images. The use of pathos is used to persuade an audience by connecting to their emotions. Image one is majority green in color which is meant to convey the image as or The image also uses the leaf on the left of the image to symbolize the planet, by placing an outline of the continents inside the leaf. This is used to make the connection between the message of the picture, and a healthy planet. Image 2 uses the method of pathos in many Image 2 Knight 4 ways. For example, the image has a mountain of garbage, or a landfill, which covers up the majority of the picture. Also, to try to further appeal to the emotions, the mountain of trash has seagulls on top. Because seagulls are found primarily by the ocean, the image is inferring that the trash that we produced is piled up on a beach or in the water. This idea would affect many, considering the beach is an attraction a lot of people want to sacrifice.The statement feed people-not landfills(image is also a use of the rhetorical appeal pathos, in that it is implying that humans are basically feeding landfills while there are millions of people that could be fed instead. The use of the rhetorical appeals in both the images are meant to be effective in portraying the message of the EPA. In image 1, the use of ethos, logos, and pathos are present. The images use of ethos is effective, in that the image is trying to inform the audience of an environmental issue, and the EPA is a credible source for that message. The use of logos in the image is effective in conveying the message of the image because it provides a statement that is common knowledge. donating, and composting excess food protects the environment and cares for the global human family (Image This statement gives a logical way for the audience to reduce the problem as individuals. Pathos in image one could have been more effective in representing the message of the picture, considering the topic is food waste, and the appeal to emotion regarding that topic is not strong. Image 2 provides examples of ethos, logos, and pathos as well. The use of pathos is most effective in this image, in that it connects to emotions by having a large mountain of trash on a beach. People tend to take action when the issue affects them. In this case, trash piled on a beach would make many people feel negatively about continuing to waste food. This image also uses ethos effectively, by Knight 5 strategically placing the watermark of the EPA on the image, providing credibility from a well- educated source on the issue. Knight 6 Works Cited EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 26 Jan. 2017, www.epa.gov/aboutepa Change and EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 27 Feb 2017, https://www.epa.gov/climatechange/climate-change-and-wasteb @EPA from our new #2030Champions are a first step in feeding people, not Twitter, 28 Nov. 2016, 11:05 pm https://twitter.com/EPA/status/799689966410493952 Image1 @EPA are committing to reduce wasted food in their operations by 50% by Twitter, 18 Nov 2016 https://twitter.com/EPA/status/799629576477478912 Image 2 Image 1 taken from EPA twitter Image 2 taken from EPA twitter Knight 7