Barrineau 1 Jacob Barrineau Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft The non-alcoholic beverage industry is one of the largest in the United States. Coca-Cola alone brings in over a billion dollars of revenue a year, however there have been many health risks linked to the consumption of the products produced by companies like Coca-Cola. A study conducted by Harvard Department of Public Health found that the consumption of sugary beverages can lead to increased rates of obesity, heart disease and diabetes. Drinks and To ensure that profits plummet due to the health risks of consuming their beverages, many of the producers of these unhealthy drinks have become a part of the American Beverage Association (ABA) which is an organization founded to support and advocate for American drink producers. The ABA has released two advertisements to boost the public opinion of its clients. The first advertisement relies mostly on pathos as it focuses on health in schools. It is a very strong argument as it uses all 3 of the main appeals together to showcase its point. Both images are effective motivators to sway people to be on the side of beverage corporations due to their use of the three modes of persuasion as well as their target at American audiences. The ABA was originally founded in 1919 as the American Bottlers of Carbonated Beverages and has since expanded to all non-alcoholic beverage producers. It is an organization that is in support of the different beverage companies that it represents, as well as American beverage industry as a whole. It allows similar companies to come together to grow the industry. They work together to tackle some of the issues that affect all companies within the industry, one Barrineau 2 of the most prominent of these issues being their name being public opinion of the companies based on the health risks associated with their products. The ABA takes part in many different global initiatives to help people globally while helping the name of Beverage companies at the same time. Some of these initiatives include working towards increased recycling, helping to regulate sugar consumption for students in the public-school system and working to ensure that freedom of choice is never being taken away from American consumers. A quote from the ABA regarding their involvement in community outreach is working to reduce sugar from beverages in the American diet, driving sustainable solutions to preserve the environment and protecting consumer choice, when we work together we can have a great impact on communities across the American Beverage Association.) The ABA frequently release promotional material about the initiatives it champions as well as the types of products that it supports. Figure 1 is promotional piece of material about their work in the public-school system. Figure 2 is an image about the health information about different types of beverages showing that many soda drinks have lower caffeine than energy drinks or coffee. Figure 1 shows a distributer from each of the three largest American beverage companies dropping off their products at a public school with the caption reduced beverage calories in schools by The image is aimed at individuals with a stake in the health of the future generation of the U.S as it shows that beverage companies have a vested interest in the lives of American children. The overall message that the ABA wants to convey is that American Beverage Companies prioritize health. a stark contrast to the commonly held belief that these large corporations are only out for profit and have no regard for the health of their consumers. The picture itself is crafted so that the first thing eyes are drawn to is the smiling faces of the beverage distributors and then to the statistic showing how Barrineau 3 these companies help the world. This goes to further enforce the idea that these companies are here to help and that they are not all out for personal gain. Though on the surface, the placement of the elements in the image and the overall message are very convincing, the image really begins to appeal to audiences through its use of pathos, ethos and logos. Pathos, the appeal to emotion, is the most obvious of the three appeals used in figure 1. The overall thought of helping children makes people begin to feel emotions of pride and hope, therefore making viewers supportive of what the image portrays. Ethos, the appeal of credibility, is used as there are four different companies that are in support of this image. As well as the 4 companies independently building credibility to the image, the fact that 3 of these companies are competitors adds to credibility of the image as it shows that even companies who oppose each other put their competition aside to support a good cause. Logos, the appeal to reason, is used to tie the idea together and make it impactful. Showing that companies support health is one thing, however showing that they have decreased calories in school by 88% validates that they are really trying to make a difference for children. These together allowed for figure 1 to be such a convincing image able of swaying people to become advocates for beverage companies. Figure 2 is an advertisement contrasting the levels of caffeine found in soda, energy drinks and coffee. It is a very bland looking image as it focuses on the actual message to drive the argument. It is meant simply to inform audiences of what they are consuming and let them come to their own conclusion. Due to the notion that America is constantly overconsuming, people generally believe that the option in which they consume less is always going to be the best option. This in return leads people to stray away from the consumption coffee and switch to Barrineau 4 soft drinks or energy drinks. The font of the title goes to support this idea as it conveys a negative tone almost condemning viewers for their high caffeine consumption. The image itself mostly relies on logos to get its point across. Without the actual caffeine statistics, the advertisement falls flat. Figure 2 is essentially just trying to state facts to viewers and without the actual information the image loses all appeal. The image also contains ethos as it is sponsored by the ABA and contains a link to their website. This image is not as strong as of an argument for advocacy of American Beverage Companies as figure 1 due to it relying mostly on flawed logos. It tries to state that people should switch to any soda due to lower caffeine levels, however many individuals dislike soda due to the sugar contents. Because of this, people could very easily overlook this add or not take it seriously. Both images act to build support for the beverage companies that the ABA supports. With the beverage industry facing flack for the health risks of their products, they need rhetoric that is in support of what they stand for. Both images give reasons to be supportive of these beverage companies, utilizing appeals to all different types of reason and deploying visual tactics to make their images appealing to American Audiences. However, figure one is the superior image due to its use of emotions as well as logic therefore solidifying the belief and not leaving people with as much ability to criticize the information being used in the claim. These images are very tactful uses of advertisement and are overall an effective method to help sway individual into becoming advocates of American Beverage companies. Barrineau 5 Figure 1 Barrineau 6 Figure 2 Barrineau 7 Works Cited Beverage Calorie Reduction. Digital image. Ads of the World. Media Bistro Holdings, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Caffeine Comparison Chart. Digital image. Bev Net. N.p., 11 Feb. 2014. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. American Beverage Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Drinks and The Nutrition Source. Harvard University, 17 Mar. 2016. Web 10. Feb. 2017.