Deautriell 1 Nicolle Deautriell Hannah Lay ENC 1102 21 February 2017 The San Diego Zoo Zoos allow humans to connect with nature. Animals that would be rather hard to see in the wild safely, such as cheetahs and lions, are commonly found in zoos all over the world for humans to see and learn more about. Although animals are the reason why zoos stay open, advertisements are what attract people to come to the zoo every day. With the help of campaigns and advertisements, zoos, such as the San Diego Zoo, attract millions of people each year to come and experience the animal exhibits first hand (Schroeder). The San Diego Zoo, located in San Diego, California, has been around for 100 years (Schroeder). Its mission is to, species worldwide by uniting [the expertise in animal care and conservation science with [the dedication to inspiring passion for (San Diego Zoo). While the San Diego Zoo has released many campaigns to aid its mission in the fight for animal conservation, the two campaigns below employ specific rhetorical appeals, ways that authors engage the audience. The first image from the San Diego Zoo uses primarily pathos and kairos to appeal to the audience to donate money to the zoo, while the second image primarily uses pathos and ethos to convince the audience to come to their zoo. Both images, however, promote the San Diego mission of practicing animal conservation. Deautriell 2 In the image above, the San Diego Zoo uses pathos and appeals to a emotions by including a sullen looking rhino, whose head is lowered to the ground, to inspire feelings of sadness and empathy. The image includes a photo of Nola, a northern white rhino. According to Marnie Hunter, a CNN animal analyst, one of only four northern white rhinos left in the (Hunter).Northern white rhinos are a subspecies of white rhinos, and the northern white rhinos are believed to be extinct in the wild (Hunter). This ad appeals to pathos by its use of colors, background images, and text. Firstly, the rhino in the image, Nola, has its head hanging low toward the ground. This makes Nola appear desperate and dejected looking because its body language implies that it is not content. This can cause the audience members to feel sympathy for Nola because like humans, when a person sees someone else looking disappointed, then they may feel bad for that person and take pity on him/her. The image above also uses pathos to evoke feelings of sadness because environment in the image looks destroyed or damaged, which is indicated by the appearance of fog or smoke in the background of the image and knocked down trees.This could imply that Nola and her future is uncertain and in peril. Since the campaign is in black and white, this creates a dreary feeling for audience members. Additionally, the font and bright blue color of the text immediately catches the audience eye because it is the only thing in color. The word choice is interesting because the advertisement states that Nola is a By stating that Deautriell 3 Nola is a audience memebers may feel confident that the zoo is properly caring for its animals since gifts are usually valued and well-taken care of items. By using pathos in the image above, the campaign tries to evoke the audience feelings of empathy and sadness. The San Diego Zoo also employs kairos, a sense of urgency, in the image above to encourage the audience to donate to the conservation effort. According to CNN, San Diego Zoo is working to save the northern white rhino subspecies through the collection of genetic material and the development of assisted reproductive (Hunter). The image asks the audience to take action,a form of kairos, because the texts says make one in her So, the zoo is specifically asking the audience members to give money to their conservation effort. The quote in the image above is stating that donating money to the zoo is a just like how Nola the rhino is a gift. By donating money, which is the purpose of this ad, the audience will be helping the San Diego conservation effort because these proceeds will be used to help save the northern white rhino. Furthermore, the exclamation point can be interpreted as a sense of urgency because exclamation points are typically used when a person is trying to emphasize a point. By using kairos, the San Diego Zoo is asking the audience to donate money to help their conservation effort. Deautriell 4 In contrast to the first dark and sullen advertisment, the second image from the San Diego Zoo uses pathos to evoke feelings of excitement and calmness by its use of bright colors and illustration because the advertisement is trying to persuade the audience to visit the zoo. The use of bright colors, text, and illustration appeals to pathos. Firstly, the background of the photo shows clean-cut grass that looks endless, a beautiful blue sky, and sky- scraping, evergreen trees. These characteristics resemble what an natural environment should look like. The use of these items may suggest to the audience that the San Diego Zoo recreates an environment that is similar to the natural environment in its zoo, and that the zoo has an array of beautiful exhibits. This can evoke a feeling of reasurrance for the audience because if the animal exhibits are similar to the image above, then not only will it reassure the audience that the animals are cared for properly, but it will also make the audience feel excited to see the aesthetically pleasing view. Furthermore,the unciorn and the phrase in the ad employs pathos to evoke an excited and happy feeling from the audience that may persuade the audience to visit the zoo.Unicorns can be thought of as magical and extraordinary creatures to people. The unicorn complements the phrase, not here, they probably because unicorns do not actually exist. The zoo uses the unicorn to imply that they house almost any animal that people can think of. Since the zoo houses a wide array of animals, audience members may feel motivated to go and visit the San Diego Zoo themselves. Also, unicorns can relate to a sense of fantasy and childlike memories. The unicorn can also be used to appeal to all audiences suggesting that by going to the zoo, one can feel like a child again.The image also uses bright colors, such as the green grass and blue sky, that make the campaign standout. Colors like sky- blue and green are typically associated with happiness, so these colors can evoke a sense of Deautriell 5 contentment in the audience.Lastly, there is a waterfall behind the unicorn. Waterfalls, which create a trickling noise as the water falls from the top of the waterfall, create a serene feeling. So, the advertisments use of text, bright colors, and images evoke a feeling of happiness and excitement for the audience, which may entice them to come to the zoo. In addition to using pathos in the second image, the San Diego Zoo uses ethos, an appeal to credibility, by displaying their logo in the image. In the bottom left hand corner of the image, the logo can be seen in bold, white letters that read San Diego This logo is instantly recognizable to the audience, and it establishes the zoo as an authority that approves of the ad. The San Diego Zoo is a 100 acre park zoo that cares for 3,700 species of animals (Schroeder). The image promotes the message of conservation because with more than 200 conservation scientists working in the zoo, the more people that come to the zoo, the more people that are being exposed to the mission of animal conservation (Schroeder). Dr. Wedgeforth, one of the scientists that works for the San Diego Zoo, people to learn about where animals (Schroeder). This supports zoologist Josef idea that must allow people to connect with nature and love the earth before we ask them to save (343). By explaining to people where the come from, which the zoo aims to do by approving of an advertisement that entices audience members to visit the San Diego Zoo, more people can better understand the animal and therefore want to save it. Although both images used pathos in their advertisements, pathos was used in different ways in each ad. Both advertisements have different purposes, so pathos was used to appeal to the audience different emotions.The purpose of the first advertisment is to persuade audience members to donate money to the conservation effort. This is done by evoking feelings of sadness and sympathy for Nola. The purpose of the second advertisement is to Deautriell 6 persuade audience members to visit the San Diego Zoo. Pathos was used in this advertisment to evoke feelings of excitements and calmness . The advertisements may use pathos in both campaigns, but pathos was used in different ways to evoke a different feeling and response from the audience. The San Diego Zoo uses advertisments and campaigns to keep their zoo doors open. The two images above use rhetorical appeals that try to inspire audience members to take part in the mission to save animals from going extinct (San Diego Zoo). The image of Nola used pathos and kairos to entice the audience to donate to the San Diego white rhino conservation effort, while the second image used pathos and ethos to inspire the audience to come to the San Diego Zoo to learn more about the animals being cared for. These ads are important because they supplement the mission statement and can be used to spread the message about saving animals. In the future, if more ads like the ones above are produced, then more people will be inpsired to donate to the conservation effort and more people will go to the zoo. By going to the zoo more, people can learn and connect to the animals in the San Diego Zoo which will allow more people to learn about the need to save animals. Deautriell 7 Works Cited Borrell, James. Reasons Why Zoos are Good for The Biologist, vol.63, No.9, pp.9, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer? sid=8328d42d-5109-411d-8548-5159670dd0f6%40sessionmgr4010&vid=5&hid=4208. Hunter, Marnie. rhinos closer to extinction when dies at San Diego CNN, www.cnn.com/2015/11/22/us/nola-white-rhino-dies-san-diego-zoo-feat/. Accessed 17 February 2017. Keulartz, Jozef. for Conservation? Zoos at Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, vol. 28, pp.335-351, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=51a56ff6-3422-49b2-966b-644ebb70e5eb%40sessionmgr 120&vid=13&hid=113. Found, San Diego Zoo Global, 17 February 2017, www.endextinction.org/nola. San Diego Zoo. Zoological Society of San Diego, zoo.sandiegozoo.org/. Accessed 24 January 2017. Schroeder, Lauryn. Diego Zoo Kicks off the Next 100 Years With A The San Diego Union-Tribune, www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/zoo/sd-me-zoo-centennial- 20160928-story.html. Accessed 17 February 2017. Found, San Diego Zoo, 17 February 2017, lesstalkingmoreblogging.blogspot.com / /2010/07/unicorns.html