Araimi 1 Hamed Al Araimi Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Video Games and Violence Due to new technologies, the world is experiencing numerous tragedies due to violence. People misuse guns and other weapons of assault to harm people intentionally. Different groups have varied opinions on the causes of violence. Some people believe it is due to the constitutional rights granted to citizens to own and handle arms while others blame it on the upbringing of the people committing these violent attacks. It is believed that children copy what they see in their environment. If their parents are not keen enough to determine what their children are exposed to, later on, they may face a rude awakening. The Conservative Daily News is among those who support the 2nd amendment but blame characters on the reason for their extreme violence (Joseph 132). On The Conservative Daily News website, they strongly agree with the second amendment and show their stance in the first image depicting violence in video games as the reason for violence in the real world, while the second image shows how an individual is stupid because they react quickly and oppose the second amendment. The CDN is greatly known for making follow on the issues of Congress and the White House. The website is widely for political affiliations posting and current issues affecting the state. The CDN was incepted around 2009.The first image is a representation on the Conservative Daily News (CDN) website. Like other media representing conservative interests, CDN favors gun rights and does not believe in blaming guns for violence in society. Rather, conservatives believe in blaming the behavior of the person holding the gun. Conservative media Araimi 2 often links bad behavior to a poor upbringing and a general attitude of permissiveness in society. The second image shows a guy with a picketing sign crossed out with an arrow pointing down to his knee. The image reflects knee jerk reactions. This image is claiming people are stupid because they overreact when violence occurs and blame it on the second amendment right. The first image (figure 1) presents a satirical take on the problem of raising nonviolent children. The mother claims society is not doing enough to curb gun violence while her child is in the foreground, right in front of her, cursing and using violent language as he presses away on the gaming keypads like a wild-eyed maniac and crazy child (CDN 4). The child is playing a video game and cursing with violent language in front of both of his parents. The cartoon conveys two related ideas; the first is that it is a job to raise kids properly. The second idea is that violence in society is more attributable to violent influences, such as video games, rather than the mere presence of guns. Children tend to copy some characters from their learning environment from movies, video games, and television shows. If they are occasionally exposed to violent behaviors as they grow up, they will tend to become violent once they are grown up. Among the causes of such behaviors is exposure to video games and cartoons containing violent scenes. The meaning in the picture is a restatement of the old National Rifle Association line, Guns do not kill people, and people kill  The second figure supports this claim by portraying caution words on the left leg of the cartoon. It supports the bearing of arms by individuals but what it shows is that those who are against them have a little sense and just react and blame it on the guns. Ethos explains the ethical features of society or people with the aim of convincing them of upholding those values. The first image establishes ethos by appealing to the concern about violence in society and the lack of attentiveness to their children playing violent Araimi 3 video games. It assumes the agreement that we need to do something about violence simply because eliminating violence is the ethical thing to do if we want to avoid more violence. (John 46). In contrast, we have the highly unethical tone and language of the boy playing the video game. The image is credible because the parents are normal looking people sitting in a typical living room, having a typical parental conversation. The second image introduces ethos through the purposeful presentation of its message and the idea behind it. The image presented here is outstanding even though it does not talk about video games directly; ethics here is all about gun control. It is in the hands of individual people to make proper use of such guns and shows how people react. Pathos brings emotions concerning a situation. The emotions are in the form of pity compassionate or sorrow. In the first image, the mother is reading a newspaper with a bold front page headline about the Sandy Hook (Newtown) school shooting which would immediately evoke sadness and sorrow among the readers (John 46). The game circulated after 2012 and meant to bring state of confusion and fear in people. The use of the color pink for the skin suggests that he is extremely agitated as he plays the game with intensity. The kids bugged out eyes gives him the kind of crazed look that would likely arouse fear in readers if they saw it on the face of someone they encountered on the street. The abusive language also describes the intensity with which the boy plays the video game and implies that he might be likely to use similar language when communicating with people who provoke him. The wrinkles on the face show anger even as the parents in the background express sadness and helplessness. Also, the space between the parents and the child suggests the loneliness and alienation. The second image illustrates pathos through jubilance that the second amendment is something great and necessary for the citizens. The image well frames the message to drive it home. Those who are Araimi 4 picketing are weak as the image portrays. The tone of the image is an attractive style for any supporter of rights as they get easily convinced to want to own one. The logos convince the readers by using logical statements. The company knows how to attract the attention of its readers. People can easily deduce the logic present in both images and relate with their routine lives. In the first image, the appeal to logic occurs on the argument against the powerful part that is unfolding in front of her. This seems to be a cry for common sense: As if to say, If so concerned about violence, why you keep an eye on your  The image also targets ignorance of the violent effects of video games. Also, the fact that the mother is reading a newspaper while the father is on his computer is intended to establish the couple as rational people who stay current with events going on in the world. In the second image, a young American citizen is holding a banner, and the message is Citizens are not The image arrow is pointing to his left leg where it says caution  which also is saying the left (liberals) have knee-jerk reactions when it comes to violence (CDN 6). If the statement says, If citizens are not concerned about violence, why are they then 6). CDN has forcefully argued that bearing arms is not a major problem or cause for the increasing rates of violence. These two images highlight the personal characters that lead to violence. Also, it is the parents that have the greatest influence on the character. If the kids are not brought up well, then they are bound to be repulsive, rebellious and deviant. The first image captures this assertion very well. It shows the position parents take in influencing the behavior and the lack of attention they have towards violent video games. CDN sold their ideas very well. The company uses a wide range of captioned messages to communicate their ideas effectively. In most instances, the kids are using violent language. This violent language can Araimi 5 easily be translated into violent behaviors if the mistakes are not corrected early enough. In the future, the company is going to attain its objectives. Using such effective advertisement messages, a large population is going to understand the message the company is trying to sell and the goals. Eventually, CDN will manage to make people understand that it is not the guns that are violent but people themselves. Araimi 6 Works Cited Conservative daily news, the Branco cartoons, News for the people by the people, 2016 Dominick, Joseph R. Videogames, television violence, and aggression in  Journal of Communication 34.2 (1984): 136-147. Donohue, John J. Guns, crime, and the impact of state right-to-carry  Fordham L. Rev. (2004): 623. Lott Jr, John R. More guns, less  University of Chicago Press Economics Books (2010). Araimi 7 Figure 1: Figure 2: