1 Priyeshwar Sodhi Sabah Uddin ENC 1101.022 February 26, 2017 How much longer can the EU survive the economic problems faced by its members? Is it time for the EU nations to separate their economies? Established in 1958 as the European Economic Community, the European Union is a unique economic and political union among the 28 European member countries. Economic problems new to the EU and the countries that are a part of it. But the recent turmoil in the financial world has everyone asking the same question, is EU going to survive the current economic problem their members are having? And will it even be able to help them out? Or should countries just separate from the EU, like UK. With the French elections coming up and a possible chance of Frexit, where people believe the French will go under a referendum and vote in favor of France exiting the EU, other members of the EU question the impact the union has in economy. In recent times we have seen the EU in action in a number of various situations. The debt crisis in Greece where all the national banks almost went bankrupt and the country could not pay back its debt and unemployment was at an all-time high, people thought it was the end of Greece but the EU took measure to stabilize the situation. Brexit, the world shocking exit of England and Wales from the Union that caused an upheaval among the people of United Kingdom and the financial markets that saw the GBP (Great Britain Pound) almost fall by 40% overnight. The Brexit also made the Prime Minister at the time, David Cameroon to step down and call for re-elections almost immediately around the country. The latest consideration for a Frexit. All this has caused everyone to question survival. Economists have been questioning policies and impact since the 1980s but only has it become an issue of national concern for its members since the 2000s. 2 Bibliography Cesaratto, Sergio, and Antonella Stirati. And The European And Global International Journal of Political Economy 39.4 (2010): 56-86. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This source talks about impact on the EU and also talks about the GDP of the members of the EU during the time period 1999-2008. It gives graphical representation of the data of the countries like their market shares, price competitiveness, export growth, real wages, exports and imports, information that helps us understand the impact the EU has had on its member countries through the years. The source takes inflation into account to represent the information in a more comparable manner to show if there has actually been growth through the years for these countries. Sergio Cesaratto is a professor of Economics at the University of Siena and has published several articles on the interpretations of currency crisis and the finance in monetary circuit that drive the development of the economy. Antonella Stirati is a professor of Economics at Roma Tre University and has written a book called Theory of Wages in Classical and has also published a number of articles about Economic Theory. The information provided by the source shows how the EU has been beneficial for the growth of some countries as compared to the others where EU policies have restricted them from further development. Navarro, Vincent, and John Schmitt. Crisis Of The European Union: Weakening Of The EU Social Challenge (05775132) 51.1 (2008): 69-77. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This source focuses on the results of a study that was conducted to show that unfavorable votes to the EU were the result of the weakening of the European Social Model due to the budgetary agreements of the EU. The source also talks about policies that could help strengthen the social model. The report also shows comparisons between the US social model to that of the EU and how it can be improved. Vincent sociological and political background is one of the backbones for this report as he uses his years of experience and studies to assess the situation and show how the structure of EU has in cases 3 held back countries from growth. John Schmitt works as the Research Director of the Washington Center for Equitable Growth and has extensively written about unemployment and economic inequality. The report put together by the two authors sheds light on important information about the rate of growths and debts of the EU. Alain. Crisis and Social Protection in the European Union: Moving beyond Immediate International Social Security Review, vol. 63, no. 2, Apr-Jun2010, pp. 71-86. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/j.1468-246X.2010.01362.x The source provides information on the social protection and the economic stabilizer that were used by the EU to cushion the impact of recession. It was a part of their recovery plan to support those negatively affected by the crisis and to boost the household consumption to bring the economies of the countries back to its normal level. It also talks about how the policies were formed to provide support for the business activities and to help generate employment. The source also talks about how the EU could use the recession to strengthen its social protection systems, through seeking inspiration from the basic principles of international social law, emphasize the legitimacy of high levels of social protection, and to encourage upward convergence among the social protection systems of its Member States and to increase budget allocations for social protection. Being an author on the subject of economic politics and social law, Alain has published many books on the subject and uses his experience to provide insight into the policies employed by the EU to stabilize the impact of the recession of 2007-2010. Saurugger, Sabine and Fabien Terpan. Crises Lead to Policy Change? The Multiple Streams Framework and the European Economic Governance Policy Sciences, vol. 49, no. 1, Mar. 2016, pp.35-53. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s11077-015-9239-4. This paper talks about how a policy changes in times of crisis and how they are reformed to help during crisis. The source studies the policy change in two periods of economic governance- the 2003-2005 Stability and Growth Pact crisis where the policy change led to softer governance mechanisms to help growth, and the 4 2009-2013 economic government crisis where the soft governance mechanisms were transformed into hard law to help tackle the after effects of the recession. The source applies multiple streams framework to study these policy changes. The authors argue that the more coherent the coalition of policy entrepreneurs, the higher the possibility for the entrepreneurs to push in favor of legally constraining norms. The German government led the hardening of the soft laws to help better facilitate resources and employment to deal with the after effects of the recession. Beaudonnet, Laurie1 and Raul2 Gomez. Europe Versus No Europe? The Impact of Attitudes Towards the EU and the Economic Crisis on Radical-Left West European Politics, vol. 40, no. 2, Mar. 2017, pp. 316-335. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/01402382.2016.1222806. The source talks about the 2014 European Parliament elections that saw a large increase in the size of radical-left parties (RLPs), particularly in Western Europe. The article analysis the changing role of attitudes towards the European Union by explaining support for the RLPs at European Parliaments elections during the Great Recession. It argues that the Europeanisation of economic issues during the financial crisis have enabled them to successfully attract a pool of voters in their support. The source uses the 2009 and 2014 European Elections to show the policies and procedures that resulted in the negative opinions about the EU on support for the RLPs. Beaudonnet uses his experience to translate the complex policy structures to make it easy for people to understand and interpret the election results. He also works along Gomez to provide as much insight into the election results based on a first hand observer. Kagarlitsky, Boris. and the Future of the Globalizations, vol. 14, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. 110-117. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/14747731.2016.1228800. The source talks about the referendum on British membership in the European Union that not only divided the society in the UK but also all over the continent. This division however is produced not so much by 5 this specific debate but by the difference in ideology and belief on the impact and policies of the EU. As the source talks that class division was very visible in the Brexit vote, with the working class and poor massively voting for most of the left either sided with the establishment or were wavering. The source claims that the success of the vote can be claimed by nationalists. In reality it was the frustration of the people with the EU and its limitations on the country that led to this world shocking event. Boris uses his sociological experience to talk about the frustration of the people with the EU and how it finally led them to vote This movement by many has been seen as a massive shocker against the EU as UK is the first country to ever leave the Union and has other member countries doubting their membership to the Union.