Yi 1 Thomas Yi Professor Sabbah Uddin English 1101 28 February 2017 Drinking Age in the USA should be lowered to 18 United States of America. The country that allows students or any citizen to speak freely without consequences so long as the speech is reasonable. The country that allows its college students to take on a loan for thousands of dollars. Just because the U.S. allows its college students to take out a loan mean that the U.S. is ranked high up on the list for education. Now some people may wonder why educational rank is being brought up. To answer that, educational rank is being brought up because of the fact that college students take out a loan for education, education that is worth thousands of dollars. So if students take out loans for thousands of dollars, expect these students to be devoted to what they are studying and stay out of trouble if they are going to the extent of borrowing money but the fact is, they Globally speaking, the U.S. ranks fourteenth in education. Furthermore, to make sure college students stay out of trouble, the U.S. government makes sure that the drinking age is enforced. But realistically, does this stop college students from drinking and getting in to trouble? So with that being said, what logic is there in making a drinking age? Furthermore, what is the logic in allowing an eighteen-year-old to take out a loan and be held responsible for paying it back when they are not allowed to just simply drink? The U.S. government is basically stating that they trust eighteen-year- olds to pay back thousands of dollars but they trust the students to buy a ten-dollar alcoholic drink until they are twenty-one. In 2008, more than one hundred college presidents initiated a national debate when they, a petition saying that the legal drinking age was In fact, in 1980 the Yi 2 legal drinking age was changed from 18 to 21 solely for the purpose of reducing highway fatalities. As everyone knows, teenagers and freshly appointed legal adults still drink to this day regardless of the law. Yi 3 Bibliographic Entries 1. Press, Blog. The U.S. Ranks 14th in  Ranking America. Blog Press, 6 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. o This article shows other countries and its ranks. The U.S. ranked 14 and shows that South Korea was ranked first place at one point in The Article goes into further detail explaining how the U.S. came to be ranked. The article is credible due to the fact that this is a website that shows data for other countries as well and countries outside of the United States use this certain website for their own analysis/data research. With credibly not being questioned, this article was perfect to use in my paper in order to show that the U.S. is only ranked 14 regardless of how much money that students take out for tuition. It only goes to show that most college students know the true value of money being borrowed and so goes on with his/her life not focusing on their education. 2. Barnhill , John H.. Drinking Age  John H. Barnhill, 2008. Web. 12 Feb 2017. o This article is about how in 2008 there was a debate amongst school presidents stating that the drinking age might as well be lowered to 18 because the drinking age is ineffective. The article also goes to explain how the drinking age came to be and that the reason for moving the age up to 21 is now invalid. This is important to the paper because of the fact that this debate has already happened before and it was started by presidents of Universities in America. It also gives out valuable information stating the main reason of why the drinking age was set at 21 in the first place (the reason is not completely irrelevant now but somewhat irrelevant because of the fact that modern day young adults know of the consequences of driving after drinking compared to back in 1980). 3. Walters, Scott T. If the Drinking Age Were Lowered, What Then? A View from the Year  Journal of American College Health, no. 6, 2010, p. 579. EBSCOhost o The article explains that the drinking age being lowered is actually better for the students. It clearly goes to state that the students are actually allowed to drink on campus in their own private room/dorm. Drinks at pubs are in fact allowed as well. Students can drink in campus so long as they have taken the alcohol prep course. This is beneficial to the paper because it proves that drinking age being lowered to the age of 18 is in fact even better than letting it be at 21. Students will have a better understanding of how alcohol works if they drink earlier on.