Esperance !1 Queenie Esperance Prof. Sabah F. Uddin Composition I February 6, 2017 Immigration Reform If the American people had a choice in the way that the United States conducts immigration reform, what would they have to say? Immigration is when an individual leaves their own country to live in another country. Many factors, such as religion, social and economic persecutions, and environmental issues can contribute to the reason why someone would leave their country and find refuge in another. When immigrants come to the United States, they come in hopes of a better life and opportunities such as job stability, better education and religious freedom. As a result, they obtain the jobs that many regular Americans would not want to do such as housekeeping, dishwasher and laundry. Immigration reform is defined as proposed changes regarding the policies of immigration within the United States and other countries, such as bans, building walls, and passing laws to keep immigrants from migrating into the United states. The United States has prospered economically, socially, and in many other ways from the labors of immigrants. However, the ongoing issue with immigrants has brought on debates on the proposed changes. When looking at the impact that immigrants have had on the United States, this paper will confront the question whether the way the government deals with immigration reform goes against basic American values of freedom. Esperance !2 Source 1: Adrian, Pantoja. the tide? Core American Values and Attitudes Toward US Immigration Policy in the Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies , Vol 32, no. 3, 2006, pp. 515-531. Accessed 5 February 2017. The article the tide? Core American Values and Attitudes Toward US Immigration Policy in the is about the opinions formulated when the immigration policies began to change around the late 1900s. The article presents the information as a survey to see the opinions of both citizens and the government had on how to handle the vast number of immigrants. The core values such as individualism, humanitarianism, and egalitarianism are used to see if they were considered to support the stand that were taken in regard to immigration. The results obtained showed that the opinions formulated by the people sometimes had no concern for those values but were mostly focused on how the economy could be badly affected. The article is relevant because it focuses on the effects that American core values have on immigration reform or lack there of. When forming an opinion on how immigration should be handled, the people had mixed feelings because some rely on the previous encounters with groups of immigrants. The article contains tables that specify the responses that the people had. The tables within the article contain what the people believe the impact of immigrants will be economically, the assistance they believe immigrants should get, as well as specifications. This source is credible because it is an academic journal written by Dr. Adrian D. Pantoja, a professor of Political and Chicano Studies who taught at the University of Connecticut and Arizona State University prior to becoming a professor at Pitzer College. Esperance !3 Source 2: Charles, Olmeda The American Faith Community and A Just Integration The Review of Faith & International Affairs, Vol.9, no. 1, 2011, pp. 85-87. Accessed 5 February 2017. The article American Faith Community And A Just Integration is based on the idea of helping certain immigrants embrace the American core values instead of violating those values and sending the immigrants back to their country. The article talks about how the criminals seeking refuge should be sent back to their countries while the family oriented ones remain and learn the American culture. The focus of this article is faith and what is right to them religiously which believed to be pushing all immigrants out of the country. The benefits of keeping the immigrant in the United States instead on doing a mass deportation and getting rid of them all is recognized throughout this article as a whole. This article is relevant to the topic because it forms a belief on the core values in regard to immigrants in the Unites States. Instead of ignoring the core values and pushing immigrants out the door, the article help to find better solutions. The article states, just, rational policy would put otherwise law-abiding undocumented persons path that leads to pursuing earned legal citizenship or legal residency; a path that leads to acquiring legal guest-working status; or a path that leads to swift deportation of undocumented (Olmeda, 2011, p. 86). The statement embraces the values and bring out the true meaning of the American dream. The credibility of this article comes from Taylor & Francis Social Science and Humanities Library generated by the University of South library database. The author, Charles Olmeda is a reverend working alongside the Solutions Services, non-profitable community development as the president. Esperance !4 Source 3: Kevin Buckler, Patti Salinas, Marc L. Swatt. views of illegal migration policy and control strategies: A test of the core of Criminal Justice, Vol. 37, 2009, pp.317-327. Accessed 12 February 2017. views of illegal migration policy and control strategies: A test of the core is an article written to understand the view and opinion of the people in regard to immigration reform. The article conducts surveys and research to see how the public feels about the approach the government uses and what affects the peoples opinion. The article gathers information to conclude that the public supports enhanced measures towards immigrants when their culture and economy is in jeopardy. However, when their American culture is no longer a factor, the people are less supportive of the enhanced measures. This article is relevant to the topic because it focuses on the strategies the government uses to reform immigration and whether the public agrees or disagrees. The study found that the public agrees with the strategies of the government as long as immigrants no longer pose a threat to their economy. As a result, the basic American values are merely brushed aside and the importance of jobs and citizen benefits over immigrants are more relevant. This article has three different credible publishers. Salinas is a criminology professor at Missouri State, Buckler is criminal justice faculty member at University of Houston Downtown, and Swatt is with the Justice & Security strategies company. This article was generated from the University of South Florida library database. Esperance !5 Source 4: Morris Levy, Matthew Wright, Jack Citrin. Opinion and Immigration Policy in the United States: Re-Assessing Clientelist and Elitist Perspective on Politics, Vol.14, No.3, 2016, pp.660-680. Accessed 12 February 2017. This article is similar to those mentioned earlier because it provides tables that breaks down the belief of the public towards immigration reform. Evidence from the article shows that the public does not agree with the government forcing the immigrants out of the country and tearing them from their families. However, they support the government when their jobs, culture beliefs, and economy seem to be overrun by immigrants. The relevance of this article to the research question is that the article provides insight into both sides of the argument. There is evidence showing that ideas of immigration reform are unwelcome, as well as evidence towards the lack of support for legalization programs. The lack of support in legalization programs comes from the fear that immigrants will begin to behave unsuitably once they begin to feel accepted. The credibility of this article comes from three publishers. The authors contributing to this article have different backgrounds. Levy is an assistant professor of political science at the University of Southern California. Wright is an assistant professor with the government department at the American University in Washington, DC and Citrin is the director of the institute of governmental studies groups as well as a political science professor at Berkeley. The article was obtained through the library database of the University of South Florida. Esperance !6 Source 5: John J. Amann. Need For Comprehensive Immigration Reform: The Incomplete Compassion of US Immigration UMKC Law Review, Vol.79, No.4, 2011, pp. 853-875. Accessed 28 February 2017. This article discusses the humanitarian approach in consideration to immigration reform. A disastrous earthquake in Haiti pushed the government to be compassionate towards immigrants and grant them a temporary status to stay in the United States overnight. The Temporary Protected Status allowed the immigrants living in the United States to make a living by obtaining jobs and caring for their families. The article also focuses on the aid the government provided to the Bosnians when they were trying to flee from war. Another example is the example of the widow penalty. In that example, an immigrant married an American citizen and had her status changed. Through a tragedy, she lost her husband in less than two years after marriage, which then put her status in danger. The United States government evaluated her situation and was compassionate enough to help her retain her citizenship status. The article is relevant to the topic because it highlights how the United States quickly embraced humanitarianism to help immigrants adjust. The government put aside legal status and saw the immigrants as people looking for aid. This information supports the paper by posing as one of the sides to the approach of immigration reform. The government does not toss aside American values when dealing with immigrants, they embrace it and provide a way to help. Ammann is a professor of justice in American Society as well as a supervisor in a litigation clinic, This article is credible through the status of the author and was generated through the University of South Florida library. Esperance !7 Source 6: Bryan Brown. Fight Over New York Times Upfront 19 September 2016: pp.17-21. USF Library. Web. Accessed 28 February This article is about more recent discussions regarding the strategies towards immigration. During the presidential race between Donal Trump and Hillary Clinton, strategy suggestions were brought into view by both candidates and the American citizens responded to both sides. Trump suggested building a wall to keep Mexicans form migrating into the United States as well as country bans to minimize the number of muslims migrating into the United States. Many Americans disagreed with statement because they believe that immigrants are a big part of the economy and that a ban goes against everything the country stands for. Clinton on the other hand, proposed aiding immigrants by paving a way for them to gain citizenship. The response from proposal was more accepted by some republicans and democrats. This article is relevant because it proposes how both sides intend to approach the numbers of immigrants in the United States. The number of immigrants is increasing and the presidential debate strategizing ways to help is what promotes the core values. On the other hand, proposing a ban or a wall to keep them out does not look at the welfare of the immigrants as it would American citizens. The article was written with comments from Americans regarding both sides and was generated through the library database of the University of South Florida.