Vonhof 1 Cameron Vonhof Professor Uddin Comp. 1 2-28-17 Effect of Violent Video Games Technology keeps improving, graphics are getting clearer, and video games are becoming more violent with each new edition. Over the years, one of the most popular genres has always been war and fighting. For example, in the it was Street Fighter and Resident Evil, then in the games evolved into Grand Theft Auto and early Call of Duty. Now, in the half the video games people utilize are violent. At first it was just shooting at targets that resembled humans, but now video games today look as lifelike as their cinematic counterpart. The targets now have more realistic human characteristics and mannerisms. With all the improvements, it seems as if video games are exceptional simulations of real war. If the teens of this generation are experiencing these realistic simulations, some scholars say it cannot be healthy for their brains. When the video game ends and the replication is over, the kids may still feel the same violent urges in the real world. However, the larger number of scholars says there is no lasting effect of playing violent video games. This leads to the question of this paper- Does violence in video games lead to violent behavior in teens? Julia Kneer, Malte Elson, and Florian Knapp. Fight Fire With Rainbows: The Effects Of Displayed Violence, Difficulty, And Performance In Digital Games On Affect, Aggression, And Physiological  Computers In Human Behavior 54.(2016): 142 148. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Vonhof 2 In this study, Julia Kneer tested the mood of subjects after they played a video game where they were a first-person shooter. There were two different variables in the study, displayed violence and difficulty. The study had 84 participants, with 21 in each of the four different game conditions. In the first game condition the difficulty was very hard, this data was compared to the second condition that was played at an easier difficulty. The third set was very realistic and violent which was compared to the fourth set who played a nonviolent version of the game at the same difficulty. Kneer writes the difficulty nor the displayed violence had an effect on psychophysiological arousal during play, post-game aggressive cognitions, nor aggressive behavior. Kneer would even go onto find out that the game play difficulty has more effect on emotions after playing. Success while playing by having a high number of kills and a low number of deaths had the highest post-game affect. Julia Kneer is a professor at the Erasmus School of History, Culture and Communication at Erasmus University Rotterdam in Rotterdam Netherlands. Malte Elson is a professor at Ruhr University in Bochum, Germany. The last author is Florian Knapp who is a professor at the University of Cologne in Germany. All the authors have done work in this field before and the study is peer reviewed. This study is about the same thing as my research question. Fournis, and Nidal Nabhan Abou. Violence, Crime, And Violent Video Games: Is There A  Psychiatric Times 31.9 (2014): 1-4. CINAHL. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Fournis, looks back on past studies of the topic of violence in video games leading to aggressive behavior. He found that in 1998 there was a literature review that claimed that is a link between violent video games and In 2002, it was hypothesized that behavior was likely a consequence of desensitization and disinhibition caused by Vonhof 3 violent video games. The most recent meta-analysis results showed playing violent video games lead to less sensitivity to real violence, which could increase the risk of aggression. Another study showed that violence on television leads to more aggression than violent video games. After this, more and more scholars became skeptical of the link. It was suggested that the effects of violent video games were overestimated. One study found negative correlation between violent video games and crime and another found negative correlation between an increase in the sale of video games and criminality. Fournis concluded that the about the effects of violent video games on aggressive thought patterns, emotions, and behavior are but believe the evidence is conclusive enough to show it leads to increase in criminality, aggressiveness, or violent (12) The authors, Gael Fournis and Nibal Abou, both have their and are psychology professors in France. They report no conflict of interest and the article was peer reviewed. This article shows different findings about my research question. Ferguson, Christopher J., et al. Violent Video Games Increase Hostility In Teens, But They Do Stress Girls  Psychiatric Quarterly 1 (2016): 49. Academic OneFile. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Most experimental studies involving violent video games (VVGs) have been done with college students and give varying results. For these reasons, it is still uncertain what their affects are on youth. This study only looked at the result they had on teens, children between twelve and eighteen years of age. Ferguson randomized the teens to either a violent or non- violent video (2) Participants needed to report their stress and hostility levels before and after the games. According to Ferguson, levels neither decreased nor increased Vonhof 4 following violent game play. However, they did find something somewhat interesting, exposure increased stress, but only for girls. Ferguson is so sure of his research, he even went onto claim impact of VVGs on teen hostility is minimal. There is an unpleasant reaction by participants who are unaccustomed to these types of video games. Christopher J. Ferguson is a professor in the department of psychology at Stetson University in Deland, Florida. This article has been certified as peer reviewed and was published by Springer US. The study directly reflects to my research question because it is asking about the same thing- Does violence in video games lead to violence or hostility in teens. Rueda, Stephanie M., and Ferguson, Christopher J. The Hitman Study: Violent Video Game Exposure Effects On Aggressive Behavior, Hostile Feelings, And  European Psychologist 15.2 (2010): 99-108. PsycARTICLES. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Throughout this study, Stephanie M. Rueda analyzed frequently debated theories of violent video game impacts on behavior. Specifically, social learning, mood management, and catharsis hypotheses. She performed an experimental study to test the effects of violent video games. Rueda set up the study with young adults were given a frustration task and then randomized to play no game, a nonviolent game, a violent game with good versus evil theme (i.e., playing as a good character taking on evil), or a violent game in which they played as a She reported that the do not support a link between violent video games and aggressive behavior, but do suggest that violent games reduce depression and hostile feelings in players through mood management. She was even able to report that her contradicts both the social learning and catharsis hypothesis regarding violent video game effects on aggressive behavior. Vonhof 5 Stephanie M. Rueda is a graduate student in the counseling psychology program at Texas A&M International University. The article is certified as peer reviewed. It is very like my research question in the sense she was looking at the link between violent video games and aggressive or violent behavior. Kirsh, Steven J. The Effects of Violent Video Games on Adolescents. The Overlooked Influence of  Aggression and Violent Behavior, vol. 8, 01 Jan. 2003, pp. 377-389. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/S1359-1789(02)00056-3. Kirsh starts by describing how violence in video games influences behavior has been looked at before he made this study in 2002. In contrast to what is believed today, he found that and (2001) meta-analysis suggests that violent video games, in fact, do influence aggressive behavior, aggressive affects, aggressive cognition, and physiological (9). On top of this, he found more studies that show support for this. Kirsh tells us appears that the effects of violent video games should have their greatest impact during early adolescence. Although research has assessed video game violence during different developmental periods, currently there are not enough studies to evaluate the influence of violent video games across (9). This means that younger teens are more susceptible to lasting effects of too much violence in video games, however, the effect these video games have on development is still unknown. Steven Kirsh is in the department of psychology at Geneseo in New York. This article was peer reviewed and there was no reported bias by the author. This article shows how my research question was viewed in the early I found through this article that it was viewed very differently than it is now fifteen years ago. Vonhof 6 Olson, Cheryl K.1, cheryl olson@hms.harvard.edu, et al. M-Rated Video Games and Aggressive or Problem Behavior among Young  Applied Developmental Science, vol. 13, no. 4, Oct. 2009, pp. 188-198. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/10888690903288748. In 2009, Cheryl Olsen created a study to find out if there is a possible relationship between adolescent aggression and Mature-rated (M-rated) video games. According to Olsen, this study found significant relationships between M-rated electronic game play and routine engagement in bullying behaviors and physical aggression in a diverse sample of young adolescent game (194). This means that there is a correlation between young teens playing video games and developing aggressive behavior. Olsen even went onto find out that odds of engaging in these behaviors increased with the relative of M-rated game (194). There is looking like a strong relationship between the two, however, correlation does not mean causation. Olsen wrote that boys were analyzed separately, dose of M-rated game exposure ceased to be a significant predictor of bullying, and aggressive (194). All in all, hypothesis that play of Mature-rated, violent games would predict a greater risk for common problem (194) was partially supported. Cheryl K. Olson is acknowledged as an expert on effects of electronic media on children worldwide. She is a member of the psychiatry faculty at Harvard Medical School. This article shows how my research question was viewed in 2009.