Jessica Parker ENC 1101 Uddin Trans-Pacific Partnership The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) was created with the goal of binding Pacific nations by offering low tariffs and protecting the global economy from rapid economic growth and influence. What started out as a trade agreement between New Zealand, Singapore, Chile and Brunei, called the P-4, soon became the TPP when the United States announced its join in February 2008 under Bush presidency. One of the original reasons for act to join was to be recognized in the Annual Report on Trade Agreements. This report stated the TPP could give the opportunity for big US businesses to better their competition in the Asia- Pacific region; which was at a noticeably high exclusion rate as economy was developing. Soon the TPP was to become the largest regional trade agreement, consisting of Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, Vietnam and the United States. These countries put together contained roughly 40% of the global GDP and 1/3 of the world trade. Through the years of involvement with the TPP, saw no new jobs or major direct impact. Some big businesses had larger yearly exports to international low paying manufacturing jobs which limited competition and even raised prices on certain items. In the recent election of President Trump, the US resigned from its involvement with the TPP. With the past involvement and recent resignation, did the TPP have a positive impact on the United economy? 2 Source 1 Blustein, Paul. Trade Pacts Run  World Policy Journal, vol. 25, no. 2, Summer2008, pp. 13-18. Preferential Trade Agreements such as TPP have a fairly good impact on economies due to low trade barriers. Low trade barriers are to all the trade liberalization in the second half of the twentieth century, and partly because of the way most are Zoellick, US Trade Representative, came up with the idea of which favors the products of countries with the same as Washington about freer This idea makes more countries want to join trade agreements with the US. However, some think mixing bilateral and multilateral(region) trade is unproductive. This relates to the research question because of the way trade agreements and the countries within them affect each economy. In this article promotes a thriving economy because there is a larger window of countries to choose from and to choose the US. Also with lower trade barriers, trade is much easier and economically accessible. The author, Paul Blustein, is a journalist Global Economy and Development Program of The Brookings Insitution and former writer for the Washington Post. He is also writing a book about the World Trade Organization. 3 Source 2 Ravenhill, John. The Move To Preferential Trade On The Western Pacific Rim: Some Initial  Australian Journal Of International Affairs 62.2 (2008): 129- 150. Humanities Source. The United States saw how preferential trade agreements were integrating themselves permanently into the global trade economy. The US is the most comprehensive with world trade organizations when it comes to trading goods and services. The FTA made under the Clinton and Bush administrations were seen more as loyal rather than expanding trade and achieving economic growth. However, making it a priority to trade with did not result in lack of economic objectives. Ultimately there are three motivations of the trade negotiations being deeper integration, secure access to raw materials, and defensive motivations. Looking at the three motivations of trade agreements, the United States have other motivations besides what they tell the people. This relates to the research question because the U.S. had other motivations besides continuing to have a prospering economy. No matter how the TPP affected the economy, the U.S. was always going to gain something. With the growing China economy during the time of the growing TPP agreements, countries including the US did not just want to achieve economic growth in their country, but gain an economically growing ally. John Ravenhill is a part of the Australian Institute of International Affairs, and has been a professor, director and chair in universities around the world, currently at Balsillie School of International Affairs and Professor of Political Science at the University of Waterloo. 4 Source 3 Aggarwal, Vinod K. Look West: The Evolution Of US Trade Policy Toward  Globalizations 7.4 (2010): 455. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. In September 2008, the US announced it would join the TPP with the goal of combining existing trades between Asia-Pacific countries including Australia, Vietnam, Thailand, Chile, Brunei, Singapore and New Zealand. Trade associations such as the Emergency Committee for American Trade, the National American of Manufacturers, and the American Farm Bureau Federations have shown concern in the negative affects it could have on previous negotiations made between specific countries. Singapore was included as one of these countries due to the labor and New competitive dairy and beef industries. administration delayed joining the TPP which some saw as considering the opposing opinions of the other trade associations. Aside from considering the prospering economy and growing job opportunities, this article was very interesting as it opened up a whole new aspect of trade policies. Previous articles looked at how the TPP affected job and economic growth. This relates to the research question because joining the TPP or any trade agreement could cause controversy in other trade agreements which could affect the U.S. economy. When considering what agreements to join, there are many factors affecting the economy and trade opportunities. Aggarwal attained his PhD in Political Science at Stanford University and now serves as the director of the Berkley APEC Study Center and Haas School of Business. 5 Source 4 DeLisle, Jacques. International Law In The Obama Pivot To Asia: The China Seas Disputes, The Trans-Pacific Partnership, Rivalry With The Prc, And Status Quo Legal Norms In U.S. Foreign  Case Western Reserve Journal Of International Law 48.1/2 (2016): 143-176. Academic Search Alumni Edition. The Obama administration used the TPP as a rebalance to economy. With the official signing in 2015, the provisions were to address trade issues, international investment, intellectual property, currency policy, and many aspects of domestic economic regulation, including labor rights and environmental protection. administration goal was to strengthen the economy and international interests in certain parts of the world, and the TPP promised these opportunities. If the U.S. had not joined the TPP, China would have had a faster growing economy and integrated itself more in trade worldwide. With the joining, the TPP made economic ties with the U.S. and other countries stronger and supportive. In this article, U.S. joining the TPP was a positive thing for the Obama administration. It strengthened ties and helped integrate the U.S. into growing economy. The TPP allowed access to gain allies for the United States as well as participating in a trade agreement containing 1/3 of the world trade and 40% of the global GDP. Signing this deal gave the U.S. a large portion of legal power, as they were the largest economy in the agreement. This relates to the research question because having a large portion of legal power, the US could make decisions that would best benefit them economically. Jacques DeLisle attended Harvard and 6 Princeton specializing in Chinese law and politics and is the director of the Center for East Asian Studies at the University of Pennsylvania. Source 5: Baker, Brook K. Trans-Pacific Partnership Provisions in Intellectual Property, Transparency, and Investment Chapters Threaten Access to Medicines in the US and  Plos Medicine, vol. 13, no. 3, 08 Mar. 2016, pp. 1-7. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.1001970. With the TPP containing 40% of the global economy and new provisions made in October 2015, pharmaceuticals in the U.S. and abroad could become extremely unaffordable. There are many chapters (sections) that are a part of the TPP which influence the change to policies within the agreement. The changes recently made contain provisions that policy space to improve the quality of patents and encourage generic competition and other cost-controlling and research-enhancing One standards of is that the TPP says countries must allow patents for any research (new use, methods, or on any known medicine. This means that one medicine can be tested by thousands of competitors and make costs extremely high for anyone trying to use it. Although pharmaceuticals are only one part of a countries economy, the world is progressing at an extremely fast pace with new medical findings. This part of the economy continues to become larger in the U.S. especially with any terminal illness. Patented medicines may not be covered by insurance which already may make it unaffordable. A medicine patented in the U.S. 7 by many competitors makes the price skyrocket and no one will buy it. A patient may look abroad to buy the medicine they need at a cheaper price. This relates to the research question because it has a long term effect on the economy when the money is not only not circulating but going to other economies. The author of this article, Brook K. Baker, attended law school at Northeastern, and is a part of the Program on Human Rights and the Global Economy and Health Global Access Project. Source 6: Resar, Alexander W. The Evolution of Investor-State Arbitration in the Trans-Pacific Partnership  Berkeley Journal of International Law, vol. 34, no. 2, Fall2016, pp. 159- 190. The TPP eventually became widespread over 12 countries. Being so widespread brought up possible issues about how this regional agreement would affect other bilateral agreements with countries participating in both. Considering a graph inserted in the article, the TPP covered almost all the same agreements as the bilateral agreements did. With this similarity, businesses do not have to worry signing with foreign investors, as they all have the same guidelines. There is a guideline in the TPP stating a prohibition against purchases of only local technology and particular technology. This means businesses are required to buy from a larger pool of technology than what they prefer. The TPP also strengthens the states positions on the investments like being liable for loss of foreign investors. 8 This relates to the research question because the more investors sign with global countries, the more the economy thrives. For example, if an abroad company signs with a U.S. company, the U.S. economy would have a great gain. The author, Alexander W. Resar, is expected to graduate May 2017 from the Yale Law school.