Ntukogu 1 Ofordili Ntukogu ENC 1102 Kristin Gocinski 27 February 2017 NRA and Their Use of Rhetoric In 2016 after the Orlando Pulse Nightclub shooting there were numerous proposals for gun control. All of them fell a little bit short of reaching the sixty-vote number that it takes to pass the proposal in the senate, and ultimately failed The proposals came from both republicans and democrats, however there was not enough bipartisanship in congress for any of their proposals to be passed. This shows how important and split the gun violence and Gun-Control issue are in our society. The NRA are one of the biggest stakeholders in the gun- control issue. The NRA is an organization that is dedicated to protecting the second the amendment. So, they are against any legislation that would try to restrict the gun industry. Another example of how important the gun control issue is in our society is the NRA lobby. Out of the many of lobbies in Washington D.C. the NRA lobby is one of the biggest and most powerful (Demirjiran). The NRA has a huge presence and they use images to convince people that that second amendment should not be limited. Using ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos the two pictures are partly effective at conveying their goals. The NRA is the biggest organization that is dedicated to protecting the second amendment. their mission statement includes, heart of The NRA mission is preserving the core of our American values and traditions in our steadfast effort to Teach This shows that the NRA treats the second amendment as a core part of the American identity and will fight anything that would threaten it. The NRA believes that the Ntukogu 2 solution to the gun violence in the United States is to reeducate the American population about guns and to crack down on the dealers that sell them illegally, not to limit the legal sale of guns. They fight whatever proposals try to limit the gun industry by using their lobby to put pressure on the congressmen to vote against them. The NRA is a huge corporation and often their support can help a political candidate win an election. An example of this is during the 2000 election when Al Gore lost the election in his home state of Tennessee, which it is believed to primarily be because of his pro-gun control stance that put him at odds with the NRA Another more direct example of the NRA making the presence known during an election is the 2010 election, the NRA spent $7.2 million during this election on what they called private investments (Demirjiran). The NRA acknowledges that guns are dangerous and are often used to kill people, but they also point out the fact that guns can be used for self-defense and that citizens can use guns to protect themselves from criminals. The NRA often points out that limiting the sale of guns also limits the American ability to protect themselves. The first image uses several appeals to the convince the audience that guns should be exposed to the youth, and that it they are a great tool that can be used to protect oneself. The four possible appeals are ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Ethos is the appeal to a sense of credibility, and use that sense of credibility to convince the audience that their point is right. Some examples of ethical appeal that an advertisement could use is the appearance of famous people or the use of famous logos are symbols that would add credibility to their advertisement. The ethos that the Ntukogu 3 first NRA ad uses is the NRA printed on the bottom of the image. Which makes it obvious to the reader that the NRA approved the image, and not a random image found on the internet. Logos is when an advertisement tries to appeal to a sense of logic. Examples of logos appeal are the use of statistics and other facts that help the advertisements claim. The first photo feature any statistics so it have any hard logos appeal, but it does feature the caption, your family and they will be safe for a day, teach them how to defend themselves and they will be safe for a (Image 1). The caption can be considered logos appeal because it is a logical statement that if a child is taught how to defend themselves they will likely keep those skills for the rest of their lives. The caption forces the audience to think about the validity of the claim the NRA is making. Pathos appeal is an appeal to the emotions. Examples of pathos appeal are the use of images that would cause the audience to react in a way that would be positive to the advertiser, also certain colors can make the audience feel certain emotions and help the advertisement invoke the right emotions in the audience. The most abundant appeal in the first NRA image is pathos, the ad uses the picture of the father and daughter learning how to fire the gun to make the audience feel good about the use of guns. The picture is also very bright and well-lit to make the audience feel comfortable with the situation. The daughter is very bright compared to the rest of the image. This brightness makes the child seem almost angelic, and it makes the audience feel like the skills learning will make her future very bright. The lighting of the overall image is very important because if the same picture of the father and daughter was accompanied with a dark background the picture would have a very different and negative tone. Kairos appeal is the appeal of time, kairos is when the Ntukogu 4 advertisement tries to convince the audience to act now. The first image does not have strong kairos appeal. The second image uses primarily pathos and logos to get point across, however some of the other appeals are present in the image. This image does not have much ethos because it feature any celebrities, however the ad does feature the NRA logo in the corner which adds credibility to the ad by making it obvious that the NRA made the image. The second image feature any statistics so it have very strong logos appeal. However, the statement are the first (Image 2), makes the audience think about the validity of owning a pistol to protect themselves. The statement that the ad makes appeals to a sense of logic and therefore be considered logos appeal. Like the first image the most abundant appeal in this image is pathos, the image of a loaded gun gives the advertisement are very dangerous tone and makes the audience feel cautious. Also, the use of red font enhances the sense of danger that the ad presents. Red is associated with anger and violence as well as blood, these themes reinforce the sense of danger. Also, the bolded makes the image more personal and makes the audience think about what they would do in the scenario presented. The use of dark colors that are abundant in the image help make the audience feel cautious. The image uses some kairos Ntukogu 5 appeal with the image of the loaded gun and the caption. The loaded gun especially makes the audience feel like they would have to act at any second. The images do a good job of conveying the views of the NRA, especially the view that guns are valuable tools that can be used for protection, however, there are some flaws with some of them. The first ad was supposed to make the audience feel good and comfortable with a father teaching his daughter how to shoot. However, the image of the small girl carrying a very large assault weapon goes too far and makes the audience feel more concerned than comfortable. However, the bright lighting gives the advertisement a happy and comfortable mood. And helps distract from whatever concerns the audience might have at the small child holding the gun. The second image was supposed to make the audience feel like they were in danger, and that the only way that they could be safe was to act fast and to use a weapon. They image they used was very effective because the loaded gun did a good job of making the audience feel like they were going to have to act soon. Also, the dark lighting and red font make the audience feel like they are in danger and that the gun is the only thing that can protect them now. Both ads feature logical statements about protection that are true, however they are not any statistics present in any of the images so there is not very effective logos appeal in any advertisement. Gun violence has proven to be a problem throughout American history and the NRA feels that limitations on the sale of guns will not have any effect on the issue. They feel that guns in the hands of law-abiding US citizens could be used to protect the public and therefore should not be limited. They use these two images as well as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos appeal to make effectively make their point. Works Cited Biggest Lobbies in BusinessPundit, http://www.businesspundit.com/10-of- the-biggest-lobbies-in-washington/ Demirjiran, Karoun. votes down gun control proposals in wake of Orlando TheWashingtonPost,https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2016/06/20/se nate-heads-for-gun-control-showdown-likely-to-go-nowhere/ the NRA NRA, https://www.nrafoundation.org/about-us/