Ramsamy 1 Taylor Ramsamy Dennis Composition II February 26, 2017 The NSA: Our Protectors or Our Enemies? In 2013, one man made his mark in American history. His name was Edward Snowden, a name that would go down in infamy. There is no denying that he caused a major shift in the way Americans think about privacy through one of the most infamous information leaks in history. In 2013, Snowden leaked out millions of documents concerning the National Security Agency (NSA), revealing how the agency spied on both their own citizens, tapping into their phones and computers in search of information, causing mass hysteria for a while among the American people. The NSA claims that this is all done in an effort to protect the American people as they only search in order to find potential terrorists within America and prevent more terror attacks from occurring. This claim, however, is disputed by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), an organization determined to for all rights within the internet, including the right to privacy, who claims that this is against the rights of the American people. These two differing ideals can be seen easily in two images, as they both show their intent to protect people, just in differing ways. First of, however, introductions should be made. The NSA is an organization created by Ramsamy 3 the Patriot Act, which was signed into law in 2002 in the wake of the 9/11 terror attacks. The main goal of the NSA is to gather information so that the United States could not be caught off guard by another attack similar to 9/11 and The NSA constantly has to fight off claims of mass surveillance, claiming that they did not overstep their boundaries. The NSA claims that they only severely vetted 248 U.S or presumably U.S citizens. In addition, they claim that only 1,188 people were investigated based on probable cause (McNeal 2014). The highest amount of people that the NSA specifically targeted with a specific order is 89, 138 people, a small number when compared to the over 300 million inhabitants of the United States ( McNeal 2014). The main goal is to push away claims of going too far into their surveillance methods. Ramsamy 3 The image that I have chosen to represent the NSA is a poster showing the image of the Twin Towers on fire, with the question, would you do to prevent another decade shaped by There is an immense amount pathos in the image, as the main centerpiece of the poster is the image of the smoking Twin Towers. This image is a very emotional image for any American citizen as it reminds them of the terror and sadness of that terrible day. The mere image of the twin towers carries a large weight of emotion as Americans recall the tragedy of that day. Ethos can be seen in the image at the bottom of the image, as there is a web address to a website, showing that those who made the image encourage you to go to the website in order to involve yourself more into the issue, encouraging an conversation. The logos of the image comes in the text, with the uppercased letters of the quote drawing attention to the images and showing the importance of the words, with the light blue color symbolizing trust and loyalty, trying to show that the main goal is to be loyal to the American people. Also, if you look closely in the corner, the image of the Statue of Liberty can be seen, most likely as a symbol of hope and protection to show the values that the NSA is trying to uphold. There is not a lot of kairos in the image, but the other three rhetorics more than make up for it. The second stakeholder is the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), a group devoted to protecting the rights of those on the internet. The main issue that the EFF has with NSA is that their surveillance goes to deep. In fact, they have previously sued the NSA twice over this, stating that the NSA goes too far in their surveillance, though sadly it seems as if the case currently is stalled in the District on First Unitarian The EFF brings up information such as the estimation from NSA veteran William Binley that the NSA is in Ramsamy 3 possession of 15 to 20 trillion information transaction the Domestic Spying Program In addition, the EFF claims that the NSA has access to at least 1.7 billion e-mails per day with current technology the Domestic Spying Program It is the belief that the NSA oversteps their boundaries and infringes on the rights of the people due to actions like this. The image I have selected to represent the EFF is san poster mocking both the NSA and those who lead it by presenting the image as a satire promotion poster. The pathos of the image, in a contrast from the first image, seems to come from the text. The chilling statements of we progress toward a perfectly monitored and are watching gives off a dark tone that drives the viewer to feel both fear and caution . The ethos of the image seems to be limited as there is a small mention of the NSA website in the corner of the image as a way to investigate the issue of surveillance, giving credibility as the Ramsamy 3 creator wanted to create more coverage to the action. The image is drenched in logos as there is a lot of symbolism within the image, with the image only being colored with the colors of the American flag, an obvious homage to the nation. This can be used in order to drive home the point of the fact that it is the American government that performs this action . In addition to this, there is an image of former President Obama wearing a headset as a way of representing the president examining and hearing our phone calls just like the NSA was being claimed to do. This personifies the extent of the surveillance by having the viewer have a person to envision. Also, if one looks to the background you can see the image of the former president standing in front of an adoring crowd and waving, representing the blindly faithful Americans that the former president wants to have supporting him. This is shown in an attempt to show the American the NSA wants to have, an America that ignores any wrongdoing they may do, or that is the goal of the poster possibly. I can not say that there is much kairos in this image either though. In conclusion, images can represent countless amounts of information and ideals. Whether it be an image of the twin towers beginning to crumble or an image of a poster criticizing the actions and power of the NSA, no one can deny the power of either image or the ideals behind them. Similarly, the ideas behind these images can not be dismissed as well. While these two groups have different ideas, there is one idea that both can agree on. Both the NSA and EFF want to protect the people they serve, even if the NSA believes that surveillance is the way to go to the annoyance of the EFF who believe that it infringes on the privacy rights of those they survey. The fact remains though, that due to whistleblowers like Edward Snowden, the issue of privacy and surveillance will remain to be an important topic for everyone. It is not possible to Ramsamy 3 go back in time and prevent the information from being leaked. We also can not afford it ignore the information . Currently, there are over 7 billion people in the world, 7 billion people at risk from both terrorist attacks and privacy attacks. The question remains, now that we have the information, what should be done about it? Ramsamy 3 Works Cited the Domestic Spying Program Frontier Foundation , 9 Aug. 2014, www.eff.org/nsa-spying/how-it-works. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. McNeal, Gregory S. Releases New Statistical Details About , Forbes Magazine, 27 June 2014, www.forbes.com/sites/gregorymcneal/2014/06/27/nsa-releases-new-statistical-details-about-surv eillance/#720e10b71ac7. 26 Feb. 2017. & & Strategy , National Security Agency, www.nsa.gov/about/mission-strategy/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. on First Unitarian Church v. NSA: First Amendment Challenge to NSA Electronic Frontier Foundation , 21 Sept. 2015, www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/09/update-eff-case-arguing-nsa-spying-violated-groups-first-amend ment-rights. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.