Pavly Sharoupim Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910 13 March 2017 Restore the Fourth: The Intermediate Draft Since Edward revelations about mass surveillance programs, a lot of people and organizations sounded their disapproval about these programs, demanding that the programs be shut down immediately. One notable organization in opposing these programs is Restore the Fourth. Since disclosure about these documents, their goal was to stop the National Security Agency from getting further with their surveillance programs. To help deliver their mission and cause, they started organizing protests and releasing posters, as the two posters in this paper, that target the audience using different rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to help deliver their message. The photos they post on their websites affirm and support their cause. In June 2013, Edward Snowden, a former contractor for the United States government, revealed his data about the mass surveillance programs targeting the people of the United States (Elliot, Rupar). Following these news, protesters all around Washington D.C. sounded their disapproval about the surveillance programs (Kelly). During this protest, Restore the Fourth claimed that such as Prism violate the Fourth Amendment of the constitution, which protests against unreasonable searches and seizures without (Kelly). Prism is a program the NSA uses that officials to collect material including search history, the content of emails, file transfers, and live (Greenwald, MacAskill). Their mission is restore the Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and ending unconstitutional mass government (Who We Are). The first rhetorical appeal they use is ethos. Ethos is credibility of a speaker or (StoryBoardThat). In other words, ethos is the factor that makes the audience believe the claims due to their expertise in this specific field. In the first photo, they include their logo to sound their confirmation and support about the message the photo delivers. They repeat that gesture in the second photo too. In addition to that, they include specific details, such as congress passes the USA freedom (Image 2). By pointing out specific details in their photos, they prove to the reading audiences their knowledge and expertise in a specific field. Also, they also include an all-watching eye with an open hand in order to illustrate their own goal and mission, which is to stop mass surveillance programs. The second rhetorical appeal they use in these posters is pathos. Pathos is means to persuade an audience by appealing to their (StoryBoardThat). In other words, pathos targets the biases and beliefs and strikes them in order to appeal to their emotions. In the first photo, they include statements in a big, bold font in order to grab the attention to that statement. In addition to that, they include the outline of a crowd in order to make the audience feel that not alone and that the protest will be earthshaking. In the second photo, they shock the audience with what the NSA does Image 1 Image 2 with their program when stating that are no longer intercepting information on the origin, destination or duration of the phone calls made using this telephone and can pick up again more or less where we left (Image 2). Using these two statements, Restore shocks the audience with the violations the NSA inflict on their own privacies and calls them for an action. The third rhetorical appeal used in these photos is Logos. Logos is logic, reasoning, evidence, and facts that support an (StoryBoardThat). In other words, logos are the studies, statistics, and facts used in order to prove a point. In image 1, Restore states day we fight back against mass in order to give the audience a reason to join their protests. They implement the same gesture in their second photo when stating congress passes the USA freedom act this week, we can pick up again more or less right where we left (image 2) in order to rage the audience and give them a reason to join their protests. The fourth and last rhetorical appeal used in these photos is kairos. Kairos to make use of particular In other words, it points out the importance of executing a desired action is a specific time frame to cause the greatest possible impact. In both image 1 and image 2, Restore marks the importance of timing by pointing out specific dates in which taking the desired action would be most impactful. Restore the messages are very clear in both their posters, and they support their mission. When looking at image 1, they point the desired action, the reason to perform that desired action, and emphasize the importance of time when stating a specific date to perform that action. They also include a dark outline of a crowd to encourage their audience and assure them that not alone. They include, too, and all-watching eye with a hand in the middle to illustrate their goal and mission. When looking at image 2, Restore shocks the audience with the actions the NSA do and the violations the NSA inflict on their privacies, in order to cause rage in their audiences. They also include a specific date, implying that date to be the most perfect timing for the audience to sound their rage and disapproval about the violations stated in that image. Following Edward disclosure about the surveillance programs, Restore the Fourth was established in order to restore the Fourth commandment and raise awareness about how the programs could affect an privacy. It started organizing protests, as the one done in Washington D.C. (Kelly), and posting posters in order to inform people and help take what the organization thinks is the right action. Referring to the two images posted by them, they target the audience using four rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Using ethos, they include their logo in both images in order to show their confirmation about the message both images are trying to deliver. Using pathos, they encourage them by using shocking truths about the actions, call for an action, and include an outline of a crowd to assure the audience that not alone in their own ideas and actions. Using logos, Restore emphasizes that the protest will be mass in image 1 and, in image 2, it states that congress passes the USA freedom act this week, we can pick up again more or less right where we left in order to warn the audience about the following circumstances if they choose not to execute the desired action. Finally, using kairos, Restore emphasizes the importance of timing by stating specific dates for the audience to protest and sound their disapproval. Using all these rhetorical appeals, Restore is able to deliver the message helps support its mission. Works Cited Greenwald, Gleen; Ewen MacAskill. Prism Program Taps in to User Data of Apple, Google, and The Guardian. Restore the Fourth. 7 June 2013. https://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/jun/06/us-tech-giants-nsa-data. Last Accessed: 13 March 2017. Heather Kelly. Against the NSA Spring Up Across CNN. 5 July 2015. http://www.cnn.com/2013/07/04/tech/web/restore-nsa-protests/. (Last Accessed: 27 February 2017) Katherine Docimo, Kristy Littlehale. Rhetorical Triangle: Ethos, Pathos, StoryBoardThat. http://www.storyboardthat.com/articles/e/ethos-pathos-logos. (Date Accessed: 27 February 2017) Kennedy Elliot, Terri Rupar. Months of The Washington Post. 23 December 2013. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/national/nsa-timeline/. (Last Accessed: 27 February 2017) Pantelides, Kate; Megan McIntyre, Jesicca McKee. Writing Commons, Restore the Fourth, https://writingcommons.org/open-text/information-literacy/rhetorical- analysis/rhetorical-appeals/595-kairos. Last Accessed: 13 March 2017. Restore the Fourth Los Angeles. The Day We Fight Back. Restore the Fourth Loa Angeles Facebook, Restore the Fourth, 4 February 2014, https://www.facebook.com/RestoreThe4thLA/photos/a.289332444543722.1073741827.2 88739787936321/415105031966462/?type=3&permPage=1. Last Accessed 13 February 2017. Restore the Fourth. Courthsey Notice. Restore the Fourth Facebook, Restore the Fourth, 1 June 2015, https://www.facebook.com/RestoreTheFourth/photos/a.140571182802999.1073741826.1 40570276136423/373134232880025/?type=3&theater. Last Accessed: 13 March 2017. We Restore the Fourth. * December 2015. https://restorethe4th.com/who-we-are/. (Last Accessed: 27 February 2017)