Escobio Christopher Escobio Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 27 February 2016 NFL War On Drugs The NFL has many ways that they discuss their policy and outlook on Performance Enhancing Drugs but one way that is commonly used is through images. They use these two images along with pathos, logos, and ethos rhetorical appeals to convey messages to the audience. Each image has a different effectiveness though based on how well the image was designed to convey these messages. They use images as a way to convey messages to people because they are easier for people to look at than a block of text and it will hold their attention longer than an article will making it the ideal way to get their message across. The NFL has a strict policy on drugs that keep their players from using them legally. However players still want to break the system and gain an advantage on other players and gain the upper hand. players will be tested for prohibited substances at least once per league This is just one of the policies that is being used in the NFL as of now and will continue to be administered (NFLPA 6). The NFL tries to keep a strict enforcement over these types of things but even still some people slip through. So they try to make the looked down on or frowned upon by all of society to try and make the players realize that it is not good and needs to be stopped. Escobio Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that is used to convey messages through feeling. The creator of the image wants to make the audience feel a certain type of way. Image one depicts an NFL logo next to Some of the illegal substance drugs (NFL Mobile). This image uses pathos in it with the picture of the drugs being behind the logo. This goes to show that the players are going behind the back in order to use these drugs and gain the advantage. The color of orange being put around the drugs also gives it a feeling of wanting and sneaking. The color orange represents these things to show that the players want these drugs so they will sneak around in order to get them if they have to. This leads to the players gaining them by illegal activities also represented by the color orange. The NFL field is supposed to be a safe and fair place to be played on, having it in the background fading away is showing that what the NFL stands for is slowly being faded away into a sport that is being overrun by Logos is a rhetorical appeal that is directed towards the logical side of the audience to make them understand the message through numbers. This image also has a brief amount of logos represented in it. The logos in this image is in the placement of all of the parts of the image. The NFL logo is slightly off center to show that it is not the main focus but still a big part of it, while the drugs are right in the middle to pull the attention towards it. But the drugs are also behind the logo to show that it is behind the back of the NFL officials and not being used officially or legally. Ethos appeals to the ethics of the audience. Why is this image credible is what it is trying to say. Both images have a little bit of ethos in them as well. Image one has its ethos in the logo Escobio that is right in the middle of the screen and the fading one in the background (NFL Mobile). Image two has its ethos in three different spots. One spot that the image has ethos is in the two NFL logos, One on the players chest and the other on the side of the football. The next spot would be on the side of the players helmet, it is the Atlanta Falcons team symbol which is a professional NFL Team. The final spot for ethos in this picture is on the Nike symbol on the glove (Falcons). Nike is a respected brand throughout the sports world and by having it there adds credibility to the image. The two images have their logos in the picture because the NFL wants people to know that they are the ones releasing it so the audience will feel like it is more believable. The pathos in the second image is brought into effect by the way the player looks and what he is wearing. He is looking off into the distance and focusing on where he is going (Falcons). He looks like he is trying to get ahead and stay ahead of everyone through his hard work and effort. The NFL uses this to their advantage because what they want the sport to be like, full of training and hard work not They leave room off to the right of the image to show that he still has somewhere to go. Instead of just cutting off his run they show that there is still room for improvement and he give up and give in to the cheating habits of the other players. Also the color of his jersey plays into effect of pathos in this image. The player wears a red jersey which can symbolize many things (falcons). A few of the ideas represented in this picture Escobio by the color red would be passion, courage, and aggressiveness. The player needs to be aggressive because he is playing football and needs to be fast and strong. Passion and courage are shown in the picture to show that its dedication that gets you to the point he is at. They show that the dedication this player has can also get you to that level if you work hard and train enough like he did. Image one is a very effective image for the views of the NFL. It shows exactly what they are trying to tell the audience. They show that the drugs are bad and must be used in illegal ways to be used at all which is not a good thing. So, this will help to detour the players and future players from doing this and can help to keep the game more fair and try to save it. They effectively display all of the attributes that they would need to detour the people and players from using these drugs by saying it is sneaky, deceitful, and illegal. While image two is also very successful on being effective towards the audience it is not as effective as image one. Image two goes on to show that hard work is what needs to be done to be successful in the NFL. It tries to steer the players towards training hard and working out to gain their muscle and skill instead of cheating their way around it. The colors of the jersey and the light streaks in the background are effective to make the audience have a certain feeling towards what they are trying to achieve. To give them that feeling of dedication and wanting to achieve their goals. In these two images the NFL uses the images to convey their messages through the rhetorical appeals in the image. They use pathos, logos, and ethos to create an effective image to stray people away from using the These images are both effective to show these Escobio messages and try to lead people to the path of training and hard work instead of cheating their way with performance enhancing drugs. Escobio Works Cited NFL. 2016 NFL Color Rush. 11 March 2017. http://www.nfl.com/photos/0ap3000000701993 NFL. 27 February 2017. https://www.nfl.com/apps NFLPA. Policy on performance enhancing substances. 2016. PDF, Accessed February 15 2017.