MacRae !1 Hannah MacRae Professor Gocinski ENC 1102.909 13 March 2017 Fighting Hunger One Giant Step At a Time Did you know 80% of people suffering from hunger and malnutrition are in countries that experience frequent natural disasters (@WFP Image 3)? This is where the World Food Programme comes into play. Being the first emergency responders to the scene providing food and aid to victims they have already helped reduce hunger substantially. Hunger is something that every country experiences differently, some worse than others. WFP releases powerful real life images of those suffering to help combat hunger and malnutrition. Incorporating ethos, pathos, and logos, two images effectively convey their goals and mission of ending world hunger. Since 1961 The World Food Programme has been combating world hunger through various missions. Being the leading humanitarian organization fighting world hunger, they are the first response to disaster scenes offering food and aid to victims suffering from natural disasters, war, and crop failure. They primarily focus on undeveloped nations experiencing severe food shortages. They distribute roughly 12.6 billion rations each year to those in need of food and other aid Food Programme Also being the first United Nations organization to adopt a mission statement in 1994; their mission is to provide food and nutrition, and rebuild societies suffering from natural disasters (WFP Overview). By presenting images to MacRae !2 the public to encourage donations they include visual rhetoric to convey hidden meanings to their audiences. The World Food Programme incorporates ethos into image 1 and image 2 by including their official logo. Ethos is the credibility present, so in other words ethos is what makes the image believable and trustworthy for the readers. By putting their official organizations logo onto the image this means that they approve and stand by the image and message being shown. When the audience sees that the organizations logo is on the image they know that it is an official image released by them. By incorporating ethos into their work they establish a trustworthy relationship with their audience. By including it the audience knows that since supported by a reliable and legitimate organization or person then reliable. By incorporating pathos into image 1 and image 2 the World Food Programme expresses emotions that they want their audience to react towards. By incorporating pathos you can make your audience feel whatever emotion trying to make them feel in order to persuade them into helping or donating. In my first image they incorporate pathos by including a picture of an African American child that has suffered from hunger as the background. By using this image trying to get a sympathetic emotional response from their audience. The eyes are glossy making them impossible not to look at, by making them very glossy and white it draws the readers in making it impossible to look away and ignore. The child is positioned so its to the right of the image but a very close up MacRae !3 picture resulting in us being able to see every detail of his face. The look on his face makes the reader want to help and donate because he looks like saying others like It looks like he almost has a soft smile, to convey to the audience that he received helped and is in much better condition health and nutrition wise, but that there are still others out there just like him suffering and still so much to do and they need a lot of assistance. Some of the words like agriculture, and are bolded in blue, blue stands for trust, faith, loyalty, etc (Bourn). By using blue to highlight those words I think that trying to make the audience feel like there is hope for the world to overcome hunger and malnutrition with the help of donations from the readers. The words are also in a bright white color over top of the image to stand out and catch the readers attention.The second image uses pathos in a similar way by incorporating a little girl that takes up half the image. The little girl is up close and focused so that you can also see every detail there. Her eyes are also bright and glossy by they look happy. It looks like her eyes are hopeful for a better future with less people suffering from hunger around the world. She also has a smile on her face while she is feeding herself. Her facial expression gives the readers a very warm and faithful feeling because she look like suffering anymore. It makes you feel like hope and that if we can help one child be this happy and healthy we can eventually help everyone else suffering the same way. The writing on top of this image is in white to stand out over top of the bright colored photo to catch the readers attention MacRae !4 as well. The quote that they incorporated is a Nelson Mandela quote that says is in your hands to make a better world for all those who live in Making the audience feel a kind of responsibility and dedication to those who are suffering and as fortunate. This quote persuades you to donate because making you feel like you have to help make a difference, that unfair that people can be suffering such severe food shortages while we have access to food in the United States. World Food Programme uses logos within image 1 and image 2 to display reliable data and statistics in order to supply their audience with reliable information. By incorporating logos the organization educates the public on going on and how bad it really is. For my first image they include logos within the image by using the statistic that million people are in need of urgent food, agriculture, and nutrition and is over 40% of the population (@WFP Image By using these facts within the image you can visualize how many people in South Sudan are actually in such bad living conditions that they need immediate attention. It shows that almost half of their population is impoverished and hungry, persuading people to donate towards helping them become more socially and economically stable. In image 2 they incorporate any pathos. Each rhetorical appeal within images 1 and 2 released by the world Food Programme is getting some sort of reaction from the audience, effectively getting them further involved within helping to solve world hunger. They are working together to persuade the audience to make a change and help assist the World Food Programme reduce world hunger and provide aid to undeveloped nations. Both of the images portrayed successfully coincide with their mission statement of providing aid to victims of natural disasters such as food and nutrition to MacRae !5 undeveloped nations facing severe food shortages. Each of the pictures are encouraging you to either donate money or food in hopes to make a bigger impact on reducing hunger and malnutrition. They also incorporate mages of children that were suffering from hunger looking healthy and happy showing that they are staying true to their mission statement. Both of these ads for the WFP effectively portray their mission statement and goals. In conclusion, the World Food Programme has released two very powerful images to reach out and ask for assistance from their audience in hopes to have zero hunger worldwide. In regards to their released images the World Food Programme incorporates ethos, pathos, and logos to effectively convey their mission statement and goals of encouraging people to donate in efforts to eliminate hunger worldwide. MacRae !6 Works Cited Bourn, Jennifer. Bourn Creative. 15 January 2011. http://www.bourncreative.com/meaning-of- the-color-blue/. Accessed 27 February 2017. @WFP. Image 3 takes the heaviest toll on the hungry: 80% live in countries prone to natural disasters Twitter, 22 February 2017, 5:30 A.M., https://twitter.com/ WFP/status/834349671791345664 Accessed 27 February 2017. @WFP. Image 1 kills children first. This week, a famine was declared in #SouthSudan. @SteveTaravella on @undispatch  Twitter, 23 February 2017, 5:23 P.M., https://twitter.com/WFP/status/834745985674969089 Accessed 27 February 2017. @WFP. Image 2 is in your hands to make a better world for all those who live in Nelson Twitter, 17 February 2017, 10:55 A.M., https://twitter.com/WFP/status/ 832619395302162432 Accessed 27 February 2017. WFP. http://www1.wfp.org/overview. Accessed 27 February 2017. Food Programme WFP. 2017, https://donate.wfp.org/supporter/ casematerial.do?n=gbss&cmdbid=1033610&or=ld. Accessed 27 February 2017.