Weldon 1 John Weldon Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910 27 February 2017 Visual Rhetoric Effectiveness through NRA Visuals As the increased number of mass shootings-- and shootings in general-- have swept across the United States in recent years, a national debate on the topic of gun control has intensified. On the conservative side of the argument, gun ownership privileges are viewed as constitutional and necessary for self-defense. Conservative organizations, such as the National Rifle Association (NRA), support the constitutional right to bear arms and strive to maintain current gun control laws and regulations. In addition to maintaining current gun control laws and regulations, conservative organizations like the NRA aim to resist the liberal push for stricter gun control laws and regulations within the United States. From a conservative standpoint, stricter gun control laws and regulations would prove to be unreliable and dangerous to a safety and well-being. In order to reach the public-eye, the NRA released two images in support of the constitutional right to bear arms. Using ethos, pathos, kairos, and logos, both of the images effectively convey their pro-gun stance on gun control laws and regulations within the United States. The National Rifle Association is an organization that supports the constitutional right to bear arms in the United States and encourages citizen familiarization and understanding of firearm operations. The organization was founded in 1871 and aspired to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific according to its founder William C. Church Weldon 2 the Throughout its existence, the NRA has created many shooting programs such as the Boy Scouts of America, the NRA Police Firearms Instructor certification program, and the Youth Hunter Education Challenge the All of these programs are representative of the mission statement: heart of the NRA mission is preserving the core of our American values and traditions in our steadfast effort to Teach the Through the release of Image 1, the NRA uses ethos, pathos, and kairos to convey their pro-gun stance on gun regulation in the United States. Ethos, the appeal to credibility, is used to persuade the reader that the organization conveys credible information. In Image 1, ethos is present through a single textbox that reads in bolded capital letters. The implementation of the textbox provides credibility towards the image; in other words, the NRA approves of the image. Through the implementation of the label, the reader feels confident that the information displayed in the image is credible. Pathos, the appeal to emotion, is used to provoke specific emotions from the audience. In Image 1, there is a variety of pathos used. First, the setting of the image is a dark alleyway that is illuminated by a sign that reads, place I carry my gun is my safe (see Image 1). This imagery not only provokes a sense of fear to the audience, but also implies that gun ownership is a source of protection from evil and unknown circumstances. Secondly, the colors of the image provide a specific appeal to emotion. The dark-descending alleyway is black, which symbolizes evil and mystery; and the white illuminating sign is white, which symbolizes hope and protection. In Weldon 3 addition, the words are lettered red, while the other words are lettered black. The black lettering symbolizes seriousness, while the red lettering symbolizes passion. The words ultimately relate back to the goal of a pro-gun society, implying that the possession of a firearm protects a safety. Kairos, the appeal to timeliness, is used to create an urge to act from the audience. In Image 1, the implication of mystery and unexpectedness play a major role in the overall kairos. As the number of shootings increase in the United States, the stalemate between opposing sides of the gun control argument continues. In order to break the stalemate, the NRA uses kairos to generate action from the audience. Logos, the appeal to logic, is used to present factual and logical information to the audience. Although specific statistics presented in Image 1, logos is still present. Normally, a person walk through a dark alleyway without a sense of fear. The NRA uses this logic to create a pro-gun advertisement based on the fear the audience is presented with. Through the release of Image 2, the NRA also uses ethos, pathos, and kairos to convey their pro-gun stance on gun regulation in the United States. In Image 2, there are two sources of ethos: a bolded textbox that reads and a statement that reads to and FBI preliminary crime report for the first half of (see Image 2). The textbox containing the initials provides credibility toward the image, while the statement regarding the FBI provides credibility toward the written statistic within the image. The FBI, in this case, is representative of a NRA-supported statistic; and because of the significant stature of the FBI organization, the credibility is further improved. Pathos in Image 2 is also Weldon 4 plays a role. First, the image portrays a broken record, suggesting repetition from the perspective. The NRA has repeated and stood by their stance of a pro-gun society in the United States, and they will continue to support their beliefs in the future. Secondly, the lettering is colored red, white, and blue, which symbolizes American rights and freedom. Specifically, the colors reflect the constitutional right to bear arms. In addition to the lettering, the words ownership continues to are colored white which symbolize hope, and the words continues to are colored red which symbolize a positive effect. Kairos is presented through the broken record; although the NRA has repeatedly fought for pro-gun rights in the United States, their voice will remain consistent for the future. The final rhetorical appeal in Image 2 is logos. The statistic, ownership continues to increase, crime continues to was implemented to support the pursuit of a pro-gun society. Factual information presented through the FBI--a widely trusted organization-- appeals to the audience significantly. Through the use of ethos, pathos, kairos, and logos, the NRA effectively portrayed their pro-gun stance on gun control in both images. In Image 1, all four rhetorical appeals proved to effectively portray the pursuit of a pro-gun society and protection of the right to bear arms. Ethos was present in Image 1, but in short amount. In addition, there an outside source that supported the NRA within the image; it was merely their own organization. Although this negatively affect the NRA, there an outside figure to improve the credibility. Pathos within the image, however, significantly improved Image effectiveness. The imagery portrayed a fearful view toward the constitutional right to bear arms, suggesting that a lack of gun ownership protect from evil and unknown circumstances. In Image 2, Weldon 5 all four rhetorical appeals were also used and each effectively portrayed the pursuit of a pro-gun society and protection of the right to bear arms. Ethos within the image provided two sources of credibility: the NRA and FBI. An FBI statistic is a significantly-trusted source, while ultimately increased the credibility of the image. Pathos in Image 2 proved to be important, especially in the coloration. The red, white, and blue lettering symbolize American rights and freedom; specifically the right to bear arms. This directly correlates to the mission, which strives to protect the constitutional right to bear arms. Lastly, logos provides a factual statistic from the FBI. ownership continues to increase, crime continues to was successfully implemented to support the pursuit of a pro-gun society (see Image 2). In order to reach the public-eye, the NRA released two images in support of the constitutional right to bear arms. Using ethos, pathos, and logos, both of the images effectively convey their pro-gun stance on gun control laws and regulations within the United States. With an increased number of mass shootings-- and shootings in general-- in recent years, the NRA has sought to protect and defend the constitutional right to bear arms. In support of current gun control laws and regulations, as well as a pro-gun society, the NRA has attempted to reach the public-eye through rhetorical-appealing images, and still strive to reach their goals. Weldon 6 Works Cited the Rifle Association , Accessed 31 January 2017. nationalrifleassociation. , 15 February 2015, nationalrifleassociation. is your , 17 October 2016, https://www.instagram.com/p/BLrRhJ8BzMV/