Bauman 1 Madelyn Bauman Prof. Van Winkle ENC 1102 22 February 2017 The National Center for Fair and Open Testing scores do not equal Scores Do Not Equal This blanket statement, consistently used by The National Center for Fair and Open Testing (FairTest), adequately introduces the basis of their work within the education system. FairTest professes misuses and flaws of standardized National Center for Fair and Open considering they currently play such an influential role in the path of a life. Today, only of the roughly 3,000 four-year colleges and universities in America make SAT or ACT submissions Applicants Sweat the The majority of prospective colleges judge high school students on their standardized test scores. As colleges place such heavy importance on the scores of standardized tests, their acceptance and scholarship decisions are overpowered by the results of single tests. The two images gathered from articles on Fair website serve as indicators of the and alike disapproval of high-stakes standardized testing. The National Center for Fair and Open Testing (Fair Test) is an educational organization that serves to quality education and equal opportunity by promoting fair, open, valid and educationally beneficial evaluations of Fair Since its founding in 1985, Fair Test has expanded its reach by gathering more volunteers, operating a frequently updated newsletter, and generally providing parents, teachers, and students with the knowledge on how to resist unfair and misused examinations. Fair Test places special emphasis on the fact Bauman 2 that they are also working to the racial, class, gender, and cultural barriers to equal opportunity posed by standardized Fair This quote, coming from the of Fair website, notes that they believe inequality in classrooms across the nation is furthered by standardized testing. testing often results in a narrow focus on teaching just the tested Happens When Tests Become High According to Fair Test, a serious issue with placing such heavy importance on the results of standardized testing is that teachers feel pressured to teach to the test resulting in tons of memorization and therefore a lack of true learning. Contributor for the Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development (ASCD), James Popham, discussed how high-stakes standardized testing results in teaching to the test in his article Teaching to the Test. He defined it: that is focused directly on test items or on items much like (Popham, to the Groups like ASCD and Fair Test view this negatively because either to test items or to clones of those items eviscerates the validity of score based (Popham, to the This ineffective way of teaching is a result of the pressures placed on teachers to show student development through standardized tests. With the creation of the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) act in 2002, standardized testing became heavily institutionalized. intentions were to the achievement gap between poor and minority students and their more advantaged (Klein, Child Left Despite the positive intentions of NCLB, numerous problems arose since its implementation. According to the Economic Policy Institute, have found that teacher attrition and demoralization have been associated with test-based accountability efforts, particularly in high-need with the use of Student Test Scores to Evaluate Bauman 3 Tying teacher evaluations to the high-stakes standardized testing of their students is leading to a decrease in effort and desire to teach high-need children. Fair Test includes persuasive images on their website to acknowledge the disadvantages of standardized testing. Image 1 is positioned at the head of one of Fair articles. The actual photograph is from a protest that appears to be crowded with a majority of protesting children. A young girl holding a simple sign that reads, am more than just a test is the focal point, and therefore emphasized message, of this picture. The title, More Than a Score, simply repeats what the young sign says. Repetition is a helpful and persuasive tool as it emphasizes the message Scores DO Not Equal Scores Do Not Equal that Fair Test is attempting to get across to its viewers. The caption, guide for test resistance and reform activists in the post NCLB adds more context for the image. No Child Left Behind (NCLB), the act established in 2002, increased the federal role in holding schools responsible for the academic progress of all Child Left Fair Test uses image 1 and the caption to inform the audience that NCLB and its results (the misuse of standardized testing) are increasingly negative. The photograph does not have an actual trademark from Fair Test to display credibility. Credibility is established when the rhetorical device ethos is utilized. Ethos is defined as, way of establishing trust with this or her by the text Rhetoric Really Matters. (Ethos: Appeal to Credibility). The ethos of image 1 is established by the surrounding caption and title that further explain its purpose and where it is originating from. Pathos is heavily evoked in this image because it displays a young girl, amongst other young students, protesting something that is seriously affecting them. Described by the text Rhetoric Really Matters, pathos is experience of or sensitivity toward (Pathos: Appeal to Emotion). The portrayal Bauman 4 of protesting children works to evoke several emotions from an audience, such as sympathy and compassion. For Fair Test; evoking sympathy was the goal. The very message, am more than just a test coming from a young student, incites strong empathy from an audience recently coming across this issue. Fair Test utilizes logos with this image as it shows viewers the extent at which high-stakes standardized testing is negatively affecting students. Logos, as defined by Rhetoric Really Matters, is the to logic and (Logos: Appeal to Logic). The implementation of logos is important for the very reason that it allows an audience to decipher the meaning behind a single photograph. Logical reasoning allows an audience to reason that students feel that they are being seen as nothing more than a test score within the education system. For both image 1 and 2 there is a great implementation of kairos. Kairos is appeal to which essentially means knowing when to write/say/perform in order to achieve a desirable result. (Kairos). The misuse of standardized testing is a recent issue within society and these images work well to display that in a timely manner. Similar to image 1, image 2 displays a photograph surrounded by a caption and title that all speak the same message. The photograph depicts a woman holding a sign that reads Testing, More while the surrounding title and caption also comment Testing, Lower Stakes, Better Learning The repetition between the actual photograph and the surrounding text serves to emphasize the message for the audience. Big, bold lettering also enhances the importance of the phrase Testing, More The coloring of the phrase in blue and red on the actual photograph draws it even more attention. Finally, the focus of the image being placed solely on the phrase, Testing, More brings repetition that allows the audience to remember it but also give them the simplicity to fully comprehend it. Bauman 5 The ethos, the appeal to credibility, of image 2 is established by the trademark just beneath the photo. It serves to certify to viewers that Fair Test approves of and aligns themselves with the message of the picture. Whether it be sympathy or a shared anger, protesting evokes strong emotions from an audience. Therefore, pathos the appeal to emotion is extremely prevalent in image 2. The surrounding text simply emphasizes the need to feel sympathetic for those struggling with the downfalls of standardized testing. The phrase Reform: Victories works to incite the emotion of hope for the audience. While this issue is causing enough stress for protesting, that text also helps to incite possible positivity. This cling to hope can also persuade an audience to read further leading to the use of logos. An appeal to logic occurs as the audience pieces together the meaning of the context and image. Whether the protestor in this image is a young-adult student or teacher, logos is utilized as the audience infers that the effect of heavy testing is so negative that it is causing people to protest. The National Center for Fair and Open Testing is dedicated to spreading awareness for the issues imposed by high-stakes standardized testing. Per their mission statement, they to end the misuses and flaws of standardized testing and to ensure that evaluation of students, teachers and schools is fair, open, valid and educationally This outlined goal is enhanced by the insertion of images throughout their articles. The images discussed in this essay both portrayed impactful phrases displayed on signs to emphasize the damage high-stakes standardized testing is causing students and teachers alike. Bauman 6 Image 1 Image 2 Bauman 7 Works Cited Baker, Barton, et al. Problems with the use of student test scores to evaluate  Economic Policy Institute. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.epi.org/publication/bp278/ How Standardized Testing Damages Education (Updated July  How Standardized Testing Damages Education (Updated July 2012) FairTest. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://fairtest.org/how-standardized-testing-damages-education-pdf Klein, Alyson. No Child Left Behind Overview: Definitions, Requirements, Criticisms, and  Education Week. 09 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.edweek.org/ew/section/multimedia/no-child-left-behind-overview-definition- summary.html Lane, Lee, et al. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text. Testing, Lower Stakes, Better Learning Fair Test, 8 Sept. 2016, http://www.fairtest.org/report-tallies-2016-testing-reform-victories Than a Fair Test, 29 Apr. 2016, www.fairtest.org/how-organize-testing- resistance-and-reform-under-e Popham, James. Teaching to the  Educational Leadership: Helping All Students Achieve: Teaching to the Test? Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.ascd.org The National Center for Fair & Open  The National Center for Fair & Open Testing FairTest. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://fairtest.org Westervelt, Eric. College Applicants Sweat the SATs. Perhaps They  NPR. NPR, 18 Feb. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.npr.org