Christina Abraham Professor James Josue Composition II 01 March 2017 The Abortion Conflict Historically speaking, abortion has been a controversial matter that has been met with several differing opinions and such opinions have progressively become more liberal within the last couple of decades or so. One of the main stakeholders in the abortion conflict is Survivors of the Abortion Holocaust, a California based pro-life activists group which has garnered nationwide attention due to their utilization of graphic abortion imagery in an attempt to promote their cause. Survivors of the Abortion Holocaust regard any individual born after the v. Wade decision in January of 1973 ( McBride 1) to be of the American abortion holocaust. The group is primarily composed of youth members and generally target college-aged individuals, as they are seen as most at risk for abortion. The group is particularly known for the images and signs which they display during demonstrations and on their website; such images utilize rhetorical appeals to support their agenda. Image A depicts a black and white sonogram of an unborn baby with the words, Will Not Sit Silent Through This 1) Immediately, the audience is drawn to the words with which the concept of abortion in America is directly compared to The Holocaust due to the size of the words and the amount of space they take up on the image. The words are bold, and especially outstanding against the very dark background which makes them even more prominent and eye-catching. Additionally, the phrase in and of itself, is something that catches the eye because of the kind of profound statement it is making. The Holocaust is generally known as one of the most reprehensible events to occur in human history and in this image it is seamlessly being compared to the concept of legalized abortion. Such a comparison is an audacious claim to make and uses logos as well as kairos to appeal to the audience. Logos is apparent in this image because the image creates this compulsory feeling that one must be daft to sit back in silence while such an atrocity occurs, therefore, it is logical that people should be standing up for this cause and fighting against those who believe otherwise because what makes sense. Also, kairos is represented in this image in a more subtle way. Kairos is used because if something so appalling is occurring it is naturally assumed that action should be taken immediately to prevent any further fatalities, especially fatalities of defenseless babies. Furthermore, Image A represents the rhetorical appeal pathos by appealing to the emotions of the audience. The image does this by showing an unborn ultrasound in the background. This appeals to the emotions because generally, ultrasounds elicit an emotional response from those who see them because they are making the life of the unborn child tangible by giving the fetus a face and human physical qualities. This allows the organization to persuade the audience that they are passionate about the lives of the unborn child, and the ultrasound convinces the audience that this is a real, living human being that is being advocated for, not just clump of Comparatively, Image B makes use of the rhetorical appeal of pathos much more convincingly than Image A. This is largely achieved by the use of color and exaggerated fonts, which Image A lacks. Image B is an image that is anti-Planned Parenthood, and uses the phrase, Parenthood Kills Our Faith and Our 1) with an image of a animated family clearly stricken by fear as a pair of hands reaches towards them in a threatening manner. The image is frightening in nature, with many dark colors and an overall oppressive feel to it. The phrase that is used is very aggressive and frank; the words are tattered looking and the use of the word is rather brazen, and appeals to the emotions of the audience. It appeals to the emotions of the audience by equating the existence of Planned Parenthood with the ideology that abortion is the murder of a human being. Instead of using the word or perhaps the organization chose the word to emphasize their argument that abortion is murder, and to achieve an emotional response from their audience. Likewise, the hands that are reaching out to grab the scared couple are drawn in such a way that they appear to be very wicked and scary, creating an unsavory perception of Planned Parenthood (Planned Parenthood 1) to the audience. Moreover, Image B appeals to logos as well because it attempts to make the audience feel as though it is logical that Planned Parenthood has harmful intentions, by saying that they kill faith and families. Which evidently makes it seem as though it is logical that this organization is not a good one and should not be supported. On the other hand, kairos is not represented very well in this image. Generally speaking, there is no to concept presented in the image. Although, it can be argued that if Planned Parenthood is indeed families, then people should stand up against them and do something to stop that. While both images utilize rhetorical appeals to convince the audience that The Survivors of the Abortion Holocaust 1) organization have a valid argument, Image A is overall more persuasive. This is because Image A, while it does lack color, has more rhetorical appeals than Image B. Image appeal to to concept is quite powerful because it gets the audience feeling like they are obligated to stand up for what is right. Additionally, Image phrase, Will Not Sit Silent Through This is highly effective in drawing out an emotional response from the audience because it compares the legalization of abortion to The Holocaust, which is an extremely traumatic event that a majority of people would not want to see reoccur. Image B had great visual appeals because of the colors and overall ominous motif, but it simply was just not quite as convincing as Image A. Ultimately, given these points, it is evident that both images successfully used rhetorical appeals to convey the argument of The Survivors of the Abortion Holocaust that abortion is murder and that any organization that is pro-choice should not be supported. Each image had its own way in which it appealed to the audience, whether it be through logos, pathos, or kairos and both images represented this stakeholders opinion towards this conflict. Works Cited McBride, Alex. Roe v. Wade  . Public Broadcasting Service, n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Roe v.  Parenthood Action Fund . N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Who Are the  . N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Parenthood Kills Our Faith and Our N.p., n.d. Digital Image. 02 Mar. 2017 Will Not Sit Silent Through This N.p., n.d. Digital Image. 02 Mar. 2017 IMAGE A: http://img.picturequotes.com/2/26/25323/i-will-not-sit-silent-through-this-holocaust-quote-1.jpg IMAGE B: https://voicesunborn.blogspot.com/2016/08/upcoming-events-from-survivors-of.html#.WLiW2Ig rLnA