Brown 1 Amani Brown James Josue ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Empathy Through Imagery There are two sides to every controversy. The debate over the cochlear implant in children is no stranger to this common law of society; featuring the Deaf community against the population of normal-hearing parents with deaf children. In a perfect world, the deaf child would be able to freely participate in both the hearing and Deaf worlds. However, this is not the case and has led to a divide between the parties who should work together to enhance the social experience. Parents see the cochlear implant as a method to their child, and the key to their child living a life. This sentiment is offensive to the Deaf body because it paints being deaf as a disability, an ailment that limits the abilities of a deaf individual. Both parents and the Deaf community want the child to successfully participate in society, yet the way of doing this is non-inclusive of the Deaf. Consequently, the Deaf came to view the implant as a symbol of oppression that will lead to the end of Deaf culture. Below are two images that represent both sides of this controversy; Image One is a cartoon against the cochlear implant, whereas Image Two is in favor of the cochlear implant. Images One and Two garner attention from their audience through mostly manipulation of emotion with little to no facts to support their claims. Last Name 2 Image One Image Two Image One is directed at an audience of parents and depicts a before and after of a child who had the cochlear implant surgery, it also encompasses how negatively the Deaf community Last Name 3 felt about the implant. In the cartoon, there is a juxtaposition of a happy child and then an obviously upset child, this is pathos rhetoric because the audience is likely to sympathize with the child and would want to protect their own child from such a depression. That inherent urge to protect their own child could also be a testament to the kairos rhetoric established by the and A parent would want to prevent that image from happening and would avoid the cochlear implant. However, the audience could question credibility since the image was published in a Deaf newspaper, and is heavily biased. One can tell that this image is mostly geared towards making the audience feel strong emotions of word choice. The artist deliberately chose phrases like and for because there is a negative connotation attached that causes the audience to feel averse to the situation. The fact that the cartoon has zero color could attest to the time this image was made or could be because the artist want the audience to focus on colors so much as the images and words. In contrast, Image Two is in favor of the cochlear implant but is still geared towards parents. This image lists activities the girl can do with her cochlear implant, such as being able to in the wider This implies that individual who are deaf fully participate in the world because their own is narrow in comparison. Image Two shares the pathos rhetoric with Image One, as the activities listed are so simple that the audience would be happy that the girl can now do these things because of the implant. By titling this image Not My Cochlear The Auditory Verbal Therapy organization wants the audience to focus on how the implant benefits a patient and recognize the following actions as taken for granted, and to even pity the fact that the girl could not do these things before. The girl is smiling in this image which is a complete opposite from the crying child in Image One, this refutes the words in Image One as well. Even though, Image credibility is questionable, this image is endorsed by a known Last Name 4 group. The words in this image are also written to be something the girl is saying which builds credibility with the audience. Likewise, to Image One this depiction relies heavily on pathos to connect with its audience. Though both, Images One and Two connect with the parents on a personal level via manipulation of emotion with little to no facts to support their claims, Image Two could be seen as more trustworthy. Last Name 5 Works Cited Earosenzweig. FREE POSTER: This Is NOT My Cochlear  Auditory Verbal Therapy. N.p., 22 June 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.  Cochlear Implant Online How Much Better Is the Acceptance Today Comments. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.