Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense is relatively new, starting up in December 15, 2012 (Moms Demand Action). Shannon Watts, a stay at home mom, took a proactive approach under her passive lifestyle founding the organization in reaction to the Sandy Hook shooting that took place just the day prior. Moms Demand Action has become notable in its startup, having chapters in each state in the nation. Its mission is to conceptualize living in a country where all children and families are safe from gun violence (Moms Demand Action). And this organization finds it can get its way demanding action from legislators, state and federal; companies; and educational institutions to establish common-sense gun reforms (Moms Demand Action). In all fairness Moms Demand Action supports the 2 nd amendment but only until the fine line of gun violence is crossed; the public health crisis Moms Demand Action want to leave its audience is, American children or teens are shot and killed every (Moms Demand Action). Evoking fear Moms Demand Action touches a very vulnerable side in everyone, always touching on the gun violence in say urban Chicago, suburban Virginia or rural Texas. Anyone can be affect by this very really problem in our society and Moms Demand Action seek to educating, motivating and mobilizing supporters to take action to reform laws and possibly save all 7 lives young lives lost each day. Now audience-centered communication is routine if you ever took a public speaking course in college. But analyzing an audience to determine the content, language usage and listeners expectations is a skill that helps convey clear cut messages to a listener (study). So working backwards knowing this information, Moms Demand Actions first picture tailors to first the younger viewers. Seems like a given, not reading the text at all because in the smack middle of the picture there are two boys, around the age of 10 and they look like their face is full of guilt. No one else but them are standing in dismay in a gymnasium and by the looks of it a dodgeball game that been played with dodgeballs scattered all around the floor. But with the language in the text appearing above and below the boys apparent moms exclusively and other guardians of children are the intended audience not only because of the organizations name but because who else would take action to go to pta meetings where you can openly discuss the banning of a violent game like dodgeball. Also in terms of the gender of the intended audience, focus comes to males who would view the two boys of varying races as a younger version of themselves. When it comes to the second image you can say they try to captivate two different generations of men. One of the males appears to be a teen who just wants to skate appeals to the raunchy skaters in the world and the other to his right an older gentlemen who looks retired but awfully battle ready with a rifle hanging by a strap on his arm appeals to a wide range demographic of war veteran all the way down to a regular guy who is a gun freak, in an aisle of groceries. I figure the audience can be at any socioeconomic level because grocery stores usually have a range of customers even in our world of online grocery shopping, food stamps still exist and the middle class and even upper still need to buy groceries. When it comes down to it females will be magnetized to his picture because it is fixated in a grocery store although somewhat sexist true when you realize, two-thirds of women still handle most of the grocery (progressive grocer). And both pictures exude a patriarchal vibe with the scenario containing stereotypical activities that make up what males do hinting at heterosexuality peoples as a target as well. On the category of pathos, its focus is feeling and just like art it beckons the question of how does it make you feel? The first image you start asking yourself why the little boys are sad. Acknowledging the saying loves you automatically feel concern looking at the frowned mouths and the eyes piercing at the viewer. Also primed with this picture is the feeling of being uncomfortable, just look at how the kid in holding the gun as if a hired gun man. To top it all off the viewer can be left with confusion as to why a kid holding a dodgeball is seen more violent than one with an assault weapon in the eyes of what seems to be school administration or school board as they control the ins and outs of school. Strolling to the second picture, in shock as to why a skateboard, something as a student a student I use to get around every day would be banned in a grocer rather than an assault rifle. concerned for the well being of myself and my fellow man because at anytime, anyone of these shoppers at the store can in act any one of these shopping sprees that seem to become prelavant and well documented now a days. On to another point, ethos is known to envigour credibility. And just how the first image establishes credibility is that something like a school shooting such as sandy hook did in fact happen so it makes me believe that it can and would happen again. For the second image believable skateboards not being allowed in certain areas because as a fellow skateboarder its seems the world is filled with no skateboarding signs all across campus, many parking lots and public places like malls. Moving along, guns seem to be allowed in these places where many people are strumming along. Being in Florida no secret an open carry state. Open carry is illegal while in a public area but you can find a loophole while hunting, fishing, camping, gun shows or going to and from these places. Carrying on to logos, that is the ways appeal to logic and reason. So to start off both images make particularly safe zones i.e a school or grocery store seems unsafe because I now know guns are allowed at these very public places. I had no idea the focus on safety looks out for everything but one of the main killers in America where, 2013, there were 33,636 Americans killed by (cbs news). It makes me think about the future as well, because what unnecessary object will be banned before guns will. https://www.nraila.org/gun-laws/state-gun-laws/florida/ http://www.cbsnews.com/pictures/death-by-gun-top-20-states-with-highest-rates/