Megan Caudle Caudle1 Josue ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Sexual Education and the Media Sex, everywhere you look. Whether on social media, in the movie theaters, or even when watching the news. Everyone is extremely comfortable talking about sex. Unless in a school setting. Sexual education has been a hot debate for decades. Whether you are for or against it, most of the time people have strong opinions and arguments to back up their viewpoint. This had lead to many different organizations and individuals spreading their opinions and facts through various medias. In both of my images it shows two different approaches to the negative outcomes to the lack of sexual education. These images not only provide facts, but also pull at our heart strings so we can fully understand the consequences of not providing sexual education to our children. There are many pros to adolescents gaining knowledge through sexual education courses. For example, if children are properly educated they can prevent pregnancy, contracting a sexually transmitted infection and may even postpone sexual activities. However, if not properly educated the chances of these things happening is much higher. In my first image, it displays all four of the rhetorical appeals. In picture A, the image shows a crying baby and helps display the rhetorical appeal of pathos. We associate the feeling of being sad with crying and feel empathy Caudle2 towards the helpless child. Also, across the photo it says being a teen parent cost you? Expect to spend more than $10,000 a year to raise a Not only does this fact demonstrates logos, but it also displays kairos. Since logos is the appealer logic, safe to say that this factoid gives off this rhetorical appeal. One of the not so common rhetorical appeals, however, is kairos. According to Really kairos is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write, say, or perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing so. It is displayed in this picture when it mentions the amount of money a child could cost you per year. Finally, the last rhetorical appeal that is shown in this image is ethos. In the bottom right hand corner of the image there is a logo. This gives the viewer reassurance that the information provided is credible. Sexual education can be discussed in multiple ways. For example, you can take the route of using facts and installing fear by showing pictures of sexually transmitted infection. However, in picture B the artist took a more humorous route. The picture is of a mother and two children. The mother clearly states that she would never want her daughter participating in sexual education. Now the kicker? The daughter also states that she want her daughter participating as well. This would mean that both of the kids are not both her daughter, but one is her grand child. There is only one clear rhetorical appeal this image depicts and that is pathos. We see that one of the aspects of humor in this photo is irony. The fact that the daughter want the grandchild to have sexual education after seeing the effects that the lack of education Caudle3 has had on her is laughable. This brings out many emotions. The emotions that it brings out is at first happiness and after a realization it brings out sadness. The image is ironic which causes you to laugh and laughter leads to happiness. However, as you closely examine the image, you start to feel sorry for the girl. You realize because of the lack of sexual education she is now in a situation that will forever have an impact on her life. This then leads you to feel sad and sorry for the poor girl. It makes you think sexual education really needs to be part of the curriculum in school so that no child should ever have to experience parenthood before the appropriate age. Through this heated debate we have seen that sexual education is not something that should be taken lightly. We have seen multiple ways people express their opinions through the media. They have used different rhetorical appeals to inform us and to get us to really think about the subject at hand. One of the most prominent appeals that was shown was pathos. Since many people are convinced by the way they feel, the artists thought pathos was the perfect approach to talk about sexual education. It is important for us to understand the appeals before looking at the pictures. That way we can fully understand the intentions.