Abdelbari 1 Omar Abdelbari Ms.Heiser ENC1102 February 25, 2017 Skeptics and Religious Discrepancies Areas of the world and even parts within a country can be separated by religious views. Though religion can be considered as the sieve, most religious groups argue that their respective beliefs does the opposite; it brings people together. But with many different religions in the world, surely, they all bring people together but they all have very different standpoints, values and outlooks on the world. This causes a congregation of large but separated groups of people. In sequence, it is no surprise that religion has been one of the greatest causes of war in the world, all attributing to the very differences that they share. Millions of people have died and still continue to die in battle to preserve and serve their religious belief, which when studied has a lot unaccounted for. The inconsistencies within religious scriptures is what skeptics and atheists base their beliefs on. One such organization is the Backyard Skeptics (BYS). They are the largest Atheists group in the USA, with over 1500 members located in California. Their purpose is to promote beliefs based on reason, science and humanity which they believe will lead to a more peaceful world. They nullify many religious beliefs through this concept and question the morals and validity of many of the passages, particularly in the Holy Bible. Organizations such as the BYS often spread share their messages through the use of clever imagery, depicting or alluding to famous passages, within the Holy Bible, questioning its validity and/or its moral position in society. Abdelbari 2 The Backyard Skeptics was founded in 2012 by Long Island University Graduate Bruce Gleason. Bruce is the main lecturer and even one of the main designers of the billboards and advertisements the organization uses. He has been on the Board of Directors for the Atheists United, USA branch, an organization that spreads the same Atheists beliefs all across the world. The design Bruce and his organization uses in their advertisement, always seems to question either the validity or moral position of religion. This can be seen in image one; the billboard they put up in California. On this billboard, the BYS boldly alludes to the Biblical story in the Book of Genesis, The Flood. In this part of the Bible, God ordered Noah to build an Ark to save his immediate family, and two of every kind of beast before the flood that he was bringing. The purpose of the flood was to wash away the earth of wickedness and the sin (Genesis 6-21). This seems to symbolize the reverse of creation or starting over the world. Many Christians today still believe this event actually happened though scientifically impossible. Electrical Engineer graduate from the University of Georgia Marshall Brain on his famous website stuff explains the impossibility of voyage. He states that with the volume of water the earth was said to be covered in, the ark Noah built could have never made it. He also says that there was no account made for the needs of the animal and how they were met. The BYS highlights this Biblical fallacy on their billboard, directing their logic to an audience of Christians. The credible organization backs the message, the Thought an organization who is governed by many brilliant minds that scientifically account for the existence. Also, the BYS, accredits the image even further using the story to get their message across, as many people consider the Bible to be a stern source for the history of the Abdelbari 3 world. They logically question the facts of the story by stating inches in an hour = indicating that when the Bible spoke of the volume of the water the flood of the earth had, it would be so impossible and could be described as nonsensical or illogical. They also appeal to the emotions of the reader, questioning them as to other Biblical nonsense is This perhaps was used to make Christians then feel insecure of other teachings in the Bible. The use of the raindrops and umbrella could be a symbol of protection, i.e., to protect oneself of the false messages that the Bible may outline, the rain as the message, and the umbrella to protect yourself from it. The BYS does not just create their own images, but also makes use of hidden visual rhetoric in some famous images to support their claim. Gleason talks about Da last supper painting in his lecture, indicating that the last supper was where Christ told his apostles that one of them would betray them. He does this in an attempt to liken the actions of man today to that of Jesus and his apostles, saying that the painting is a constant reminder that Jesus had sinful men behind him. Da Vinci was indeed known for creating very cryptic work and they were several beliefs around the purpose of this iconic painting. The BYS attempts to say that this could have been possibly Da purpose of painting this scene, to remind man of the start of Religious war because Da Vinci lived in a time where they were many Christian disputes. The last supper depicts the reaction of Jesus and his twelve apostles after his announcement. The painting has many appeals to logic. The appeal to the number 3 for example, the three sets of windows, the people aligned in groups of threes and the formation of the triangles between Jesus and the man to His left, John, Andrew and Peter, and Phillip and Matthew is said to hint toward the Holy Trinity and the sign for that being a triangle. They also show Peter holding a knife, who would later cut a ear off to prevent the arrest of Jesus, which can allude to the organization saying this is the start of religious war because after that, Abdelbari 4 violent outbursts in the Bible began. It also shows Judas grasping a bag, thought to be his payment to betray Jesus, perhaps also playing into the organization saying that this was where people began to use faith for personal gain. This picture also appeals to emotions as almost every apostle shows different emotions pertaining to their role in the story. Peter is clearly mad as he is grasping the knife and others such as Thomas and Andrew seemed to have very worried looks on their faces. Judas however, is not moved from his seat and is in a slouching position indicating guilt, as he is soon found out to be the traitor. But perhaps the biggest piece of evidence in this painting to support the BYS is the fact that Leonardo did not include the Halos over the men in his version of the painting. In previous paintings of this scene, artists included halos over all the men in the picture except Judas the traitor. But interestingly, Leonardo does not, as if to say that the men at the table are alike; they are all men. The halos would separate the angelic innocent people from Judas but here the halo was omitted. This plays perfectly into the BYS theory that man of then and now are all alike, as Leonardo likened Judas to everyone else by not including the halo. It is important to understand the visual rhetoric behind many images in order to clearly understand what that organization stands for. In the images presented here, if one critically break down the images, their message could have been misunderstood and manipulated. Critically breaking down the billboard and the last supper shows that the BYS questions both the validity and moral of religious views which is important as millions of people pattern their lives off religious belief. Encountering people of religious aspects would then tell something about character. Misinterpreting a religious image would then mean misinterpreting a character. Abdelbari 5 Works Cited Backyard Skeptics. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Gleason, Bruce. Backyard  Freethought Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Learn How Everything  HowStuffWorks. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. The Holy Bible. Sunbury-on-Thames: Nelson, 1966. Print. Image 1. Image 2 Abdelbari 6 Image 2 with positions of the various apostles.