Caceres !1 Karina Caceres James Josue ENC 1102 March 4, 2017 Euthanasia Visual Rhetoric The campaign for Dignity in Dying is an organization run by Sarah Wootton that supports and fights for dying people to have a choice/option to control their own death in the United Kingdom. Although their base argument is not inclusive of the United States, this organization cares about the global progression of assisted dying. Dignity in Dying makes sure to explicitly state the fact that they are only in support of the dying person being in control of their death and not permission for someone to end life. Currently the law in the United Kingdom is not working due to the fact there are so many drastic measures in order to be assisted in dying that people are willing to travel far or take their own lives at home. The cartoon picture (to the left) is Caceres !2 a take on how the government tries to make choices for the people, and the second picture (to the right) is meant to campaign to our broken by bringing people together. The cartoon picture plays on ethos by including the campaign for Dignity in Dying logo in the bottom left hand corner of the drawing. The audience sees the logo and immediately knows that the drawing is backed by an organization that is educated on the topic of euthanasia. This organization has even done extensive research to prove that a legalization for assisted dying would completely work with in their society. The same picture uses pathos by having an old man depicted as old and ill who is looking for the right to choose his fate, but the government is de- liberately making choices for him. From looking at this photo the audience knows that since this organization is requesting a law change that is to terminally ill and mentally competent their hearts can hurt over the fact that this old man will not be able to choose for himself. This drawing brings kairos into the mix because since the man is suffering and elderly, a choice needs to be made regarding the law, so that this man can find his fate. Ultimately causing the au- dience to want to help change the law in a timely manor. This cartoon does not argue the case flawlessly though; there is a hasty generalization that causes the government to look corrupt. The audience could assume that since there is no explanation as to why the government is hesitant in changing the law, that it is simply because they are corrupt in their ways. The picture to the right uses ethos by proving both the campaign logo and the Crowdfun- der logo/website url. Considering that Crowdfunder is an online group that funds business ideas, charities, people in need, and much more to create change, when the audience views this spon- sorship they are able to trust this argument. By using Crowdfunder the campaign for Dignity in Dying is raising money to create billboards all over the UK, in hopes that by widely spreading Caceres !3 the cause for change people will join to make this change. Since this picture includes a very fa- mous celebrity, Patrick Stewart, the audience will find that they should look into the campaign an support since someone they look up to obviously does. Patrick Stewart is meant to be portrayed posing for a picture while a protest is blurred behind him, showing that he stands so much for this situation that he will go as far as to protest for it; by using such a notable actor the audience is very likely to further trust the campaign. By claiming that the law is the picture ap- peals to kairos, because the audience will feel as though they need to fix the law within a certain amount of time. The website for the campaign provides an explanation as to why the current law in the United Kingdom does not work: dying people from asking for medical help to which causes people to take their own lives without the help of a professional, or ill people are forced to travel great lengths to finally end their sufferings. Both pictures depict the argument made by the campaign for Dignity in Dying to fix and properly legalize assisted dying in the United Kingdom, and to support Dignity in Dying global- ly. By using ethos, logos, pathos and minimizing the amount of fallacies within their argument, this campaign was able to raise 20,000+ euros to support the end of suffering for ill and mentally capable adults. Caceres !4 Work Cited Join the  Dignity in Dying. Sarah Wootton, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Help Fix Our Broken Assisted Dying  , a Community Crowdfunding Project in London, United Kingdom on Crowdfunder. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.