1 Morris Dylan Morris Josue ENC 1102 3/3/2017 PHOTO ONE PHOTO TWO Padding in Professional Football The modern world is full of people who love to rally behind a group or idea. This desire to be a part of a bigger group is one of the reasons that American football thrives. But like any mainstream media, there are flaws. One flaw of professional football today is the amount of injuries sustained by players. While some argue that more pads are needed in the sport for protection, just as many people also argue that the excessive pads tend to weaponize the players and make them feel invincible. Both parties tend to lean on visual aides to help them get their point across. Although the images are both quite effective, there are each working in extremely different ways. 2 Morris At first glance, Photo One seems like just a traditional historic photograph. Which it is in a literal sense but it is also so much more. The National Football League Association (NFLPA) used this photograph to represent their movement or their campaign to get pads removed from the game of football. The photo here is Sammy Baugh, a quarterback from the on a traditional Sunday. Through this picture, the NFLPA uses logos and logically explains that if football was successfully played with less padding in the past, then why can it not be that way now? In support of their idea Erik Schwartz, a professor of kinesiology at the University of New Hampshire, compared the retro game of football to current day rugby by saying, keep your head out of the way in a tackle in rugby. Because not protected, it will (Schwartz 2014) This debate has been picking up a ton of steam in the last few years and even a few D1 college football teams have begun practicing implementing the no pad rule. In addition to using logos to make the audience stop and think, the photograph also puts pathos to use. The picture reaches the emotions mainly to people over the age of 70 who grew up around this type of football. The people who consider this type of football the Quarterback Sammy Baugh is used here for a reason, he was the best quarterback of the 1940s. Instantly recognizable by any person that considers themselves a fan of that era of football. The picture is also dated in the sense that it is in black and white. That stylistic choice informs us that this was not a photo taken recently. By bringing up this nostalgic feeling the hearts of many evokes a desire to have this football back. Bring back those they will say. Using the era of football is also a form of kairos as well. It uses the decade of as a timeframe to target an audience. Meanwhile the NFLPA just sits back and collects 3 Morris the overwhelming support coming in all because they could effectively use logos, pathos, and Kairos. Photo two is much different than the first picture analyzed. Everyone can see the obvious differences, now we have color and a child as opposed to many black and white men. But little do we know that this is all done for a reason. This picture is used by a Huffington Post writer and Mothers United advocate, Charlotte Jones Anderson. For most people this photo causes a very strong, immediate emotional response. The picture uses pathos to make us care for the young boy in the picture as if that was our child, or our brother, or our grandchild. The softer colors in the background stand out to let us know that the child is the focal point here. Anderson is conveying the point that football is much more than a game. Every player we see on that field is husband, father, son, etc. Safety should be a priority. In making safety a priority, Anderson argues for more pads to be introduced into the game. She backs up her point by sharing the ideas of the University of South football team. The University of South Carolina has begun using a new, additional pad in their practice called guardian This cap is a sleeve that goes over a helmet, surrounding it with additional pads to help it alleviate pressure from full contact tackles. In its use, the guardian cap reduced head impact on tackles up to 33% (USA Today 2013). Anderson uses the picture to raise awareness and propose an idea, and then follows that by providing evidence that it can be done. The use of pathos in this picture with the young boy strongly targets an audience of those fans who are family friendly. On top of pathos, there is a strong play on the character of the child in the picture, or what we would see as ethos. The emotion in the eyes and the feeling that he is in a dangerous game or out of place portrays him as being very innocence. People trust and 4 Morris feel close to people who are innocent. This innocence cause the audience to want to extend a helping hand to the young boy. It may be moms or sisters or maybe even just people who are nice enough to care. Either way, it cannot be denied that this photograph is effective. After carefully dissecting each photo, it is very clear what the purposes of these stakeholders are. Both stakeholders emphasize pathos to get the audience to genuinely care for their cause. Whether it is nostalgia or love, the audience feels connected with the subject matter at hand. In addition to pathos, the pictures and organizations behind them use a variety of other tactic like ethos, logos, and kairos to drive their point home. So even though the journey is different, both examples reach the same goal. The NFLPA uses photo one to argue for less padding in professional football, while Charlotte Jones Anderson and Mothers United use photo two to argue for more pads and a safer game of football. It is up to us to use our voices to say who did it better. 5 Morris Works Cited Anderson, Charlotte Jones. What Every Parent Should Know: Making Football Better and Safer for Our  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 17 Sept. 2013. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Players Drill Without Helmets To Curb NPR. NPR, 11 Dec. 2014 Web. 3 Mar. 2017 Mravic, Mark. Sammy Baugh, 1943: The Greatest  The MMQB. Sports Illustrated, 14 Nov. 2013. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Sports, Gary Mihoces, Padding the Issue of Concussions and Better USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 23 Aug. 2013 Web. 3 Mar. 2017.