Dang 1 Si Dang Instructor: Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 06 March 2017 Give Them Safe Water Water is the key to life on the Earth. Fresh water is very important to maintain the quality of human life. According to The Water Project organization, about 80% of illnesses in developing countries are linked to dirty water and sanitation conditions Because of that, The Water Project (TWP) established missions to help the people in some countries especially in Africa by providing reliable water projects to the communities. TWP and their supporters build wells for accessing clean and safe water. They also provide money for the native people. The Water Project revealed the reason they do this work is because they are Christians. believe this distinction allows us to work with people of all backgrounds and faiths for the benefit of all people. Our projects do not discriminate on the basis of race, creed, ethnic or religious backgrounds. We serve They have to share what they have with others who do not have it. Going through the TWP gallery on their website, the audiences can easily notice that the main elements for their advertisements are the picture of children living in the unsafe water areas in Africa. TWP try to share every unseen angle about unsafe water pictures and raise the hope to have wells in the community of the African people especially for the children. The Water Project tries to connect people around the world to support them by giving financial help or material supplies to build water constructions. They are using images of their work to advertise their mission on social media networks. The images in this essay will Dang 2 prove their intention is to help the people who have the ability to support their projects through donations and volunteers. Throughout the years, TWP has posted hundreds of images onto their social media to advertise their organization. Children became the elements for their images because the picture of adorable children would influence the heart. The advertisement presented in Figure 1 with a title is an adorable African child with a happy face and her water. The image is not only but it is also her life and the future of a country because children are precious assets of a nation. Everyone knows that Africa is the continent with a lack of fresh water and the color representation of black. The author used the color green like water to wrap the image of the girl to show a fresh look like a new thing is coming up in her life. The phrase is very special because the word is larger than the word Hope is the most important thing for children as hope will lead them to do good things in their future. The word in white means she and her hope are new straightforward. She does not hope for any great things, her hope is fresh water, and now she has that. Another aspect of Figure 1 is an extended phrase gift of safe water gives life and connects you to her future. Through relational reporting, you will see exactly how. We are ready to celebrate the hope your gift of safe water Most of the girls in Africa are living with this poor condition. They have to get about 40 pounds of dirty water far away from their house every day so it can prevent their ability to attend to school If they can have a well in the community, it will save the children time and use that time for their school. A well is not only a gift, a well is also a bridge which connects to the future of children in Africa. TWP used mostly pathos appeal (an appeal to emotion) and logos (the appeal to logic) in the Figure 1 by the image of the little girl with a happy face (Hoffman, Allyson, et al. 32 -37). Dang 3 emotion might affect the love of hearts. Logically shown that she has satisfied with water, she will have a happy life and a successful future. The logic presented in this phrase shows a good life depends on the conditions. According to the article Education in Africa and Water, of clean water has serious effects on academic performance and attendance because the students cannot study well while they have to face with stomach pains and diarrhea from disease and hunger Besides the appeal of logos and pathos, the image used Kairos (an appeal to timeliness) to appeal as well (Hoffman, Allyson, et al. 27 - 41). TWP also said leaves little time for education which is critical to changing the long-term prospects of developing nations It is a critical thing that can impact the development of a country. As we know, education is the best way to change the world for the better. A child who lost an education is a minor issue for a country, but many children losing their studies is a major problem for the world. In recent campaigns, TWP tends to focus on the connection of poor water to the health. Children are the key element in the TWP advertisements because their targets mostly people who became parents. The advertisement presented in Figure 2 is a specific evidence of using the images of children, especially students, to touch the empathetic of their target audiences. In the 21 st century, people will not approve of dirty drinking water because of the main concern of health. Humans own the best technology and was invented to make human life better. In Figure 2, the phrase from drinking dirty water and the time lost fetching it robs entire communities of their and author wanted to show the failing of using dirty water with the future especially young generation. Take a look at figure 2 again; the audiences can see the image of students is getting water in a foul canal. According to the article Water, Health and Ecosystems related to Dang 4 unsafe water, sanitation and hygiene result in an estimated 1.7 million deaths every The number of death from drinking dirty water is more than natural disaster. As we know, clean and fresh water has a blue and clear color, but water in the canal in Figure 2 is a dark yellow color. Every day, people lacking clean water areas have to move about 4 miles to get water. If they had a well in their village, they could save necessary time to do something else A well in their community will be the biggest gift to these people because they can get clean water close their home and they need to take a long trip to get water every day. The most important point in Figure 2 is the use of logos presented in two logic phrases: and Besides logos, there are other visual representations in Figure 2 such as pathos and ethos. The picture of five children in school uniforms taking unsafe water made the viewers who have children infuriated. In many other countries, children need to care about unsafe water issue or take a 4 miles trip to get water every day because that is the duty. These children just go to school and take part in some entertaintment activities that suitable for their age. Also, empathy might impact the audience because they were unable to support these children. Using the pictures of children and students dealing with the unsafe water issue is a smart strategy of TWP. Student and children are the symbols of happiness, love and future. The two symbols have made target audiences feel empathy and mercy. TWP was excellent utilizing emotion such as empathy and happiness by using the picture of the The anger and empathy evoked by the picture of the unsafe canal and the students who have to drink this water for energy to work towards received much response their future. All of these elements built the image of TWP in the eyes of audiences as an organization who works for the mutual Dang 5 benefits. It also helps TWP compile their goals and missions of getting the support to build the water constructions from the people who have the heart of love. Nearly every one of us is living in communities with clean and fresh water, but in some places in Africa, there are communities facing a life with unsafe water conditions. Aside from the poor living conditions of African people, TWP also tries to connect people who can provide financial help or volunteer to build the wells. The images of the happy faces of children and poor women in Africa helped TWP construct the wells with their advertisements. Based on some elements of humanity, empathy and mercy, TWP has gotten the aid from supporters around the world by giving help to the water project constructions. Also, the images brought attention to the habit of wasting water of someone when living in the modern living conditions. Dang 6 Works Cited Education in Africa and  The Water Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. The Water Project. Facebook. 06 Mar. 2017. https://www.facebook.com/10157340350960128 Real Problems. Real People. Real  The Water Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. and The Water Project. Facebook. 06 Mar. 2017. https://www.facebook.com/10156524483310128 Water, Health, and  WHO. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016.E-text. Dang 7 Figure 1: her HOPE Figure 2: Water and Future