Chen 1 Wei Chen Gregory Van Winkle ENC1102 22 February 2017 Visual Rhetoric of KXL The construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline (KXL) has been recently approved by President Donald Trump in hope to bring economic boom to the U.S. (TransCanada). Though the decision has been praised by economists, environmental groups have heavily disapproved its construction for potential oil spills and groundwater contamination if not constructed properly (Friends of the Earth). TransCanada, the energy company hosting the construction, has recently updated their website to convince readers that the pipeline will be a benefit, adding pictures that portray its workers as hardworking and down-to-earth. Although these images may seem convincing, they are a form of propaganda to sway people from considering KXL as an environmentally destructive decision. TransCanada is a major energy company hosting construction. Based in Canada, the company aims to the leading energy infrastructure company in North America, with a strong focus on pipelines and power generation opportunities located in regions where have or can develop significant competitive (TransCanada). KXL is projected to provide domestic oil and revenue for the U.S. economy, but groups such as Greenpeace oppose its construction, stating that sand oil is expensive to mine and exploit, making the pipeline much less financially attractive than when it was (Greenpeace). TransCanada uses images of the employees at work on their website pages to persuade environmentalists that the construction is beneficial. Chen 2 The first picture depicts TransCanada workers planning out the pipeline to show how organized and efficient the pipeline construction will be. One of the workers is shown holding a clipboard and pointing at the paper as the other watches intently, showing the audience that TransCanada employees are cooperative and focused on their job. The white color of the helmets signifies the purity of their work while the blue color of their jackets symbolizes wisdom and loyalty (Color Wheel). The cloudy sky shows that, no matter the obstacle, TransCanada will do anything to get the job done. The image is targeted towards people interested in the pipeline, regardless of bias. Because the pipeline is projected to increase employment rates, the image may appeal more to the unemployed and lower class, as they feel a more personal connection between them and the workers. TransCanada uses the picture to assure the reader that no environmental hazards will happen. Ethos is an appeal to the credibility of the persuader (YourDictionary). This is apparent in the image, showing how TransCanada wants people to know that they will finish the job in an efficient matter. Environmentalists argue that poor construction of the pipeline will result in oil spills and contaminate groundwater supplies (Friends of the Earth). To counteract this point, TransCanada utilizes the image as a way of saying that they are a reliable company that can be trusted. Logos, an appeal to logic, is also used, showing how TransCanada will bring prosperity to the American economy; if the pipeline workers are organized, then the pipeline should be well made (YourDictionary). Additionally, pathos, an appeal to emotions, is used to inform to the people skeptical of the pipeline (YourDictionary). TransCanada wants people to feel happy that the pipeline construction will give citizens jobs and money, that the uniforms and safety procedures will make people feel secure, confident, and safe. Chen 3 The second picture used is meant to show how the executives of TransCanada are confident and collaborative people willing to come to compromises in order to reach an agreement. Leaders are supposed to be confident in their decisions and know what they are doing. The audience is similar to the previous paragraph, targeting people from both sides of the controversial debate. People that are middle aged and older may be specifically targeted, as society assumes that wiser people are usually old. Five middle-aged men are captured discussing plans for the construction of KXL. The assumed leader of the group has his hands spread in a charismatic matter, explaining a plan for the pipeline as the other men are focused at what saying. His white shirt symbolizes the innocence of his personality, making him appear charismatic without uttering a single word (Color Wheel). This combined with the mild appearances of green in the image symbolize the harmony of the ideas he is speaking (Color Wheel). TransCanada uses the picture to show the trustworthiness of their leadership team, attempting to convince the audience that the executives of the company are not deceiving. The second image heavily reflects ethos, showing the credibility of team through the appearance of trust. Greenpeace is skeptical of leaders, claiming that the company needs Clean Water Act and the National Environmental Protection (Greenpeace). This image attempts to convince them that the leaders will take care of environmental issues. Pathos is also utilized; the audience is supposed to feel relieved and optimistic that charismatic leaders are working together to create an environmentally friendly pipeline. In addition, their semi-formal clothing reflects their willingness to put themselves in a blue-collar job, as suits are perceived to be what people wear in corporate companies. This gives the audience an impression that they should not feel . Logos is used to show that the pipeline will meet environmental standards if the leaders are openly Chen 4 honest and hardworking. The timeliness of adding the team discussion image to website persuades the audience to consider that, even if certain media outlets claim oil corporations are trying to exploit extraction operations [to make the leaders are not as corrupt as the media exaggerates them to be (Greenpeace). The rhetorical appeals found in first and second image creates an idea that the company is honest, using credibility, logic, emotions and timeliness to target the skepticism and inform them of the benefits to building the pipeline. Both images convey a similar message that the company is innovative and cooperative. employees are illustrated in the pictures to represent KXL and support the credibility. Older people may view the group of men in the second image as a credible source for their experienced leadership behavior. The unemployed may view the workers in image one as a credible source for their devotion to their job. TransCanada persuades the audience into thinking that the company is composed of honest, hardworking people that are willing to get the job done effectively and efficiently. TransCanada utilizes images to reinforce credibility and support for the construction of KXL. Using visual examples helps to promote the idea that building the pipeline will not be as detrimental despite controversy from environmental groups, illustrating people hard at work for the benefit of the economy and their country. TransCanada takes advantage of demographics and targets the older population, convincing them that an aged, experienced group of leaders and workers are wiser than their younger adolescent counterparts. The company uses images of their employees working to show, in an assuring matter, that they will be the leading energy company in North America. Chen 5 Works Cited Keystone XL Pipeline  TransCanada Corporation. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Keystone XL  Friends of the Earth. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Coleman, Jesse. Why Dakota Access and Keystone XL Pipeline Plans Add  Greenpeace International. Greenpeace, 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. YourDictionary. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and  YourDictionary. N.p., 21 June 2016. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. TransCanada employees at work. Digital image. TransCanada. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. TransCanada executives discussing plans. Digital image. TransCanada. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Chen 6