Carr 1 MacKenzie Carr Professor Gregory Van Winkle ENC1102 12 March 2017 NNIRR: Borders That Restrict In 2016 the refugee rate increased seventeen percent in the United States of America, due to the high demand of refugees fleeing to a country outside of their homeland (Baral, Susmita. Refugee Crisis 2016 In Europe: Death Toll And Migrant Arrival Increases, Statistics  International Business Times . International Business Times, 10 Aug. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.). In November of 2016, newly elected President Donald Trump reiterated his focus to build a wall preventing people from Mexico entering the United States of America. The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (NNIRR) is a national organization that believes in protecting all rights of immigrants worldwide. NNIRR has been protecting immigrant rights for over twenty five years  National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.). NNIR is fighting against the Mexican-American wall from being built, as well as blockades in the legal system. Their goal is to fight legal and physical borders and eliminate inequality of any and all immigrants worldwide. The NNIRR uses impacting images with rhetorical appeals to bring this inhumane worldwide issue to the platform, and to spread awareness of the heightened numbers of illegal immigrants that need our help. The NNIRR believes in not only bringing issues to the platform, but educates individuals worldwide on serious issues that need to be fixed. It serves as a forum to share information and Carr 2 analysis, to educate communities and the general public, and to develop and coordinate plans of action on important immigrant and refugee issues. We work to promote a just immigration and refugee policy in the United States and to defend and expand the rights of all immigrants and refugees, regardless of immigration Our  Mission National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.). Within their twenty five years of serving illegal immigrants worldwide, they have made vast accomplishments. Accomplishments such as, during the initial days of the Obama Administration, NNIRR produced an Letter to Barack that was endorsed by over 3,500 diverse individuals and organizations from 49 states and the District of  National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. NNIRR has taken vast measures to defend illegal immigrants worldwide in many different ways. One of the ways that NNIRR has spread awareness of the poor care illegal immigrants endure on a daily basis is through imagery. The first image that is presented by NNIRR is a visual of a mass group of individuals pushed together. This image is found on their home website on a slideshow of pictures. There is both imagery, and worded context presented in this photo. The context reads, Rights at International Borders. Recommended Principles and across the entire image. The imagery consist of hundreds of thousands of individuals pushed together as if they are a herd of animals. The majority of the individuals presented in this image have a suitcase with them, insinuating that they are looking for a new home. The intended goal of this image, is Carr 3 to spread awareness to an audience that consists of first world citizens that have a voice in the matter. The rhetorical appeals that are utilized in this image consist of pathos, logos, and kairos. The image shown lacks the rhetorical appeal of ethos because there is no water mark of their organization name. The image shown utilizes the rhetorical appeal of pathos, which evokes emotion. They are successful in this appeal because they show the true battle that illegal immigrants fight everyday of their life. The battle is to find a safe home for themselves, as well as their family. They utilize the rhetorical appeal of logos, the appeal of reason. They are showing how illogical an issue like immigration is. They want the audience to understand they must welcome their neighbors, or the mass amount of immigrants will rise and the problem will grow. The image utilizes the rhetorical appeal of kairos, the appeal of time, by stressing how quickly this issue has arisen. The NNIR really heightens their voice in immigration, and pushes to lessen the issue of immigration. They believe in respecting lives of all individuals, no matter where their homeland is geographically placed. In image two, you can see an image of one man holding a sign that reads, need legalization now!! There is a crowd of people around the man, insinuating he is not alone in this political view. The point of the image is to stand up for what you believe is right, no matter what measures you must take. Image two can also be found on their homepage slideshow. This image has both visual imagery, as well as contextual imagery. The visual imagery shows a large group of protestors demanding respect as Mexican immigrants. The spanish shown on the shirt with Carr 4 Spanish writing on the right side of the image insinuates this group of protesters are Mexican-Spanish citizens. The main focus of the image is a man holding a sign that states, need legalization now. The intended goal of this visual image shown on website is to take action for illegal immigrants. The intended audience for this specific image is those who live in first world countries, who can make a difference in accepting immigrants into their home country. The rhetorical appeals that are utilized in this image is ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. The image utilized the rhetorical appeal of ethos, the appeal of credibility, by showing that the NNIRR really know about this topic, because they take action in situations. The image utilizes the rhetorical appeal of pathos by showing what identity truly entails. They believe in standing together as a unit, and fighting for what is right. NNIRR believes in taking action, no matter what the measure may be. They not only believe in respect, but they demand it. Image two utilizes the rhetorical appeal of logos by visually stating that if we do not take action in this very serious issue, many lives will be affected in a very negative way. If we do not demand respect, we will not receive it. Image two utilized the rhetorical appeal of kairos with the context in the sign. We need now. The point of the image is to really demand respect now or we will not receive it. The two images that are shown through website is to show how severe of a situation immigration is. The legal, and physical borders that are being made against immigrants are ruining lives around the world. NNIR demands legalization, as well as respect for all human lives. Although there is a lack of ethos shown within the pictures, there is such a strong wave of the other rhetorical appeals. Within the two images, NNIR has really conveyed who they are as Carr 5 an organization, within strength and action. NNIR has conveyed their overall mission and goal, legalization for all immigrants. In 2016 the refugee rate increased seventeen percent, due to the high demand of refugees fleeing to a country outside of their homeland. goal is to fight legal and physical borders and eliminate any inequality of any and all immigrants of the world. NNIR is fighting against the Mexican-American wall from being built, as well as blockades in the legal system. Their goal is to fight legal and physical borders and eliminate inequality of any and all immigrants worldwide. The NNIRR uses impacting images with rhetorical appeals to bring this inhumane worldwide issue to the platform, and to spread awareness of the heightened numbers of illegal immigrants that need our help. With the effective images conveyed on their website, they have achieved their main goal. The goal to educate those who can make a difference in the heightening numbers of illegal immigrants worldwide. To learn more about how you can help visit Image One: Carr 6 http://www.nnirr.org/drupal/ Image Two: http://www.nnirr.org/drupal/programs/immigration-policy-reform-program Carr 7 Works Cited Human Rights at International Borders . Digital image. . The National Network Carr 8 for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nnirr.org/drupal/>. Immigration Policy Reform . Digital image. National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . The National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Baral, Susmita. Refugee Crisis 2016 In Europe: Death Toll And Migrant Arrival Increases, Statistics  Business Times . International Business Times, 10 Aug. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Our  Mission National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights . National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.