Bond 1 Jazz Bond ENC 1102 Van Winkle 24 February 2017 Anorexia Nervosa At least 30 million people of all ages and genders suffer from an eating disorder in the U.S and every 62 minutes at least one person dies as a result (Eating Disorder Statistics). Anorexia Nervosa is a dangerous disorder that typically starts during puberty in young girls who strive to have the body image. People who suffer from this disorder restrict themselves from eating food because they believe they are overweight. The National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders, also known as ANAD, is a non-profit organization that provides help for patients struggling with an eating disorder, along with their family. ANAD is one of the oldest organizations for fighting eating disorders. ANAD published two images that serve to represent their beliefs on the debilitating effects of anorexia nervosa, inspiring those affected to seek help from the organization and increasing the awareness of the problem to the general public with the hope of eventually putting an end to this devastating disease. According to ANAD, anorexia is the third most common chronic condition among adolescents (Pawlowski). ANAD was started in the 1970s by Vivian Hanson Meehan, who was a nurse at a hospital in Illinois Meehan first came in contact with anorexia when a family member was diagnosed, but did not know any information on how to help treat it. After several months of research Meehan figured that she should help families and patients by opening a helpline for anyone going through Bond 1 anorexia and related disorders. mission statement is to alleviate suffering and provide support for those afflicted with eating . There are several videos and blogs on the ANAD website to help encourage and strengthen those who are going through this disorder. Young women sometimes try to do anything in order to fulfill their dreams of having the Image one features an exhausted woman in mid-workout. The image uses attention-grabbing colors and selective focus so that the main focus is on her face. It is mainly directed at those who may have a problem with anorexia or over exercising, or could also be directed at the general to help raise awareness of these issues. The image gives off a very solemn, serious tone that makes the audience have a sense of urgency or to take a call to action for those who are affected to get help. Pathos is apparent in the image, ANAD shows the young woman with a distressed look on her face, which stirs up emotion with the audience. This may also cause concern, sadness, and worry among those who come in contact with this image. her to sends a positive message out to those who are suffering from anorexia. It makes those who are affected have hope for the future and a feeling of not being alone. Logos is also apparent in this image by describing indisputable facts such as, exercise IS healthy and compulsive exercise may signal a problem. Ethos established credibility by implementing resources at the bottom of the images. It gives the organizations name and logo, provides a website name, and even a phone number. Millions of people suffer from anorexia, but the majority fighting this disease is young women. Image 2 is an organized informative advertisement that has four main quadrants of information. There are many diagrams that are black and white but this one Bond 1 has color that draws attention to the audience. It is directed to the general public to increase awareness and help affected people. This image mainly displays dignified and informative tones, which are somewhat of an uneasy tone, as the stats shown can be emotionally disturbing. It also serves to inform the general public of this disease so that it can be prevented or treated. Even though you cannot visually see sadness from young women suffering from anorexia in this picture, it is still devastating to look at these facts. This image heavily focuses on ethos by giving the source of all that stats at the bottom (ANAD), which is an established and credible source. It also presents a plethora of facts and statistics, which add to the credibility of the claims. With pathos, the stat that says 6 percent die appeals to the emotions of sympathy, worry, and even fear. The pie chart shows that the majorities occur before the age of 20. Many people have a strong emotional attachment to their children, so this appeals to emotion even more. Logos is introduced by the chart giving a variety of relevant facts that make the case for why this disease is so debilitating. It is represented by exact facts, presents the definition of anorexia, and gives facts about the onset and duration. Both images work together to meet goals. They raise awareness to the general public about anorexia and give a call to action to those affected to get help. Image 2 functions mainly to identify the problem, while image 1 aims to get those affected to reach out for help. They also both appeal to the emotions and reasons of the viewers in order to successfully impact them. All in all they work together to reach the goal of ANAD: raise awareness in order for those affected to receive treatments. Bond 1 Anorexia Nervosa is a very powerful disorder that can be reduced in prevalence if society takes a stand to help prevent it. Clearly, the advertisements depicted represent a successful attempt at promoting major goal. Pathos, logos, and ethos worked together to make them impactful. Also the visual appeals caught the attention and made them memorable. All in all, the ads served to further the purpose of ANAD. Bond 1 Works Cited Eating Disorder Statistics National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated  National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Our Mission National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated  National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Pawlowski, Cheryl, PhD and LeAnna, PhD DeAngelo. Anorexia  Medical Guide (Online Edition), January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=ers&AN=86193892&site=eds-live. Bond 1