Student 1 Student Professor Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Should the federal minimum wage be increased to $15 in states such as North Carolina An increase of the minimum wage to $15 has now become a sensitive case for both the working population and business owners. In this delicate issue, some argue for an increase stating that the current rate is unjust while some say it is necessary for the economy to strive. Fightfor$15 is one of many distinct organizations who support the movement towards an increase to $15. Distinctly comprising of a vast population of workers who are directly affected by the minimum wage, its objective is to show that the current minimum wage cannot adequately compensate people for their labor. Advocating this case, Fightfor15 presents stories and research on workers who are merely surviving from paycheck to paycheck. Conversely, the Employment Policy Institute directly opposes this view. Exclusive to research on employment growth their aim is to present research and projects on minimum wage to show that such a jump to $15 in the minimum wage would significantly hurt the economy. The real problem lies in understanding the true effects that the current wage has on the existing population and how would any changes affect the economy for example in North Carolina. Both of the proposals have provided us with significant food for thought, one would certainly agree that the standardized minimum wage can be increased but only to an extent as to avoid economic problems. While fightfor$15 and EPI are on opposing sides of the issue, they could compromise by agreeing to a Student 2 minimum increase to $11 in North Carolina, creating a policy change that would not be too high or too low for either party. Fightfor$15 was cultivated from just a few hundred fast-food workers who felt as though they were robbed of their labor from multimillionaire employers and began striking for an They voiced that the minimum wage is unmerited making it very difficult for them to support their families we They presented hard working individuals who are stuck in poverty mainly because their earning merely goes hand in hand with cost living. These individuals cannot afford to get most the basic necessities after allocating more than half of their wages to bills. With a $15 increase comes higher income level which means more spending money for those on the poverty borderline. According to US census bureau, Wage increases won by fast-food and other workers fighting for $15 an hour are widely credited for driving the median income up by 5.2 percent and helping to cut the U.S. poverty rate by 1.2 percent last year the steepest decline since 1968 This organization also sheds light on the factor of income inequality. Advocating that workers earning minimum wages are most often the ones doing most of the work compared to the high earners in a business. With an economy such as North Carolina that is primarily motivated by profits and disregards the wellbeing of its workers brings segregation between the extremely rich and extremely poor, thus making difficult for poor to cross the margin. In addressing this issue however one should have a holistic approach and take into account the economy on a whole. While Fightfor$15 is fighting for an increase, stakeholders such as the Employment Policy Institute clash against their cause. The Employment policy institute considers an increase to $15 as a drastic hike in the wage rate and encourages people to think about this effect in the long term They argue that employees that earn the Student 3 minimum wage tend to be young, and work in businesses that keep a few cents of each sales dollar after expenses EPI explains that when the minimum wage goes up there is an increase in production cost for businesses, which would either be reflected in the prices of goods for consumers or in the loss of jobs for workers Increasing the minimum wage hurts this class of the working population, resulting in less working hours or even unemployment, making it impossible for them to start in the working world. Not only this but EPI directly opposed fightfor$15 claims by stating that higher wages is not the best way to address the poverty line. Their research shows economist Joseph Sabia findings that there was no change in poverty stimulated from an increase in minimum wage about the minimum The only thing that sets these organizations apart is their contrasting views on the issue at hand. While they view a minimum wage increase differently, it is quite clear that they have many similarities. One major underlining similarity is that both organizations is concerned about individuals who are affected by the minimum wage. Their platforms influence both entry-level workers earning a minimum wage and employers who have to offset that cost. Their main interest is to get this target population to join their cause, thereby quantifying their impact. Likewise, the underlining issue of whether there should be a federal minimum wage increase is of importance to both stakeholders. Because of the shared common values, both stakeholders can bend their cause a little and work together to bring about a policy change for minimum wage in North Carolina. Since Fightfor$15 and EPI presents pros and cons to the issue, they can co-fund projects that inform that the public in this state on the issue and best way to resolve it. Through this, they would be able to reach a greater population and quantify their impact. The key ingredient for this issue is moderation, having a minimum wage too low would devalue Student 4 workers lives, same as increasing the minimum wage too high would defeat the whole idea of improving the economy. Card and Krueger prove that there was no evidence of positive employment effect from the 1992 increase from $4.25 to $5.15 in New Jersey (Sabia 353). A good explanation of this is that the minimum wage increase was too low to spurge any significant changes. Similarly, in state such as New York City, raising the wages to $15 an hour could lead to higher prices, which would cut jobs (Whibley). A balance in-between would perfectly solve this by setting the minimum wage to a comfortable rate. Both EPI and Fightfor$15 can join forces to help garner support for the implementation of an intermediate rate under $15 dollars but above $7.25 in North Carolina. This increase would definitely benefit low- income workers in North Carolina and even help lower the poverty margin. Not only this, but it also would help address the income inequality within the working population of North Carolina. This compromise would also bring about positive change for businesses, as people would now feel as though they receive fair compensation for their labor, ultimately boosting productivity and the overall GDP of North economy. Over the past few years, there has been a growing movement in the United States to substantially raise the federal minimum wage, which has been fixed at $7.25 an hour since 2009. One widely embraced goal within this movement is to raise the federal minimum to $15 an  (Pollin). In such as North Carolina the rate of $7.25 an hour is still current and affects both workers and business owners. There are many organizations such as Fightfor$15 who tell us about the unfairness of the low minimum wage making us want to push for such a cause. On the other hand, organizations like EPI who states why such an increase cannot happen in world, make us hesitant about actually wanting such a significant increase. The fact that we understand that the current wage is too low and that an increase to $15 is too high, we can now Student 5 reason that a rate of $11 would leave us with a balance in North Carolina. If this increase rate is successful, North Carolina can then be used as an example to bring about a federal minimum wage increase to $11, which can then implemented throughout the various states in the US. With Fightfor$15 and EPI joining together there no doubt that their impact would enhance the life of entry level workers and business owners. (1344) Student 6 Works Cited Pollin, Robert ,Wicks-Lim, Jeannette Journal of Economic Issues (M.E. Sharpe . Vol. 50, no. 3, Sep2016 ,pp. 716-744. MEJEUR, JEANNE State . , Vol. 30 , no.3, Mar2014, p14-17. 4p. Barbara Mantel, Would raising the rate be good for the  Vol 24 2014, no. 4 ,Jan 24. pp 24, 73-96. Yang, Jin a, Long, Cheryl China Economic , Vol 38, April 2016, Pp. why we . 25 Aug. 2016. 25 January 2017 ,Fightfor15.org. Bursting Myths About the minimum . 18.Feb .2016, www.minimumwage.com. SABIA, JOSEPH J., et al. Are the Effects of Minimum Wage Increases Always Small? New Evidence from a Case Study of New York  Industrial & Labor Relations Review, vol. 65, no. 2, Apr. 2012, pp. 350-376. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bah&AN =76514307&site=eds-live.