Student 1 Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Labeled Shops Will End the War Between GMO Activists Ever since the introduction of GM technology there has been an increase of several different genetically modified organisms. These GMOs are defined as a plant, or any other organism, whose genome has been modified by using DNA or (Non-GMO Project). This agricultural concept has received a great amount of attention, both good and bad. The topic of GMOs engendered continuing controversy among a split population. There have been a few attempts at finding a solution, however they failed to satisfy both sides of the argument.There are many organizations, such as The Facts About GMOs, that believe the introduction of these genetically modified organisms creates many benefits for the agricultural industry. On the contrary, organizations like the Non-GMO project are strongly against the use of GM technology; they suspect the unknown technology poses many health concerns to consumers. A compromise can be met between these two organizations by surveying the population and garnering their opinion on the matter and then creating separate stores for products that contain GMOs and products that The Facts about GMOs is an organization that serves to educate the public on the safety of GMOs and how they benefit the population. The implementation of GM technology in crops will aid in sustaining the population at a fraction of the cost (The Facts about GMOs). This is due Student 2 to the fact that ingredients that are grown with the use of GM technology require less pesticides and water compared to crops grown without it. Also, by using GMOs instead of regular grown crops, farmers are able to increase more of a certain product in a faster amount of time. One of many drastic examples of this is corn has increased from 10 bushels per acre to 120 since the introduction of GMOs (Chassy 1). An expansion in crop production will help provide enough produce to sustain the billions of people currently living around the globe. Additionally, there have been numerous claims stating that the results of multiple scientific studies have shown there is evidence of found in GMOs (Panchin et al.). Regulatory Agencies such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the American Medical Association, and many others have all also confirmed that there are no health concerns or negative effects associated with GMOs (The Facts about GMOs). Also, GMOs new, they have been around for 20 years and they make up more than half of the foods consumers eat in the US (The Facts about GMOs). The genetically modified organism technology has been introduced to of across the globe, as well as to million worldwide (Chassy 2). In addition to being safe for human consumption, it has been proven that GMOs harm animals or the environment. The Facts about GMOs is an organization that is prioritizes providing consumers with safe products and concludes GMOs a health risk They believe GMOs posses many helpful qualities that will benefit the nation as a whole. On the opposite side of the spectrum, the Non-GMO Project is a nonprofit organization that is dedicated to establishing a food supply that derived from GMOs and educating the public on the dangers of GMOs. The Non-GMO Project states that there has not been any scientific research that proves GMOs are safe for consumption. In fact, the organization explains Student 3 there are many ingredients that are considered to be at a high risk for GMO contamination. Ingredients like corn and eggs are all considered because they are derived from organisms that are known to be modified genetically (Non-GMO Project). These specified ingredients can potentially pose health threats to those that are consuming products that contain them. The Non-GMO Project believes there has not been a scientific consensus regarding the health factors that go into GMOs and that scholars and physicians have explained any news claiming otherwise has been (Non-GMO Project). There still remains many regarding the science and impact of GMOs, therefore the Non-GMO Project is intent on putting an end to genetically modified organisms (Young 5). Additionally, while GMOs may not have been proven to be harmful to humans, activists explain they are harmful to animals. Animals that consume products that contain GMOs have been shown to exhibit infertility, immune system problems, tumors, and many other health related problems (Smith). Contrary to the findings of The Facts About GMOs, those against the use of genetically modified organisms claim the FDA conduct on organisms that utilize GM technology (Smith). The Non-GMO Project also states that any research that ends up with results that favor the use of biotechnology are all biased. Research that found produce with GMO the same as conventional foods were all conducted by biotechnology companies (Non-GMO Project). The aforementioned studies suggests the Non-GMO Project believes that the research done is biased and therefore inconclusive, and that it is still unknown as to whether GMOs are actually safe to consume or not. Similar to The Facts About GMOs, the Non-GMO Project is an organization who makes the well-being of the consumers their top priority and is devoted to Student 4 providing crops that are safe to eat. They believe GMOs are harmful and want to put an end to them. There have been a few attempts at reaching a compromise to the current problem at hand, but none have been proven to work. The solution that is currently in use is the labeling of products that contain GMOs. While this may sound like a reasonable idea, the solution fails to satisfy either side of the argument. The Facts About GMOs believe that labeling products that contain GMOs is not a valid solution to the problem. They state that GMOs are safe and putting a label on products that are derived from GMOs would simply be to consumers (The Facts About GMOs). The labeling is misleading on consumers because GMOs seem to differ from conventional foods on the topics of and (Robinson). In addition to appearing fallacious, labeling GMOs can reverse the supposed benefits that come with using GM technology. Using labels on foods could potentially increase food costs and decrease yield size (Robinson). The Non-GMO Project states that the labeling bill benefit them either. Instead the new solution is a non-labeling bill as a labeling bill (Worland). The organization feels as though the bill really do what it is intended to do. Because there has been no recent success in ending the argument over the safety of GMOs, a new compromise is required. A new solution to the problem would be to set up separate shops for crops that contain GMOs and crops that contain GMOs. These shops would first be tested at a local level. It begins by distributing a survey, whether electronically or in paper, asking the people that populate that specific area their opinions on GMOs. The results derived from this survey will then determine how much to limit GM technology use by. After a limit has been imposed on the area, different shops will be labeled and set up. Some shops will sell strictly food with or without Student 5 GMOs, the decision will be made by the owner or corporate. If, for example, shops that sell GMOs greatly outnumber shops that do, new stores will be set up to even out the produce distribution. This compromise benefits both parties because, while they both are required to show a bit of leniency, they are both getting what they wanted. GMOs will still be sold throughout the nation, but in an entirely separate store than those without. The use of biotechnology to produce genetically modified organisms has gathered a lot of attention from several activists. Some organizations, like The Facts About GMOs, support the use of GM technology because it benefits the population as a whole. Other groups, such as the Non-GMO Project, are against GMOs because they pose a serious health risk to consumers. A proposed solution to unite the currently divided population would be to create different stores nationwide that will administers products with GMOs or without GMOs, not both. The suggested compromise will help benefit both sides of the argument, rather than just one. WC: 1395 Student 6 Works Cited Elton Robinson 1Jul 07, 2014. reasons why we fight mandatory GMO Farm Press . N.p., 07 July 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Panchin, Alexander Y., and Alexander I. Tuhikov. GMO studies find no evidence of Harm when corrected for multiple Reviews in Biotechnology 37.2 (2016): 213-17. Web. Smith, Melissa Diane. against GMOs: the fast-growing movement to avoid unnatural genetically modified to take back our food and health. United States: Melissa Diane Smith, 2014. Print. Worland, Justin. Activists Are Unhappy With New GMO Labeling News . Yahoo!, 14 July 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Chassy. History and Future of GMOs in Food and Foods World (2007) : n. pag. Web. Young, Tomme R. modified organisms and biosafety: a background paper for decision-makers and others to assist in consideration of GMO issues. Gland: IUCN, 2004. Print.