Student 1 Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102.712S17 5 March 2017 Goodwill and SMART: searching for the right path toward solving the issue of overconsumption Disposal of used clothing is becoming an issue to prevent all over the developed countries, suffice it to mention that the overall volume budget of production in the area of the fashion industry including apparels, textiles, footwear, and luxury goods has exceeded $ 2.5 trillion. In total, there are over 80 billion pieces of clothing and footwear produced annually worldwide. Such a large volume of the clothing production turnover can be explained by the necessity to update the canons of fashion that require regular alterations in the current outfit. Consequently, old and worn-out items become non-demanded; even so, they keep taking up space and need to be discarded. The current paper is aimed at thorough analysis of two organizations that take steps against overconsumption: the first stakeholder is SMART; the second organization is going to be Goodwill. Though the latter one provides a wider range of services than SMART described in the first paper, the common grounds can be clearly traced, as they both deal with the question of how used material goods can be benefited from. In its turn, the approach practiced at Goodwill has nothing to do with recycling: instead, they resell the collected goods for a reasonable price and use the profit for charity. Despite the fact that both of stakeholders seems to have seemingly incompatible goals about an issue of overconsumption of clothing, it would be relevant to find common ground and to propose a common goal. Looking for command ground one can notice that both cases of SMART and Goodwill the issue of overconsumption and dumpsite cluttering is being prevented. The two Student 2 issues are at the same time parts of one even more global issue that can be defined as urban sprawl. That means if we keep on abusing on resources the way we did before, we risk running out of land to live on. SMART in its turn states their objective as applying their technological know-how to make the most out of used clothes, namely through recycling. It applies cutting-edge technologies to give a second life to used textiles and promotes the active participation of average consumers by getting across the message like not pretend it does not concern you: we are all in the same Supposedly, in the world where there are fewer and fewer biodegradable substances around us, attempts to promote recycling and prevent the issues of over-cluttering (the inevitable process that goes side-by-side with urban sprawl) are expected to pay off. However, there are reasons to doubt whether recycling is a universal way to address the problem. In order to support and expand the SMART mission statement, it is reasonable to refer to the fact that this stakeholder is not by far alone or unique in its initiatives. Drawing your attention to the positive experience of other companies, it worth to mention a correlation between the processing methods and success of business. Thus, an organization called Trading from Clifton, New Jersey has been successfully specializing in processing post-consumer textiles for over seven decades, with has the focus on purchasing, processing, and selling. Definitely, their range of operations goes far beyond recycling as they also cater goods to retro stores as well as to film industry. This demonstrates an effective example of how a business succeeds in keeping up with the times. In the state of Connecticut, Department of Energy and Environmental Protection long been running campaigns in both methods of recycling and reusing for second-hand textiles. Particularly it claims that at most 5% of used clothes prove to be unusable, while 45% are sold as second apparel, 20% are reprocessed intro fiber, and 30% can be remade into technical clothes. It is worth mentioning that such extended range of functions is a guarantee Student 3 of secure jobs, with both direct and indirect employment. When it comes to aspects of sustaining the planet, the coverage of the issue in mass media seems to gain the demand. A case in point is a publication in Forbes of the article Recycling: A For-Profit Startup Success among Which proves that once again the tendencies on the part of non-profit and for-profit organizations to unite in their efforts to make urban life more convenient. This can be attained not just through introducing new technologies but also by raising public awareness about the essence of each contribution. The top priorities submitted are not focused on recycling but on composting and reprocessing fabrics into rags, stuffing, or insulation. Considering the differences and benefits of stakeholder should be noted that each of them is unique in its kind. So as it can be currently concluded, only recycling by itself is no answer to the existing issue, namely due to the fact that the recycling process is technologically complicated and energy-consuming. In these terms, the second stakeholder called Goodwill appears to have adapted more to the needs of time and society. They basically position themselves as a job creator, and this organization does manage to embrace a broad range of causes. Anyone who visits their website can see the following inscription STUFF. CREATE Getting acquainted with their website leaves the impression that successful work in this direction is only feasible when there is a combination of activities, which earns the company experience and reputation. The search for various ways to apply used fabrics is reflected in the work of colleague organizations, to name a few: Planet Aid deals closely not only with collecting, processing, shipping and selling the second-hand clothes to the third world but also increases public awareness in countries like USA in order to convince more people that there is simply not enough demand in the U.S. for all their castoffs. Besides, it warns clearly that simply giving things away in developing regions is rather detrimental to the local economies, so a well- organized trade is to be maintained instead. Student 4 It is also worth adding that the issue is frequently reflected in the blogosphere. Thus, BNB International Textiles Inc. posted an article in 2015 in its blog titled as Money Selling Used which brings it home to an average consumer that the garments they no longer wear can not only contribute to supporting the developing states but also be solved with profit. It even provides the rating of demand for clothes, from dresses to pants. It indicates that readers are encouraged to perceive the disposal of their own used clothes as a small which appears to be an effective technique for involving even those who previously were indifferent about the matter. Global trade of used clothing was also covered in a blog by Sheng Lu FASH455 Global Apparel & Textile Trade and Sourcing, where certain visuals (bar charts and graphs) make it evident that the global trade of used textiles is increasing worldwide and four out of six key exporters of used clothing are located in North America and EU (the USA, the UK, Germany, and the Netherlands). Going back to the main principles practiced by the two above-mentioned companies, there are various key approaches toward the global issue. At the same time, the compromising point is the fact that both solutions recycling and reselling had better be seen as compatible (i.e. they can be included in the range of activities done by the same organization), with actions that are more appropriate to take depending on what material they deal with and who will be end users. The range of textiles used nowadays is huge, which means some natural sorts can be recycled while synthetic ones cannot. A truly effective company on this market is to be not only a recycler and trader but also the structure which takes forward public instruction and encourages ordinary consumers to sort and submit their used garments instead of sending them to landfill sites. In these terms, there is something for SMART to learn from Goodwill, as it is an organization that does not concern only recycling yet it positions itself as a creator of workplaces where anyone can fulfill their potential and gets involved in collecting and re-allocating used material goods including textiles. Although Student 5 both companies share similar interests in making the world a cleaner place, the methods need to be varied, the more the better. (WC 1393) Student 6 Work cited ERIC STUBIN, TRANS-AMERICAS TRADING CO., TRANS-AMERICAS TRADING COMPANY, 12 May 1998, www.tranclo.com, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Goodwill-suncoast, Goodwill-Suncoast store locations and donation locations, Goodwill Industries International, Inc., 3 Dec 1996 www.goodwill-suncoast.org, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Governor Dannel P. Malloy, CONNECTICUT ENERGY ENVIRONMENT, Department of ENERGY & ENVIROMENTAL PROTECTION, ENERGY & ENVIROMENTAL PROTECTION, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Kerry Flynn, Recycling: A For-Profit Startup Success Among Forbes, 27 AUG 2014, www.forbes.com/sites/kerryflynn/2014/08/27/textile-recycling-a-for- profit-startup-success-among-controversy/#766846ff3234, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Paul Roszel, RecycleNet Corporation, SMART: Donate, Recycle, Throw Away - Recycle Clothing, Shoes, & More, Secondary Materials and Recycled Textiles Association, 29 Dec 1996, www.smartasn.org, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Perfect Privacy, LLC, Planet Aid For the Environment, For People, Perfect Privacy, LLC, 24 Nov 1997 http://www.bnbtextiles.com/blog/make-money-selling-used-clothes, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Sheng Lu, Trade of Used Clothing (Updated: October 2015) FASH455 Global Apparel & Textile Trade and Sourcing, Global view, International Trade, 15 Sep 2015, www.shenglufashion.wordpress.com/2015/09/30/global-trade-of-used-clothing, accessed 2 Mar 2017