Student 1 Student R. Gaspar ENC 1102 5 March 2017 The reality of genetically modified organisms There have been predictions for the future of this and upcoming generations that we will slowly become dependent on genetically modified organisms based on the rapid growth, and globalization of world, some scientists also believe that will eventually become our main source of (Plenke). Then there is an opposing side, in which they argue that are bad for the body, as well as the environment (Urban). There are two conflicting stakeholders, one in which believes that are the future, and have no harm to anyone, then our second stakeholder in which they believe that can cause negative side effects, especially in the long run, and that eating organic may be the best way to live a long life (Laufer). Although these stakeholders have opposite points of views on whether the use of genetically modified organisms should be used for consumption, there are different answers into whether we should or should not use so that it does not negatively reflect either stakeholder. Given that in this time science is more advanced than ever, are a scientific phenomenon when it was discovered. are important in our society today and especially for the future because it is a way that we can quickly and efficiently produce goods. The statement people should support (Plenke), is supported by using sources such as different scientists. are created by taking a plant or animal, and changing its genes in which they could otherwise not get from nature, with this there Student 2 is some skepticism, people may believe that this is and however it is not hurting any plant or animal, rather it is getting a small sample and altering the genes so that it may have different characteristics (Krimsky). Through this skepticism of there comes misconceptions, people may view GMO researchers as scientists who want to create these weird, hybrid of different sorts of plants and animals, however that is not the case. To support the use of there have been many different experiments in whether actually have a long term or short-term effect on the organism that it is consuming it. The research of feeding genetically modified feed, given to livestock was observed, and GMO researchers came to a conclusion that it had no different effects than it would have if the livestock were given regular feed (Eenennaam). On the other hand there is an opposing force, which condemns that use of and rather would support the use of organic products. The second stakeholder does not support the use of stating that these organisms are as well as they are not labeled as (Urban). This stakeholder believes that the best products for your body are those that are grown organically, with no interference of things that are not They seemingly play towards an pathos by stating that while these genetically modified organisms are created, we do not 100% know what is in them, and we do not know the risks that they may serve, as well as the public is not notified whether a certain good has been genetically modified, in which they argue that the consumers should know what they are buying. The stakeholder supports these claims by emphasizing on the fact that these biotech firms have a track (Urban) as well as lists its negative effects on the environment such as using fungicides and pesticides. It may also be argued that will take over any organic type of produce Student 3 that we currently have (Lantz). The growing competition between organic, and genetically modified organisms is imminent in that will always be cheaper than organic items because they are easier, and cheaper to create therefore on the market they can be priced cheaper than something that has been organic. The problem with this competition is that people will stop buying organic foods, in which farmers who are creating these organic produce can no longer afford to create them, and in the end will play a dominant role in our produce. Constantly, these two stakeholders are arguing in which belief they think is right, and this is the reason that there has no yet been a compromise, because instead of informing one another, these stakeholders are bringing each other down creating two sides instead of creating a reasonable solution. The concession between both these stakeholders, both have valid points on whether should or should not be used. The past solutions that have been suggested that people should their own on the manner of whether they should be feeding themselves, and their kids or organic foods. However, there is a better compromise than just not talking about. Taking all the worries of the second stakeholder, and adjusting it to the creators of will create a happy medium for both stakeholders. The second fear of the unknown, unlabeled goods, as well as the use of chemicals in the growth of these organisms can hold a compromise. There is no doubt that researchers, and scientists will still keep using even if there are people against it however, there are different solutions in which both sides would be content and there would be no more opposition. For the creators of they can start by informing the public of what is being genetically modified, and how this is not necessarily bad for you just because it is not Student 4 found in the environment, as well they can start labeling produce that has been genetically modified so that the public knows what they are getting. While the use of pesticides and fungicides are also another worry, research could be done so that the uses of pesticides and fungicides will no longer be needed in the growth of these While the creators of compromise with this, the opposing side can now get a better understanding of what are as well as not publicly bash or exaggerate what actually are. In the long run, this solution is a reasonable, and achievable compromise, in which both sides can take actions into their own hands, and instead of opposing each other, rather they should inform each other and work together so that our society can grow. With communication, and research over time clearing up the misconceptions that people may have about there will no longer be an argument on whether they should or should not be used. Rather than not talking about the situation, and bringing each side down with certain arguments, working together in the long run will help unite people rather than constantly fighting. In the end, we can see that both stakeholder have a common ground, their goal is to sustain the future, and maintain the present. These stakeholders want what is best for our growing world and although their views are totally opposite there is always room for a compromise. Instead of arguing with each other there should be unity with these two stakeholders, informing the public and each other about the benefits of and when things are questionable they can always be clarified through communication. (WC: 1,204) Student 5 Works Cited Plenke, Max. Young People Should Support  Mic. Mic Network Inc., 25 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Krimsky, Sheldon and Jeremy Gruber. The GMO Deception : What You Need to Know about the Food, Corporations, and Government Agencies Putting Our Families and Our Environment at Risk. New York, NY : Skyhorse Publishing, 2014. Food Fight: Gmos and the Future of the American  Publishers Weekly, no. 43, 2016, p. 69. Eenennaam, and Weigel Animal enomics: Results from the Vol. 2, p. 120. 3 Dec. 2013. Urban, Shilo. 8 Reasons GMOs Are Bad for  Organic Authority. N.p., 13 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Laufer, Peter. Organic : A Quest to Discover the Truth behind Food Labeling. Guilford, Connecticut : Lyons Press, 2014. Boccia, Flavio and Vijay Ganji. Consumer Perspectives of GMO. Bradford, West Yorkshire : Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2016., 2016. Lantz, Catherine. Shetterly, Caitlin. Modified: Gmos and the Threat to Our Food, Our Land, Our  Library Journal, 13 Nov., 2016, p. 118.