Zucker 1 Elizabeth Zucker Professor Josue ENC 1102 4 March 2017 Pictures and Words The relationship of my two images are connected because they both depict a point of view from Millions Against Monsanto (MAM) and how they feel about genetically modified organisms (GMOs) being consumed by the public. Rather than use harsh words or holding large rallies in front of Congress to obtain the items on their agenda such as labeling all products containing GMOs, this organization uses images that call individuals in the community to act. As the public reads the small phrase or just looks at the details of the images they will soon feel a need to join the cause because the images are expressing the four rhetorical appeals. Images A and B use logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos to send the message that their organization, MAM, was created to back against Monsanto and the other Biotech Bullies who are responsible for creating Agent Orange, PCBs, Roundup (glyphosate) and other toxins that threaten human health and the (Organic Consumers Association 1) Image A is propaganda. main purpose is to express the problems if one were to consume GMOs produced or sold by Monsanto. The image is comprised of two sides that show what MAM fights against. On the right side of the image a little girl is holding up a sign that states am not a science which represents pathos. When a bystander sees this image, they help but feel saddened by the image. If Monsanto can keep creating genetically Zucker 2 modified food then it will start to affect the public health. This little girl is just an of example how and untested genetically engineered foods and can lead to potential health risks (Truth-out). The carcinogenic properties of GMOs can affect this little girl and even lead to her death. She is not a science experiment in a lab, but a human being and therefore MAM uses this image to ask for better safety precautions and labeling of all products containing GMOs. The other half of image A appeals to the more logical and factual part of the conversation to mandatory labeling of genetically engineered by using ethos and logos (Alternet Foods). The logos or logic of the left side of this image is the a large red M for Monsanto being split by a yellow dollar sign and in very small print This represents corruption by the greed for money. The company will go to any length to become rich and they will explode with wealth. But the small print of which is the voice of MAM, is the only thing protecting the public from becoming science experiments due to harmful effects of GMOs on the human body. As for the ethos or ethical part of the image the large print above the bomb shows the viewer the creator of this image. Against is a major activist group against GMOs and so by seeing these three words the viewer knows that the source is a reputable one. This image is to be trusted even though it is propaganda for MAM. Finally, even though image A has no particular dates or time periods to represent kairos it does express a call to action. The time to act is now and not later so that the future of America become one giant lab experiment done by the scientists at Monsanto. By fighting for your rights to label foods now you can prevent future health risks in future generations. Zucker 3 Image B is a call to action because it asks for a community to come together and march against Monsanto. They not only want their voices to be heard on blogs on the internet but in the streets as they take their issues to front steps of front doors. The images ask that you fight with them for the ability to consume food safely. This image is also split into two parts just like image A, but both halves come together to defend the right to protect the public from unsafe consumption of GMOs. The top half of the image represents pathos, ethos, and kairos through specifically chosen words and dates. In white, there is a quote time is long overdue for global tribunal top put Monsanto on trial for crimes against humanity and the This quote rises a fire in everyone and calls the public to act against Monsanto. It calls this large corporation and asks that they be tried in court for all the harmful effects their produce has had on the living. With this quote comes a request to march against Monsanto on 16, which happens to be Food and by joining this group on this certain day the image expresses the use of kairos. As for ethos one will know that if they show up to the rally on the 16 th of October they will not be alone because the large organization of Global Protest Against Monsanto will be there ready to fight. This organization also has a web site so that if one wishes to participate they can in a rally closest to their home. The bottom half of the image is an expression of pathos and logos as the hands of the community reach up to the leaders of their community as they ask for help to against and the web site of this organization is printed in white to make it easier for one to join the fight (Truth-out). The protest the powerful synergy that can develop from the combined use of social media, marketplace pressure and political (Truth-out). Zucker 4 Through their peaceful protests, Millions Against Monsanto and organizations like them will one day obtain what they are fighting for, which is the labeling of GMOs. http://www.wapf-houston.org/wapf-houston-wp/2012/05/07/drop-the-money-bomb-on-gmos/ (Image A) https://www.pinterest.com/organicconsumer/millions-against-monsanto/ (Image B) Zucker 5 Works Cited Challenging the Biotech  ORGANIC CONSUMERS ASSOCIATION CAMPAIGNING FOR HEALTH, JUSTICE, SUSTAINABILITY, PEACE, AND DEMOCRACY. Organic Consumers Association, Jan. 2017. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Cummins, Ronnie. Millions Against Monsanto: Five Lessons from the Battle Against  Truth-out. Organic Consumers Association, 4 Nov. 2013. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Cummins, Ronnie. Millions Against Monsanto: The Food Fight of Our  Alternet Foods. Organic Consumers Association, 11 Apr. 2012. Web. 3 Mar. 2017.