Rolon 1 Brianna Rolon Instructor Gaspar ENC 1102 05 March 2017 Natural and Medical Treatments of Depression Seen as a Single Complementary Treatment Depression is a persistent condition that interferes with everyday life. It is a constant feelings that makes a person feel like a burden. To help the people who have to cope with this illness, there are two equally effective methods of treatment. two methods a natural way or a medical way. The natural way to go through treatment includes a holistic mindset. The holistic mindset includes not taking any medication and focusing on exercising, staying positive, and being around The medical way to go through treatment includes a strong use of doctors. The use of doctors includes taking daily doses of certain medication to ease the symptoms. The issue of deciding which treatment route to take is extremely important because this decision might lead to a cure. A cure to depression means everything to people, especially those suffering. When people are looking into which treatment is best for them, disagreement becomes an issue. Patients may disagree on which treatment will be more efficient. When this disagreement arises, so does the problem of relapse. The best treatment would decrease the chances of relapse occurring the most. At times, both treatments, when examined individually, may not be the perfect route for a patient. A possible compromise or alternative treatment may provide guidance and help alleviate people by removing the stress of choice. These two treatments have, what seem like, very incompatible goals. The main incompatible goal is that one relies heavily on Rolon 2 research, doctors, and medication and the other relies on the pure health of self without the use of research, doctors, and medication. By lowering the use of medical assistance, but also providing a method of a healthy lifestyle all in one, the most effective treatment would be possible to allow to have the most safe and dependable treatment. The first stakeholder, Bulletproof, has a goal to show people how to fight depression not with the use of drugs, but with the use of natural remedies. The mission of this stakeholder is to help people perform better, think faster, and live better using a proven blend of ancient knowledge and brand new technologies, tempered by research, science, and measured results from our customers, top athletes, and medical professionals Bulletproof argues that the holistic way is the most efficient path to take when treating depression. The stakeholder states that depression are failures Bulletproof believes this because the drugs are seen as placebos that have numerous side effects and only help in the short term. The second stakeholder, Australian & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry, has a goal to show people that medical attention is needed in a treatment of depression by. This stakeholder expresses the their views by original articles which describe research or report opinions of interest to psychiatrists Australian & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry argues that world treatment approaches are less than ideal Each stakeholder has a very different view of how treatment should be done, but they do share similarities. Although the stakeholders seem very incompatible, there is a clear common ground. Bulletproof and The Australian & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry have needs that must be met such as adequate research done to support them, a group of individuals who have depression, Rolon 3 and a group of individuals who do not have depression but are around people who do. By having these needs met, both stakeholders are able to provide adequate information to defend their points and create a solid treatment to argue for. Both stakeholders are also interested in a path to completely heal depression in a way that is very efficient, and best for a health, despite the different ways to achieve these goals. The journey to a cure may not be similar, but the goal itself of a cure is similar within each treatment. Bulletproof and The Australian & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry are concerned about the alternative treatments out there that may heal a person for a short amount of time. The alternative treatments are concerning to each of these stakeholders because depression may quickly return and cause issues later on in life, which is the complete opposite of their goal. They are also concerned with the effects that the treatment will have and what may happen to someone after the depression is cured. When a clear common ground is present, a solution to the arguments and incompatibility may be possible. A current solution is to take medication at a decreased rate, but also follow the holistic path. Another solution is depending on the patient, a doctor may decide on the treatment that best accommodates he/she based on personalized tests. One treatment is not better than the other, it is just that one treatment may be best for a specific person and health. In order to ease the tension created by their incompatible goals, each stakeholder must a by not completely dedicating a person to take medication 24/7, but also not completely ignore medication either. A person with depression could take certain doses of medication, but not to an extreme. Also, a person could engage in holistic activities, such as exercising and dieting, but not completely ignore medical attention. By combining both treatments, a overall health and happiness will increase very quickly and will remain long term. Each stakeholder would Rolon 4 benefit from this combination and would not completely lose anything. To benefit the first stakeholder, a person would still be taking medications, whether it is daily, over a few days, or weekly. The pharmacies and doctors would still be doing their job and benefitting from the patients, as well as doing their job to help others. To benefit the second stakeholder, a person would still be making changes to lifestyle in a holistic way. Trainers, dieticians, nutritionists, etc. would still benefit and be able to do their job of working with people who have depression. Overall, both stakeholders are allowed to continue to do what they believe is best, but in moderation and with a limit. This compromise can be offered when doctors are diagnosing people. This option would also be advertised and recommended the most in pharmacies, fitness areas, health offices, etc. It would be advertised the most to ensure that the treatment with every stakeholder involved has a part in the cure. A limit would be set on how quickly and how much a doctor may change a lifestyle through holistic process and how much medication a patient can take as well. There will also be a limit on visits to a therapist/psychiatrist per week. Overall, there will be a balance within all treatments that way, everything be completely fair and inclusive. Another point that will be enforced is the personalization of each treatment plan. A patient may need more of one treatment, while another patient may need less of that treatment. Each patient will be looked into deeply to decide how much of each treatment will be needed and what the limits will be. Another point would be to advertise this one, inclusive treatment in a fair and credible way, so that a person may not think higher of one treatment than the others. Each stakeholder would be represented in the same way to implement this compromise in the best way. A compromise that includes each side of the issue fairly will benefit a patient the most. The Rolon 5 best points of each individual treatment are combined into one compromise to solve seemingly incompatible goals and provide the best, most efficient treatment. (WC: 1271) Rolon 6 Works Cited Asprey, Dave. How to Fight Depression & Feel Awesome Without  . Bulletproof 360, Inc., 13 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Carlin, Peter and Kate Lee. Treat the Body, Heal the  (San Francisco, CA) , no. 1, 1997, p. 72. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.18995165&site=eds-live Hanson, Katie, et al. Attitudes and Preferences Towards Self-Help Treatments for Depression in Comparison to Psychotherapy and Antidepressant  and Cognitive Psychotherapy , vol. 44, no. 2, Mar. 2016, pp. 129-139. , doi:10.1017/S1352465815000041. Kuehl, Linn, et al. Association between Major Depression and Cardiovascular Risk: The Role of Antidepressant  , vol. 233, no. 18, 15 Sept. 2016, p. 3289. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed b&AN=117509694&site=eds-live. Malhi, Gin S., Yulisha Byrow, Darryl Bassett, Philip Boyce, Malcolm Hopwood, William Lyndon, Roger Mulder, Richard Porter, Ajeet Singh, and Greg Murray. Stimulants for depression: On the up and  & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry 50.3 Rolon 7 (2016): 203-07. Web. 26 Feb. 2016 Pies, Ronald W.1,2. Depression: A 5-Minute Seminar for  Times , vol. 33, no. 3, Mar. 2016, pp. 1-5. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ssf &AN=113912880&site=eds-live. Winter, Caroline. Dr. Feel Good and the Club Drug  Businessweek , no. 4439, 24 Aug. 2015, pp. 54-59. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=rg m&AN=109010043&site=eds-live. Zanetidou, Stamatula. Physical Exercise for Late-Life Depression: Customizing an Intervention for Primary  Journal of the American Geriatrics Society 65.2 (2017):348-355. Web.