Student 1 Student Professor Dr. Rick Gaspar ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Is GMO labeling good or bad for us? Nowadays genetically modified crops have been debated more often and it is an issue that is causing a lot of polemic and concerns for the population. Not only have people became more aware of the issue but they became more concerned towards alerting other about it. There are a lot of positive outcomes from growing these sorts of crops but there is also research available stating that it can be damaging towards health as well. The Institute for Responsible Technology wants to enforce GMO labeled products while the Scientific American Organization wants to extinguish such labels from the market. They both have their own reasons, research and websites with claims and ideas on the topic. The institute for Responsible Technology believes that it is important to make the population aware of the risks GMO can have on their health and environment. The website provides credible information on the founder of the organization as well as tabs which contain many articles that relate health and environmental risks with the genetically modified crops. There is also a specific tab labeled which contains links to books and research articles on the topic (ABOUT US 2017). The book The World according to Monsanto by Marie- Monique states in great detail how harmful genetically modified crops actually are to our well- being and uses Monsanto as her main reference to the case. (Monique 2012)The scientific American wants to stop GMO labeling. On their website they provide many articles on why labels for GMO foods are a bad idea they state that GMO labels would increase the misconception that such products would be harmful for the health therefore limiting the food options for the people. Although both organizations have opposite views on GMO labeling, they both share an interest on and the labeling of such products. They are both interested in research involving the subject and education the population on the topic as well. With that being said, despite having incompatible ideas on how GMO affects health they are both concerned with the health of individuals, which shows they have a shared goal. The IRT believes that everyone should become aware of the unhealthy factor of GMO and guides the population towards avoiding such products. The SAO believes that the labeling of GMO products should be extinguished since it limits the availability of products. According to Simon and Schuster because will save the people with crops that can survive frost, drought, pests, and plague. In the book Inc.: Mendel to there is also information in that can provide scientific knowledge supporting the perspective on limiting the options for food (Simon 2003). In order for both organizations to come to a compromise and accomplish such shared goal, they both would have to go through a change in mindset and perspective. The IRT would hold off on the negative aspects of the topic such as the claims that GMO can have a negative impact on the population and focus on just stating the scientific factors and basic knowledge behind the subject to primarily educate them on what it is instead of why it is bad. Although the SAO believes GMO products are not harmful they could leave that perspective aside and focus on just letting people know about what genetically modified foods are, how they are produces and only educate to leave it up to the audience to decide whether Student 2 they think it could be harmful or not. In the book culturally considerate schools states that she believes it is more efficient to educate people on an unbiased level in order to see them respond to their needs without hesitation. (Anderson 2012). In addition to that, the in Science Education states that there could be two aspects of argumentation, which includes justification of knowledge and argumentation as persuasion. As mentioned in the introduction, justification of knowledge involves theoretical ideas and provides evidence towards the claim while argumentation persuasion is used to convince the audience on the desired claim. The compromise stated in the paper consists on educating and citing evidence on the basics of GMO which easily related to justification knowledge, proving that this sort of argumentation is better in order to let the audience develop their own thoughts and perspectives on the subject rather than enforcing a negative/positive idea. (Erduran 2008) A good way to approach a compromise is to first come to an agreement, in this case both stakeholders could put together a website with non-biased information on GMO products. By doing this both organization would be benefitted since it would educate the population on genetically modified products, which can lead to further research. The more research and attention is brought to the topic the easier it will be to approach others on the details on health, environmental, and economic level. Both stakeholders would benefit from further research on the topic after the basic of GMO have been implemented. Once the audience has chosen a side, there is a high chance that the audience will be willing to look for more research which can lead them on to one of the original websites since they both have a lot of work and are very involved on the topic. Lastly there must be a meeting in order to discuss an agreement and the details of the compromise. Each stakeholder would chose a representative to show up to a meeting where both would discuss similar unbiased information to include in the website. First of all they would have to contact each other through the web or in person, then the next step would be discussing what kind of information should become available for the reader in order to keep an unbiased tone and leave it up to him or her to decide which point of view they may agree with. It would be essential for a certain group of people to be responsible for editing and updating the website with scholarly articles on the basics of GMO. Now that both stakeholders are focused on educating the audience on a neutral level, there would not be a fight for attention and all the information will be credible since they both have to vote on the information posted on the website and neither of them would want the other to gather more attention towards their own organization. There would be a certain balance and a neutral tone since both being benefitted in the same exact way. After being told what GMO is and how it is grown would you be curious to research the positive and negative outcomes and details of it. Student 3 Works Cited ABOUT  Institute for Responsible Technology. Jeffree Smith, 2003. http://responsibletechnology.org/about/ Web. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Anderson, Kim L., and Bonnie M. Davis. Creating culturally considerate schools: educating without bias. Thousand Oaks, CA: Corwin Press, 2012. Print. Erduran, Sibel, and Pilar. Argumentation in Science Education Perspectives from Classroom Based Research. Dordrecht: Springer Science Business Media B.V, 2008. Print. Food, Inc.: Mendel to Promises and Perils of the Biotech Harvest. Peter Pringle. Simon & Schuster, 2003. Robin, Marie-Monique. The world according to Monsanto: pollution, corruption, and the control of the food supply. New York: New Press, 2012. Print. The Editors Labels for GMO Foods Are a Bad  Scientific American. N.p., 08 Aug. 2013. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. (W.C. 1200)