Dhvani Patel James Josue Comp 1 03-05-17 Are textbooks necessary for students Education is a fundamental aspect to our daily lives and to society in general. Education also guides every path of life, it is essential. We derive our education through schooling. This is composed of activities, textbooks, and teachers. with this being said, Are textbooks necessary for education? Textbooks provide additional information that has been known to the instructor. In cases such as a university setting, this information could easily be covered in a lecture. There are 2 stakeholders within this debate. The 2 stakeholders would be the textbook company and the teaching professional. The first image is featuring a child and a textbook in front of him. The child seems to be of a young age to engage in a greater appeal to emotion. This is relative to the stakeholder goal of children being more engaged and happier when having a text in front of them. It shows their aim, thus leading to a greater appeal to their argument. The opposing stakeholder have much rhetoric against it due to the fact it seems very appealing and there much to put forth against a young child. The image is specific showing the child in the main light where everything else is a little blurred. This image is also pathos because of the little young child being educated from the textbook. It reflects emotion because it shows the young children, and that is a direct appeal to emotion. The specific emotion that is derived would be awe and admiration which allows for the topic to seem more legitimate and truthful. However, this image also serves to shows logos because, it exemplifies the credibility derived from that which allows for a topic to seem for credible or legitimate. Pathos, shows that a child can learn through textbooks more efficiently. The image of the child should spark an emotion hence it is Pathos. Textbooks are informative and they have been processed through lots of research. But the opposing stakeholder has completed their education and knows this information, the textbook serves as a repetition of the stated. However, the stake holder that is the textbook company, serves to claim that it is more educated than those teaching professional. In a sense this can be true because it does show the immense time out together to create, edit and revise the material in the text. The second image exemplifies the second stakeholders position which would be the no need for textbooks. It shows the image of the professor teaching with all the students engaged. It is noticeable that they have no text in front of them but only an instructor showing that there really is no need for a textbooks companies to get more money than they already make. The image also shows the teacher smiling, showing the true passions of instructors. This is the goal of the stakeholder, the idea for textbooks to not be required and have students pay extra tax money and tuition dollars. This is Ethos is the appeal to ethics, hence the reference to no textbook but just the classroom setting like the instructor. It is ethical to save money for better concerns and causes. According to Edweek.Org, do not have enough diversity to show students all the realms and aspects that are Conclusively, the need for textbooks is understandable but is it really necessary to cause students to pay extra money to buy them or have schools spend their funds towards new textbooks when they could be getting their education through easier and more engaging methods of learning. The question is valid but the answer is hard to come to a conclusion to, each side holds a sufficient stake at hand. Citations Edweek.org