Ayrsman 1 Haley Ayrsman James Josue ENC 1102 2017 March, 5 Technology in Youth In world there are many children that grow up with technology such as tablets and smartphones. This could be seen as a problem to many people but also seen as a positive influence to other people. There are two main stakeholders in this topic, the NAEYC and Ofcom. The NAEYC (National Association of Education in Young Children) believes that having children use technology in school will actually help children in the future. The first picture shows three kids in school studying on their tablets, which backs up the NAEYC belief that it will help them in education. Ofcom believes that children with technology have a higher attitude and they should not have technology at this young of an age. The second picture shows two kids sitting right next to each other on swings with their face buried in their phones and not socializing. Each of these pictures shows two different views of children with technology. There are many negative and positive reasons on whether children should have technology or not, but there is a common goal between these two stakeholders and that is to better these kids for the future. The NAEYC believes that allowing children to use technology in the classroom can actually help the kids get more engaged in learning and have more fun while learning as well. Children today are growing up in a world with digital media all around them that is advancing very quickly. There are now tablets, smartphones, laptops and all sorts of new media that Ayrsman 2 children have access to. Allowing kids to have access to technology in the classroom and to do their work can be very beneficial. When the integration of technology and interactive media in early childhood programs is built upon solid developmental foundations, and early childhood professionals are aware of both the challenges and the opportunities, educators are positioned to improve program quality by intentionally leveraging the potential of technology and media for the benefit of every child. (NAEYC) The first image shows three kids in a classroom on their tablets studying with each other. Each kid in the picture has a smile on their face which shows that the kids are having fun while studying with each other. There are programs on the internet and apps for tablets that allow kids to not only play games but also learn the necessary learning requirements for school. Having this technology and these learning tools is not only just helping the kids but it is preparing them for how they are going to be learning and doing homework in the future when there are more advancements in technology. Ofcom believes that allowing kids to have technology will increase the kids attitudes. Ofcom sees that the number of kids that use tablets or computers at home has increased and the use of television and game consoles in children has decreased. Some parents say they are concerned about what their kids might see on the internet, also many say they are monitoring what their kids are doing online. to media violence is linked to aggression, desensitization to violence, and lack of empathy for victims.10 Media violence is also associated with poor school (CCFC). The increased use of tablets and computers among kids is causing them to develop less social skills and avoid going outside. In the second picture there Ayrsman 3 are two kids sitting next to each other on the swings. Each kid is using their phone making no contact with each other. Kids would rather choose to talk to people online than face to face and parents say the way they talk online is much different than how they would talk in person. Kids are more comfortable having conversations with people over the internet and not so much in person. The image displays that kids today have less social skills because of technology. The two kids could be swinging with each other having a conversation and becoming friends, instead they have their faces in their phones not even noticing each other.There are more parents now who feel like they can not talk to their kids about their use in the internet or even just problems they have without them getting upset or angry. These two organizations have very conflicting opinions on the use of technology in children, though there are some compromises that each can make so they both can see that their research has only helped parents and children in this situation. The two images displayed are very good representations of the two stakeholders views on the topic of technology in youth. The images show the good and the bad of kids with technology. The first image shows how technology is actually helping children learn and enjoy education. Having technology in the classroom will actually make kids want to come to school and learn. There are now apps and websites that have programs to help kids with math, english, history, and science. Kids enjoy playing video games so including education and games on the computer or tablets actually helps the kids remember the information because they are enjoying it. The second image shows two kids showing no interest in each other, they are giving all the attention to their phones. Technology also helps kids hide behind a screen and not have a real conversation with people. Social media has taken over the internet and allows people to talk online and not Ayrsman 4 develop any social skills. Social skills are very important in a life because they will need to be able to talk at interviews or in the classroom. The kids in the picture could actually be active and get some physical activity in by actually swinging on the swings and engaging in conversation to become friends. The relationship of these images is that they both show very important messages about children having technology, one being positive and one being negative. said, in a position to actively influence the role these technologies have in their lives, create informed media users, and mitigate much of the potentially detrimental social and cognitive (Rushkoff). The purpose of the images is to send a message to better these kids for their future. Overall, children in the 20th century are growing up with technology in schools, and out of schools. This can be viewed as good or bad thing, but it can go either way. The two main stakeholders on this topic is the NAEYC and Ofcom. The NAEYC views technology in young children as a media tool for education. The first image displays this very well with 3 kids studying with each other on their tablets. Ofcom has shown that children who are interactive with technology at a young age will develop attitude problems as they get older. The second image is a good representation of this because the two kids on the swings are not even aware that the other is there and just playing on their phones. These two organizations can come to a compromise so that they can both achieve their goal. Although there on two sides of the negatives and positives on children growing up with technology, they both are striving for the same goal of doing what is best for the children and making sure the internet is safe as well as beneficial. Ayrsman 5 Ayrsman 6 Work Cited and Interactive Media as Tools in Early Childhood Programs Serving Children from Birth through Age The NAEYC and Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and Media, January 2012, and Parents: Media Use and Attitudes October 2014, www.ofcom.org.uk the Screen Dilemma: Young Children, Technology and Early for a Commercial Free Childhood , October 2012, can benefit young children when used Edu. , December 12, 2012, Douglas Rushkoff, Kids and Technology at January 4, 2013, www.edutopia.org