Masut 1 Amanda Masut James Josue ENC 1102-100 5 March 2017 Tobacco Free Florida day, more than 3,200 people under 18 smoke their first cigarette, and approximately 2,100 youth and young adults become daily (Be Tobacco Free). This statistic shows that there is a serious case of addiction that accompanies the usage of any form of tobacco. Decades ago, people young and old used to smoke tobacco daily and would essentially live shorter and unhealthier lives because of the damage that it would cause their body, especially some of their major organs (heart, lungs, etc.) Therefore, a correlation was made between tobacco and these health hazards over the past few years, and researchers have found that the usage of tobacco can eventually lead to cancer and even death. This is why companies like Tobacco Free Florida create images and video advertisements to get their message of healthier and cleaner Florida out to the public, and employ literary techniques such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to communicate their message and to hopefully connect with their intended audience. Advertisements that display these techniques, among other things, are very effective in changing the minds of the viewers and potentially could lead to thousands, maybe millions, quitting various addictive tobacco products. The images that Tobacco Free Florida uses range from frightening and disturbing to strengthening and empowering. This wide range means that the Tobacco Free Florida organization can reach more and more people everyday with these life-changing messages. Masut 2 To begin, Tobacco Free Florida (TFF) is an organization that follows the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs. guides help the state of Florida plan and establish evidence-based comprehensive, sustained, and accountable tobacco control programs to prevent and reduce tobacco (Tobacco Free Florida). The CDC is very meticulous and does everything they can to make sure that these guides and programs are being followed correctly. This type of dedication to perfect these programs ultimately saves lives, and they make sure that organizations like Tobacco Free Florida maximize their opportunity to do the same. According to TFF, it has been proven that tobacco control programs like TFF work. The program has resulted in a significant decrease in smoking rates among both adults and teens in the state, leading to billions of dollars and countless lives (Tobacco Free Florida). Additionally, statistics have shown that since 2007, 159,000 Floridians have successfully quit tobacco using just one of many of free tools and services. Be Tobacco Free Florida is such an amazing organization and a credible one at that. It takes the necessary lengths to ensure the health of the state of Florida and hopefully more states in the future. In addition to these preventative programs created by the CDC and informative statistics, the organization Tobacco Free Florida uses visual aides to get their message across. There are two images that are representative of what Tobacco Free Florida stands for and they both use a variety of literary techniques such as ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to assist in portraying message. The first image depicts a young adolescent girl who seems to be carrying more than ten other teenagers on her back, and this automatically plays on the emotion or pathos. The deliberate use of a dull saturation instead of bright and lively colors adds to the feeling of loneliness and desperation that this girl seems to show on her face. Her slumped over posture Masut 3 makes the visual stronger by showing her pain because of the pressure and weight she must feel by being coaxed into smoking tobacco in her social groups. The empowering messages that are seen in the corners strength makes you and help bring the feeling of strength, however. This helps the viewer to know that if they are struggling with tobacco, that they can do it. It will not be easy, but the spark of hope that the image holds is inspiring nonetheless. Also, this image utilizes ethos as a technique. To show credibility, the logo for Tobacco Free Florida is large and present for the viewer to see in the bottom right corner. This image does not have any distinct logos or kairos, but the message is still quite clear and powerful. The second image is of a wedding cake topper featuring a smoker and their doctor. This image is powerful because of meaning. This picture encourages the user to seek out help form others who are capable of helping you through this life-changing and painful process of quitting. Many tobacco users who are addicted think that they are alone on their journey. However, studies have shown that and medication are both effective for treating tobacco dependence, and using them together is more effective than using either one (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Facts Sheet). After a closer look, the viewer will notice that this specific image is covered in the color blue - all the way from the background to the tiny details on the flowers. Interestingly, the color blue considered beneficial to the mind and body. It slows human metabolism and produces a calming effect. Blue is strongly associated with tranquility and (Color Wheel Pro) and in some cases light blue is representative of health and healing. The organization uses this meaning to push addicts to use their resources and to Up to just like it says in the top left hand corner. Furthermore, the author uses ethos to show credibility once again by displaying the organization name in the top right hand corner of the image and pathos by giving the visual of the sick man Masut 4 who was too late to avoid using an oxygen tank and a wheelchair to function. This makes the viewer sympathetic and heartbroken, but also inspired to take those next steps toward getting help for maybe not just their tobacco addiction, but for a family member or friend as well who may be struggling. By using pathos, Tobacco Free Florida can definitely reach more and more people in need of help. The second image uses logos and kairos too. Written on the cake are statistics. For example, users who got advice from their healthcare professionals are twice as likely to This is an example of logos because statistics often aid to persuade those who are reasonable and appeal to logic. Further down the cake there are dates for Tobacco Free Florida Week and at the top of the cake a question, why not connect before you have no These details both relate to time and that is the signature of the literary appeal kairos. This question pushes the reader to think about life and the potential of death, should someone not take the necessary healthcare actions to successfully quit tobacco. Both of these images have a lot to offer the viewer and they both definitely reflect the message of Tobacco Free Florida by utilizing multiple literary techniques. To conclude, Tobacco Free Florida works very hard to make sure that the public knows about the dangers of tobacco, as well as the various ways to quit this addictive drug. They believe that quitting is an option for everyone and that quitting is not a sprint, but a marathon. who stop smoking greatly reduce their risk for disease and early death. Although the health benefits are greater for people who stop at earlier ages, there are benefits at any age. You are never too old to (CDC). TFF uses many different techniques to appeal to the public, some of which are visual and literary techniques (ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos). They are a credible organization and a very impactful one as well, to so many people who are on their way to quitting or have already quit smoking. They are making a difference in a huge way, and all Masut 5 they had to do is start with an idea and turn it into an influential image that ultimately shares their message of a healthier and more beautiful state of Florida. Masut 6 Works Cited About Us Tobacco Free  About Us Tobacco Free Florida. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. Aspa. Tobacco Facts and  Facts About Smoking and Tobacco Use Be Tobacco Free.gov. Department of Health and Human Services, 20 Aug. 2012. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. Fast Facts and Fact  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 09 Feb. 2017. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. Quitting  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 01 Feb. 2017. Web. 03 Mar. 2017.