McCalla 1 Imani McCalla James Josue ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Breastfeeding Promotion Breastfeeding However there are organizations that are promoting breastfeeding and are trying to encourage mothers to breastfeed their children. One of these organizations is the Breastfeeding USA. mission of Breastfeeding USA is to provide evidence-based breastfeeding information and support, and to promote breastfeeding as the biological and cultural USA) The breastfeeding USA has advertisements and campaigns aimed at promoting breast feeding. They have published images that uses visual and rhetoric appeals to help convince mothers and other persons that breastfeeding is the right way to feed children. Rhetorical appeals are how rhetoricians engage their audience. (Rhetoric Really Matters) The first image is one of the many images that the Breastfeeding USA uses to get the message across to its audience. The first picture has the statement you were to describe breastfeeding your baby in one word, what would it then it has responses from different mothers complied in a heart shape. The designer of the image used various fonts of different sizes for the words that are used to make up the heart. Pink, purple and red are the main McCalla 2 colours that are used throughout the image, these colours are the main colours of the organization Breastfeeding USA. These colours are also bright colours that will attract an audience. Red is color of energy and the symbol of Pink is tranquil, warm and and Purple is with Color Psychology). The fact that the words form the shape of a heart also attracts as audience because the words are not presented in the mainstream way in just simple lines, this difference in presentation will attract an audience. In addition to the visual appeals, the image uses rhetorical appeals. The first appeal that is evident in the image is ethos. is the way of establishing trust with his or her Really Matters). The logo of the organization is placed on the image in a clear and obvious manner. This establishes trust because the audience can be sure that the image comes directly from the organization and was developed by the organization in order to bring across their message. Another rhetorical appeal that is evident in the image is pathos, According to the text Rhetoric Really Matters, is the appeal to The question that is present on the image and the responses that are used are there to evoke emotion. Words such as amazing, peaceful, love, comforting and joy are used so that the audience can see that the mothers that responded to the questions only feel positive emotions about breastfeed and in turn will move the audience to feel positive emotions about the idea of breastfeeding. Also, the fact that all the responses are in the shape of the heart, it moves the audience to feel love and unity about the ways the mothers who responded felt. A heart can represent unity, cohesion and Symbol). The image also has evidence of logos. Logos is to Really Matters). The image appeals to logic as it uses the actual responses of mothers and the way they actually felt, this is actual first person evidence. McCalla 3 Similarly, the second image is used to bring cross the message of the Breastfeeding USA and to promote breastfeeding as the way in which babies should be nourished. The images shows a baby boy that is being breastfed, it also shows that the baby had fallen asleep. It also shows a kitten sleeping next to the baby and they both look very comfortable. In the bottom left corner of the image, is written in a big font that is unable to miss. This shows that the phrase is supposed to catch the eye of the audience. It can be assumed that this phrase should represent what the baby would be saying if he could speak. This image also uses rhetorical appeal in order to engage the audience. Ethos is established in the same way it was in the first image. The logo of the organization is present on the image to show that the image is directly from the organization and was developed by the organization to bring across their message. It is a representation that the image is credible. The image also appeals to emotions of the audience through the use of pathos. The use of a baby actually being breastfed will make the audience smile because it is such a cute image of a baby and his mother. It will make the audience feel happy as the audience can almost feel the bond between the mother and the baby in this image, the audience will also feel happy because the baby seems to be safe and secure. The kitten in the arms of the baby also shows that the kitten is secure in the arms of the baby and this just gives off a happy, joyous vibe. Logos is also represented in the image. The words that is supposed to be the feelings of the child, it is showing that the baby is grateful that his decision is to breastfeed him. Because the baby is grateful for breastmilk, this will cause the audience to believe this is what babies want. The phrase used as the thoughts of the child is a form of first person evidence and appeals to logic. Kairos is another rhetorical appeal, is appeal to Really Matters). The use of a baby shows that it is when a child is young they should be McCalla 4 breastfed, because at this age they are unable to consume hard foods, so breast milk would be ideal at this time. Both images created by Breastfeeding USA used elements of rhetoric appeal to help the audience to understand their message effectively and efficiently. The audience can understand the meaning of the images and understand how important breastfeeding is to mother and child. The stakeholder achieves their mission by presenting knowledge to their audience that will help to see that breastfeeding is beneficial to both the mother that breast feeds and the child that is being breastfed. Image 1 Image 2 McCalla 5 Works Cited Brooks, Melanie. Psychology: What color says about envatotuts https://business.tutsplus.com/articles/color-psychology-what-color-says-about-you--fsw- 29098 What Does The Heart Symbol Mean? Heart Symbol. http://heart-symbol.com/background/what-does-the-heart-symbol-mean/ Rhetoric Really Matters. Breatsfeeding USA https://breastfeedingusa.org/content/mission