Espeland 1 Stine Lise Espeland James Josue ENC 1102 March 5th, 2017 The Rainforest Alliance The rainforest is a subject that is important to many organisations and people in general. To find ways to conserve and prevent more damage to the rainforest is something that is very important. That is why organisations such as the Rainforest Alliance is made, to try the best they can to find ways to conserve one of the most important environmental areas we have. Alliance is a network of people that work together to achieve a mission of conserving biodiversity and ensuring sustainable livelihoods in the (Rainforest Alliance, 2017) To share their message they publish visual images that appeal to us through different ways. Through their visuals they ask us to do, feel and understand by showing their credibility, beautiful nature and poor farmworkers, important information and the fact that this is important right now, before it is too late and the rainforest is gone for good. Both of the images share the same goal, to preserve the rainforest and the people and livelihood that depend on it. The stakeholder is a growing network of people that call their organisation Rainforest Alliance. Their goal is mainly to make awareness of the risk of losing the rainforest as well as how important the biodiversity is and the work the farmworkers do around that area. They want to the rainforest and ensure sustainable livelihood there, as well as they want to make sure the people that depend on the work on the farms around there still have work and that they have what they need such as health care, protective equipment and (Rainforest Alliance, the visuals) What Espeland 2 is important is that people know going on, what we are going to lose and how all of this affects us as well as the people that live there and depend on the work they get there. Also it conveys the message that farmworkers are not living a financial stable life like we do, they need support to keep a roof over their head, protection and to stay (Rainforest Alliance, 2017) is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the rhetor) attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Rhetoric Really Matters, 27) Both of the images have the logo obviously places in the photo so that people can see where it comes from and that it is a credible visual. The logo is big enough to capture peoples attention and easy to recognise with the frog in the corner. Also the fact that they put the organisations website in on one of the photos, in addition to another website that has a lot of good and valid information about this issue proves that this is a legitimate commercial from credible sources. Another point that proves that a website is from a real organisation is that the websites ends with That means that the website is for profit and that site contain information that is generally considered to be (reference.com) For these reasons we can say that the images appeal to credibility to persuade their audience. As a main way of persuading their audience, the Rainforest Alliance uses pathos to appeal to the emotions of the audience. Something humans generally is very fond of and consider as important is our nature and the beauty of it. So when Rainforest Alliance shares a picture of a forest with tall trees, a clean and healthy waterfall where everything looks good and peaceful it may affect their opinions based on their relation and feelings towards those things. offers a way for the audience to relate to the subject through commonly held (Rhetoric Really Matters, 38) Espeland 3 This is something that can appeal to the emotions and their consciousness about the beauty and how it will look if we let the cutting down of the rainforest continue. On the other image the colors are bright green and it looks very fresh. The lady that is working there seems like from a society with not a lot of money, her face is kind of sad and very serious. Which also appeals to our emotions, because we may feel for this woman and the way she is presented in this picture has the power to persuade us to think that this is serious and important. The planet will never have the rainforest back to the way it used to be, or back to how big it used to be. Still it is an important case that needs to be taken seriously and taken care of, as well as it needs to happen right now. is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Rhetoric Really Matters, 41) From logging and clear-cutting of the forest the environmental aspects of biodiversity and the need for bird conservations in the rainforests that are being cut down is urgent matter that needs attention as fast as possible. Creatures lose their habitat when the rainforest is cut down and people do not know hard it will be to recover after this. If a species dies out, it will never return. That is why it is urgent that if we are going to do something it has to be now or never. Because if we wait there will be nothing to save. The first picture conveys this message with the text saying, need to conserve biodiversity and ensure sustainable The economy the rainforest provides is in many areas large, if they lose this the economic will also be lost. In the second visual we see a farmworker, and a text that makes us understand that these people will also be affected in the debate about conserving the rainforests. Most people can see that it is logical that some people that Espeland 4 live in the areas around the rainforest will use the material and supplies they need from the rainforest in their life. and clear reasoning are important in an argument because few audiences respect claims that make sense or are inaccurate. The appeal to logic is (Rhetoric Really Matters, 32) For the farmworkers the rainforest and the areas around it is their main source of income. So when the rainforest is being concerved and is no longer an option as a income source, the areas around is their only solution. why it is imporant to provide support to them through this program they help them with securing their health, housing and protective equipment access. Which helps them a lot on the way, as well as the farms around the areas can be their number one concern and focus. So it is logical that this is a very important part of the work the rainforest alliance does. The images main point is to prove to the audience that the rainforest is important, and the people depending on it as a source of income need assistance to get income elsewhere and help to do so. As an extremely important part of the earth and the environment on this planet, it is one of the most important ecological issues that we face at the moment. For biodiversity and livelihood to continue and not die out, something needs to be done, that is what the first image is issuing. That they do through the use of rhetoric appeals such as ethos, pathos and kairos. The second image is issuing the importance of the humans, the people that live their lives working there, getting their food there and building their houses from the trees they chop down there. They need assistance to find other ways that will not harm the rainforest. That image also uses ethos and pathos, but also logos, to share the logical perspective that they need other solutions if we are going to save both the humans and the rainforest. Espeland 5 Espeland 6 Works Cited: Greaves, Emma. Stanisstreet, Martin. Boyes, Edward. ideas about Journal of Biological Education (Society of Biology). Vol 27. Autumn 1993. Rainforest Alliance. Rainforest Alliance Working with you to rebalance the planet, 1987- 2017, http://www.rainforest-alliance.org/ , Accessed March 5th 2017. Tisdell, Clement A. Wilson, Clevo. in an Australian Rainforest: Their Attraction for Visitors and Ecological Economics, Ecology and the Environment Working Paper. Vol 103. 2004. Prideaux, Bruce. tourism, conservation and management [electronic : challenges for sustainable development / edited by Bruce Earthscan forest library. E-Book. Vol xix, 321. 2014.