Osenton 1 Lauren Osenton Bianca Hernandez ENC1102.088 15 March 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric in Images About Fossil Fuels Fossil fuels are non-renewable and depleting but most people are accustomed to them. Renewable energy is cleaner but may not be as reliable. Greenpeace is an organization that uses peaceful protests to bring awareness to a plethora of environmental issues such as endangered animals, protecting the forests and oceans, and sustainable food. Greenpeace also speaks out about climate change and believes that the best way to reduce it is to become more reliant on renewable energy sources such as solar or wind energy. According to Greenpeace, fossil fuels account the vast majority of greenhouse gas which are harmful to the environment and to humans. The first image is of a little boy who is crying alone in a drought. This image brings awareness to the significance of climate change on individuals. The second image is a picture of workers cleaning up an oil spill and this shows the direct, negative impacts that a specific kind of fossil fuel can have on the environment. The two images use the appeals to credibility, emotions, timeliness, and logic to support stance on renewable energy and climate change by portraying the negative effects of fossil fuels and their impacts on the environment and future generations. Greenpeace exemplifies visual rhetoric by establishing credibility in the two images. The first image establishes credibility by inserting the Greenpeace logo in the bottom right corner. The logo shows that the photo is an official advertisement by a credible organization whose main goal is to promote a healthy environment for the present and future generations. The image of the workers cleaning up oil from a spill establishes credibility by having on the Osenton 2 bottom left corner. The photo also has on the bottom left. Roenggrit Kuangmong was a devastating oil spill that occurred in Thailand where of gallons of crude oil leaked from an offshore oil (Greenpeace USA). Captioning the picture proves that the photo is not staged and that it was a real issue that affected a beautiful country. The appeal to emotion is also very evident in both images. The photo of the young boy crying while stranded in the desert with nothing but a large piece of cloth evokes anxiety and fear about the future and what it holds for mankind. The dry ground shows that there is a drought, which, according to the Environmental Protection Agency, is caused by a lack of rain or snow, and can come to a halt as the temperature rises. The background is very bland which could make viewers feel like the future is bleak and that there be much for them or future generations. Parents that see this photo may feel guilt for leaving their children a desolate future. Despite the negative emotions that this image may invoke, the sun is shining brightly, so the future could be vivid and beautiful but only if something is done about it, such as switching to renewable energy to reduce the rising temperatures. The second image could summon fear for the world and could make the viewer feel bad for anything or anyone that was affected in the oil spill. According to environmental issues expert, Larry West, birds and marine life are the most common victims of oil spills. The photo is very dark and gloomy which could be frightening and make someone feel as if in danger. Not only does the visual rhetoric of this stakeholder represent the appeal to credibility and emotions, but also to timeliness. The first image is a picture of a young boy who is representing the future generations and it is showing how their lives will be unless something is done about global warming. Climate change has also been the topic of recent current events. President Donald Trump has stated more than once that he does not believe in global warming, Osenton 3 which could make it harder for the United States to convert to renewable energy, the exact opposite of what Greenpeace wants. The second image shows that this is the world we live in and it seems a little alarming. This photo also portrays what the future may look like. Becoming more reliant on renewable energy would create cleaner energy and there be any more damaging oil spills (Greenpeace USA). Oil spills are a constant threat because big companies are continuously extracting oil. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, million gallons of petroleum are spilled into U.S. each year. The biggest oil spill in U.S. history was the BP oil spill that occurred in 2010, only 7 years ago. According to CNN, about 210 million gallons of oil spilled into the Gulf of Mexico. Finally, both images appeal to logic and facts. In the first image, there is text at the bottom left that says warming will affect us This means that global warming will not only affect one generation, but it will affect all generations to come. According to the National Academies of Science, it is predicted that we could run out of coal by 2088, just 70 years from now. When all fossil fuels have been depleted and if renewable energy catch on then the future generations will definitely struggle. Once all of the fossil fuels have been burned up, Mary Griggs of Popular Science states that all of the ice in Antarctica will sea levels to to drown most major cities in the The extreme dangers of climate change and nonrenewable energy can be seen today, but it is only going to get worse unless something is done about it. The photo of the oil spill cleanup is from a real oil spill and it shows the actual effects. Oil spills disrupt habitats, make them unsuitable for living and can even kill some marine life (West 2016). According to Niphon Phungsuwan, an expert from the Department of Marine and Coastal Resources, more than 70% of the coral had been bleached in the spill. According to Reef Resilience, the bleaching of coral can have an Osenton 4 impact on the organisms that rely on it for food or shelter, and could even impact the whole ecosystem. The hazmat suits that the workers are wearing also establish reasoning between the audience and the source. It makes sense that the workers would have to wear hazmat suits to cleanup because the oil could be damaging to their health. campaign for renewable energy is important because the effects of nonrenewable energy are detrimental to the environment and those who live in it. The use of ethos, pathos, kairos and logos are apparent in both images and makes the viewer truly realize the negative impacts of fossil fuels. Greenpeace is an organization that promotes the health of the Earth in many different ways. Greenpeace believes that to save the world humans should become more reliant on renewable energy instead of the easily depletable fossil fuels. Osenton 5 Works Cited Guide to Global Climate Environmental Protection Agency, https://www3.epa.gov/climatechange/kids/ . Accessed 26 February 2017. Warming Issues and Greenpeace USA, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/global- warming/issues/. Accessed 20 February 2017. Griggs, Mary B. Would Happen If We Burned All the Fossil Fuels on Popular Science, http://www.popsci.com/burning-all-fossil-fuels-could-raise-sea-levels-by-200- feet . Accessed 21 February 2017. Spills Fast CNN Library, http://www.cnn.com/2013/07/13/world/oil-spills-fast-facts/ Accessed 25 February 2017. National Academies presents: What You Need to Know About FossilFuels, http://needtoknow.nas.edu/energy/energy-sources/fossil-fuels/ Accessed 10 February 2017. Thompson, Andrea. The Science and History of Oil Live Science, http://www.livescience.com/9885-faq-science-history-oil-spills.html . Accessed 26 February 2017. West, Larry. Consequences of Oil About News, . Accessed 24 February 2017. Osenton 6 Osenton 7