Melissa Ferrari Professor James Josue ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Cosmetic Testing on Animals Everywhere a person looks, on a building, on the train, on a bus, in a lunchroom, an advertisement for a product or organization could be found. These advertisements use rhetorical devices, such as appeal to logos, appeal to ethos, and appeal to pathos, along with fallacies to appeal to the viewer. The companies and organizations that produce these advertisements, wants the viewers to be pulled in and to listen to them. When looking at the issue if animal testing is morally correct, advertisements are usually used. For example, when looking at pro-animal testing companies, such as Revlon Cosmetics, the advertisements usually contain attractive models that shows the viewer that animal testing is okay since the product makes you feel and look a certain way, making you appear attractive. An example of a Revlon Cosmetic is shown in Image A. Revlon Cosmetics is known to test their products on animals in order to confirm that the toxic chemicals in their products are at low levels that are considered safe for humans. PETA, a pro-animal rights organization, has advertisements that show the ugly side to the beauty industry. The organization shows the harm and the suffering the animals are put through in order to create the product being put on the faces, two examples of the advertisements PETA creates are shown in Image B and Image C. main goal is to stop animal abuse and suffering in the food, fashion, and beauty industries, by protesting, gathering volunteers, and by raising money and awareness. When looking at the advertisements, one can see that the Revlon Cosmetics advertisement appeals to ethos, pathos, and logos all at the same time in order to make the viewer buy their product and forget about what goes on behind the scene, while when looking at the PETA advertisements, one can see that an appeal to pathos, logos, and ethos is shown in order to create awareness of the animal testing and gain support from the viewer, so the abuse of animals in the cosmetic industry can be stopped. When looking at the Revlon Cosmetics advertisement appeals to ethos, pathos, and logos is shown. The image shows appeals to ethos, because you see Halle Berry, a famous actress, who has played many big female roles in many big well-known productions, such as Cat Women, X-Men: The Last Standing, and Die Another Day. In this advertisement for Revlon, Halle Berry is endorsing the product. By being in the image, she is saying she supports Revlon, she supports their actions, she supports this product, and that you should buy and support the product also. The image also appeals to pathos, because looking at the image it shows a beautiful women being loved/lusted by a man, making the viewers believe that if they put on this product, they will get this perfect looking face, and have a man lust and fall in love with them. It makes the viewer crave intimacy and hope to have that airbrush finish, giving them perfect skin and a chance at intimacy. This image also shows appeal to logos, because in the corner a quote states creates And understanding creates With this quote, its saying that intimacy and trust leads to understanding your significant other and only that can lead to love, which is true, because in order to gain love, there needs to be communication, trust, and understanding. So with this product, Revlon is declaring that the client using the product will get perfect airbrush skin, which will help with confidence and help create intimacy, which then leads the viewer to falling in love. From the Revlon advertisement the viewer can also see that the goal of Revlon is to please and improve the life of customers. In order to confirm that the a customer will be pleased and satisfied Revlon Cosmetics perform research experimental test on animals to ensure that their products are effective and safe for human usage (Hajar, 2011). For example, to test a formula and toxicity level, Revlon would perform acute toxicity test on small animals, such as bunnies, and place the product near the eyes and towards the stomach of the animal to see if the bunny would have a reaction to the product (PETA, 2016). If a reaction would occur, Revlon would reevaluate the formula of the product and improve it for human usage (Hajar, 2011). Even though this is not said in image A, when looking at the advertisement, one can see that the formula of the product is really important to Revlon since it states formula with light-filtering technology delivers So with these acute toxicity test, Revlon is able to determine how well their formula is and if it should be improved or not and that is why Revlon supports animal testing. When looking at the two PETA advertisements appeals to ethos, pathos, and logos is shown. Appeal to logos is shown in image B, because at the bottom of the picture it states of thousands of animals are poisoned, blinded, and killed every year in outdated product This is a statistical fact that explains how many animals die due to animal testing. This gives the viewer background information that not everyone necessarily and also gives an appeal to pathos, because one would sympathize with this fact. Appeal to pathos is also shown in this image when looking at the mouth, since it is shaved and painted with red lipstick, which could make the viewer feel uncomfortable, since one would only see lipstick on a human. In Image C, it shows appeal to pathos and appeal to ethos. Appeal to ethos is shown, because singer, dancer, and choreographer, Kimberly Wyatt is endorsing PETA and supporting their cause by taking a part in the advertisement. By being in the advertisement, she is saying that she is taking action against animal testing and so should the viewer. The image also appeals to pathos, because when looking at the image, you see in the reflection face is red, puffy, and irritated looking as if she was beaten, abused, or had a really bad reaction to a chemical. This make a person sympathized towards Kimberly and makes a person wonder, what is happening within the cosmetic animal labs, if this is what cosmetic testing would look on a human. For the PETA advertisement the viewer can assume that the goal of the organization is to save animals from the abuse they are enduring on an everyday basis. In image A, it states which really shows and clearly states one of the main goals of PETA. PETA is an organization created to give animals freedom and the rights they deserve, because the organization believes that animal should not be suffering for humans, especially for cosmetic testing, since it was discovered that the research performed on animals is insignificant (PETA, 2016). It was discovered by researcher Pound and others in 2004, that animal research is inaccurate, due to the animal research being poorly conducted and not evaluated through a systematic review (Pound et al., 2004). So in order to gain support from people and create awareness PETA creates controversial advertisements, which will really influence people. For example, in image B, when looking at the image, it makes a person wonder what is happening behind the beauty doors, since the only way you can see the cosmetic irritation is only in reflection, which is basically saying that on the surface makeup can cover up a lot of things, but behind the scenes horrible abuse that is both physically and mentally challenging is occurring. In addition, in Image A, it states which really shows and clearly states the goal of PETA. When looking at the advertisements, the organization or company that produced them really want the viewers to give in to their product or their organization, so in order to do this, advertisements include appeals to pathos, logos, and ethos, which is shown in Image A, from Revlon Cosmetics, and Image B and C, from PETA organization. Revlon uses appeals to pathos, logos, and ethos, to make a viewer buy their products and support their company, while PETA uses appeals to pathos, logos, and ethos to create awareness of abuse during animal cosmetic testing done in several cosmetic companies, such as Revlon. Works Cited Hajar, Rachel. Animal Testing and  Heart Views: The Official Journal of the Gulf Heart Association. Medknow Publications Pvt Ltd, 2011. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3123518/>. Pound, Pandora, Shah Ebrahim, Peter Sandercock, Michael B. Bracken, Ian Roberts, and Reviewing Animal Trials Systematically (RATS) Group. Where is the evidence that animal research benefits  BMJ: British Medical Journal. BMJ Publishing. Group Ltd., 28 Feb. 2004. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC351856/>. Product Testing: Toxic and  PETA. 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/animals- usedexperimentation-factsheets/product-testing-toxic-tragic/>. 035b0a771fd0.jpg (Image A) https://animaltestingdmad15.files.wordpress.com/2015/04/e31a6a58525652c68af3bda55 48882b8.jpg (Image B) http://www.peta.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/600-kimberly-wyatt-testing.jpg (Image C) Image A Image B Image C