Hannon 1 Sara Hannon James Josue ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Whether we like it or not, we all are growing up in a world centered around technology. These technological advancements are bringing about new ways of learning, thinking, and Hannon 2 growing. It is changing the way kids are growing up and learning. Unfortunately, these improvements come without concerns. Being such a significant, time consuming aspect of our lives, we must explore the results and consequences that technology has on us. Children are especially vulnerable to these effects with how easily they have access to it. This goes without saying there are obvious positive results of such growth, such as using it to advance teaching and learning methods. On the other hand, too much exposure can cause disconnection to the real world and take time away from vital parts of life such as sleep and family interactions. These two stakeholders have two very different views of how technology is affecting children, however, agree that moderation is key. The image I chose to represent the perspective of technology aiding and advancing learning is the first picture, which I will being calling The second image, which I will be naming presents technology as a distraction and threat to other crucial aspects of life. Both of these images use rhetorical appeals to send their two opposing messages to the viewer. By utilizing ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, the two stakeholders are able to argue their conflicting points of view on this issue to their audience. Image A demonstrates the positive influence technology can have on the youth, showing how we can use it as an instrument for teaching. Really Matters defines ethos as the credibility of the argument (188). Image A does this by using a school as the scene of the image. People often see credibility in the school system, adding integrity to the image. The teacher is presented as professional, wearing her hair in a bun and wearing neat clothes. By displaying the teacher as neat and professional, it gives no reason for doubt in the authority. She also is very engaged in the students, shown leading the class through the technology. If the teacher were to be presented wearing scandalous clothing or not having control over the class, the viewer could Hannon 3 have less reason to believe the message the image in trying to get across. The children in the image look interested in learning, thanks to the technology. This results in the viewer accrediting interest in learning to the technology. Pathos is defined as evoking your emotions to connect with the viewer on a personal level (190). Image A does so by using children of all different races and genders. This allows connection to the children regardless of these differentiators. The faces on these children look enthusiastic and drawn to learning. Viewers often will look at this as a positive change in the normal view kids have of learning. This excites the viewer, which is how this stakeholder views technology, as something to celebrate. The kids in the picture are shown smiling which a parent viewing this would want for their child, causing a persuasive effect on the viewer. Logos is explained as applying logic and reason to the image to influence the viewer (192). Although logos is often used through captions and words, image A is still able to satisfy and communicate logic nonverbally. The teacher is point and looking at the technology which gives acknowledgement of this interest and enthusiasm the children show on their faces to the device. Finally, the fourth rhetorical appeal used in this image is Kairos. This is drawing attention to the timeliness of the subject (40). Image A shows the different generations of the teacher and children and how the means of learning are developing and changing. This image speaks to the importance of adaptation as our world around us does. Contrary to the beliefs and goals of image A, image B illustrates how kids can become distracted from the important things in life due to technology. Image B shows two parents fighting and struggling to regain the attention of their children that has been lost due to the cell phones. The artist of this image is aiming for the viewer to question if youth is slipping into the sea of the unknown. By showing the children without a form of navigation Hannon 4 besides their cell phones, the viewer is emotionally propelled to worry for the children due to the knowledge of the possible outcomes of this. By emotionally having an effect, such as this, on the viewer, the artist effectively uses pathos in this image. This also blames technology for the rebellion of children from their desires which also results in discontentment of the viewer. Image B establishes ethos by displaying an nonforeign image of kids with their heads and attention fully engaged in their phones and other forms of technology. This adds credibility because we have all seen this before therefore can trust is happening in our world today.Image B is telling the effects of this are as fearful as going out into the sea without a captain. It displays their only form of direction they have as their phones, showing how kids are refusing to listen to any other form of authority. This is showing logos by reasoning the dishonor of parents and other forms of authority with the obsession with technology and a virtual world. This representation of children as being rebellious brings a sense of urgency or kairos to the issue. This results in the viewer feeling an immediate disapproval of the effects of technology, which is the goal of the second stakeholder. By using rhetorical appeals to analyze these two images, we can gain a better and more accurate understanding of the two beliefs and end goals. Technology is such an significant part of the world today, which is bound to have effects on us as the world continues to advance and adapt to these changes. As we further analyze these effects, we must keep in mind rhetorical appeals that aim to sway our views of this issue. Becoming more aware of these appeals and asking the question instead of the surface question of we can eliminate false accusations and gain a better, more original analysis of issues presented to you. Hannon 5 Works Cited Feiler, Bruce. Tech Is a Problem New York Times , The New York Times, 19 Nov. 2016, Accessed 3 Mar. 2017. and Students Using Digital , gettyimages.com. Accessed 3 March 2017.