Igilar 1 Prince Igilar James Josue ENC 1102 March 5, 2017 Igilar 2 Gun Control in America In America, gun control and other gun related issues have been an issue within the country. Certain groups within the US through free speech promote gun control agendas including the Everytown for Gun Safety Organization. This organization is like many other who support new legislation on gun laws to prevent gun violence on the everyday citizens of the United States. Above are two photos from the Everytown For Gun Safety organization. Each one uses elements of visual, literary, and rhetorical appeals. By analyzing, the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos; the visual appeals of color; and the literary elements of diction and symbolism, there can be a further understanding of how the organization of Everytown for Gun Safety can reach and connect with their audience on the issue of gun control in America. The Everytown Organization is a group of people who are actively working together to end gun violence in the communities of America through recruiting moms, police officers, teachers, survivors, gun owners, and everyday (Everytown) This is all to make sure communities around the nation are safer. To add some context to the situation, in California about a year ago, there was an issue with a Santa Monica gunman. The article from the Los Angeles Times quotes gunman who shot and killed five people in Santa Monica three years ago, was banned from owning a gun, so he bought the parts and made his (The Times Editorial Board) This situation brought into criticism something the federal government did not regulate. The federal government looked at the sale of firearms only and not necessarily the components. Legislation like this is brought up by organizations like the Everytown For Gun Safety. Igilar 3 Another situation which draws from similar legislation issues is the issue of recently appealed Obama gun law policy. In February, lawmakers and the National Rifle Association voted last week to scrap a policy the Obama administration finalized in December that would have added to the National Background check database about 75,000 people who receive benefits because they have mental health (The Editorial Board of the New York Times). This issue brought to the attention the unwillingness of federal agencies to give out these lists of people to people who sell firearms. To finalize these points, there are issues within the federal government and legislation that need to be addressed regarding gun safety and these are only a few of the issues. The first photo involving an organization of people within the Everytown organization draws upon the rhetorical appeals of ethos and pathos. In the photo, there is what seems to be a spokesperson reaching out to a crowd of people. Ethos is being incorporated into this photo through multiple variables. The first of these variables is the logo of the Everytown organization, which is made to symbolize the American flag. The American flag in this instant, uses a value known as patriotism. This is the greatest way to unite people in America because people can instantly identify with that flag. The other factor involving ethos and the building of credibility is the size of the crowd that the one person is reaching out to. Within the crowd, there is a wide variety of people from all different backgrounds. The organization did this to convince and persuade people that anybody can get behind the idea that guns do need more legislation and more control. Pathos in this photo involves the emotional appeal behind considering the backgrounds of the people within this crowd. For example, within this photo there is a sign that claims that We Are Newtown. This is an allusion to the Sandy Hook shooting that took place within Newtown, Igilar 4 Connecticut. This event was one that took the lives of many innocent people and children. It was an event that people will always remember within this issue of gun control and will be brought up within any argument around this issue. In the second photo, the Everytown organization makes a claim about how much more likely a citizen within the United States is likely to get murdered with a gun than in other developed countries. Within this image the rhetorical appeals of pathos and logos are incorporated. Pathos describes the appeal again to patriotism with the bullets colored with the color of the flag. There is also the appeal of logos appealing to the logic behind the fact that 20 times the amount of people in this country are killed by guns in this country, then in other countries. The stakeholder uses these rhetorical and visual appeals to reach their audience and connect with the audience about gun control laws. The goal is to change gun legislation laws around the country to provide safer communities for everyone in the nation. Igilar 5 Works Cited Are Everytown For Gun Everytown, March 5, 2017 http://everytown.org/who-we- are/ New Gun Violence Prevention Group Everytown for Gun  Unites Mayors, Moms and Millions of Americans on New Paths to Victory: State Capitols, Corporate Responsibility, Voter Everytown, March 5, 2017 http://everytown.org/press/new-gun-violence- prevention-group-everytown-for-gun-safety-unites-mayors-moms-and-millions-of-americans-on- new-paths-to-victory-state-capitols-corporate-responsibility-voter-activation/ proposed gun laws change our culture of violence, but they will make us Los Angeles Times. March 5, 2017. http://www.latimes.com/opinion/editorials/la-ed-adv- california-guns-20160422-story.html