Castle 1 Samantha Castle James Josue ENC 1102 03/05/17 Picture #1 Picture #2: Castle 2 Euthanasia Research and Guidance Organization The debate for legalization of physician- assisted suicide has been growing exponentially in the United States since the late Since 1991, five states have legalized physician-assisted suicide and since then more Americans are petitioning for full legalization across the United States (New Heath Guide). One of the major stakeholders involved in trying to legalize physician-assisted suicide is the Euthanasia Research and Guidance Organization (ERGO). This organizations main goal is to educate people on the benefits of physician-assisted suicide and to convince the courts that the illegalization of physician assisted suicide is against our as Americans. To reach out to more people, this organization uses posters and billboards to expand their cause. These advertisements for ERGO use rhetorical appeals like pathos, logos, and ethos to convey their message to more people around the country and around the world. The first rhetorical appeal used in these two pictures is pathos. Pathos is the appeal that tugs on a heart strings and connects to a emotions (User 1). Authors use pathos to draw sympathy from their audiences and to make their audience connect emotionally to the cause/issue the author is talking about. In the first image above, the author uses pathos to connect to the natural, human fear of death. The first image depicts the grim reaper, which is the spirit of death in most colloquial conversations, handing out the pills to help someone commit suicide (Humphry 1). This image is used to convince the audience that letting death just take over have to be the only option. It portrays the ideals that there should be other options out their options for Americans. Options that allow them to take ahold of their own futures and decide how they want to die. To keep the dignity in death. The second picture appeals to the emotions as well. However, in this image pathos is used in a different way. In the second picture, the one with the billboard, the author uses the repetition of the word to instill a sense of pride Castle 3 and control into the audience (Hutchison 1). It appeals to their emotions by grabbing their heart strings and convincing the audience that they are the ones that have control over death. The goal of both of these images was to instill pride in their audiences and to convince them that having control over death was a way better option than letting death control you. Both of these images use pathos to enforce these ERGO ideals about physician-assisted suicide and how death should be the choice of the patient, not the disease. The authors of these two pictures also use the rhetorical appeal called logos to further their influence over their audiences. Logos is the appeal that is directed toward the logical part of the brain (User 3). Logos is usually one of the rhetorical appeals that is hard to find in certain types of pictures. However, you can tell in the first image, the logos is represented by the artists use of the cartoon to convey his ideals that choosing to die is much safer than letting the terminal illness that the patient has kill them. The cartoon is appealing to the reasonable part of the brain that tells them that taking death into their own hands is clearly the most logical option. Unlike the first picture, the second picture conveys the logos in a little bit more obvious way. The use of the short staggering sentences that show patient dominance by using the word appeals to the reasonable part of the brain. It conveys that we, as Americans, are self-aware and understand that we should, and do, have control over ourselves and that this should mean that we have control over our death. This use of logical appeals further enforces the motto of ERGO, that death should be a choice. The final rhetorical device that the author uses is Ethos. Ethos is the appeal that convinces the audience of the authors credibility (User 1). In the first image, the author uses the signature to establish the initial credibility of the cartoon. The cartoon is also drawn by the co-author of the official textbook of ERGO, which establishes additional credibility to the cartoon and to ERGO as Castle 4 an organization. Credibility is important to depict in the images used to represent organizations so the audience knows that the organization is legitimate. The author of the second picture also uses the appeal of ethos in their advertisement. The use of the website name on the billboard gives the audience the option to look up ERGO and sees that it is a real organization. Both of these advertisements establishes its affiliation with ERGO, thus making both of the advertisements convincing and legitimate. By using the rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, and logos, the author can convince an audience of what they believe is true. These rhetorical appeals allow the audience to connect to the cause/issue and allow them to feel like they are able to do something to solve the problem. These two images, both used as official advertisements of ERGO, use all three appeals to convince their audience that physician-assisted suicide should be legalized to give people the right to choose. Castle 5 Works Cited: Home of Final Exit Book, EBook and DVD - Derek Humphry (Hemlock Society Founder) - Assisted Dying Information - Euthanasia Research & Guidance Organization (ERGO) - Right to Die - Assisted Suicide - Euthanasia World  Home of Final Exit Book, EBook and DVD - Derek Humphry (Hemlock Society Founder) - Assisted Dying Information - Euthanasia Research & Guidance Organization (ERGO) - Right to Die - Assisted Suicide - Euthanasia World Directory. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Hutchison, Courtney, and Abc News Medical Unit. Euthanasia Billboards, Books Fight for Death on Your Own  ABC News. ABC News Network, 19 July 2010. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. User, Super. Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and  Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and Examples. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Where Is Euthanasia  New Health Guide. N.p., 24 Nov. 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.