Kemp 1 Jessica Kemp Josue, James ENC 1102 5 March, 2017 Technology; an Advancement or a Limitation Technology is present in lives one way or another. However, is this such a good thing.. Public schools have begun incorporating technology into the classrooms via computer, Ipad, ect.. But the biggest usage of technology is the and special websites (such as canvas) where all homework and assignments are being announced on and turned in on. It was not too long ago that the only time you could see what homework is due was to check the whiteboard or ask your instructor but not anymore. This of course brings about negative and positive connotations for technology in the classroom and I have chosen two images to exemplify both sides of the technology dispute. For my first stakeholder and first image, you will see a robot grasping angrily at the frightened and fleeing teacher while my second stakeholder and image displays the development of writing tools used by people, from a rock all the way up to a cell phone. Technology is a huge milestone for human beings because now information is accessible to nearly anyone with the touch of a few buttons on a screen, however it is causing more problems than it is actually solving when it comes to having it in the classroom. Both images show rhetorical appeals to provide a deeper meaning which some may not understand by simply glancing at the photos. TEACHER LEFT Is the quote in the first image which is quite powerful. Through the use of rhetorical appeals we can dissect each the image to get a deeper Kemp 2 understanding of what the author may have meant. When trying to appeal to your emotions, pathos, an author may have many different ways of doing so, for this image you see an angry robot chasing after terrified teacher. This image is a good example of how teachers may feel about the idea of technology taking over their classrooms. Teachers are so heavily affected by this new advancement of technology because they have to simply adapt or find a different occupation. Many older teachers who find it challenging to change their teaching styles that they have come accustomed to over the years that they are retiring early or worse staying in the practice and failing miserably as they try to adapt. Unfortunately this falls back on the students learning and will hinder them in the long run. The text in the image is written in white and red lettering trying to grab the attention and inform the masses that this movement is happening now which is an appeal to time or The text itself is an appeal to logos or which can be defined as a sentence that convinces your reader using logic or reason (CITATION). We see logic and reason being expressed by the fact that technology IS in fact taking over and this is our world now. The ways in which we learn have been changing with every generation that passes and with new devices that are being created to continue to help us through this process. My second stakeholder and second image depicts just how far we have come as humans. In the cave men days people used rocks and sticks to draw pictures on walls in order to write or document things, now with technology the efforts of sharpening a rock or stick have been replaced by simply sliding your finger across a screen to unlock a device. For mankind this amazing and profound and life changing advancement is so that people try too hard incorporating it into every part of their life when it does not need to be. This image utilizes the rhetorical appeal logos to convey Kemp 3 the message that times are changing and this is simply a new advancement such as the development of a pencil. The whole concept behind this image is the fact that it goes from rock to spear thing, feather pen, pencil and finally the phone or ipad so casually almost as if we should just simply move forward with how things are today. The whole image is a direct appeal to Kairos because by definition kairos means right time or season or opportunity and nothing says more about right time like describing our present situation with technology. (Ethos, 2017) Analyzing these images through the eyes of rhetorical appeals really helps to better understand each side of the stakeholders positions. Although technology is all around us it does not need to be in the classroom just yet. Technology has already taken over most social aspects of a life, but we have not yet come to a place where we can say technology needs to be implemented in the all classrooms across America because we do not know all of the benefits and complications that go with it. My generation seems to be the test trials for if technology works or not, yet we have no say in the matter. It may be the way to the future however with it being so new we have no idea how this will actually affect our futures. From image 2 we could find comfort in knowing we will always be developing new tools to the old but nothing about using these tools in the classroom because it is so recent. The effects of technology on our future generations is unknown and I would much rather not be the test dummy to see our futures fail or not. Kemp 4 Works Cited LiteraryDevices Editors. LiteraryDevices.net. 2013. Web. 4 Nov. 2014. Logos, Pathos, University of Louisville, n.d. Web. March 2017 Meyer,Liz New York Times New York The New York Times, Jan, 2012. Web. 05 March, 2017 Baker, Kimberly. Can You Say Kim  N.p., July 2014. Web. 06 Mar. 2017.