Crawford 1 Kelly Crawford Professor James Josue ENC 1102 Section 004 04 March 2017 Feed My Starving Children Campaign: Advertisements that Feed the Audience The organization Feed My Starving Children is a Christian affiliated non-profit group that provides meals of nutritional value to malnourished children, especially those living in impoverished countries Their stake on homelessness is that it is undeniably the human responsibility to reach out and help those who are living below the poverty line or are considered to be homeless They strongly believe in the idea that every contribution, small or large, can make an impact Advertising, in its many forms, has been embedded in the world of businesses, on local, national and global scopes, for centuries. Feed My Starving Children is no exception to this trend. Advertisements are the way in which a company or organization reaches its audience and obtains its own network of connections between individuals who share common goals and values. FMSC has released a series of images or posters through its extensive advertisement campaign, two of which will be further analyzed on how they appeal to their respective audience using the various modes of persuasion; ethos, logos, pathos and kairos. When looking at each of the images, it is evident that they both pertain to an audience of individuals who possess the means to help those who are less fortunate than themselves. The Crawford 2 images each convey a message that seems to reveal a more passive voice. The organization is not pressing people to give, but rather trying to hone in on the empathy towards others who are suffering and in need. FMSC leaves the commitment of others to support their cause in the hands which comes across as less adamant, most likely resulting in an increased positive response from the audience. Furthermore, this type of advertisement in which there is a strong appeal towards the chosen audience, allows the group of people to make deeper connections with the advertisement, thus becoming more convinced through the integration of the infamous modes of persuasion. In both of the images selected, there is a sense of credibility, or ethos Modes of Rhetorical Appeal: Ethos, Pathos, and which stems from the FMSC logo itself - A Quotes - Being Without The logo appears in a white font, the same size and style in both images - A Quotes - Being Without In this way, the logo becomes more recognizable and the audience is able to brand the image. The organization has built up quite a reputation in the years succeeding its adoption and correspondingly a large following. People see that symbol of this particular brand and they correlate the messages being portrayed in the images to be reliable and honest. In general, people tend to be more trusting of a person or organization in which are known to be honest in their claims. People want to know that their money, time, efforts and support will be invested in a legitimate cause. Acknowledging the organization releasing the advertisements to be FMSC, will Crawford 3 have the effect of making individuals more inclined to uphold their objectives as a non-profit designed to end hunger and malnutrition, especially among children of poverty. Pathos, one of the main modes of persuasion utilized in the method of communication through advertisements, can be defined as a technique which interests the emotions of the audience in question Modes of Rhetorical Appeal: Ethos, Pathos, and In the first image, - A the background appears to be dark and rather gloomy. In most instances we associate this with negative connotations and feelings. Perhaps by presenting the message of the advertisement in quotations against this background, the organization is trying to indicate that there is a problem, that problem being world hunger and poverty - A The words, sitting in the shade today because someone planted a tree a long time appear in a white font that is illuminated in contrast with the gray background, possibly indicating that these words and the meaning behind them could be the light at the end of a tunnel for these impoverished children - A The second image shows the face of a child, with dirt splotched on his skin while still maintaining what seems to be a smile - Being Without This creates an effect on the audience by making one feel almost shameful. Here a child who has far less than most do, still is managing to hold a smile and be a light in lives. It sends the message to the audience that they take what they have been blessed with for granted, making people that much more inclined to give back. Crawford 4 In the first image, the ad provides somewhat of an extended metaphorical meaning, capturing the mode of persuasion, logos, which is a principle relating to reason or logic - A Understanding Modes of Rhetorical Appeal: Ethos, Pathos, and Most individuals who have an education level of an elementary school graduate or beyond are well aware of the significance of a tree, both literally and as a symbol. Trees stand tall and mighty with their roots as a strong support system. A tree is home to many inhabitants, from the smallest insects to large mammals and primates. The message serves as a metaphor capturing the comparison between the symbol of a tree and its ability to provide shade, to making a small action that will make a difference in a life, giving them the shelter and support they need to grow and develop. The second image utilizes logos to bring forth a new idea to the audience with the words, is not being without money, but being without - Being Without Being poor is not only defined by being without money, but being in a state of hopelessness. This helps to further the idea that a large monetary gift is not necessarily needed to help overcome this impending issue. Just being able to provide a meal on the table for these children will render a sense of hope that they will survive another day, another month, or another year. The fact that a mere contribution like this could be so impactful is a strong persuasive method to influence support from the audience. In the first image, the mode of persuasion kairos, dealing with a sense of timeliness Modes of Rhetorical Appeal: Ethos, Pathos, and is represented in the metaphor of planting the tree - A The tree will take time to grow, but after some time the benefits will be harnessable; branches will extend long enough and its Crawford 5 leaves will be plentiful enough to provide shade to someone on a hot day. This helps to display the idea that not every action or act of difference will show immediate effects. All good things tend to take some time. But one day the growth of that action, or of planting that seed, will reap an impeccable change. The second image, - Being Without ), with a sense of urgency, which the message of the advertisement portrays. When all hope is lost, that is when everything is at stake. Without hope our will as individuals to continue on is dramatically reduced. Without hope for better days ahead, what is the sense of going another day. This has the effect of guiding the thinking towards providing these children with the gift of hope which has been emphasized to be more important in survival than simply money. Works Cited About FMSC. (2016). Retrieved March 04, 2017, from (FMSC), F. M. (2012, July 23). Quotes - Being Without . Retrieved March 04, 2017, from https://www.flickr.com/photos/fmsc/7630600850/in/set-72157629741137917. (FMSC), F. M. (2013, June 14). Quotes - A Retrieved March 04, 2017, from https://www.flickr.com/photos/fmsc/9045619544. MNSU. Understanding Modes of Rhetorical Appeal: Ethos, Pathos, and Logos. Retrieved March 04, 2017, from http://mavdisk.mnsu.edu/sweena1/modesofappeal.html.