Mateo 1 Kaely Mateo James Josue ENC 1102 26 February, 2017 Visual Rhetoric in Veganism Arguments Vegans believe animals should not be used for any means, whether it is for consumption, clothing, or testing of products, because they believe it is an unnecessary use of the animals. The specific organization supporting the image chosen is PETA who is pro-liberation of all animals. PETA stands for of the Ethical Treatment of and it is largest animal right organization in the People for the The images chosen for this paper include elements of visual rhetoric to support the arguments being made for veganism. The purpose of both images is to inform meat consumers of the treatment of the animals they are consuming and to call the audience to action in liberating animals from what some refer to as an One element used in visual rhetoric is ethos, in which the image establishes credibility to convince its audience to agree with the point being made. Although the logo is not included, the origins of image 1 contains ethos because it is from a well-known organization known as PETA. The image also contains ethos because it calls its audience to act and help liberate animals. This is easily seen because the tone of it is more assertive, some words are bolded, and the letters are also all in caps. Image 2 appeals to ethics as there is a serious tone found within the words of the image. It also contains a form of statistics which, to an audience that does not know much about the subject, asserts the credibility of what is being said. The image also establishes ethos by Mateo 2 describing the gruesome truth of animal agriculture and what the animals go through in this system. This adds to the credibility of the image because such details cannot be completely fabricated. Credibility is also established in image 2 because it is produced by a well-known animal rights organization, Mercy for Animals. Another element used in visual rhetoric is pathos which is used to evoke an emotion out of the audience and make the argument more compelling. Image 1 appeals to emotion because the words are bolded and the letters are capitalized. This is usually done to create a sense of urgency and to show the importance of what is being said. Also, the words are bolded in the color red. Red is another color used to add to the sense of urgency and it also stands out apart from the other things presented in the image. The image, likewise, shows a picture of a live animal to create a sense of sympathy. Image 2 appeals to emotions because it makes the audience question their eating habits, especially if they are meat consumers. The colors also appeal to the emotions because blue can be used to symbolize gloom, making the audience feel so to speak. Image 2 also includes animals at the earlier stages of their lives, a piglet and a puppy. These animals are kept as pets by some people. The image appeals to pathos by giving the example that people would not eat their pets, therefore the image asks its audience to extend its compassion to other animals, specifically the ones they are consuming Mercy For Jonathan Foer, in Eating Animals, makes a similar argument when he asks the question, justification might have for sparing dogs but eating other (Foer 24). It makes it easier for the image to appeal to the emotions of its audience when it includes something most people can relate to. Image 1 appeals to emotion by using words that allude to the enslavement of the animals, while image 2 appeals to emotion by providing a relatable thought. Mateo 3 A third element used in visual rhetoric is logos, which is the appeal to logic and reasoning as an aid to convince an audience that what they are seeing makes sense. Image 1 appeals to logos by using words such as because it alludes to the belief that animals are being enslaved and must be freed People for the Also, using the word adds to the curiosity of the audience, possibly making them want to further investigate why the image is calling its audience to liberate the animals People for the Image 2 appeals to logic by including gory details of how the animals involved in animal agriculture, are treated. These details make a sound argument because by now, most people are already aware of some of those details because they are explained on commercials, shown on billboards, etc. Image 2 also appeals to logic because it provides the example of not killing own pet, something most people can relate to. Both images appeal to logic by using words or statements, that make it easier for the audience to understand the situation from the point of view of a vegan or a vegetarian. Kairos is another element of visual rhetoric and it refers to anything alluding to time. For example, image 1 calls its audience to People for the By using the word the image creates a sense of urgency that the audience should act sooner rather than later. Unlike image 1, image 2 contains an underlying form of Kairos. By saying widen your circle of it also creates a sense of urgency to act now, especially when it is at the hands of an life Mercy For Both images use Kairos to create that sense of urgency that they hope will lead their audience to act now or as soon as possible. Visual rhetoric is used in all images to try and get its audience to believe, see, or understand something. According to Rebekka Andersen in Visual Rhetoric as a close Reading it is especially important today to be able to understand visual rhetoric as Mateo 4 society focuses more on digital media with a visual representation rather than using words alone. Elements of visual rhetoric include ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. A combination of these elements is used to help get a message across efficiently as possible. For the two images chosen, veganism and vegetarian organizations strive to get people to stop consuming animals. The images use visual rhetoric to aid its audience in their understanding of the issue from the point of view of vegans and vegetarians. These organizations hope that by using visual rhetoric, they will soon be able to make a change and end animal agriculture in the world. Mateo 5 Works Cited Andersen, Rebekka. Visual Rhetoric as a close Reading Composition Studies, vol. 44, no. 2, Fall2016, pp. 15-38. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eu e&AN=119550903&site=eds-live. Foer, Jonathan Safran. Eating animals. New York: Back Bay /Little, Brown and Co., 2010. Print. Mercy For Animals Inspiring  Mercy For Animals. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The animal rights  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Mateo 6 Image 1 Image 2