Velez Madison Velez Professor Smith Comp 1 Over recent years, people have begun to take notice of the effects that animal agriculture has on the environment. There has been a global-wide push towards more eco-friendly practices, such as vegetarianism and veganism. This is due to the revelation that animal agriculture truly is destroying the planet, and although it is not the only factor causing this, it is major contribution. Before 2010, most all scholarly conversations focused on the idea that all animal agriculture was beneficial and positive. There had not been much research done on consequences such as global warming. After 2010, however, things became clear that it was not all good. Scientists are now able to prove through facts and statistics just how much of an impact livestock has on the Earth. The overall attitude of animal agriculture has shifted from that of somewhat oblivious to its effects, to immense distress and a call to reverse the damage it has already done to the environment. Before 2010, attitude was fairly positive and focused heavily on how humans benefit directly from animal agriculture. Conversation was mostly concerned with the way the human race was able to expand because of animal agriculture- the creation of more jobs, more food, and more economic activity. Another major source of positivity seen in this point was the fact that farmers could alter their livestock through selective breeding. This way, it could be almost guaranteed that whenever the calf was born, it would be the meatiest and therefore create more of a profit. Farmers could also use this technique to manipulate the probability of diseases among cattle. All of this was looked at as a benefit because it was literally the act of playing with DNA. As Eisler put it, Velez genomics could guide selective breeding to boost production of animals that are already adapted to their climates and resistant to local (Eisler). However, after 2010, scientists and farmers both began to notice the toll that raising millions of animals at once has on the Earth. Attitudes towards animal agriculture became worried and pushing for a change to a more eco-friendly source of food. First came the concern of disease, both resulting from eating meat and those already present in meat supplies. As told by Farm Foundation, continue to express concern about antibiotic and chemical reside in (Farm Foundation, NFP). Then came the realization that the killing of these animals at such an alarming rate was resulting in dangerously small populations, most noticeably in fish- to the FAO approximately 75% of the fisheries are either exploited or depleted due to fishing, which will likely lead to the complete depletion of currently fished fish stocks by (Hyner). This statistic is alarming because first off, there are millions of fish, so for the supply of fish to be depleting is almost impossible to imagine. Also, 2048 is only a mere 31 years away. The latest find, however, is possibly the scariest- the production of so many cattle has caused an abundance of manure to sink into the soil, poisoning groundwater with nitrogen and phosphorus. This water eventually makes its cycle into the homes of unsuspecting Americans, who have no idea they are drinking, bathing in, and cooking with contaminated water. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, agriculture manure is a primary source of nitrogen and phosphorus to surface and (EPA). Just by cutting back on met consumption and production, people would not only live a healthier existence, but a cleaner one as well. Velez Agriculture: Steps to Sustainable  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, 2010. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Farm Foundation. Future of Animal Agriculture in North America -  Farm Foundation. N.p., 2012. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Hyner, Christopher. A Leading Cause of Everything: One Industry That Is Destroying Our Planet and Our Ability to Thrive on  Stanford Law Review 27.1 (2015): 209. Web. Estimated Animal Agriculture Nitrogen and Phosphorus from  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 11 May 2015. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.