Fabacher 1 Andrew Fabacher Instructor: Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 9 March 2017 Visual Images of the National College Players Association Debate on compensating student-athletes has been ongoing since the early 1900s. Since that time, there has been tremendous growth in college sports revenues, with three National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) divisions and multiple championships held each year. The revenue for 2013 was $913 million and the whole industry brings in over $11 billion annually through contracts to the NCAA for product licensing deals, apparel sales, television deals, and electronic media such as DVDs, video games and online streaming content (Afshar 99). To date, student-athletes are not paid for their services and do not benefit monetarily from this multi-billion endorsement industry or from television contracts. This is due to the rules on amateurism which strictly limit payments to student-athletes to scholarships that include tuition, fees and some living expenses. However, student-athletes and their advocacy organizations such as the National College Players Association (NCPA) would like the athletes to receive a share of the enormous revenue stream created in most part due to services Home National College Players ). Founded in 1997, the mission is to protect the interests of student-athletes and to help change NCAA rules. The primary goals are to the scholarship and to restrictions on legitimate employment and ability to directly benefit from commercial Home National College Players ). The NCPA publishes Fabacher 2 compelling imagery using rhetorical appeals to argue for the goal of protecting well-being, particularly that of allowing these athletes to be paid for their services. The NCPA logo featured in Figure 1 provides its members and the public with a glimpse into what the organization stands for, primarily protection of its members Home National College Players ). It depicts a blue, glimmering shield with the letters NCPA on the inside, directly next to the full name of the organization spelled out. The shield is representing the fact that the NCPA is there to protect student-athletes, much like a shield is designed to protect those who wear it. The words are a large and prominent feature in the logo and help to let student-athletes know that the organization is the unifying voice for their interests. The logo is simple and serves the purpose of showing that the NCPA is there to protect student-athletes. The NCPA created its logo (Figure 1) using the rhetorical strategies of ethos, pathos and logos to appeal to its audience, including student-athletes, parents and others in the public, who are interested in the protection of the athletes. First, ethos, the rhetorical appeal to trust, is used in the logo to lend credibility to the organization (Hoffman). In using a shield, the logo conveys trust since a shield historically represents honor, righteousness and protection. In spiritual terms, a shield is used to symbolize protection against evil and falsities (Thompson). In order to further instill trust in the organization, the logo is designed in blue which also connotes trust and integrity Moreover, the logo has an appeal to ethos in that it spells out National College Players Association in large letters. From this it would be reasonable for their members and the public to assume that the organization is credible given it is operated on a Fabacher 3 national level. Secondly, the organization used pathos, the rhetorical appeal to emotions, in the design of the logo to appeal to the feelings of safety and security for those individuals that the NCPA represents (Hoffman). The use of the shield gives members and prospective members the feeling they are being protected from outside sources and if they are being violated, then the organization is there to step in and help. In emphasizing the the words with larger, bold lettering, the logo gives the student-athletes the feeling of belonging. They can be certain that this is an organization dedicated to their specific needs. Finally, the logo does not have an overt appeal to logos, the rhetorical appeal to logic, however, it is reasonable to assume that spelling out the word and not just using the acronym NCPA gives the audience the logical assumption that this organization is recognized on a large scale (Hoffman). While the logo clearly appeals to the mission of protection of its members, the NCPA study image (Figure 2) lends itself further to explaining the purpose and offers an even deeper rhetorical appeal to its audience. The image in Figure 2 was presented by the NCPA, along with Drexel University, to be the cover for a study they jointly conducted (McKenchnie). The study was used to inform student-athletes, parents and the interested public that they believe the NCAA is using as a tool to deny athletes billions of dollars per year in revenue that they would otherwise receive in a fair (McKenchnie). The image depicts a masked man in a suit. This man appears to be in a locker room, stealing from the lockers, which are symbolic for the student-athletes themselves. The caption $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes Under The Guise of in a large font at the top of the image is very provocative. This image and title are designed to evoke an angry or unsteady emotion in the lay person who might not Fabacher 4 have any idea about the pay-for-play issue in college athletics. And for those who do understand the controversy, it invites them to learn more about the issue. Whether the audience understands the controversy, the image is intended to persuade the viewer to side with the NCPA, to feel empathy for college athletes, and to encourage them to read the article to find out how these student-athletes are being Within the NCPA study image (Figure 2) there are multiple uses of visual rhetoric to persuade the audience that their study is worth exploring further. Within the context of a research study, this image suggests ethos, as most readers would believe the organization is truthful or credible (Hoffman). The image invites the reader in with its title by suggesting that perhaps student-athletes are not being treated fairly. From the image itself, one cannot discern if the organization is providing accurate or credible information, however a curious reader would be compelled to delve further into the study to learn if the facts contained in it hold up. An element of pathos presented in Figure 2 is the man in the mask, which evokes a feeling of distrust and anxiety which would make most viewers uncomfortable (Hoffman). Another element of pathos is the language used in the text at the top of the image. The choice of language is designed to give the audience a feeling of distrust for the NCAA and to feel empathy for the student-athletes who are presumably being cheated out of money. Furthermore, the biggest type font used is for the words college By making these words stand out, the audience will read them more carefully and begin to have concern, at the very least, for the student-athletes. The graphic is also attempting to appeal to logos, or logic, through the depiction of the masked man (Hoffman). This element is implying there is some sort of impropriety occurring within the industry. The appeal to logic is further exemplified when the title touts an actual statistic, the $6 Fabacher 5 million heist. The NCPA is trying to explain to the audience that its members are losing out on a substantial pool of money. The NCPA study graphic uses provocative appeals to entice the reader to learn more about the funds they believe should be granted to student-athletes. Both the NCPA logo and the study image are presented to the audience to convey that the organization is there to protect its student-athlete members. Both the logo and the study image effectively accomplish this mission through the use of rhetorical appeals including ethos, pathos and logos. While the logo is more subtle and cannot convey the entire mission, it is undeniable that a shield connotes credibility and trust in the organization and gives the audience a feeling of security. The NCPA makes an even more overt appeal to its audience in the study image with its compelling headline and graphic. Both student-athletes and the public would be drawn in and wonder what facts or reasoning are underlying the statement that student-athletes are being One gets the feeling that something sinister is going on and most people would be compelled to learn more. For those who have a stake in the pay-for-play debate and for those who simply have a curiosity, these two images give the connotation of protection, the exact mission the NCPA is aiming for. The NCPA has the mission to protect student-athletes, particularly as it relates to the way they are compensated. The organization is able to effectively deliver this message through different vehicles including its website, research studies it produces, and above all through images it disseminates to the public. Through the use of visual rhetorical appeal and compelling design, the logo and the NCPA study image explicitly project the message that the organization is standing strong as the protective entity for student-athletes and their interests. Since the Fabacher 6 controversy is still hotly debated, it will be important for the NCPA to continue to present visual imagery that supports their mission of protecting their members. Fabacher 7 Works Cited Afshar, Arash. Collegiate Athletes: The Conflict Between NCAA Amateurism and a Student Right of  Law Review 51.1 (2014): 99. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Color Meanings - Learn About Colors and  . N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Augmentation . Action, M: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Home National College Players  National College Players Association . N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. McKenchnie, Alex. Drexel and NCPA Study Shows Use of Denies College Athletes Billions in Revenue  . N.p., 25 Mar. 2013. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Thompson, Ian. Bible Meanings  Meanings Home . N.p., Feb. 2002. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Fabacher 8 Figure 1: NCPA Logo Home National College Players ) http://www.ncpanow.org/ Figure 2: NCPA Study Cover Image (McKenchnie) http://drexel.edu/now/archive/2013/March/NCPA%20Study/ Fabacher 9