Maria Merchan Professor Emil Smith Composition 1 5 March 2017 What are the opinions regarding plus size modeling? Do you know how much hard work it takes for a person to be a plus size model? Plus size modeling for women start at size 8 US. You would have never imagined that a woman sized 8 is considered a specially when the average US woman is between 12-14 and weighs 164 pounds. (University of Texas, Even though they are considered plus sized models, they still have to work hard in order to meet the expectations and requirements of the fashion industry. This hard work involves the same hard work as the have to do, such as eating healthy or having a diet, as well as exercising, maintaining a flawless skin, etc. The paragraphs will discuss the opinions of models, retailers and consumers. This paper poses the following question: What are the opinions regarding plus size modeling? The paragraphs below analyze the standards, inclusion/representation and the work of plus sized models. The standards of beauty have changed as time has gone by, in the early the requirements of the fashion industry were different than what they are right now. There is a notorious change in the scholar conversation of the early and the current scholar conversation. In the early people used to say that every body, size, height, had to be what the fashion industry wanted, there was less acceptance towards the different types of bodies. gain position and rank because of our Bonnie). There was less acceptance towards different types of bodies because modeling had only one type of body figured and that had a big a influence in society, there was not a notorious trend in the scholar conversation. Publications, books, articles, did not really discuss the standards of beauty that existed at the time, also, plus size modeling was not a big industry because standards of beauty did not have such a big impact so that a new category of modeling had to be created. Currently, the scholar conversation has changed greatly, it is completely different as what it was before. Because right now there are different beauty standards and the fashion industry requirements are different from what they used to be, there is more acceptance towards different types of bodies. Books, articles, publications have focused a lot in the different types of beauty standards that exist making it a big deal in society, a positive thing is that now categories such as plus size modeling are evolving and more people is being involved in the fashion industry. In the early it was not as common to see plus size models because there was not an actual category of modeling called plus size. Just like the fashion industry has changed throughout time in order to include plus size women into the fashion environment, in the same way has the scholar conversation changed but in a slower way than it has changed in the magazines or the runways. Currently, a big part of the intentions of the scholar conversations about plus size modeling, is to try to give more access to women that wear larger sizes to the same fashion as every one else. In the other hand, in the early there was not much conversation about plus size modeling because the modeling industry was centered in a main type of model which was a very thin woman. Before it was taken as a fact that fashion focused on single type of body, now society is more flexible when it comes to beauty standards and that allowed the inclusion of plus size modeling. At the beginning of the there were not a lot of jobs as plus size models, now women are even being encouraged to become plus size models since the fashion industry wants more diversity within the category. The social media has had a big impact in the acceptance of women that wear larger sizes, platforms like instagram have played a huge role because women are expressing themselves in order to stimulate and embrace plus size. This has created a bigger work environment for plus size models, because they are now being included in runways and magazines. Plus size modeling was not a relevant topic in the early it was not talked about in the media, newspapers, etc. Now as it is a more relevant topic, it is talked about more in the newspapers, magazines, etc. Since it is now talked about more and it is more relevant, more jobs are becoming available for plus size models, they are also being paid more than they used to be paid before. This paper poses the following question: What are the opinions regarding plus size modeling? The paragraphs above analyzed the standards, inclusion/representation and the work of plus sized models. There has been improvements since the early but there is still companies that have not made changes regarding the plus size section. Even though plus size models are now being included, there is still a lot more that can be done. There are even some individuals that think that plus size modeling should not be its own label, instead they should just be included in modeling.