Adam Ghabour Professor Uddin English Composition 28 February 2017 College student athletes and their benefit to the economy. Founded in 1906, The National Collegiate Athletics Association (NCAA), gives athletes the opportunity to go to school for free. It was not until the that the question of whether these athletes should be paid started to be talked about more and more by the general public. Considering the amount of work it takes to be a top athlete, it requires consideration. While athletes work on the court/field, they also generate enormous amounts of money for their respective school. Consider Kentucky basketball for example, every year they are one of the top teams in the country, having made appearances in the NCAA tournament final four from 2011-2015 and winning the National Championship in 2012. With that said, should college athletes be paid if they make significant contributions to the school, compete at a high level in their sport, and maintain a good GPA in the classroom? SOURCE 1: Smith, Earl. College Athletes Be Paid To Play? (june 23, 2011 Diverse issues In Higher Education 15 (2011): 3. OneFile Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This source is a small excerpt that briefly outlines the argument for paying college athletes. It considers how much an athlete actually does for a university and argues that the scholarship they are often awarded is not enough for their personal needs as well. In addition, it questions whether athletes are actually employees of the university. vary about whether student-athletes are students and/or employees and this is OK. What is not contested is that current research is showing that the value of the sport scholarship is insufficient for all of the Smith is arguing that while athletes do receive a scholarship, it simply does not account for all that they need for everyday life. Not only is the scholarship insufficient, but in arguing that athletes are employees of the school, many do a good job living up to that title. It does not give a ton of info, but it is an argument by a well respected professor, Dr. Earl Smith, and it is a credible source. SOURCE 2: Sack, Allen. All Amateur, or Give Them Pro N.p., 07 Mar. 2008. Web. This a great source because it outlines reasoning for paying student athletes, and it is very credible because the author is unbiased as he himself does not want to pay student athletes. Sack makes the argument that, while he does not support paying athletes, it may be inevitable. the NCAA change the status quo which is on a fast course toward building a sports entertainment empire how could they pay athletes or at least extend This source supports the idea that athletes are too big of a positive economic factor to NOT pay them. The author is also a former D1 athlete giving this source a good amount of credibility. This source is academically reviewed and clearly unbiased considering the former D1 Athlete stance on whether current athletes should get paid or not. SOURCE 3: Schneider, Raymond G. Perception On The Payment Of Intercollegiate Student Journal 35.2 (2011): 232. Search Premier. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This source provides an in depth look from the view of the average college student. Ever wonder if regular students would support athlete being paid? Well, according to the findings of this source, average students voted that Student-Athletes should indeed be paid. The study done also concluded that students beliefs were that the payment should come from the athletic department of the university. Opponents to this idea suggested that an scholarship was payment for the athlete and no additional benefit was needed. This source provides a credible study done, on the side of an unbiased source. Non student athletes agreed in the majority that athletes should be paid, and this is a credible source. This source also draws upon the changes to the NCAA since it was created over 100 years ago and how this could help the argument for paying athletes. This source takes no shortcuts and provides substantial and quality info. This source draws upon multiple various universities and other outlets as evidence, further helping the claim. SOURCE 4: Wilbon, Michael. Athletes Deserve To Be Paid (2011): n. Pag. Web. This is an outstanding source as written by Michael Wilbon. Wilbon is an employee of ESPN, where he hosts a talk show about sports, as well as providing contributions in other ways. Wilbon begins by saying that his stance on paying student-athletes has changed. While at one point he was against it, Wilbon cites deal with CBS and more in college basketball for reasons of his change. Wilbon shows evidence of how HUGE some of these deals are to televise and promote games, and argues that while schools are making billions of dollars, the athletes should also be getting paid. This is credible from the beginning given Wilbons extensive credentials covering sports and investigating the sports world, as well as his admission that he was once against the idea of paying student-athletes but since has changed his mind. Wilbon cites all of the reasons as to why done so, and simply argues against not paying the athletes that make all the huge events possible in the first place. Tyler Brown, M. Athletics Internships: The Case for Academic Credit in College University Law Review vol. 63, no. 6 Aug. 2014, p. 1855 SOURCE 5: Tyler Brown, M. Athletics Internships: The Case for Academic Credit in College University Law Review vol. 63, no. 6 Aug. 2014, p. 1855 This source argues for paying student-athletes for playing their NCAA sport. Author Tyler Brown argues that the NCAA is sitting behind these athletes collecting all the money in which they earn. Brown goes through the history of college student-athletes and just how they required their rights. Brown notes that the NCAA has come a long way in their efforts with athlete rights, but that given how much effort they must put in in the classroom and sport, that it is time to take the next step and pay them. Brown establishes his points with various evidence and facts from the NCAA rule book as well as more. Brown uses past court cases involving student-athletes as evidence, and also incorporates a counter argument in that athletes do not graduate at the same rate as the student and so he uses this as question to whether the athletes should truly get paid. Munoz-Bullon, Fernando, et al. Influence of Sports Participation on Academic Performance among Students in Higher Management Review. 19 Oct. 2016 SOURCE 6: Munoz-Bullon, Fernando, et al. Influence of Sports Participation on Academic Performance among Students in Higher Management Review. 19 Oct. 2016 This source draws into question why many student-athletes struggle to perform in the classroom. Do athletes deserve to be paid if they are not performing academically, and thus probably ruining their life future? Munoz-Bullon, the author, analyzes why athletes tend to do worse in the classroom, even suggesting that the academic support system is not good enough for the to cope with while participating in sports, Munoz-Bullon draws upon a bunch of sources as evidence and does not limit his research. He looks at research done at both private and public schools as well as from different sports and also both females and males. He admits that some research suggests that athletic participation has no effect on students performance in the classroom, while some research suggests the contrary. Work cited: Munoz-Bullon, Fernando, et al. Influence of Sports Participation on Academic Performance among Students in Higher Management Review. 19 Oct. 2016 Sack, Allen. All Amateur, or Give Them Pro N.p., 07 Mar. 2008. Web. Schneider, Raymond G. Perception On The Payment Of Intercollegiate Student Journal 35.2 (2011): 232. Search Premier. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Smith, Earl. College Athletes Be Paid To Play? (june 23, 2011 Diverse issues In Higher Education 15 (2011): 3. OneFile Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tyler Brown, M. Athletics Internships: The Case for Academic Credit in College University Law Review vol. 63, no. 6 Aug. 2014, p. 1855 Wilbon, Michael. Athletes Deserve To Be Paid (2011): n. Pag. Web.