Jacob Conaty 1 Jacob Conaty Emil Smith Enc 1101 .002 Comp 1 March 5 th , 2017 Genetically Modified Crops Is the use of genetically modified food causing more harm or good to the environment in which we live in? Throughout the years, research on GMOs have been highly covered on whether these genetically modified crops are beneficial to the environment or not. In many sources, data from past years now contradicts the new and upcoming data from more current years. While some aspects of the conversation have not changed from the years 2000-2017 new research suggests that some aspects shift from questionable, in past years, to more widely accepted and known in world, about how genetically modified crops effect the environment. Before 2010, genetically modified crops were thought to be harmful than beneficial to the environment. In 2010, this article suggests that the author, a fellow scientist named Peggy Lemaux, found enough compelling information to conclude that these genetically modified crops could be causing more harm to the environment than initially intended to bring when first introduced to the world. This is generally what people thought about GMOs before 2010, then the idea of this matter changed in the later years, specifically after the year 2010. After the year of 2010, research concerning genetically modified crops proved to show no threat to the environment. In this article written by Kouser Qaim, he is said to found sufficient evidence that these modified crops not only effect the environment but can actually help it. Qaim says that with these crops food is able to grow in places otherwise known an infertile, but these crops can Jacob Conaty 2 still produce and this can make the once non fertile soil eventually fertile over time thanks to the decomposition of older plants dying. genetically modified food we saw an increase in overall quality in the food products with no unnatural effects to the surrounding (Qaim, 12). The idea of these crops effecting the environment did not necessarily change but new information came present to prove that these genetically modified crops has no to barely any effect on the environment. Before the year 2010 scientist believed that they could help reduced the pollution in our environment by creating a bio fuel from these genetically engineered crops. new methods can help prevent further damage to the (Jez, 26). Although before 2010 this method of creating a bio fuel from genetically modified crops was just an ongoing research project the ability to do this was confirmed in the years after 2010. After the year 2010, genetically modified plants and crops were proven to help lower the air pollution by creating a bio fuel from these crops. As said in the article written by Sergi Garcia products can not only create an increase in food but also in fuels and (Garcia, 1). Our world is now in a new revolution called green and new alternative fuels and methods of decreasing the amount of carbon dioxide emitted in the atmosphere will have to become available. Unlike in recent years the idea of turning genetically modified crops into bio fuels was just an idea, but in world numerous scientists were able to take these crops specifically the modified corn and create a fuel to run equipment such as tractors and cars. This bio fuel although sufficient in decreasing thee carbon dioxide emitted in the air is not yet available to the public as it is still in the experimental trials, making sure it is safe for use in everyday events. Throughout the years, the idea of turning the crops into an alternative fuel was always present but in recent years the scientists working on this project made it reality. Jacob Conaty 3 In conclusion, over the year the use of genetically modified crops have become more of a popular subject because it is now known that the modified products have no apparent effects on the environment and even better no effects on humans. Before 2010, the subject of genetically modified crops was fairly new and still being heavily researched to make sure that they were safe for our environment since we are entering the After 2010, more research has been released stating that these genetically modified crops are indeed safe for the environment and should not cause any effects, and if they do it is said to be very little. Over the research continues to change and continues to bring about new information that the recent years did not know, so although now genetically engineering our crops are deemed to be safe for the environment now, new information is always coming up about this subject and this may change in future years. Citations Lemaux, Peggy G. Genetically Engineered Plants and Foods: A Analysis of the Issues (Part  Annual Review of Plant Biology 59.1 (2008): 771-812. Web. Qaim M, Kouser S (2013) Genetically Modified Crops and Food Security. PLoS ONE 8(6): e64879. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0064879 Jez, Joseph M., Lee Soon Goo, and Ashley M. Sherp. The Next Green Movement: Plant Biology For The Environment And  Science 353.6305 (2016): 1241. Publisher Provided Fu Garcia, Sergi Astals, Buddhi Bahadur Achhami, and Anna Pericas Maymo. The GM crops for energy  (2010).ll Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.