Christopher T. Erickson Sabah Firoz Uddin ENC 1101 02/06/17 Smoking and the use of tobacco products has been a tradition of many cultures around the world for centuries, however with the increase of medical research on the effects of tobacco on health an on going question has surfaced, should smoking and tobacco products be banned from use entirely in the united states? This paper will argue that smoking is at risk of the user as long as use is not infringing on the health of others, and should not be mandated by the government or other non users. Because of the negative health effects tobacco products have on the user and potentially those around them, policies and taxes have been implemented over the years in order to make tobacco more expensive and difficult to access, in a hope to end the use of tobacco. Users of tobacco and advocates for individual choice argue that it is at the risk of the user to decide whether or not they wish to use tobacco products, and should not be governed over by people who do not wish to use the product. This has created an argument over whether or not it is ethical to ban smoking entirely to help reduce the epidemic of tobacco users killed, or whether people should have the freedom to use tobacco at will. Advocates for banning tobacco argue points such as children and young adults having access to tobacco without understanding consequences, and how no positive health attributes of tobacco products. Others argue that tobacco is a historical part of our society that helped build countries such as the United States, and how a ban on smoking could greatly effect the benefits tobacco products have on the economy. Erickson 2 Vidrine, Jennifer Irvin. The Role of Tobacco in Cancer Health Disparities. Rep. 6th ed. Vol. 11. N.p.: Springer, 2009. Academic OneFile Web. 29 Jan. 2017. - Jennifer Irvin Vidrine is the author of The Role of Tabacco in Cancer Health Disparities, an academic article written to inform readers on how low income and less educated individuals create the highest smoking epidemic and the disparities that exist between having limited access to cancer treatment and effective methods to help quit smoking and use of tobacco products. Because of low income, the ability for people to receive quality healthcare from smoking related illnesses is nearly impossible, as there are no affordable methods of treatment. Due to lack of education, people often do not have access to information on the dangers of smoking, and are more likely to use tobacco products. Effective methods of quitting are equally inaccessible for people of low income, this leads to the worst tobacco use epidemic existing among low income and less educated individuals. - Jennifer Irvin Vidrine is a PhD who works for University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. This peer revived source is intended for other experts in the cancer research field, doctors, and experts who work with smoking related issues and illnesses. Due to Dr. Virdines long standing work with the cancer research center at University of Texas, her credibility in the field of cancer and smoking research would be accepted by scholars. This source has to do with the economic effects smoking has, and considering this article being written in 2009 when the US was in one of the worst recessions in US history, it is clear that their was a serve problem between the economy, and tobacco users. Erickson 3 Vuolo, Mike, Brian C. Kelly, and Joy Kadowaki. Independent and Interactive Effects of Smoking Bans and Tobacco Taxes on a Cohort of US Young Adults. Rep. 2nd ed. Vol. 106. N.p.: American Journal of Public Health, 2016. Business Source Premier Web. 29 Jan. 2017. - Mike Vuolo, Brian C. Kelly, and Joy Kadowaki, are the authors of the psychological study Independent and Interactive Effects of Smoking Bans and Tobacco Taxes on a Cohort of US Young Adults. This study was intended to inform people on how young adults (18-30) are affected by smoking policies in the US. The study questioned participants with a history of smoking on how previous anti smoking policies such as tax increases, and clean air policies effected their smoking habits. The study also question how hypothetical policies such as a ban, or further increase of taxes may effect their future smoking habits. This article is crucial for examining how smokers would be effected by a ban, and what the most effective way of preventing smoking among young people may be. - This peer reviewed research study is interned for those working in the psychology department interested in doing work involving smoking, and lobbyists fighting to increase anti smoking policies as well as reduce the amount of young people effected by smoking. Mike Vuolo works in the psychology department Ohio State University, while Brian C. Kelly, and Joy Kadowaki are with the psychology department of Purdue University. Kuipers, Mirte A.G., Stephanie D. Brandhof, Karin Monshouwer, Karien Stronks, and Anton E. Kunst. Impact of Laws Restricting the Sale of Tobacco to Minors on Adolescent Smoking and Erickson 4 Perceived Obtainability of Cigarettes: An Study of 19 European Union  Impact of Laws Restricting the Sale of Tobacco to Minors on Adolescent Smoking and Perceived Obtainability of Cigarettes: An Study of 19 European Union Countries 112.2 (2017): 320.Academic OneFile Web. 13 Feb. 2017. - Kuipers, Mirte A.G., Stephanie D. Brandhof, Karin Monshouwer, Karien Stronks, and Anton E. Kunst conducted the study written in this peer reviewed journal. This study was performed in order to determine how restricting age limits on tobacco sales, and other restrictions will benefit the effort to help reduce smoke among adolescent teens. The study was performed by testing participants throughout Europe who already smoke, and seeing how new hypothetical laws that could be introduced would effect their smoking habits. The goal of the study was to see if the laws and regulations that have recently been placed in other countries in order to reduce smoking, would have the same benefits in countries throughout Europe. - The authors of this article hold various degrees at the University College London and Academic Medical Center Amsterdam, all having done previous research regarding smoking. The expertise of the authors in this field as well as being peer reviewed means the information found in this article will be credible towards the research being performed. This article will be useful in analyzing the data that was found within the study on how teens are effected by certain smoking laws, and comparing it to the laws that are being lobbied for by anti smoking groups in the U.S. The information will help better determine which laws and regulations are best for reducing smoking, and will help to argue against groups trying to implement similar laws within the U.S. Erickson 5 Carpenter, Christopher, Sabina Postolek, and Casey Warman. Public-Place Smoking Laws and Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke  American Economic Journal 3.3 (2011): 35-61. JSTOR Web. 13 Feb. 2017. -Carpenter, Christopher, Sabina Postolek, and Casey Warman wrote this journal regarding the effects smoking has on the environment. The goal of this study was to look at how public smoking causes damage to the environment as well as people in the area. This article reviews how clean air policies benefit the ability to reduce public smoking, as well as reviews facts on the statistics of diseases and other health problems public smoking can inflict on non users. The article indicates that it had found impressive results regarding the improvement of health in areas where clean air and other smoking policies have been implemented. -The authors of this peer reviewed journal all hold a PhD, working at various universities throughout the U.S, having done previous studies regarding smoking in the past, this article will be credible for the research being performed. This article will be useful for combating those arguing that smoking is an individual right and should not be governed over. This article goes in depth on the negative effects smoking has on the environment as well as surrounding non smokers. This means that their will be substantial evidence that smoking is not only infringing on the individuals using, but also on non smokers, and the surrounding ecosystems. Erickson 6 Fagan, Pebbles, Eric T. Moolchan, Deirdre Lawrence, Anita Fernander, and Paris K. Ponder. Identifying Health Disparities across the Tobacco  Identifying Health Disparities across the Tobacco Continuum (2007): n. pag. Minority Health Archive. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. - In this peer reviewed source the authors take a hard stand against smoking and use of tobacco products. This sources focuses specifically on what is reffered to as the disease in minority groups, those living in poverty, those with low education and service workers. In this source the other authors analyze scientific literature as well as public health records, to give a detailed analysis of how the disparities of the tobacco disease continuum throughout the specified groups. - The authors of this peer reviewed source all work within cancer research programs as well as medical programs at universities such as University of Hawaii. This source will be crucial for the research of this paper as it specifically analyzes the difference in health record reports across the United States. This information will help to better understand why some regions of the United States are more for banning or keeping tobacco products legal. This article will also help better the understanding of how the negative health effects of tobacco are worsened in minority groups and impoverished areas. Haustein, Knut-olaf, and David Groneberg. Tobacco or Health? 2nd ed. Heidelberg: Springer, 2010. Springerlink. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Erickson 7 - This peer reviewed book summarizes years of scientific research on smoking, giving an unbiased report of the positive, neutral and negative aspects of tobacco use. The book goes in detail on many years of scientific research and how it has changed over time. This source goes in depth on a major subject that few other sources have covered, which is the effects smoking can have on unborn children, and the potential health consequences they can face throughout there entire lifetime. - The main author of this book Knut-Olaf Haustein is world renowned German physician who is best known for his tobacco and health research. This source will act as tool to check facts from other more biased sources and articles, in order to better understand how some groups alter facts in order to gain more support for their cause. This source will also be beneficial on understanding how larger cooperations and politicians alter facts in order to help the tobacco companies continue making profits.