Introduction: A: For thousands of years the forces of the old and the new have been fighting in society for control. This eternal battle continues today in the form of secularization versus anti- secularization. Secularization is the process of making culture separate from religious or spiritual connection or influences . As early as the sixteenth century, when Martin Luther posted his ninety five theses and paved the way for a secular society. The United States of America was founded on the principal of of church and because of the divine monarchy established in England. Many current events and pressing issues have a great deal to do with religion and weather religion should have a role in society. The same constitution that proposes separation of church and state also states God we it is this conflict of how much of a presence should religion have in modern society. The question of whether this conflict persists in the twenty first century, Does secularization cause conflict in contemporary Western culture?, is a heated debate. B: Thesis: The issue of religion and contemporary Western culture trying to coexist with each other is no new issue, but in the last two decades much has happened to advance both sides of the aisle in contemporary Western world. Body: I. A: Sub-Topic- Religon and contemporary western society do not mix well and peacefully coexisted for many years. As many college students are more accepting of science than religion, and advances in twenty-first century science leading to increasing secularization. B: Evidence before 2010: An article that discusses the conflict of religion in colleges and how universities are a hotbed for conflict. As many students of the new generation, or millennials, begin to mature in age, the new generation strays further and further away from religion in their lives. According to Pew, one in four millennials are unaffiliated with any religion, which is an all time high. Compare this to three in four millennials who believe in climate change. This shows that there is an increase in in science over firm belief in religion. This is leading to many evangelical or religious extremist groups like the West-borough Baptist Church, to take this increase in science and decrease in religion as a threat on their very existence. Many of these evangelical extremist groups now take to college campuses on a regular basis, protesting the secularization of the new generation. C: Evidence After 2010: An article that discusses how science is a major proponent of religion and conflicts with religion in society. Science has long been the bane of many religious extremist groups. Many aspects of science that are a consensus within the scientific community refute religion. Just alone the debate of creationism and intelligent design versus the big bang theory and evolution, polarizes many. With science becoming more and more advanced in the twenty-first century religion feels as if it is being left behind. II. A: Sub- Topic- place in society has been a heated debate for decades. In particular over the past two decades, there has been a meteoric rise in right-wing populist movements and an overall increase in political climate surrounding the issue. B: Before 2010: Two orthodox scholars say how religion needs to be in society because of how people need moral accountability. This is the main counter point to secularization, that religion keeps people on their best behavior and without it people would be lost morally. The idea that religion serves as a moral compass is persistent rhetoric used by proponents of religion in society. C: After 2010: This article discusses how right wing populist movements have sprung up in Western society as a response to radical extremism. Many right wing extremist movements have come in response to radial Islamic terror attacks on Western society. All across Europe and America, anti-muslim rhetoric can be heard in the political world. Marie Le Pen in France with the National Front party, leaders like Borris Johnson in the UK who spearheaded the Brexit movement, and the current presidential administration in the United States have all been noted as being anti-Muslim in their rhetoric. This radical response to radical religion inevitably leads to more conflict in the world and increased animosity in the West. Conclusion: Religon and contemporary western society do not mix well and peacefully coexisted for many years. With college campuses becoming a hotbed for religious debate in the past two decades as well as advances in modern science adding to the supposed oppression of religion and increase in secularization in the world. place in society has been a heated debate for decades, as many religious leaders will say that religion is essential to lead a good life on earth and right wing populist movements lead in increased hatred in the world.