Lordeus 1 Regine Lordeus Gregory Van Winkle ENC1102 12 March 2017 Federal and state laws require students to test on a standardized assessment at least three times a year in order to determine how well students have mastered in subjects English, reading, mathematics, writing, and science. It is used to also compare relative performances. National Education Association finds the standardized test biased and difficult for students to pass, therefore they focus on setting goals and mission for testing to be reduced. Their mission is to the promise of public education and to prepare every student to succeed in a diverse/interdependent (National Education Association 1). NEA beliefs that students have the human and civil right to obtain a quality public education, so why not allow them to test regularly without being judged? Thus, although standardized testing is remarkable to help students see where they stand academically and determine their entry to colleges, NEA set goals are to have students only test on assessments created by the teachers. Their mission is distinguished through the use of rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos and logos. These images inform the public society that students have the potential to do anything, but test scores are blocking their achievements. National Education Association was originally founded in 1857 and was founded by forty-three educators in Philadelphia. National Education Association it is now known worldwide for their professionalism. They that the expertise and judgment of education professionals are critical to student (National Education Association 1). Lordeus 2 National Education Association argues that expertise and judgment of education professionals are critical to (National Education Association 1). Image one portrays a young lady holding a white poster that reads, am more than just a test By visualizing this image, it allows the audience to feel sympathy for the young lady because of her facial expression. Her face expression sends off a message on how tired and depressed she is from being judged based on her ability. A great example to clearly understand this picture may be that a student is great at grasping information in a classroom, but not great at performing their skills on a standardized exam. Stress/anxiety is what causes students to forget materials before taking an exam. humans are afraid, nervous, angry, frustrated or worried, the reptilian brain activates and neocortex shuts (Haynor 2). The tone that might have been expressed in the protest was angry and upset. Thus, although standardized testing is remarkable to help students see where they stand academically, the mission of this image is possible to get schools to stop basing intelligence off their test results and focus on providing more class assessments. In image one, the mission is to express through the use of rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, and logos. Ethos is ethical appeal, means to convince an audience of the credibility or (My Reviewers USF). The quote am more than just a test refers to accurate and credible information because it is true that colleges, universities, and performing art schools evaluate students based on their test scores. Another example of ethos in image one is the use of NEAToday logo. Pathos is emotional appeal, means to persuade an audience by appealing to their (My Reviewers USF). By analyzing image one, it sets off a mixed emotion feeling. Not such a great feeling, but also not a bad feeling. It is more of a Lordeus 3 expression because of what is written on the poster, and the expressions on the students The specific designed that allows the audience to feel that the young lady is tired of being judged. This allows the audience to sympathize with her situations. Logos is appeal to logic, means to convince an audience by use of logic or (My Reviewers USF). In image one, logos make a logical argument. Visualizing the image, the young lady is being seen as a test score by holding a sign that makes this claim. National Education Association strengthens their argument by expressing their point of view on standardized testing. They would beg to make a change for students to stop getting evaluated by their scores and follow up with its mission help prepare students to succeed in a diverse/ interdependent (National Education Association 1). As states and counties continue to offer standardized testing, National Education Association shares pictures on their organization page to demonstrate the looks on the faces while taking their exam. Image two is directed towards all stakeholders, schools, and senates who believe standardized testing is a great way to measure students achievement. NEA is promoting what anxiety looks like while students are taking their exam. The image portrays a young lady who has a paper in front of her, possibly taking an exam. While visualizing the picture, the young lady has a dejected look. Few students around her also seem to have a sullen look but are not showing as much emotion. The quote around the image reads also believe in increased allowing school districts to use locally-developed assessments instead of the statewide standardized test should be (National Education 2). The purpose of image two is to get a visual idea of how students are beyond stress while taking an exam. It is a credibility that test anxieties are real. The image allows the audience to feel Lordeus 4 ambivalent. Not every student is great at excelling on statewide exams, therefore National Education would like to reduce testing to once a year. In addition to Image two, the ad appeals to all audience, stakeholders, schools, and senates. The image mainly focuses on the stress anxiety students suffer while taking their exam. The main purpose of pathos is to allow the audience to grasp a specific feeling from the image. Pathos is successful in implementing this element because analyzing the image allows the audience to feel nervous or quite depress for the students who are stressed. It is informed that too much testing may misinform the public because test is secret, so the public cannot know what students are expected to (Ehrenfreud 2). The specific element that establishes credibility is the original location image. Even though the image lacks NEA logo, it was taken from an NEA article. The last rhetorical appeal is the appeal to logic reasoning or logos. Based on the picture, majority of the students looks stresses. According to their argument, National Educational Association believes testing causes anxiety which can cause lower test scores. This image shows a stressful situation that many futures are affected by. Both images presented in this paper has different methods of getting their message out but has the same goal, which is to inform the senate about reducing standardized testing. National Education Association prefers for students to test annually, rather than the state and county providing the exam three times a year. Less standardized testing equivalents to less chance of students stressing and teachers being overwhelmed. The first image expresses ethos more because it is accurate colleges/universities based students off their test scores. Meanwhile, image two expresses pathos more because visualizing the image allows the audience to feel a certain way. Lordeus 5 National Education Association believes testing should be reduced to once a year, and have it determine potential, but not to the point where they are being evaluated for it. Both images were able to express their goals and missions on why standardized testing should be reduced through the use of rhetorical appeal. Apart from students being stressed and judged, students could possibly make a change for themselves by getting tutored or asking for more class assessments to allow them from failing their exam. National Education Association has used rhetorical appeals to argue that all it takes is the right image and words to influence the state that testing should be reduced. Lordeus 6 Work Cited Ehrenfreund, Max. civil rights groups support standardized The Washington Post, 14 April 2014, pp.1-3. Web 26 January 2017 Haynor, Nick. Prep and the Educational Connections Inc, E Tutoring, 13 January 2013, pp.1-2. Web 25 February 2017 Jehlen, Alain. To Congress: Less Standardized Testing, More Help National Education Association, August. 2015, pp.1-2. Web. 26 January 2017 Walker, Tim. Am More Than Just a Test NEAToday, News and Features from the National Education Association, 2 Nov. 2014 Walker, Tim. Test Is NEAToday, News and Features from the National Education Association, 2 Nov. 2014 Image 1 Image 2