Kelsey Lay Lay 1 Instructor: Emil Smith Composition 1101/002 March 5, 2017 College Students and Adderall Researchers have shifted their concerns about the use of Adderall by college students over the past ten years. Before 2010 the researchers focused on Adderall as a for college students who wanted to focus more on their schoolwork. However, since 2010 researchers have noticed a trend of college students taking Adderall as a supplement to other party drugs such as alcohol and marijuana. College students who take stimulants believe the drug makes them sociable and likeable among their peers. While researchers continue to discuss the use of Adderall as a among college students, they have become increasingly concerned about the serious side effects of mixing Adderall with other drugs. The use of nonmedical stimulants, such as Adderall, have continued to become a major problem on college campuses. Before 2010 approximately 12 million persons reported using nonmedical stimulants in the United States. Per Larry Kroutil, researcher on Adderall use, most people who misused the drug were between 18-25 years old. This age group was 10 times more likely than any other age group to misuse Adderall. Misuse was also most prevalent among low income families who did not have health insurance. The use by males and females was very similar. Since 2010 the number of Adderall misusers has continued to grow. of stimulant drugs has increased nine million percent in the last ten (Aberg) Various studies have been conducted across the country and the abuse rate ranges from 7% to 33% on college campuses. study of more than 10,000 college students from across the country found that Lay 2 more than half the students with and Adderall or other ADHD prescription were asked to sell the medication to peers and (Aberg) Since 2010 researchers have found that the characteristics of the abusers have shifted to majority being white, middle to high income family income, members of fraternities or sororities, male and students with a grade point average of a B or lower. With this shift in the characteristics of researchers have shifted their theories on why college students abuse Adderall and other such stimulants. Prior to 2010 researchers only focus of the nonmedical use and abuse of Adderall by college students was to enhance their studies and improve their grades. It was believed that students took Adderall without a prescription mostly during exam weeks and to finish their end of semester projects. Students believed the drug would help them in the same way it did their friends who had ADD/ADHD. They took Adderall and other such stimulants to focus and stay up to pull all- nighters at exam time. Only percent fit the criteria for (Kroutil) Since 2010 researchers have taken a new look at why students take nonmedical stimulants. As they look at the characteristics of the abusers they have looked at the social reasons why students abuse the drug. It is believed than may students take Adderall and other stimulants for social reasons. The students believe the drug makes them more sociable and talkative. They even believe they will be more likeable and be more popular in their fraternities and sororities. Per a study performed by the National Center for Health Research of college students around the nation, a third of students have taken to get high or (Aberg) Students equated taking Adderall while drinking alcohol as cocaine (Gomes) one in five women who took the drug took it to lose (Aberg) The problem is that many students who legally get the drug with a prescription see no harm in making some extra money by selling some of their Lay 3 pills to others. They do not realize that this is illegal and punishable by law. The Drug Enforcement has declared Adderall as a highly addictive drug. As the use of nonmedical stimulants continue to grow on college campuses so do researchers concern for the risks associated with Adderall. Most students believe there are no risks to taking the drug because the Federal Drug Administration approved it. Prior to 2010 researchers focused on the risks of students taking Adderall occasionally to get through midterms, projects, or finals. Since researchers did not see a large amount of addiction they investigated the risks but did not have a major concern. They did find in isolated cases the prolonged uses of Adderall could cause heart conditions, weight loss, insomnia, and psychiatric conditions. The incidence rate was very low. After 2010 there was a growing concern among researchers about the risks faced by college students when using nonmedically prescribed stimulants. This shift occurred because of the shift in the purpose students were taking the drug and the growing rate of addiction. A study by the manufacturer of Adderall determined a prolonged use of nonprescribed Adderall or mixing Adderall with other drugs can lead to serious complications. They have determined that the drug when combined with other drugs can cause problems, blurred vision, increased body temperature, increased heart rate, hallucinations, increased blood pressure, cardiac arrest, and even (Aberg) As overuse of Adderall continues to increase on college campuses so should the concern for the students who are misusing the drug. Students prior to 2010 appear to use the drug just to get through exams with minimal risk. After 2010 the tendency has shifted to an addictive drug by lower achieving students who try to use the drug to keep up with their studies while partying and feeling the high of the drug when taken with other party drugs. As the reason shifts for college students taking the drug the concern for the deadly effects and addiction increases. Lay 4 Works Cited Aberg, Simon Essig. Study  abuse by college students: What you need to  2016. National Center for Health Research. Web. 23 January 2017 Gomes, Jennifer, Tammy Song, Lynn Goodwin, and Paul J. Toriello. Stimulant Abuse on University Journal of Human Behavior in the Social Environment 21.7 (2011): 822-33. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Goodman, John. Enhancement, Cheating, and Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal. 2012(2010): 145. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Kroutil, Larry A., et al. Nonmedical Use of Prescription Stimulants in The United  Drug and Alcohol Dependence 84 (2006): 135-143. ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.