Patel 1 Prem Patel Sabah Firoz Uddin ENC 1101 01/26/17 The effects of technology and the internet on children. Technology is an important part of lives and the community, it is a way to stay connected with the outside world. It keeps everyone in linked with everything that happens around us. Technology is inhabited by everyone especially the United States. Technology shapes the children and how they act. It changes their way of thinking and how they interact with the environment, it mostly stops the interactions between each other. Children stop going out and interacting with each other because they do not go outside and play. They rather stay indoors and play on their phones or play on the computer and be on the internet. This leads to children not being social and interactive with one another. This also leads to health problems because these kids are not getting enough or any exercise needed. Which leads to child obesity and other health issues. Children using technology also lead to issues like cyber bulling, child pornography, misuse of the internet, etc. How does technology right now and in the future impact the young, the children that are called natives (children who are exposed to technology at a very young Source 1: Prasertsin, Ujsara, and Prapimparn Suvarnakuta. THE EFFECT OF INTERNET USING BEHAVIORS UPON THE PHYSICAL AND MENTAL HEALTH OF Patel 2 THAI CHILDREN AND YOUTHS: CASE STUDY IN  International Journal of Cyber Society and Education. Academy of Taiwan Information Systems Research, 2011., 2011. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Talks about how to much technology usage effects the mind in different ways, and also effects physical characteristics. It changes the way that kids think about the world. They have trouble determining real and virtual. They get so focused into the technology they block out the things around them. They also are effected physically because they get any exercise. They also know how to play physical game and sports because of being online so much. Kids need to play at least 2-4 hours a day, but sense the evolution of more technology children are not getting the necessary hours of fresh air and activeness. Article is creditably because the author is a university professor. Also the article is written from lab research and experiments preformed. Which mean information found is first hand and straight from the source itself. It has also been confirmed by others, and fellow peers. It works with the research question because it shows that the more technology used leads to less physical activity between the children. Source 2: Cho, Kyung-Seu, and Jae-Moo Lee. Influence of Smartphone Addiction Proneness of Young Children on Problematic Behaviors and Emotional Intelligence: Mediating Self-Assessment Effects of Parents Using  Science Direct. Elsevier Ltd, Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Kids using technology all the time do not get the physical exercise they need to grow. They also get the human contacted need to live a healthily life. But on the Patel 3 other hand kids who use technology also are proven to have a better imagination and a better memory, than kids how have limited to no technology access. They are proven to have a greater imagination the others, they can and also control their dreams and have more access to their thoughts. They also can do more with the imagination, the down side is that they cannot do much with this because their imagination is only in the visual world and no tin the real world. Two people wrote this article and found all the stats together, therefore it is more reliable than a solo writer, also it is reviewed many peers to prove that the finding is correct. This is a scholar article and finding because it is cross referenced by many others. It connected with the research questions because it talks about the emotional and mental impact of the internet on young minds. Source 3: Anastasiades, Panagiotes S., and Elena Vitalaki. Promoting Internet Safety in Greek Primary  Journal of Educational Technology & Society., 2011. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. The internet is a public thing, that means anyone and everyone out there can use it, this type of exposure not good for children. There is countless number of things that are on the internet, like porn, murder, and other things that should not be seen by children. Things like this can affect a mine in different ways, but mostly in a negative way. This can and most likely lead to problems in their teen years and possibility in their adult life. Also children being on the technology and the internet all the time can lead to more child pornography, and more cyber bullying. This will create more problems, which can lead to more suicides and/or more murders. This can be stopped by parents/ superiors keep a good eye on their children and what type of websites they Patel 4 go on. The number of things children can find on the internet is infinite, the internet is public for everyone and they can post or see anything they want to. This needs to be monitored my and adult because children can access anything and that is not safe for the children this can lead to many problems, like bulling and etc. this article is peer reviewed and all findings are cross referenced with other scholar people. It makes that article and findings reliable. Source 4: Mesman, Glenn R., Dennis Z. Kuo, John L. Carroll, and Wendy L. Ward. The Impact of Technology Dependence on Children and Their  Science Direct. Mosby, Inc., Nov.-Dec. 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. When kids grow up their mind grows with them, they start adapting to the things they are surrounded with. They start learning the things they use and do a lot, and if they use technology, daily, their minds process in a way that is not different from other children how exposed to technology at a young age. They start thinking differently than other, not that this a bad thing, but it also a good thing. Since the world is becoming more technology based not a bad thing that kids are starting to learn at a young age. On the other hand, it is a bad thing that kids are not getting the human contact and also they are not integrating with other children. They can lead to other problems as they grow up, especially in their teen years. The effects of technology on children are not the same for all. They are unique because it based on mind and everyone has a different type of mind. But some symptoms are the same for most children like lack of physical activates and lack Patel 5 of communication skills. They are things that need to be adapted and cannot be adapted from the back of a screen. Children loss the communication skills developed at a young age. This article was written by four people, which means that all finding and content in the article was reviewed and examined by four people, also they have a and this article was reviewed by other peers which makes it extremely reliable. Source 5: Agarwal, Vivek. J. Indian Assoc. Child Adolesc. Ment. Health 2012; 8 (2):38- 45 (n.d.): n. pag. ERIC. Journal of Indian Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health, 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Children these days will be on the internet, watch tv, or be playing video games in their spare time, instead of going out and doing something new. This means everything they see is the media and the media can be too vulgar for children of some ages. When they are not supervised they are developing all sorts of thoughts that are not meant for little children during their development ages. This can be harmful for the mind because it has a huge impact on how they think. They need to go out and engage in outside activity and get away from the all the information that is not safe for them. The authors of this article make a point that the media is not meant for the under age children and being exposed to it can lead to metal effects. This is creditable because not only the fact that more than one person wrote it but it is peer reviewed and it has been tested. The test shows that children exposed to the media at an early age are not open minded and they are behaving differently than children that are not exposed to the vulgar media. Patel 6 Source 6: Hasan. The Relationship between Internet Parenting Styles and Internet Usage of Children and  Science Direct. In Computers in Human Behavior, July 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. The fact that children are using more technology and the internet does not only have an impact on the children but also the parents. The parents are modifying their discipline ways. They are adapting to what the children are using more which is the internet and technology. Children are more considered with their technology then the ability to go outside and being able to hang out with their friends. This leads to parents not stopping then from going out but instead taking their electronic devices away like their phone and tv. This article was written in 2016 which is a recent study, which does not mean that it is not reliable because others have reviewed the content and accepted the information found in it. They have cross tested this information with other data found and it states that the finding is correct.