Pugh 1 Sara Pugh ENC1102 Professor Van Winkle 12 March 2017 ImmiGrant these People the Right to Stay Ninety-nine percent. That is the percentage of Americans that Buzzfeed reported are immigrants or descendants of immigrants. Although the majority of Americans bleed immigration blood, many of them are anti-immigration. Throughout history, anti-immigration groups have pushed for legislation to deport immigrants and send them back to their home country. However, immigration advocacy groups, such as the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), have been equally fighting for the rights of the immigrants just as hard. The ACLU has been in the ongoing war against the government about immigrants and their rights since 1920. The ACLU Rights Project, created in 1985, is to expanding and enforcing the civil liberties and civil rights of immigrants and to combating public and private discrimination against (ACLU) The images the ACLU has published on all forms of social media effectively demonstrates their opinion on all of the anti-immigration legislation the government has passed. The most recent battle the ACLU Rights Project is a lawsuit against President Donald Trump. On January 27, 2016, President Donald Trump passed an executive order stating that immigrants and non-citizen visitors could not enter into the United States if they were from Iran, Iraq, Somalia, Libya, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. Nine days later, Homeland Security decided that they would stop following the travel ban guidelines in order because Federal Judge James Robart deemed the order unconstitutional. The ACLU has Pugh 2 organized protests against travel ban because they feel that it violates the Constitution and the rights of immigrants. The ACLU was so angered by anti-immigration executive order that they sued him. The first image 1 displayed on the opening screen of the website is a picture of Donald Trump with the saying Discriminated: We Then directly under that, there is a button that says The non-profit organization relies on donations from its members so it can continue to fight for the rights of people who cannot do it all by themselves. The ACLU is a notable organization that is to fight for freedom and the protection of constitutional rights for generations to During entire presidential campaign, the ACLU started gaining more and more members because many Americans started to fear that their rights and or minority rights would disappear. The intended audience for the image is for the people who are going on the ACLU website to get more information about the organization and learn about what is being done to fight civil liberties. Also, the image 1 is encouraging the members and or anyone who goes on their website to donate money so that they can continue to further their lawsuit against travel ban. The image uses rhetorical appeals in order to show the audience their standpoint on executive order. Logos, also known as the logical appeal, focuses on the message of the rhetorical situation and how well the author used logic and reason to persuade the audience. (Hoffman) The logos of the image 1 picture uses the specific example of how Donald Trump discriminated when he passed the travel ban. The ACLU specifically was representing two men who were detained at the John Fitzgerald Kennedy International Airport in New York City as a result of the travel ban. After the lawsuit over the two men was filed, the ACLU asked for donations to keep fighting against Trump and the discrimination of immigrants, refugees, and any group in America that is Pugh 3 being unjustly losing their rights. Thus, the ACLU posted the image at the top of the main page of their website. They wanted their members and or anyone who visited their website to be aware they needed money to resist the continuance of the executive order that took away rights. The weekend after the executive order was passed, the ACLU received over $24 million dollars of donations. (Calfas) They also have more than doubled their membership from 400,000 to 1 million since Donald Trump won the election last November. (Calfas) The logos of the image were so convincing that the people who went on the ACLU website most likely donated or became a member. The logos of the image played into the ethos of the image. Ethos, also known as the ethical appeal, focuses on how persuasive the author shows their credibility to the audience. (Hoffman) The ethos in the image 1 is that the image is found on a reputable website. The ACLU has been involved in more Supreme Court cases than any other private organization all because they are dedicated to protecting all rights and upholding the Constitution. (ACLU) The reputation when it comes to lawsuits involving civil liberties is very respectable. The audience donates to the ACLU to support the organization in the lawsuit against Trump because they are aware that their money will be used appropriately. Pathos, also known as the emotional appeal, focuses on how well the author invokes the emotions of the audience. (Hoffman) The image 1 used pathos because the ACLU is saying that since Trump discriminated against immigrants and that as an organization, were so opposed to the executive order and its implications, that they must take him to court to resolve it. The audience of the image 1 are the people who were apart of the $24 million worth of donations. For the most part, people will donate money if their emotions are invoked about the topic or they feel that they need to donate to make sure something is done about the issue. The Pugh 4 pathos of the image was success because so much money was raised which means people care about the travel ban/Trump and want something to be done about it. Kairos is the rhetoric appeal in regards to the timeliness of the author and the tone they are using. The kairos of the image 1 that the ACLU posted this image 1 after they filed the lawsuit against Trump. Also, within the image 1 , it says This is a form of kairos because it is asking the audience to not donate once, but to sign up to donate monthly. This shows that the ACLU does not need one time donations to be able to stand up for what is not always the popular belief, they need consistent income. The ACLU has several forms of social media, such as a website, twitter, Facebook, etc. The organizations Facebook page has hundreds of photos, ranging from a quote with a picture of the person who said it to rallies nationwide. The ACLU helps organize and document rallies for people that want to exercise their First Amendment right. The images commonly possess the greatest usage of rhetorical appeals are the photos of the little kids at the rallies holding signs they made themselves. On February 5, 2017, the ACLU Nationwide Facebook page posted an image 2 of a young girl holding a sign that read, Best Friend is Muslim And She Is Nice. You Have To Be Afraid Of The picture was taken by Lisa Pitt Tilson at an anti- Trump march in West Palm Beach, Florida. The audience of the picture are people who follow the ACLU Facebook page and the friends of anyone who shared the image 2 . The purpose of the image is present an opinion of someone that would be marching in an anti-Trump rally. Also, the image 2 creates awareness that even children are upset about executive order so much that they want to get out there and have their voice be heard. Kate Fillion, the mother of the little girl in the photo commented on the Facebook photo. She said, mother of these little girls! Thank you for all your support. They both have Muslim classmates and were very upset by the Pugh 5 recent immigration ban. They themselves decided what to put on their signs, we just helped them make it look The comment from the mother and the image 2 itself cause the audience to react through the rhetorical appeals. The logos for this image 2 has a different appeal to logic. The little girl in the picture is too young to understand the entirety of the anti-immigration executive order but she understands enough to know that the immigration ban is not right to all people. Her poster is ignorant in the way that because she does not understand the big scheme of the situation, she is able to see the simplicity revolving around the immigration ban. Her mind thinks that the ban is because people are afraid of Muslims. Her poster shows that she thinks it does not make sense to be afraid of Muslims because her best friend is Muslim and she is nice. This little girl possesses an innocence of her logic on the topic that is perceived by the audience or people who see this picture because she is simply trying to feel that she stood up for her best friend. The pathos in this image 2 are mainly around the fact that she is a young girl holding a sign she made, showing her opinion, and that she is participating in a political march. Children invoke emotions because they seem carefree and unaware of the reality of the world around them. When a child reacts to an in a cute way, people have emotions about it. The audience felt enough emotion towards the picture since the image 2 has 56,000 likes, 434 comments, and 4, 864 shares on Facebook. The kairos of the image 2 is that the march was a little over a week after the travel pan was signed by President Trump. Both of the images fully support the standpoint the ACLU has on the executive order. The images are supporting the mission of fighting for the rights of immigrants and upholding all constitutional rights. The first image 1 is the direct response of the ACLU Pugh 6 on travel ban and the second picture is demonstrating the encouragement of people using their rights to be heard and fight for what they believe in. Pugh 7 Works Cited Calfas, Jennifer. Gets $24M in Donations after Suing over Trump TheHill 30 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 Facebook. Nationwide- Best Friends against the Muslim Web. 26 Feb.2017. Discriminated, We American Civil Liberties Union. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Security Suspends Travel CNN. Cable News Network. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Institute, Charles Koch. Suprising Facts about BuzzFeed. 9 May.2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Peskin, Sara Manning. Immigration Ban vs. 2011 The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 25 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. to Join the American Civil Liberties Union. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Zapotosky, Matt. Appeals Court Rules 3 to 0 against Trump on Travel Ban. Washington WP Company, 09 Feb. 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Pugh 8 Image 1 Image 2