Fernandez 1 Nicolo Fernandez Professor Uddin ENC 1101 - MW 9:30-10:45 28 February 2017 Final Draft Medical Marijuana is cannabis that is prescribed by doctors to their patients to help patients with certain medical conditions. The legalization of medical marijuana has been a very hot topic of discussion for the last several years. The United States as a whole as come very far in legalizing it. In 1996, California passed the first law to legalize it medically. In 2012, Colorado and Washington legalized marijuana as a recreational drug. As of January of 2017, there are 28 states that have legalized medical marijuana. Marijuana is the preparation of a cannabis plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug or medicine. It is not unknown that there are many people in this world who smoke marijuana recreationally rather than for medical reasons. This leads to the argument between two definitive sides. There is one side, where people believe that legalizing medical marijuana would hurt the United States rather than help it. They believe that marijuana use causes people to be lazy. They also believe that it is a gateway drug to more hard/synthetic drugs. While the other side sees and argues for the benefits from it, both medically and economically. This introduces the question: Should medical marijuana be legalized in the United States? Fernandez 2 Cited Sources 1. Wang, Julie B., et al. Full Length Article: Medical Marijuana Legalization And Cigarette And Marijuana Co-Use In Adolescents And  And Alcohol Dependence 166.(2016): 32-38. . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. In this article, employees of the for Tobacco Control Research and Education, Cardiovascular Research were testing to see if in places where medical marijuana was legal, if it had an effect on the co-use of cigarettes. Data was analyzed from the 2013 National Survey on Drug Use and Health. They compared cigarette and marijuana co-use over a 30 day period from people of age of twelve to sixty four by a statewide medical marijuana legalization. They used logistic regression models to estimate the odds of having nicotine dependence among current cigarette smokers who also reported past 30-day marijuana use and but not marijuana use (vs. use) adjusting for covariates including statewide legalization of medical marijuana. They found that when medical marijuana is legal, the co-use of cigarettes is higher as opposed to a state where medical marijuana is not. Wang, Danielle E. Ramo, Nadra E. Lisha and Janine K. Cataldo work at the Center of Tobacco Control Research and Educations, Cardiovascular Research Institute. They are all well studied in their field and they work for an organization that studies tobacco products and in this case how medical marijuana affects the overall use of tobacco products. This is a 2016 published article so it is a lot more recent Fernandez 3 information. This shows the side about how medical marijuana may not be a good thing to legalize because of the increase in tobacco use it might have nationally. 2. Jonathan M., et al. Research Article: Public Health Effects Of Medical Marijuana Legalization In  Journal Of Preventive Medicine 50.(2016): 373-379. . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. In this article, it talks about a study that was conducted in hopes of finding the public health effects of medical marijuana legalization in Colorado. authors conducted an observational, ecological study. It used an time-series to identify the changes in public health indicators from the policy changes regarding the legalization of medical marijuana which in occurred in 2009. They conducted this research in the state of Colorado and to be more specific, the Denver area. They collected data to see the different trends of hospital discharges from the use of medical marijuana and the amount of poison center calls from before and after 2009 when these policy changes were made. The analysis itself was conducted in 2014. The results they found were that hospital discharges decreased by one percent. However poison center calls increased as well as poison center calls regarding marijuana. The authors who wrote this article all work for the Safe, Department of Psychiatry, School of at the University of Colorado in Denver. This is being a scholarly article, shows its credibility. The authors are well learned in their field some have while other have theirs Masters or Bachelors Degree. This article gives Fernandez 4 insight to whether or not the legalization of medical marijuana is a good thing. Yes, these policy changes helped the amount of discharges from the hospital but it also increased the amount of poison control calls having to do with marijuana. This article shows both sides of the research question. 3. Seamon, Matthew J., et al. Medical Marijuana And The Developing Role Of The  Journal Of Health-System Pharmacy 64.10 (2007): 1037-1044. Search Premier . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article explains what medical marijuana is used for and to show how Pharmacists need to understand how complex the legal framework is for medical marijuana. It goes into how medical marijuana contains over 400 active chemicals and how more than 60 of them are unique to cannabis. It then goes into how complex the legality of medical marijuana is. 11 states had legalized medical marijuana by this time and some metropolitan areas. Another state legislation that allows patients to claim a defense of medical Basically, saying that if they need it, they can get it. Almost, no questions asked. Medical Marijuana can be used for many reasons, to help with: severe nausea and vomiting, weight loss, HIV infections and cancer, spasticity, pain, etc. They found that several states have legalized the use of marijuana for chronic and debilitating medication conditions. The main point of this article was to Fernandez 5 show pharmacists that they need to learn more about this drug both medically and legally so they can protect themselves and help serve their patients. This article is from the American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy. This shows the credibility of the article. The authors who wrote this article all are very learned in the their field. They used many sources from different scholarly articles to form this one. This article ties into my research question because it shows both sides. It shows how the legalization of it may not be a good thing because there was a state that allowed people to get medical marijuana without even going to a pharmacists. Which could lead to abusive use of the drug. However, it shows medically, all the benefits and how it could be used to help patients with certain conditions they may have. This article was also published in 2007 so it shows how the state medical marijuana was in 10 years ago. 4. Medical Marijuana: Good  37.4 (2007): 28-29. Search Premier . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. The article discusses the study on reduction of pain from peripheral neuropathy related to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) through marijuana-smoking. This was a controlled, small study that only contained fifty patients. Twenty five patients smoked marijuana three times a day for five days straight. The other 25 patients smoked placebo cigarettes that did not have any cannabis in them. They measured the Fernandez 6 pain of the patients with daily pain diaries. With thirty patients they assessed pain with a heat simulation procedure. They found that those in used marijuana had a neuropathic pain reduction of 34% which was a double the percentage of the placebo group. It is said that a reduction of pain greater than 30% is a level of This article is from There are no authors for this article however it is a peer reviewed, scholarly article so it must be reliable. This article shows how medical marijuana benefits those with HIV. Even though it was a small study with only 50 people it shows how much of an impact it can have of those with HIV. This conveys how the legalization of medical marijuana can be a good thing. This article was written in 2007 so the legalization of medical marijuana was still on the It is said in the article that there were critics who argued that even though marijuana has therapeutic value, it could be hazardous to those with a compromised immune system. 5. Ashfield, Tracey. Cannabis Use In Multiple  Health Care 15.6 (2005): 25-29. Search Premier . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article discusses a case study performed on a patient that had MS and how medical marijuana was used to treat his condition. The patient was a middle aged man that was diagnosed in the and reported symptoms of pain, muscle spasm and upper limb ataxia. The patient claimed that medicines such as morphine only controlled part of the pain and did not really help his muscle spasms. He decided to smoke Fernandez 7 marijuana to so if it would help relieve some of his symptoms. He found out that they do help however intaking too much of it, worsened his ataxia. The article is from Health and was published in 2005. The author, Tracey Ashfield had her degree and was a Post-grad Certified Nurse Specialist. Since the article was published in 2005, it shows the outlook of medical marijuana during that time and how much it has changed since then. Medical marijuana now is used for much more than MS. This article is relevant to the research question because is shows the benefits of cannabis and how it can help those with MS. It also shows how marijuana is necessary because if a certain amount is prescribed to a patient it will help prevent overuse which can worsen symptoms. 6. Li, Mu-Chen, et al. Marijuana Use And Motor Vehicle  Reviews 34.1 (2012): 65. Provided Full Text Searching File . Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article was published in 2011. 16 states at that time and the District of Columbia in the United States enacted the legislation to decriminalize marijuana for medical use. It talks about how marijuana is nonalcoholic but it does play a factor is higher risk of car accidents. The authors performed a meta-analysis of 9 epidemiologic studies to attempt to see the association between marijuana use and crash risk in motor vehicles. They used statistics and articles from as early as 1940 to the present (2012) that were based on medical and transportation literature that related to marijuana use Fernandez 8 and motor vehicle crashes. The results they found were that marijuana usage drastically increased the amount of motor vehicle crashes. This article was published under the Epidemiologic Reviews on the Oxford Academic Website. A contributor of this website is the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. This article is relevant to the research question because it shows the negative effects of marijuana and how those who drive a car under the influence of marijuana have an increased risk to get in a car accident. It is also known that in states that have legalized marijuana, there is higher usage of it. This article was published in 2012 so it shows the outlook of marijuana and even with statistics like this, currently medical marijuana is being more and more legalized.