Gallagher 1 David Gallagher Prof. Van Winkle ENC 1102 11 March 2017 Project 2 Final Draft How does the Universe work? History tells us of violent battles between gods in the skies, under the water, and below the Earth through mythology. Modern Astronomy uses a gravity-based system to calculate speeds and distances between objects, and uses collision theories to explain the current state of our galactic environment. Thunderbolts is the collaborative voice of the Electric Universe movement established in 2004. Its prime mission is to explore the Electric Universe paradigm The Electric Universe theory is an alternative to mainstream Big Bang Theory. They perform experiments testing their electric models and comparing them to actual events in the Universe, including observations of our own planet. They spread their message through the website thunderbolts.info where they upload news involving observations, experiments, and commentary on published studies. They also distribute DVDs, books, and downloadable information. The Thunderbolts Project aims to convince the reader that our Universe is electric by piecing information together like a puzzle and presenting it through various forms of media. Earlier this year, a researcher named Andrew Hall contributed to the Thunderbolts Project by sharing information about a volcanic field in Mexico called Pinacate. He uses images like a maar in figure 1 to capture the attention of the reader. The image uses ethos in the source, linking the credibility of thunderbolts.info with Google Earth. The image uses pathos by invoking feelings of instant inquisitiveness that overwhelm the viewer on first take. Questions like Gallagher 2 happened arise. The image implies logos by insinuating if this is the current state of the topography, then there must have been a major event to shape the maar. The image uses Kairos by insinuation; the viewer wonders if, when and where an event causing this maar will take place again. The visual rhetoric of figure 1 uses an aerial view, showcasing the darker ring around the rim of the maar resembling a pie that has had its crust burnt. The aerial is also effective displaying the smaller circular craters (with no debris) on the rim of the larger crater. This adds to the curiosity of the viewer when observed. A closer examination of this image reveals that scientists may not have a complete description of what volcanoes are and what they do. A maar is a shallow volcanic crater with steep sides that is surrounded by tephra deposits. The tephra deposits are thickest near the crater and decrease with distance from the crater. A maar is formed when hot magma comes into contact with shallow ground water to produce a violent steam explosion. These explosions crush the overlying rocks and launch them into the air along with steam, water, ash and magmatic material. The materials usually travel straight up into the air and fall back to Earth to form the tephra deposits that surround the crater (Geology.com). In this article, Andrew Hall tries to convince his audience that lightning and electricity are synonymous with volcanoes and that there are still unanswered questions involving volcanic processes. A monogenic volcanic field in Sonora, Pinacate is one of fifty that dot the landscape from central Mexico to Colorado. What makes Pinacate special is its pristine nature, for it is largely untouched by human hands or the effects of severe erosion. Gallagher 3 Lightning is seen not only in thunderstorms but in snowstorms, hurricanes, intense forest fires, surface nuclear detonations and you guessed it, volcanic eruptions. Volcanic eruptions throw hot, pyroclastic material into the sky. The volume of scorching hot cloud that erupts upward is not filled by the erupting gas alone. Ground wind necessarily flows inward to fill the cloud from below. This may explain why maar craters, in general, have characteristically small amounts of concentrated around their rims (Hall, thunderbolts.info). This image now has a different meaning for the viewer, accomplishing the mission for the author and the Thunderbolts Project. Lightning is not coincidently present during volcanic eruptions, it is a contributing factor of a volcanic eruption. This opens the door to study the maars of Earth, our moon and numerous other planets, moons, and asteroids in the solar system. We can now debate with an open mind about the origins of craters throughout the solar system and universe. Figure 2 is the cover to the book of the It lists the authors David Talbott and Wallace Thornhill, and also summarizes its contents: A radical reinterpretation of human history and the evolution of the solar system. The image foreshadows the following information while representing the goals of the Thunderbolts Project. This image uses ethos by linking the academic credentials of David Talbott and Wallace Thornhill to the Thunderbolts Project. It also more subtly links electric phenomena to ancient mythology. Finally, the double-sided golden colored logo above the words, but below the image of the Earth is the symbol for the Electric Universe. This implies everything pictured is tied together by electricity. The image uses pathos to invoke feelings of fear. In ancient times, people feared lightning storms in a similar fashion we fear them today. The image uses logos by Gallagher 4 implying if electricity is the force of gods, then it must govern the laws of the Universe. The image induces Kairos by implying that forces greater than our control have and will again shape our Universe. Visual rhetoric of figure 2 uses the color red around the to symbolize death and destruction. The overall scene of the god towering over the Earth implies the immense power of electricity. All the objects in this image are well-spaced, representing the Electric Universe as a simple, elegant understanding of the Universe. Talbott and Thornhill explain in Thunderbolts of the Gods how ancient observations were truthful accounts and not just stories. The evidence suggests that only a few thousand years ago planets moved close to the Earth, producing electrical phenomena of intense beauty and terror. Ancient sky worshippers witnessed these celestial wonders, and far-flung cultures recorded the events in the great myths, symbols, and ritual practices of antiquity (Talbott and Thornhill, ii). Thunderbolts of the Gods goes on to connect observations made in space and on Earth to electric plasma discharge and other electric occurrences. It also relates ancient petroglyphs to visuals actually seen in the ancient skies. The rhetorical strategies in both images are very effective depending on the audience. Ethos is successful through the credibility of the images, website, and authors. The maar in figure 1 is a real topographic feature in Mexico, and the physical characteristics, including lack of debris and a smaller crater on the rim of the large crater add to the credibility of Andrew Hall and the Thunderbolts Project. Pathos is successful in invoking the curiosity of a viewer that is interested in learning while distancing itself from viewers who have no desire to learn about science, history, art, culture, or natural disasters. In figure 2, Zeus (presumably), is pictured with Gallagher 5 a bolt of lightning through his abdomen in a threatening pose facing the Earth. This effectively represents the web of connections between mythology, science, electricity and our planet. Logos is extremely successful using arguments that if true, mean a completely different paradigm of science. Kairos was not quite as successful, only because there is no impending danger or consequence arising from the images. Figure 1 Gallagher 6 Figure 2 Gallagher 7 Works Cited Hall, Andrew, Maars of Pinacate, Part The Thunderbolts Project, 20 January 2017, https://www.thunderbolts.info/wp/2017/01/20/the-maars-of-pinacate-part-one/, accessed 25 February 2017 Hall, Andrew, Maars of Pinacate, Part The Thunderbolts Project, 16 February 2017, https://www.thunderbolts.info/wp/2017/02/16/the-maars-of-pinacate-part-two/, accessed 25 February 2017 King, Hobart, and Phreatic geology.com, 2017, http://geology.com/stories/13/maar/, accessed 25 February 2017 Talbott, David, Thornhill, Wallace, Thunderbolts of the Gods, Mikamar Publishing, Portland, Oregon, 2004 The Thunderbolts Project, 2017, http://www.thunderbolts.info/wp/about/, accessed 25, February 2017