Johnson 1 Hunter Johnson Prof. Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Women in Combat: Visual Rhetorical Analysis In 2013, the military allowed women to have access to all job fields within the military, including combat positions like Infantry, Armor, Artillery, and Special Forces. However, it was not until 2016 that the first women passed the Infantry Basic Officer Leadership Course (IBOLC). Before, women were only limited to noncombatant jobs, such as Medical Corps, Ordnance, and Intelligence. It took almost two-and-a-half centuries to finally allow women full access to the United States military. This is because there has been a heated debate on whether women are physically and mentally capable of working in hazardous environments. One major stakeholder in the debate, is the Service Action Network (SWAN). main goal to have gender equality in the workforce. Not only does SWAN speak their opinion through political conferences and new articles, they also send their message with visual images. This is one of their most effective methods because it strikes rhetorical appeals within the audience. Founded in 2007 and currently led by Judy L. Patterson, SWAN is a nonprofit organization that fights against discrimination and violence in the military. SWAN also helps service women who face sexual harassment and provides service women with reproductive healthcare. As stated on their website, their mission is: Our mission is to be the most influential and effective network of service women, acting as their champion, advocate and best information resource: Celebrating the strength, abilities and accomplishments of the fastest growing segment of the US Johnson 2 military, utilizing people, knowledge and influence to eliminate obstacles and drive change, facilitating progress through research, education, mentorship and outreach, and fighting for service rights today, paving the way for their growth tomorrow. (Patterson) SWAN was one of the key proponents in getting the Combat Exclusion Policy removed. This policy limited rights in the military. In 2001, SWAN claimed a lawsuit with the Department of Defense, saying, Combat Exclusion Policy does not reflect the realities of modern does not reflect the capabilities and skills of our service women. This has dire consequences both for the military at large and for individual service (Iskra) SWAN also believed that the policy acted as a that prevented women from having deployment time, which is a crucial component for promotions. SWAN hopes that one day women will be able to serve in all sectors of the military. They also want to have a single physical fitness standard for both females and males. Overall, they want equality for women in the workforce. With the use of images, SWAN can spread their goal to the public. One image that sends the message of equality in the military is the image found on the homepage of website. The image depicts several women standing in a formation. All the women are looking forward with a very serious and emotionless face. Each of the women is wearing their military dress uniform. The dress uniforms are decorated with many awards and medals, showing their valor and service. There are women from the Marines, Army, Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard in the image. The tone of the image is very serious in nature. The audience can tell that these women take their military duties very seriously. The purpose of this image is to show that all these service women stand together. When a person opens up webpage this is the first thing they see. They see that a bunch Johnson 3 of women have come united for rights in the military. The image definitely sends the message of equality in the military. The image is so effective at stating its message because it has plenty of rhetorical appeals. The appeals that make the audience feel different emotions is called pathos. The image has a lot of pathos. The image makes the audience have a sense of unity because it has several women from each branch of the military standing together. Specifically, the image makes the female audience feel prideful because it is a group of honorable women. It also makes the audience feel serious because all the women are standing with an emotionless face, dressed in their formal uniforms. The image also has ethos, which is what makes the image have credibility. The image has credibility because it comes directly from the SWAN website. Lastly, the image expresses logos, the logical appeals, by showing the audience that if women are given the opportunity, they enough will power to perform as well as a man in any position in the military. It also shows the audience that service women stand together and support each other in a serious manner. This is the logic and reasoning behind the image. With the rhetorical appeals of pathos, ethos, and logos, the message of the image is effectively delivered the audience. Another great image that states message, is a political cartoon found on their Facebook page. It is a cartoon drawn by a famous political cartoonist, Steve Breen. The cartoon shows two service women in identical positions, side by side. The first woman is from 1943; the midst of World War II. The woman closely resembles the women from WWII recruitment advertisement, like Rosie the Riveter. The woman is dress in gear, holding a rivet gun, while eating a sandwich. At this time in history, there was a need for women in the military. The second woman is from 2013, the year women were allowed to be in combat positions. The woman is dressed in combat gear, holding a rifle, while eating a Meal Ready to Eat (MRE). At Johnson 4 this time in history, it has become a problem for women to serve in the military. The tone of the cartoon is informative. The cartoon is supposed to be eye-opening to audience. The purpose of the image is to show people that it is ironic that the military wanted women to serve in the past but now it is a problem for women to serve. The image shows a more offensive side to argument. The image is effective at stating its message because it shows rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. This image does not show much ethos, besides the image was posted on Facebook page. So, this in a way shows credibility. The image also shows ethos. It makes the audience feel patriotic because there is an American flag in the back ground. It also makes the audience feel strong because the women have muscular arms. Lastly, makes the audience feel a sense of progression because it shows a service woman from 1943 to a service woman in 2013. The image has logos by showing the audience the irony in the argument. In 1943, there was propaganda that was encouraging women to join, but now it is an issue for a woman to serve in combat. It is showing that the same women who served our country in WWII are the same women wanting to fight in combat. Finally, the image has kairos, which is the appeal that expresses time, by showing that women have been playing a role in the military for a long time. With these rhetorical appeals, message can be effectively understood. With the use of these images, SWAN has another outlet to promote their goal of equality in the military. SWAN can send their message without the use of speeches or news articles. Images can be understood by a lot of different audiences. People are more likely going to see an image on a billboard or social media page, rather than to sit down and watch a political conference. Images are simple to understand, yet they are so complex with purpose and rhetorical appeals. The first image really sets the tone of the situation, while the second image Johnson 5 shows the audience the irony and logic of the situation. Using images with different meanings for the same issue can effectively promote goal. SWAN has fought long and hard for women to have equality in the military. More specifically for women to have access to combat positions. SWAN was one of the key proponents in getting the Combat Exclusion Policy removed in 2013. SWAN has used lawsuits, political conferences, news articles, and statistical data to promote their goals. (Iskra) In addition, the most effective way of promotion is through images. Images like the discussed use rhetorical appeals like pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. With these rhetorical appeals goals can effectively be interpreted by the audience. Johnson 6 Image 1 Image 2 Johnson 7 Works Cited Iskra, Darlene M. The Combat Exclusion Policy: Under Attack  Time. N.p., 20 Nov. 2009. Web. Patterson, Judy L. Service Action Network. N.p., n.d. Web. Service Action Network. N.p., n.d. Web. Service Action Network Facebook.com. N.p., 15 Nov. 20016. Web.