Javier Echeverria Emil Smith Composition I January 29th , 2017 Tracing Arguments Over Time: Genetic Engineering Despite seeming like a new and innovative field of science, genetic engineering has been around for thousands of years. Humans have successfully been able to alter the genetic code of species through selective breeding or artificial selection. Despite this, it has only been since the when humans have had the capability of directly modifying human DNA through certain processes. It was up until the Nazi regime that genetic engineering was recognized as a controversial topic, this is due to its ties with eugenics which was prominent during that period of time. Following the Second World War, the science had a relatively quiet period but experienced a resurgence in the when researches saw the benefits of modifying the human genome. Soon scientists possessed the capability to eradicate genetic diseases in human embryos that could present harm during the lifetime. Currently, one of the main purposes of genetic engineering is the implementation of specific genes from some species to another to enhance their capabilities. One example is the implementation of a bioluminescent gene in trees with the intent of conducting them to glare at night thus reducing the use of electricity to illuminate certain areas. Despite the benefits that genetic engineering presents, the stance and opinions of scientist have varied throughout the years. Many of these researches question how the modification of the human genome can affect a human throughout their life time. Other concerns come from an ethical standpoint questioning what authority do humans have to interfere with the natural state of species. Although views of genetic engineering were optimistic at the start of the 21st century, initial concerns become more prominent and skeptical over time. Despite the immense breakthrough presented by genetic engineering, various researchers have maintained a skeptical stance on the subject. Between the years of 1970 and 2000, the rise and discovery of genetic engineering processes that modified DNA directly was seen as a breakthrough by the scientific community. Before such breakthrough occurred, the only type of modification to genomes cold only occur through selective breeding or artificial selection. Up to the early genetic engineering seemed to be the holy grail of the medical and scientific world by forging promises of curing all genetic diseases. Despite this view, there was a rise of researches that maintained a cautious and skeptical view of the science. One of these researches is John C. Avise, who manifests this position in his book The hope, hype, and reality of genetic engineering: remarkable stories from agriculture, industry, medicine, and the environment. In the book, the author discusses about various genetic modification projects such as transgenic items on the dinner table, species that are being cloned for pharmaceuticals and foods and what genetic engineering holds for the future of medicine and the human species. By providing examples of GM projects, Avise illustrates how these projects are beneficial but also warns of unintended consequences. This is demonstrated in the genetic modification of a mosquito where the author states how modifying the genome of a mosquito can control the amount of diseases spreader by the species. Despite the obvious benefits, he has a fear of how the GM species can affect the environment and it will have the same or worse unwanted repercussions of an exotic species invading a new environment. After many notable scientists such as John Avise presented possible consequences of genetic engineering, there was a domino like effect where various researchers began finding more unexpected consequences. One of these scientist is Jerry McPherson who presented this opinion in the article Effects of Genetic Engineering. In this article, the author presents the various promises demonstrated by genetic engineering. Such breakthroughs include the ability to combat diseases such as AIDS or cancer. Another deadly disease now being treated by genetic engineering is the bubble  disease (Severe Combined Immunodeficiency). This disease is characterized by a gene mutation that causes a deficiency in ADA, which causes the cells of the immune system to be destroyed. Despite these break throughs, Phersson warns that there are many possible consequences that need to be accounted. Some of the concerns stated range from ethical to the fact that once an altered gene is placed in an organism, the process cannot be reversed. Other worries expressed include terrorist groups or armies who could develop more powerful biological weaponry. These weapons could be resistant to medicines, or even targeted at people who carry certain genes. Due to these fears, the author recommends a study of all the effects of genetic engineering which can lead to responsible use of the technology. As the debates over genetic engineering reached the early the overall view of the scientific community tended to agree that the use of this science needs to be managed responsibly. This is due to the fact that many have agreed that there are unprecedented risk associated with genetic engineering. Because of these risks, many researchers agreed that there needs to be strict regulations enforced upon this field of practice. In the article, authors Dhan Prakash, Sonika Verma, Ranjana Bhatia and B. N. Tiwary discuss the potential commercial potentials of biotechnology. Despite these potentials, the author believe that there is a necessity for risk assessment and management regarding the use of genetic engineering. The is due to the perception that society has towards genetic modification as a whole. To illustrate this negative connotation placed by society, they provide the example of food that have been genetically modified. Other worries expressed by the author include the modification of species causing the genetically modified species to have a competitive advantage over other natural species. This is predicated to have the similar effects of an invasive species invading a new environment. This could eventually cause the quick diminishing or extinction of natural species. Other potential risks include genetic contamination, ecological effects and ethical concerns. The current position of the scientific community in regards to genetic engineering, changed much over the past few years. It is a common within the community to view genetic engineering with skepticism and a belief that there still needs to be strong stance on regulating the practice of genetic engineering to prevent any possible unknown consequences. The author Zaria Gorvett, who holds a Masters in Medical Microbiology from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical, states in her article Genetic Engineering Risks and Impacts that there needs to be regulations for the use of procedures such as pre-natal screening, and to exercise restraint in gene eradication. She illustrates the possible threats that genetic modification presents through examples such as its effects on health and environmental impacts. She further defines these harmful effects such as when millions of acres in the United States were demolished due to weeds developing a certain resistant to the herbicide glyphosate. Overuse of Roundup  trait, which is engineered to tolerate the herbicide, has promoted the accelerated development of resistance in several weed species. Despite the immense promises that genetic engineering provides, there has been a change in opinion over the last decade within the scientific and academic community. At first many researches believed it was the science that was going to provide breakthroughs in areas such as agriculture and medicine, but over the decade of the early many in the scientific community began to be concerned with the potential effects that genetic engineering has in agriculture and health. Because studies performed to evaluate these risks were tightly controlled by the industry, many scientist began to experiment and think of all possible risks that genetic engineering can present. Due to these consequences, many than began opting for more regulation and viewing the field with immense skepticism. Even with the skepticism, many are hopeful this science will reach its full potential and possible aid many. References: 1. Avise, John C. The hope, hype, and reality of genetic engineering: remarkable stories from agriculture, industry, medicine, and the environment. New York: Oxford U Press, 2004. Print. 2. McPhersson, Jerry. Effects of Genetic  Disabled World. N.p., Aug. 2004. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. 3. Prakash, Dhan, Sonika Verma, Ranjana Bhatia, and B. N. Tiwary. Risks and Precautions of Genetically Modified  ISRN Ecology 2011 (2011): 1-13. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. 4. Gorvett, Zaria. Genetic Engineering Risks and  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., 4 Oct. 2012. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. failing-food-system/genetic-engineering/risks-of- geneengineering.html#.WKzuZhg7kU0>.