Katherine Roeder E. Smith Intermediate Draft 03-05-2017 Deep Brain Stimulation has been used for many years to help the side effects of Disease. There is constant testing on this method, including the quality of sleep during rapid eye movement rest, the data tracked from that implant, and more recently the observation of the insertion of the implant into the patient, With the results of this testing, most view Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) as a beneficial treatment for Disease are optimistic, but there have been a few criticisms. For the study of rapid eye movement researchers did a study with a very small test group male and female, over the age of 50 with disease. All undergoing DBS, the study used a sleep study, to observe the rapid eye movement (REM) sleep cycles. Ann Neurol wrote demonstrated a near doubling of nocturnal REM sleep between the DBS and DBS states, without significant changes in other sleep (2009). The purpose of the study is to connect DBS treatments to REM cycle patterns, which control brain maturity, homeostasis or the bodies natural balance of itself, learning and emotions, all which could significantly alter someones daily life, if DBS changes one or more of those things. In 2009 these researchers do believe DBS significantly changes the REM cycle sleep the patients are having. Concluding that DBS could also be modifying learning, alertness and emotions. In 2016 this research is still being done and researchers stated observed that under low frequency stimulation thresholds increased relative to no and high frequency stimulation in five out of six patients, suggesting that DBS has a frequency-dependent impact on visual selection processes at a rather elementary perceptual (Strumpf 2016 p 1-11) After six years the data is still accurate and the opinions are congruent. Some researchers in 2006 believed that with the testing of hand eye coordination, DBS patients can have a better calibration for their voltage settings in their implant. The article shows research on the control patients have while undergoing Deep Brain Stimulation. Patients are set up in a chair with their arms laying on the rests, and only using wrist and hand movements they must follow lines or patterns given on the screen in front of them. The point of the research is to improve the voltages conducted to give the movements a more smooth feel. With the new research found the effectiveness of the voltages can be better observed, and with that they can also be better maintained (S. Levy-tzedek1,H. I. Krebs, J. L. Shils, D. Apetauerova and J. E. Arle 2006). After 2006 the data of these tests conclude that, term-stimulation made significantly larger directional errors and consistently underestimated the speed of the robot, despite generating normal movement speeds during motor Meaning that the opinion has changed, and researchers are now fearful that the brain is relying on the voltages (Lim, Andrew S., Moro, Elena, Lozano, Andres M., Hamani, Clement, Dostrovsky, Jonathan O., Hutchison, William D., Lang, Anthony E., Wennberg, Richard A., Murray, Brian J.. 2009) The way the implant is used has had controversy as well, the article from 2016 shows the perspective of the patients in the process of deep brain stimulation. In most cases when deep brain stimulation is used, the patients choose how aggressive the treatment is. A majority of the patients picked the most aggressive process but other articles prove that picking that approach can produce multiple negative or harmful side effects later in their life (Weernink, M. G., Til, J. A., Vugt, J. P., Movig, K. L., Groothuis-Oudshoorn, C. G., & Ijzerman, M. J. 2016). Previously in 2005, a research study was completed and it concluded that things can be adjusted on the DBS apparatus: the intensity of the stimulation in milliampheres, the frequency of the stimulation (pulses per second), how long each pulse lasts (the pulse width), which exact electrode contacts are active on each of the wires, and which of those are positive or negative. The four contacts on each wire can be programmed to be positive, negative or off, (Jackim 2005, p.25+). The amount of accuracy and precision this implantation can have strongly encourages patients and researchers to believe that this is one of the best options. Most studies agree before and after the year 2010, besides the one study that suspects that the brain is reliant on the voltages produced by the implant. Proving that most likely Deep Brain Stimulation is the accurate and best solution to the side effects that Disease causes. The few criticisms do not compare to the plethora of research that entails that DBS is the right choice for the effects of Disease.