Otero 1 Samira Otero Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 02/01/2017 On January 21, st 2017, one of the largest protest was formulated by women all over America in efforts to protest equality for women; one protest focused on the gender wage gap. Scholars across America are addressing the gender wage gap as being a fact or a ficticious myth. For several years, this controversial topic has been argued one way or the other regarding whether it exists today in the United States. This topic has been considered controversial in that many scholars believe it to still exist today due to statistics supporting it, and others believe it is not a fact that the gender wage gap still exists due to the law that all businesses must abide by. Evidently laws have been passed to avoid the gender wage gap in America, yet to this date the wage gap remains controversial topic leaving the question at hand to be: gender wage gap is it still existent in the United States? And how are scholars addressing it? Paas, David E. Equal Pay Act Of  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. When discussing the nonexistence of the gender wage gap, politics come into play leading some scholars to address that the gender wage gap is simply fiction due to the laws that have been passed to potentially eliminate it. Beginning several decades ago in 1963, the United States of America passed The Equal Pay in aims to abolish discrimination of pay regarding sexes. This act, is used by several scholars as explanation to consider the gender pay as something that only existed before this Equal Pay was passed. All legal employers in America must abide by this act when considering future Otero 2 employees leading to, what some scholars may say, the end of the previously known pay Many scholars have responded to the outburst of claims regarding the Pay and if it really is bringing a solution to the pay consideration between genders. In this article, Paas explains the purpose of the Equal Pay Act which was created in order to end different pay distinguished by sex, Paas then goes on to explain how modern times in 2016 have come to show that employers can still change wage differences dependent on if women are working only jobs or lower level jobs which are typically lower paying and in this case, protected by The Equal Pay Paas evaluates how several factors can affect the way men and women are paid and that those unforeseen factors have lead America to still have a wage even in modern times. Overall in this article, scholars lean toward the equal pay act as a defense to the controversial topic of the gender pay act. This article relates to the topic in that it shows all the factors that can affect how men and women are paid differently. It also explains what the equal act pay is and how it is enforced within employers. Some scholars are using the means of politics to go against claims of there being a between the pays of genders as there are many other factors contributing to what may seem as women having a lower pay than men. Paas is a credible source due to the fact that he has researched this topic from the National Academy of Science, which is a credible academy widely accepted for research done in America. His research was considered by other scholars as well making him a credible sorce. Janssen, Simon, Simone Tuor Sartore, Uschi Backes-Gellner. Discriminatory Social Attitudes And Varying Gender Pay Gaps Within  Industrial & Labor Relations Review Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Overall legally there is a law established to protect discrimination of sexes for employers but Janssen digs in deeper to reveal that although the law does have to be addressed by Otero 3 employers it is not necessarily being reinforced. Employers can bias the hiring and payroll process on their own which is what Janssen goes on to explain. Employers bias employees based on their own social merit to their liking leading to a discriminatory attitude. Considering several higher paying jobs are run by males, whom in term may have a social attitude in believing that a male is more fulfilling for a certain job, this can bias the ability of a woman to receive honorable pay for her work in comparison to a male. In relation to the original question of how scholars are addressing the gender pay gap and whether it is a fact or a fiction, in this article we are given as to how the controversial topic continues to be an issue with variable statistics proving that the gap is indeed true. Scholars have addressed the Equal Pay Act and what it addresses but have also explained that it is not being enforced within America. Canal, Emily. These Are The Gender Wage Gaps In 25 Popular  Forbes.Com (2016): 1. Business Source Premier. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Although there are laws protecting equal pay rights, there are still many statistics that show that there is still a gap between how men and women are being paid for doing the same jobs. Canal is a staff member for Forbes. Her job consists of managing manages the Forbes homepage and covers upcoming news for Forbes. Forbes is a well known well recognized, American business magazine that also has a website. Forbes reports new media regarding business and is a well trusted resource. Within this article Canal shows us proof that 25 common professions, it is found that women make less than men in 24 of those Canal then goes on to explain and use different examples showing the percent a salary will be for the same, job with the same Otero 4 requirements, compared to a male. In her opinion, the gender way gap is a true fact and she states is something that will not be going away anytime When comparing gender wage gap to other countries, America has the largest in median pays based on gender for jobs requiring the same attributes. This article is proof that the gender wage gap continues to be a controversy even with the laws that are suppose to it from Trinko, Katrina. No, gender wage gap is not that  USA Today 2015: Academic OneFile. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 Trinko, managing editor of the Daily Signal and a member of USA Board of Contributors, believes gender wage gap really existent and more comes into factor when comparing different jobs and different hours of work. Trinko is also a reporter for the national review and has various published papers. Trinko has also made appearances on television. She has had a large array of experience reporting political new and has definitely made a statement with this article. Trinko states that there factors that contribute to the belief that the gender wage gap still exists; one of those being part time work. When comparing the pay of both genders it is important to take into consideration part time vs full time pay. Part time pay normally being payed less due to the lesser availability. When all factors are measure Trinko states that the true statistics come down to being paid only five cents less than men per leaving still a gap, but to Trinko, not a very significant one. Trinko believes should continue to take on leadership therefore they themselves will close the gap that in her opinion is not that Widmer, L. (2016). Equal work unequal pay: the risks of the gender wage gap. Risk Management, (9). 22. Otero 5 In this book, Widmer explains different risks that businesses and companies can have when not abiding by the equal pay act. Widmer explains in this text how women are still paid only 82% of what men are being paid in general according to researched statistics. Widmer then goes on to explain how businesses can avoid doing this to prevent being held accountable to committing this crime. Widmer continues his text by labeling examples of women in certain careers whom are underpaid although they hold similar skillsets. This is relatable to the original topic question mentioned showing that scholars are agreeing that there is a gender wage gap and they are addressing it by helping come up with solutions such as this text to avoid it from happening in businesses. This author is a credible source due to her extensive research within the business field which portrays the biggest aspects of the gender wage gap. Widmer has written nearly 200 published articles has been part of countless marketing, book, and online projects. She is also a personal writer and editor with a BA in business communications from Rosemont College making Widmer more than qualified in knowledge and experience regarding aspects of business such as the gender wage gap. Carl Stoffers, Equal Pay for Equal  New York Times Upfront 149, no. 7 (January 9, 2017): 16-17. Education Source, EBSCOhost (accessed February 28, 2017). Stoffers leads this article by starting off with an event regarding the soccer team in America. These athletes must train and compete like all players to perform well during game time, yet these women are significantly underpaid in comparison to the soccer team of America. Stoffers then continues to compare different athletic teams and how differently they are paid in comparison to women. In all of them women are paid less. This relates to the original Otero 6 topic question because the text provides specific examples showing even hard-working, trained professional athletes are experiencing a gap within their pay. Carl Stoffers is a well known American writer, editor, reporter, and former law enforcement officer. Stoffers has worked for New York Daily News, and has been published in The Wall Street Journal, two prestigious well known forms of media in the United States. Stoffers has also published in several other media outlets successfully. Stoffers was also a correctional officer in his early twenties giving him credibility in regards to aspects of the law such as the Equal Pay Act. Stoffers is an authentic well trusted and credible author for the source support. Stoffers was also a correctional officer in his early twenties giving him credibility in regards to aspects of the law such as the Equal Pay Act. Stoffers is an authentic well trusted and credible author for the source supporting the original topic question.