1 Kevin Morrissey Final Draft ENC 1101 2/28/17 Mental Illnesses and Gun Related Violence Tragic shootings take place nearly every year in America and every time it happens, the outrage is always the same: When will America pass new laws on guns? And while a very valid point, not the full story. Mental Illnesses can play a huge role in gun related violence. The columbine shooters, Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris, were psychopaths who struggled with depression, and it got to a point where they needed an outlet on the people that they feel deserved it. They had access to guns and ammunition and with the struggles that were going on inside each of their minds, it led to one of the worst massacres in U.S history. Warning signs are not going to be obvious but it helps to be wary of the situation. And not just violence on others, its violence on themselves. With suicide being the second leading cause of death between ages 15 and 34, the rates at which a successful suicide occur are drastically raised when using a firearm. In fact, 60% of deaths by guns are suicides. So why are these people who are struggling with inner demons able to possess fire arms that could potentially end lives in a matter of seconds, whether be suicide or homicide. That brings up the question: Should people with mental illnesses have access to firearms? 2 Appelbaum, Paul. Does the Second Amendment Protect the Gun Rights of Persons With Mental  Psychiatric Services 68.1 (2017):3-5. Web. 13 Feb. 2017 In 1968, the Gun Control Act was passed which prohibited sales of firearms to people who had been hospitalized for psychiatric reasons. Fast forward to 2012, and a case has challenged this law. Clifford Tyler, a 74-year-old man who lives in Michigan, was denied the opportunity to purchase a gun because he was committed involuntary to a psychiatric hospital 25 years earlier. Even though this man had no criminal record, had never dealt with any substance abuse, and had been holding a steady job for many years. So in 2012, Tyler brought suit in a federal court system saying this violated the Second Amendment but able to win. However, the majority of the sixth court held that failure to provide Tyler without a gun did indeed violate the second amendment and they ruled it to be sent back to a district court. In the closing section, Dr. Appelbaum goes on to mention that mental health organizations are in favor of this ruling as they like having more restrictions on gun possessions with people who have had mental illness in the past. He also predicts that psychiatrists and psychologists will become more involved in more cases like Tyler in the future on whether people with past mental illness problems should be able to own a gun. Dr. Paul Appelbaum is the author of this article and is the Elizabeth K. Dollard Professor of Psychiatry, Medicine, and Law at Columbia University in New York. He was the former President of the American Psychiatric Association in 2002-2003 and President of the American Academy of Psychiatry and the law in 1995-1996. This relates to the research topic in that it discusses certain cases, like Tyler for example, that could be looked at to possibly change an incredibly good and safe law that could have potentially saved thousands of lives over the course of its inception. The Gun Control Act of 1968 is one that needs to stay in place but could be 3 opened to revisions. One revision could be something like an analysis from multiple psychiatrists to see if the mental state is good enough to purchase a firearm. Miller, Matthew, and David Hemenway. Guns and suicide in the United  The New England Journal of Medicine 359.10 (2008):989-991. Web. 13 Feb. 2017 In suicides, a gun is one of the more lethal ways of doing it and this article expresses ways on what can cause it, one of which being guns in the household. When guns are present in a home, the rates at which a suicide can occur are typically increased 2 to 10 times. At such an alarming rate, a wonder on what can cause this. One of the ways is due to impulses. 24% of people who survived a near lethal suicide made the decision in less than 5 minutes and 70% of people made the decision in less than an hour. Another way is along the lines of an immediate stressor such as a bad break up or loss of a job. This can cause the urge to rise as time passes and could lead to an attempt in the future. The finish the article by conducting a study on the relationship between gun ownership in the household and suicide and offers their input on ways to counter guns in the home. Dr. David Hemenway is the director of the Harvard Injury Control Research Center at the Harvard School of Public Health and Dr. Matthew Miller is the Associate Director. This article works well with the research topic as it shows a relationship between gun ownership and suicide. With 60% gun deaths being suicides, it makes sense to try and rid the house of guns with mentally ill people living in them to potentially save a life. The decision can become a lot more 4 difficult without a quick, painless option that a gun can offer. It could also offer the individual more time to think over what they are about to do and stop an impulse suicide. Knopf, Alison. Untreated mental disorders, unchecked guns: the combination poses a clear threat to our children, but not the one we  Behavioral Healthcare 34.2 (2014):32-35. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 This article highlights 3 individuals: Adam Lanza, Jared Loughner, and James Holmes. It discusses their involvement in the mass shootings that they participated in. While cases like those 3 are rare, not hard to find similar people. Jeffery Swanson, who has Ph.D. at Duke University said this, average 17-year-old has a good chance of living in a home with multiple firearms. Add to that the characteristics of young men who have had some psychopathology, are isolated, probably angry, and perhaps delusional, perhaps something else-- not a very small  This article also addresses suicide and the fact that 100,000 lives in the past decade could have been saved without access to a firearm, 90% being suicide, and the other 10% being homicides by people with mental disorders. Allison Knopf is an editor of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Weekly and won the Michael Q Ford Journalism Award given by the National Association of Addiction Treatment Providers in 2016. The article relates to the research topic as it talks about how individuals been mistreated can become dangerous with a gun. It addresses the signs that one should look for to possibly rid them of any weapons that they could potentially have. It also addresses yet again how important suicide is to gun related violence. America alone could have eliminated 100,000 deaths in the 5 past decade just by putting an emphasis on mental health and trying to help those individuals that needed it. Arboleda Julio. Mental illness and  Current opinion in psychiatry 22.5 (2009):475-476. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 This article addresses a numerous amount of mass shootings that involved the killer having some sort of mental illness. It goes from Charles Whitman and the infamous shooting at the University of Texas in Austin all the way to Seung Hui-Cho and the Virginia Tech Massacre and many more in-between. Arboleda describes the shooter typically as a loner, depressed, a mad man, and so on that he has been affected one way or another in his mental He also goes on to conclude in the final paragraph that a poorly treated mental illness was present in most of these cases. He suggests that people must rethink and study more the association between mental illness and violence. Dr. Julio E. Arboleda- is an international speaker, researcher on mental health services, psychiatric ethics and psychiatric epidemiology, author of books, multiple chapters and over 250 scientific papers and technical reports on mental health services, public mental health, mental health ethics, forensic psychiatry and psychiatric epidemiology. This article relates to the research topic with the association that most mass shooters have had some history with mental illness. All of these cases showed very similar traits in the mental state. It also shows how dangerous one can be with a lethal weapon and an unstable mind with little to no remorse for their actions. This is part of the reason why the Gun Control Act of 1968 was put in place, even 6 if these tragic shootings did occur, there could be double the number of massacres that could have potentially happened without that act. Kates, Don B., Mauser, Gary. BANNING FIREARMS REDUCE MURDER AND Harvard Journal of Law & Public Policy 30.2 (2007): p649-694. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 One of the topics featured in this article asks this question: ordinary people The cities with high gun ownership make false claims such as most gun related homicides are done by an ordinary citizen or that most murders are done by people who knew the victim. There is almost no evidence to support these claims. The claims that the author then makes about gun violence are that almost all murders are done by extremely aberrant individuals with life histories of violence, psychopathology, substance abuse, and other dangerous behaviors. Studies also show that 80% of juvenile murderers are psychotic or had psychotic symptoms. The article also goes into domestic violence cases, trying to debunk the myth that ordinary citizens murder their spouses in a fit of rage. Don Kates was an American lawyer and research fellow at the Independent Institute in Oakland California. Gary Mauser is a Canadian criminologist and emeritus professor in the Beedie School of Business at Simon Frasier University. This article works with the research topic showing that even juveniles are susceptible to mental illness related violence. Psychotic illnesses are incredibly dangerous when the individual has access to firearms and it shows that all ages can be considered unwell. However, putting a stop to some of these problems can be very tricky as people that show psychotic behavior are exceptional at hiding it. An example of this is 7 Chris Harris, who was the mastermind behind the columbine shooting. just another example of how people with mental illnesses should not be able to possess firearms. Faria Jr, Miguel A. Shooting rampages, mental health, and the sensationalization of  Surgical Neurology International 4.1 (2013):85-92. Web. 28 Feb. 2017 This article discusses how mental health offices have declined while the rest of the country continues to expand and offers more information on mental illness related shootings. It talks about individuals who showed signs of mental disorders but were not given any treatment before the massacres that they participated in. The article suggests that causes of these tragedies are from repeated failures in the mental health organizations. Perhaps if these offices would have improved, the need for violence could potentially decrease for those individuals. The article also talks about the de-institutionalization of mentally ill patients and suggests that it has worsened in recent years. This is not only due to an increase in health care costs, also due to poor check ins with the patient after a couple years to see how the patient is doing. The article also addresses how the media portrays violent stories and how guns have been used to stop massacres from happening. Miguel Faria Jr is a retired neurosurgeon and neuroscientist. He is also the associate editor-in- chief and a world affairs editor of Surgical Neurology International. This article works with the research topic as not just the mentally ill people who are responsible for the gun violence, also the mental health offices and psychiatric hospitals that are not being responsible in their efforts to stop violence. one thing to try and stop an entire demographic (Mentally ill people) from holding a firearm, but to see some of these institutions let free dangerous individuals and 8 see them potentially harm others is freighting. Treatment to stop these from happening starts with psychiatric hospitals and branches. If people can see that the violence starts from the mental side, and not from a pull of a trigger, then more funding can be put into mental health organizations to potentially stop these tragedies from happening.