Gore 1 Maribeth Gore Professor Sarah Basil ENC 1102 19 February 2017 Sex Workers Outreach Project- USA: A Fight for Equality Decriminalization of prostitution in America is a quietly battling conflict amongst many groups. The morality and ethics behind sex work keeps decriminalization in constant question. An organization known as the Sex Workers Outreach Project- USA (SWOP-USA) are strong supporters of the fundamental human rights of those involved in sex work and hope to end violence and stigma through educating and advocating within communities Home SWOP believes decriminalization would help to decrease harm and promote action with those involved in sex work Through nonviolent action, such as advertisements, the Sex Workers Outreach Project hopes to reduce violence and achieve dignity and rights for sex workers. Within the Sex Workers Outreach advertising, the use of pathos, ethos, Kairos, and logos appeals effectively encourage movements towards equal rights for sex workers. The appeal to pathos, or emotion, in the image first image is portrayed through imagery and the clear statements provided. The first image depicts a blue sky with red umbrellas scattered throughout. The cloudless bright blue sky provokes feelings of ease and happiness, through these emotions the Sex Workers Outreach Project influences the viewer to see the hopeful and bright aspects of sex work in a calm and non-aggressive way. The red umbrella is the international symbol for sex worker projects and symbolizes the need for rights and safety of sex workers. An Gore 2 umbrella also symbolizes protection, in this case the protection of sex workers from the violence and mistreatment they encounter while working. To sex workers, they view the umbrella as a sign of hope and equality meant to shelter them from the out-rage and social injustice sex work. The statement off our proclaims a firm need for protection for sex workers as well, creating a firm stance of dignity. Conclusively, the emotional appeal of nonviolent, approachable, out-rage, and social injustice portrays the goals of the Sex Workers Outreach Project. Appeals to Pathos in the second advertisement are represented in the imagery provided by the woman. A woman is standing with her back to the audience and is view from the waist down. Her legs are spread wide in an awkward stance and between them the viewer sees a sign proclaiming WORK IS The strong stance of the woman, as well as her dress, symbolizes the stance of sex worker towards the betterment and legitimacy of their careers. Her attire symbolizes the entirety of sex workers, provoking feelings commitment, and firmness in her statement. The legs are spread wide in a proactive stance, as well further eluding to her work; however, this stance is very awkward and hard to withhold showing the oppression of sex workers, and their working rights. The strain the woman is enduring represents the hardship and determination of all sex workers to be heard and respected. Additionally, the crowd street in the background represents the viewer, and the lack of response America has taken to equally represent sex workers. An indication of the ignorance of an issue that is very important and prevalent to sex workers. Overall, the Sex Workers Outreach Project utilizes the images appeals to pathos to represent the hardship and determination of sex workers to be equally represented in the work force, further conveying their goals for equal representation and protection. Gore 3 Appeals to Ethos, or the credibility of the information, in both images are represented by the presentation of the Sex Workers Outreach Project logos at the bottom of each advertisement, a symbol of protection for sex workers and their rights. The repeated use of the umbrella, and its symbolic meaning fortifies an ethical need to protect those who are sex workers, because their work is legitimate and unrecognized. The image also indicates credibility towards the international sex projects including those in the United States, making the images more credible due to the larger backing. Especially because of the success other international sex project have had with efforts to decriminalize and gain equal representation of sex workers in the work force. Furthermore, the representation of sex workers with the woman in the second image creates authority within the image, as she represents sex workers as a whole. The woman knows the hardship and the struggle of being a sex worker with no representation in the economy, appealing to an ethical stand point in which America was falsely built on: men are created In conclusion the utilization of the logo, its symbolism, backing of international sex workers projects, and the representation of all sex workers allows the Sex Workers Outreach Project appear trustworthy, authoritative, and in need of ethical action due to the appeal ethos. Appeals to Kairos, or timelessness, do not appear in either image. The lack of Kairos is ultimately shocking due to the overall nature of sex work. It is derived from centuries upon centuries of practice, but until recently sex workers have been constantly demeaned as the lowest parts of society due to the believed unethical nature of their work. Internationally, within many countries in Europe, sex work was recently decriminalized and sex workers were recognized as a part of the work force. This recent evolution should implicate a more rushed need for equal representation in America. Therefore the lack of appeal to Kairos within the Sex Workers Gore 4 Outreach advertisements detriments the overall goal to give sex workers the protection and representation rightfully deserved in a timely manner, due to the draw out battle for rights that were deserved long ago. Logos is the appeal to the logic of information or an image. The Sex Workers Outreach Project directly implements the use of logos in their advertisements. Without the use of appeals to logos, the advertisements would not appear to present solid arguments and would not be able to be persuasive. The short, prompt text of the advertisements, combined with the bold lettering of statements makes it easier for the reader to recognize and comprehend the message of each advertisement. workers have their is a logical thought process of sex workers. Sex workers having been working for equal representation for centuries, and in fact do lust for their rights. Within an industry fully based upon lust it is only logical for sex workers to lust for equal representation for the occupation they devote their lust and livelihood to. It is a simple and logical representation of the goals of the Sex Workers Outreach Project. work is is also a short logically proclaimed statement in the second advertisement. Its positioning beneath a woman representing all sex workers making the image believable, logical, and understandable, as it appears to portray the point of view of sex workers. The sex worker represents her trade as whole, fights for the right of her trade and portrays the voices of her trade as a whole in a short and simple proclamation. In conclusion, the appeal to logos helps the Sex Workers Outreach Project portray a logical and simple understanding as to why sex workers deserve equal rights and protection within America. The fight towards equal rights for women, and the raising alarm about the increased sex trafficking problem in the United States has brought attention to the decriminalization of prostitution. in five women and one in 71 men will be raped at some point in their Gore 5 (National Sexual Violence Resource Center) due to increased sexual violence in America. The Sex Workers Outreach Project based its campaign on the reduction of sexual violence, not only inflicted towards those in the sex trade, but also to those who are not involved. Additionally, the sex industry makes and estimated to 1.6 (Tanzi 431) in underground revenue yearly, money that can not benefit America as well as the workers who work hard to make it. Due to the legality involved with sex work often sex workers are swindled out of much of their revenue with no way to get help, as well as unable to use majority of their money for important necessities purely based on the need for proof of income source. The need for proof of income makes it hard for sex workers to live in safe neighborhoods, buy items that prove to be necessary to move forward. The blocks sex workers face due to the disapproval of their trade by the American government leaves sex workers trapped in their trade, and socioeconomic standing, clumped in with criminals. Additionally, the money made by the sex industry could be circulating more readily in the American economy, if the goals of the Sex Workers Outreach Project to recognize sex work as work, were achieved. Equal representation of sex workers in the work force would benefit the American economy as well as inflict damage to the underground economy where money from industries such as sex work, or drug dealing circulates. The damage the underground economy could loosen the infrastructure of much criminal activity allowing for an increase in crime prevention shortly after the decriminalization of sex work. The decriminalization of sex work is very relevant among many areas, earlier unrecognized. The effects would be greatly widespread in the improvement of American lives, which is reflected in the goals of the Sex Workers Outreach Project. The Sex Workers Outreach Project uses the appeals of pathos, ethos, and logos effectively within their advertisements oriented towards the rights of sex workers and their Gore 6 safety. Pathos is an appeal to emotion demonstrated in the imagery of both advertisements. Ethos is the appeal to credibility demonstrated in both advertisements by the presence of credible logos and companies. Logos is the appeal to logic as portrayed in the statements provided on each advertisement. The importance of the decriminalization of prostitution may not be clear; however, it would greatly improve the lives of many Americans and reduce negative stigma towards the sex industry. Gore 7 Work Cited About  Sex Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Project. SWOP-USA, 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Global Network of Sex Workers Outreach Projects. Indoors Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Home  Sex Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Project. N.p., 2016. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. National Sexual Violence Resource Center. National Sexual Violence Resource Center. N.p.: National Sexual Violence Resource Center, 2015. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Sex Workers Outreach Group. Panampost. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. TANZI, V.. The underground economy in the United States: estimates and  PSL Quarterly Review 33.135 (1980): n. pag. Web. 23 Jan. 2017 Gore 8