Owowo 1 Christiana Owowo Professor Uddin ENC 1101 11 February 2017 Strict or Aloof? In psychology today, there are four major recognized parenting styles: authoritative, neglectful, permissive, and authoritarian. Parenting styles affect many different factors that are significant in a development. Each one contains different characteristics that affect children differently. They show what discipline strategies are effective on each child and help to establish effective communication between parents and children. For example, authoritative parents are warm but firm. They encourage their adolescent to be independent while maintaining limits and controls on their actions. Authoritative parents do not invoke the I said rule. Instead, they are willing to entertain, listen to, and take into their viewpoint (Kopoko 1-2). The perfect balance between limits/firmness and warmth tend to have a positive effect on the development of children. It creates the healthiest environment for a developing child and helps to promote a productive relationship between the parent and the child. Another example is the neglectful parenting style. Neglectful parenting is one of the most harmful styles of parenting that can be used on a child. This type of parent decides to have little to nothing to do with their life which allows room for the child having a difficult time developing relationships with people in the future. The authoritarian and permissive parenting styles clash because they both have their balance of beneficial and harmful effects on child development. Although authoritarian parents show little warmth and are very strict, their children are more disciplined Owowo 2 and they tend to show more respect to figures of authority. Likewise, permissive parents show warmth but enforce minimal rules and restrictions, which brings to surface the question: Is the authoritarian parenting style more beneficial for child development than the permissive style? Source 1: Kopko, Kimberly. Parenting Styles and Adolescents. This article is about the different parenting styles, their different components, and the effects that they have on adolescent development. After giving a brief description of each style and providing evidence with research findings, Kopko dives into the specific research on parenting styles. She describes how researchers analyze parenting styles and how they differ between parents; also, what researchers on the nature side of the nature-nurture debate (an argument that focuses on whether a development is based on their DNA or their different experiences and environment) focus on compared to the researchers on the nurture side of the debate. The author then discusses parental styles and which ones are more prominent in certain ethnical groups. The author, Kimberly Kopko, is a credible source not only because development is based on their DNA or their different experiences and environment) her work was peer-reviewed but because she is an Extension Associate in the Department of Policy Analysis and Management at Cornell University. As described by the University, The Department of Policy Analysis and Management (PAM) faculty bring a rigorous disciplinary focus to describe and analyze public policy problems, particularly in the areas of health policy, regulatory policy, and social policy. This article includes both health and social policies, which are included in the focus, which makes Kopko is a great source for analyzation of Owowo 3 parenting styles. Although the article does not answer the research question directly, it provides information on the two different parenting styles being compared by giving descriptions of each and providing results from multiple researches which show the effects of these parenting styles. Source 2: Rosli, Noor A., Effect of Parenting Styles on Emotional and Behavioral Problems Among Different Ethnicities of Muslim Children in the U.S. Dissertation, Marquette University, 2009. This dissertation is centered on associations between parenting style and measures of emotional and behavioral problems in Muslim American children. Culture is implemented into the focus on parenting styles and their effect on emotional and behavioral problems, and the author is focused on the Muslim children in the US. The paper is centered on associations between parenting style and measures of emotional and behavioral problems in Muslim American children. The author analyzes each parenting style and its effects on specific areas of childhood development very effectively. For example, when analyzing the neglectful parenting style, she used categories such as effect of neglectful parenting style on and effect of neglectful parenting on Rosli is credible because she is a Child Clinical Psychology Intern at Institute for Child and Family Health, Inc. and because she has experience in the area of development psychology. This is relevant because the research question is centered around on how child development is impacted by the permissive and authoritarian parenting styles. Owowo 4 Source 3: Stein, Stephanie, and Lillian J. Breckenridge. Parenting  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Health (2016). This article is about the different parenting styles and their important effects on the development of children. It analyzes the specific styles of parenting (such as authoritarian, authoritative, permissive, and neglectful), the dimensions of parenting behavior (such as demandingness and responsiveness), the consequences for child development (such as high self- esteem) and how gender makes a difference. This article is a great source for to use because it takes a position in the argument at hand - it emphasizes the harm and little to no benefit that the permissive style of parenting consists of. One of the authors, Lillian Breckenridge, has her Ph.D. in Child Development her background in this subject matter makes this article more credible because the focus is on the effects of parenting styles on childhood development. Source 4: Mensah, Monica K. and Kuranchie, Alfred. Influence of Parenting Styles on the Social Development of  Academic Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies, vol. 2, no. 3, 2013, pp. 123-29. This article is about the parenting styles that are used by the majority of parents and the effects that the components of those styles have on the social development of children. It analyzes with great detail the different parenting styles (such as permissive, authoritative, and authoritarian). It provides evidence with research from other studies and the findings that surfaced as a result. Then the authors provide the methodology that was utilized to conduct and conclude the study, such as the data collection and analysis method, and the research design. Owowo 5 This study is credible because it is peer reviewed. The purpose of this source is to aid parents, guardians, teachers and school authorities to understand the relationship between the parenting styles and their impact on the social development of their children. This source relates to the research question and helps shaping it because it describes the different types of parenting and their observed effects- providing more benefits and potential harm each one can bring about. Source 5: Trifan, Tatiana, et al. Authoritarian Parenting Practices and Roles Changed in the last 50 Journal of Marriage and Family, Volume 76, Issue 4, 2014, 744-761. This source is about how authoritarian practices have changed over the past 50 years. It focuses on certain characteristics of the parenting style (such as control) and describes how they have declined over this period of time and in certain locations, such as Sweden. This is a great source for me to use for my research question because its peer reviewed and it provides opinions from multiple studies on the findings of the declination of the authoritarian parenting style practices. This source is credible because one of the authors, Lauree Tilton-Weaver, is a professor in the subject of psychology and social work, specializing in the adjustment and development of adolescents.