Parker 1 Joseph Parker Uddin Composition I Final Draft February 28th, 2017 With seven out of the nine hottest years ever recorded on earth coming in the last eight years, there is no doubt that climate change is a real, formidable threat to way of life. But just how urgent is this issue? Is climate change about to cross a threshold yielding irreversible effects on various other aspects of society or should the issue of climate change be lower on the priority list of politicians in the United States. Throughout the past 30 years scientists have presented countless facts and figures to U.S. legislators, but little progress has been made in terms of reducing carbon emissions. Does the criticality of the situation mandate a shift towards a more sustainable alternative in renewable energy or would this be detrimental to the U.S. economy? Annotated bibliography Garrett-Peltier, Heidi. Green versus brown: Comparing the employment impacts of energy efficiency, renewable energy, and fossil fuels using an input-output  Economic Modelling 61 (2017): 439-47. Web. This source evaluates the difference between renewable and nonrenewable energy sources from an economic perspective making use of input/output tables and creating synthetic green energy companies to assess the job creating potential and other economic factors related to renewable energy sources. This source looks at the short to medium term effects of going green and compares it to the current numbers on fossil fuels. This source is very relevant to my research question as it provides data on both arguments presented and gives reliable estimates of financial effects that can be used to reach conclusions. Parker 2 Heidi Garrett-Peltier is an Assistant Research Professor in the Political Economy Research Institute at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Her research focuses on the potential employment impacts relating to a transition to low carbon emissions. Her extensive work related to renewable energy paired with the numerous reports on the clean energy economy serve as a good indication of a credible source. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and the Impact of Climate  The Economics of Climate Change Mitigation (2009): 25-51. Web. This source provides the numbers behind the impacts of climate change, and discusses many adverse consequences of climate change ranging from intensified extreme events and lower water quality and availability. This source acknowledges the many variables and uncertainties associated with climate change while attempting to give a concrete analysis of the potential economic impacts of climate change if allowed to continue as it has been in the past. This source is very relevant to my topic because it provides evidence that can help shed light on the urgency of the effects of our changing climate that could help segue into potential cost effective solutions to minimizing CO2 emissions. Richard S.J. Tol, the author, is a Professor at the Department of Economics, University of Sussex and the Professor of the Economics of Climate Change, Institute for Environmental Studies and Department of Spatial Economics, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. These qualifications indicate a reliable source. Parker 3 Castro-Santos, Laura, Elson Martins, and C. Guedes Soares. Cost assessment methodology for combined wind and wave floating offshore renewable energy  Renewable Energy 97 (2016): 866-80. Web. This source takes an in depth look at two types of renewable energy sources (wave and wind energy) and the cost assessment associated with each. This source takes a look at the six main phases of implementing these renewable resource powerhouses: concept definition, design and development, manufacturing, installation, exploitation, and dismantling. This source provides concrete numbers depicting the cost of two alternative energy sources (as well as the amount of energy needed to be produced to break even) that can be compared to fossil fuels, the infrastructure of which has already been largely implemented in the United States. This relates to my topic and will serve as a relevant source because it gives actual data, not just estimates, on the cost of renewable energy and with this we can draw conclusions about the cost of green energy on a larger scale. Laura Castro-Santos obtained the title of Industrial Engineering (Energy) in 2009 and her PhD in Industrial Engineering at the Naval and Oceanic Engineering Department in 2013 from the University of A Vicente Diaz-Casas is currently an Associate Professor in the Department of Naval and Oceanic Engineering of the University of A These qualifications are very closely related to the subject of the paper and signify a credible source for my paper. Heede, Richard, and Naomi Oreskes. Potential emissions of CO2 and methane from proved reserves of fossil fuels: An alternative  Global Environmental Change 36 (2016): 12-20. Web. This source describes the carbon dioxide emissions that will result from combustion of known fossil fuel reserves. This source looked at companies and eight government-run industries that produced 63% of the fossil fuels from 1750 to (Heede 1). This source provides a Parker 4 key distinction between state-owned and investor-owned entities, suggesting that what may be needed to prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference (DAI) with the climate system differs when one considers each side of the spectrum. This is relevant to my research question because will show potential effects of a continuing high rate of carbon emissions, and could serve as evidence suggesting a shift toward green energy. Richard Heede is the Principal of Climate Mitigation Services, a consultancy focused on climate stewardship from emissions inventories to profitable action. The other author, Naomi Oreskes, is Professor of the History of Science and Affiliated Professor of Earth and Planetary Sciences. She recently arrived at Harvard after spending 15 years as Professor of History and Science Studies at the University of California, San Diego, and Adjunct Professor of Geosciences at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography. She also wrote an essay called The Scientific Consensus on Climate Change, which deals heavily with the same topics addressed in my paper. Backlund, Peter, Anthony C. Janetos, and David Steven. Schimel. The effects of climate change on agriculture, land resources, water resources, and biodiversity in the United States. New York: Nova Science, 2009. Print. This is a very extensive resource supplying a veritable wealth of knowledge pertaining to the necessity and urgency for a shift toward more sustainable means of energy cultivation. This source covers the effects of climate change on various aspects that shape our society, excluding only the financial effects, but these have been covered in a previous source. It will help me determine if enough evidence to mandate a switch to green energy when considering the positive feedback furthering climate change. Parker 5 Peter Backlund has devoted his career to the planning, management and leadership of complex research organizations. His interests include the relationship of human activities, climate change, and other environmental changes; assessment of climate change impacts, vulnerabilities and response strategies; development and use of information and observational technologies for environmental research and education; use of scientific research for decision-making and public policy; and improving the communication of scientific information to non-technical audiences. Professor Janetos received his A.B. in Biology from Harvard and his and Ph.D. in Biology from Princeton. Dr. Janetos has written and spoken widely on the need to understand the scientific, environmental, economic, and policy linkages among the major global environmental issues, proving that this source of information is reliable and relates to my topic. Kim, Son H., and James A. Edmonds. The Challenges and Potential of Nuclear Energy for Addressing Climate  (2007): n. pag. Web. This article presents yet another potential energy source if the desperation of our climate situation mandates a change in energy acquisition. This fills a potential gap in my paper, as nuclear energy, while connotated as being synonymous with impending disaster, cannot be overlooked because of its potential to mitigate carbon dioxide emissions. This source covers almost everything there is to know about nuclear energy, the risks, contribution to climate change (or lack thereof), and financial impacts. James A Edmonds has a degree in economics from Kalamazoo college, and a masters and phD. in economics from Duke university. His professional career includes being Assistant Professor and Chairman of the economics and management department at University of Kentucky as well as Parker 6 Assistant Professor of economics at Greensboro College. Because his qualifications deal only with economics this source will be labeled as least credible.