Murtha 1 Jonathan Murtha Professor Sabah Firoz Uddin Composition 1 February 25, 2017 Abortion and Homicide Abortion has been a widely controversial topic in the United States, especially in the past couple of decades. Abortion was declared legal in the United States in 1973 by the ruling of the Supreme Court in the case of Roe v. Wade. There are two sides to this debate: those who are pro-life, and those who are pro-choice. Those who are pro-life are against abortion and believe that it is homicide. On the other hand, those who are pro-choice believe it is a choice to have an abortion or not, and also believe that abortion is not homicide. The Merriam Webster dictionary defines homicide as the killing of one human being by another. This controversy raises the question as to whether abortion should be considered homicide in the United States. Lee, Patrick. A Christian View Of Recent Directions In The Abortion  Bioethics: Non-Ecumenical Studies In Medical Morality 10.1 (2004): 7-31. Search Premier. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. The author, Patrick Lee, has written this article titled, Christian View Of Recent Directions In The Abortion His main argument in this article is that a human being comes to be at the point of conception, even though this new organism is immature at this stage. This human being has complete moral worth and value, and it is the responsibility of the parents to decide to keep the child, and to decide against abortion. The author provides scientific evidence to support his argument. The author also provides the counter-argument, and explains Murtha 2 why this argument is invalid, using scientific evidence to support his argument. The author focuses on three directions in which the debate on abortion has recently gone. The first direction concentrates on when a human being comes to be. The second direction concentrates on whether is an acquired characteristic or if humans are born with this characteristic. The third direction concentrates on the refinements of the argument presented by Judith Jarvis Thomson, a moral philosopher and metaphysician, in 1971. Patrick Lee is a moral philosopher of the Christian faith who has written numerous articles on abortion, when a human being comes to be, when a human being becomes a person, etc. This article is relevant to the topic of whether or not abortion should be considered murder because it addresses the topic of when human beings are considered living organisms which have a right to life. This article was published in 2004, and is peer reviewed. Lawler, Peter Augustine. Reason, Sentiments, And Personal  44.4 (2007): 28-30. Search Premier . Web. 3 Feb. 2017. The author, Peter Augustine Lawler, has written this article titled, Sentiments, And Personal  In this article, Lawler chooses a neutral stance on the topic of abortion. He discusses views and beliefs of the pro-life supporters, as well as the views and beliefs of pro-choice supporters. The author focuses on claims made by John Shields, who has written various articles on the general topic of abortion to discuss the reason, sentiments, and personal significance of abortion for medical research. The author also discusses the beliefs of William A. Galston, a professor at the Brookings Institute. This article also examines the claims of scientific research that reason is considered an authority, and on the other hand, examines the Murtha 3 claims of others that reason alone be used to determine whether an embryo is a human being and person that has a right to life or not. Peter Augustine Lawler is a scholar affiliated with Berry College, where he teaches courses in the fields of Political Philosophy and American politics. and has written numerous articles regarding philosophy. This article is relevant to the topic of abortion because it presents viewpoints of pro-life supporters, as well as those of pro-choice supporters. This article is a peer- reviewed article that was published in 2007. Hall, Timothy. Abortion, The Right To Life, And  Theory & Practice 31.3 (2005): 405-429. Search Alumni Edition. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. The author, Timothy Hall, has written this article titled, Abortion, The Right To Life, And  In this article, main argument is that the fetus has an assumed right to life that hinders abortion, even if the fetus does not have a right to the aid in which it depends, given by the mother during pregnancy. Hall also argues that many abortions are not just the removal of the aid that the fetus needs to survive (in which it has no right to), but abortions are attacks against the fetus. These attacks, Hall argues, infringes the rights to life. The author coins this argument as the from Hall also comments on Judith Jarvis from and argues that this does not justify abortions in which the fetus is attacked. Hall believes that the strength of the argument that a fetus has an assumed right to life is undervalued by those who support the from Timothy Hall is a scholar associated with the Department of Philosophy at Oberlin College in Ohio. Hall has a PhD in Medical Physics, and is currently a professor in the Murtha 4 Department of Medical Physics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. This article is relevant to the topic of whether abortion should be considered homicide or not because argument is that a fetus has an assumed right to life. This article was published in 2005, and is peer-reviewed. Weitz, Tracy. Producing And Mobilizing Science To Oppose Abortion Rights In The United  Humanities Review 66.3 (2012): 102-117. Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 12 Feb. 2017. The author, Tracy Weitz, has written this article titled, Producing And Mobilizing Science To Oppose Abortion Rights In The United  In this article, Weitz examines the use of scientific claims and research to create a strategy for the opposition of abortion rights. Weitz presents the argument that organized medicine has gained control of the meaning of pregnancy and abortion by the use of scientific arguments against abortion. This, Weitz claims, denies women of that position. Weitz further argues that state legislatures have supported conclusions on abortion, even though these conclusions have not been supported by the majority of the scientific community. Heitz also examines the idea that one of the fundamental strategies of social movements is making scientific claims that may or may not be supported by credible evidence. Tracy Weitz (who has a PhD and MPA) is a scholar associated with the University of California, San Francisco, where she is the Associate Professor and Director of Advancing New Standards in Reproductive Health. Weitz has written numerous articles regarding the topic of abortion. This article is relevant to the topic of abortion because main argument is that state legislatures support scientific claims on abortion, even though the majority of the scientific Murtha 5 community yet agreed with these claims. This article was published in 2012, and is peer-reviewed. Warnke, Georgia. The Right to Choose: A Hermeneutic  of Social Philosophy , vol. 46, no. 2, Summer 2015, pp. 161-177. , doi:10.1111/josp.12095. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. The author, Georgia Warnke, has written this article titled, The Right to Choose: A Hermeneutic  In the article, Warnke examines the importance of the right of the individual to the decision to have an abortion or not. Warnke argues that the right to choose recognizes autonomy and acknowledges the fact that women are capable of choosing their own ends. She argues that women have the liberty to determine their own futures. This liberty includes the decisions women make about if and when they will become mothers. Warnke believes that there needs to be a balance between an liberty rights and the life of a fetus. She argues that the right to choose to have an abortion is different than the right to have an abortion. The right to choose to have an abortion recognizes that the individual takes into consideration their actions in the presence of another factor, which is the fetus. Georgia Warnke is a philosopher who has written numerous articles on the topic of abortion, She is a professor of Political Science and the director of the Center for Ideas & Society at the University of California, Riverside. This article is relevant to the topic of abortion because Warnke examines the importance of the right to choose and is a supporter of the pro choice movement. The argument is based on the assumption that abortion is not considered homicide. This article was published in 2015, and is peer-reviewed. Murtha 6 Manninen, Bertha Alvarez. The Value of Choice and the Choice to Value: Expanding the Discussion about Fetal Life within Prochoice  , vol. 28, no. 3, Aug. 2013, pp. 663-683. , doi:10.1111/j.1527-2001.2012.013 02.x. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. The author, Bertha Alvarez Manninen, has written this article titled, The Value of Choice and the Choice to Value: Expanding the Discussion about Fetal Life within Prochoice  In this article, main argument is that the new generation of pro choice advocates have changed the viewpoint of fetal life. These pro choice advocates want to defend abortion rights via the viewpoint that a fetus is more than just a clump of cells and has some degree of value to some extent. However, they believe that women should still have the right to choose to have an abortion or not. The old viewpoint, Manninen argues, is that the fetus is a clump of cells that has little to no value. The author also addresses pro choice stereotypes and explains the need to counter these stereotypes. Bertha Alvarez Manninen is a scholar that has written numerous articles on the topic of abortion. She is an associate professor of philosophy at Arizona State University. Some subjects that she teaches are: philosophy of religion, applied ethics, medical ethics, and religion and philosophy in literature. This article was published in 2013, and is peer-reviewed.