Amanda Medina ENC 1101 02/28/2017 1 Physician Assisted Suicide Saying goodbye to a loved one is hard enough; however if they are suffering from an incurable disease, you want them to be free of pain? Even if that means allowing them to end their lives? For many terminal illnesses, as they progress the patient will be in an immense amount of pain. Some will be left incontinent or hooked up to machines in order to survive. If your loved one was in that position, and they wanted to end their life with the help of a physician, would you support them? When doctors receive their license to practice, they take an oath to do no harm. However would it be more harmful to allow them to suffer? Or is it more reasonable to let them live in case a cure is discovered? The question this paper will address is: Would it be ethical for a physician to assist a terminally ill patient end their life. Amanda Medina ENC 1101 02/28/2017 2 Works Cited Darr, Kurt. Chapter  Ethics in Health Services Management. Baltimore: Health Professions, 2005. N. pag. Print. The author, Kurt Darr, has written and published multiple books on the ethics of being in the health care field. The book I am currently referring to is in Health Services In this chapter he discusses the pros as well as the cons related to physician assisted suicide specifically in reference to the terminally ill. He does not take one side or the other but provides evidence and examples for both sides of the argument by using case studies. He discusses a few of the more prominent cases regarding this topic, and how their unique circumstances each relate to the question. He discusses the ethical issues each cased posed and the justification for the actions taken by the physicians at the time. This allows for a basis when researching this topic because one can do further research on the cases that are discussed in this book and relate the ethical guidelines for each case. This author has published multiple books on this topic over several years. His books have been used as textbooks in classes when discussing ethics in relation to the healthcare field. This particular book was published in 2005. He used to work as a healthcare manager in multiple hospitals. This will provide a guideline for how doctors respond to ethical problems. Giving more insight to the justifications that use and how they were taught. Amanda Medina ENC 1101 02/28/2017 3 A National Survey of Physician-Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia in the United States  New England Journal of Medicine. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This source is a survey that was sent out to a little over 3,000 physicians to determine their thoughts on physician assisted suicide. It was conducted through the American Medical Association, which all medical personal are associated with. The survey consisted only of physicians who were under 65. The physicians were chosen completely at random to ensure the results would reflect the general population of physicians. It was kept anonymous and conducted by mail so to ensure all answers were truthful. The questions were first tested in a focus group to ensure they were fair and easily untestable for the readers. This allows for a broad sense of how physicians have been feeling about this question. It has been around for some time, however it is not always clear how the physicians themselves feel about assisting their terminally ill patients end their lives. This allows for an unbiased look into the way actual physicians feel and allows for a guide when researching the topic. By seeing the arguments and thoughts behind physicians, it will be easier to consider all sides of the argument to further research. Allowing for a thorough look at the arguments posed for and against assisting a patient to end their life. It also provides reliable statistics. Orentlicher, David. The Legalization of Physician-Assisted Suicide: A Very Modest  The Legalization of Physician-Assisted Suicide: A Very Modest Revolution by David Orentlicher :: SSRN. Indiana University - Robert H. McKinney School of Law, 13 Mar. 2012. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Amanda Medina ENC 1101 02/28/2017 4 This thoroughly explains the difference between removing life sustaining treatment, and physician assisted suicide. This source explains the path that this law is currently taking and how it has evolved from past laws. This goes over the legalization in Oregon, as well as how it was passed, and the moral issues behind the law. It explains how withdrawal of life sustaining treatment is not the same and why it is seen as ethically moral by all in the healthcare field. It then contrasts to explain how physician assisted suicide is now being considered morally right by some and how that line is being blurred This sources gives a very thorough history of this law to correctly identify key turning points in allowing this law to be passed. This provides both sides of the arguments as well as a clear rationale behind states like Oregon whom have legalized this practice. This way when researching to counter arguments used on the other side, there is a clear path to take that has been accepted in court systems. However it does also give the personal opinion of the author which provides another aspect to consider when writing the counter arguments of this paper. PhD, Ezekiel J. Emanuel MD. Attitudes and Desires Related to Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide Among Terminally Ill Patients and Their  End of Life JAMA The JAMA Network. N.p., 15 Nov. 2000. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the thoughts of the patients themselves, which is an important part of this argument. This gives the terminally ill patients a voice in the matter which is important considering it is their life we are speaking about. The author randomly selected 5 metropolitan medical facilities and had the physicians give a list of the patients deemed terminally ill. There were close to one thousand participants in this survey type of study. The Amanda Medina ENC 1101 02/28/2017 5 survey asked if they considered euthanasia ethical and if they felt it should be legal for people given their prognosis. However it also asked how many of them considered it a viable option for themselves. This is an extremely important article because most articles focus on the thoughts of the physicians. However their thoughts are not the only ones to consider. This gives another perspective and can be used to counter some opposing arguments. This survey shows the reasoning behind a terminally ill patient to end their lives. It explains the thought process as well as shows a correlation behind whom was more likely to consider ending their lives. While physicians are a big part of this, the patients are the most important and we need to be clear on their feelings as well. Physician-Assisted Suicide  New England Journal of Medicine. N.p., 11 Apr. 2013. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. The author, J. Donald Boudreau, is a doctor and he wrote this article on physician assisted suicide to explain why he believes it is wrong and unethical. He begins by discussing the justifications most doctors use when supporting physician assisted suicide. He then goes on to explain that all doctors take an oath to do no harm and that by assisting someone to end their life, regardless if they are terminal or not, would in fact be doing harm. He also mentions that this could lead to abuse of the system and easier access for those who want to take their own life. He firmly believes that to assist a patient in ending their life would violate the oath one takes as a doctor and thus make it null and void. He also argues that the physicians themselves know what they are doing is wrong, however refuse to admit it. Amanda Medina ENC 1101 02/28/2017 6 This author is a doctor himself who deals with the same ethical problems as all the others. He has lived through many cases where people may have wanted to take their life. This text was meant for physicians who may be considering the concept of physician assisted suicide. He gives his personal reasoning as well as the reasoning doctors are typically taught. This gives insight into how an actual doctor is thinking and considering this topic. Sign In: Registered  Attitudes of UK Doctors towards Euthanasia and Physician-assisted Suicide: A Systematic Literature Review - Mar 10, 2011. N.p., 10 Mar. 2011. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article provides an outside view of this topic. This discusses the thoughts of doctors in the United Kingdom whom have different views on healthcare. This study was done over a twenty year time period to assess the beliefs of the physicians and how they may change over time. This study was done by looking at articles published over the years and compared the thoughts and rationale used in each of them. The study chose only four journals which were deemed as large contributors to the medical field. The article was based on fifteen articles all together. They also considered the religions of the authors of each article and how that influenced their decision. This broadens the ideas and possible arguments posed. Healthcare is much different in places like Europe. So their rationale can be much different than ours; and in situations like this it is important to get as complete of a view as possible. Sticking only to the United States could narrow the ideas presented and not give a full view on the thoughts of physicians as a whole. Being that this was done over a twenty year period, it will allow a glimpse into how the idea evolved as well as the rationale behind the changes made.