Viens 1 Evelyne Viens Professor Emil Smith Composition 1 March 5, 2017 Intermediate Draft Project 2 The perception of almost any society is that men are dominate while women are inferior. Over the last decades, men have been more represented in society and they illustrate the power figure. This rule can also be observed in the athletic aspect. Male athletes receive a better salary, more attention and more benefits than any female athletes. Title IX, a rule that obligates the equality between male and female athletes in college, and feminism movements have tried to help women to become equals with men. However, despite constant efforts for equality, the discussion of discrimination between male and female athletes has not changed over time. The mentality of women playing sports has not changed even since 1950: that time, it was commonly believed women were not physically capable of running long (Learn, 2014). However, this is nothing new as this perception has been a part of humanity since the beginning that female is inferior to male. In the area of sports, in a study, researchers showed that athletes have less chance to receive a scholarship than athletes in the Canadian university system. Moreover, the teams receive more promotion for their team and a greater share of operating budgets (Hoeber, 2006). The discrimination shows thorough lack of opportunity for women to receive recognition and equal benefits. Furthermore, may remember in 2007 when radio talk show host Don Imus called the Rut-gers University basketball team, a winning NCAA program, (Learn, 2014). Even 60 years later, the mindset Viens 2 has obviously not changed, but the language used has changed. The mentality causes a lot of discrepancy between male and female players most notably in wage gap. The biggest quantitative aspect of discrimination is the difference in salary between male and female athletes. It is rational to believe that if less money is put toward sports, subsequently sports are less publicized, and make less money. Dick and Kellers highlight this reality by saying: women with a business sense felt that if the TV ratings, revenue, etc. are at X-level for the men, and the women are at a lower revenue stream, then you HAVE to pay the men more; it is common sense and good business (Dick and Kellers, 2006). In 2006, the mentality for most of the people was that if sports receive as much attention as teams, female athletes can receive the same salary as male athletes. The problem is that sponsors and TV channels do not give enough attention to teams to achieve equal salary. It is a fact that if any fans want to watch sports on TV, they have a small chance to be able to watch sports. Moreover, the study shows that a female player earned less than a tennis player for a single tournament: 1 identifies the size of the gap in 2009 prize money: on average, females earned .235 logged dollars (p < .05) less than their male counterparts during the 2009 (Flake, Dufur, Moore, 2013). Even 7 years later in tennis, male athletes still receive more money than women (Flake, Dufur, Moore, 2013). The wage gap is the most prominent feature in the discrimination process between both genders, and it is also shown in media representation. The representation of media is still unequal between men and sports. Even though, there may have been a period where equality was achieved, it was not sustained. Particularly, one study, the Internet coverage of university sponsored and tennis sites. However, everyone thinks that teams receive more coverage than Viens 3 teams, this scientific research shows the (Cunningham, 2003). In 2003, the Internet popularity started to grow. The coverage of men and women sports were equal. However, this equally did not stay for a long time. For example, the Thunderbirds team was Tweeted about 319 times in the Major Semi Final and 2,002 times in the Grand Final in the ANZ Championship netball season (Vann, 2014). As one of the most popular sports in New Zealand, the media does not represent the excitement of the fans. Only 2,002 Tweets in a final is nothing compared to the Super Bowl that was Tweeted approximately 28 million times. The media representation of sports is causing problems to the development of equality between both genders. Even though a certain evolution of opportunities over the last couple years have been experienced by women in sports, the discrimination is still as the same level. Starting in the 50s, it was believed that women were not physically capable of practicing sports. Acts and movements, like Title IX and feminism, have worked to secure more equal opportunity for women in sports, however they still exist mental barriers to accepting successful female athletes. In the future, if female athletes want to achieve truly equal opportunity in sports, the perception that men are better than women will need to change.