Castillano 1 Sharae Castillano Professor Sarah Roth Composition 1 March 10, 2017 Predicting the Future: Divination and Tarot Over Time Tarot cards are a deck which includes 78 cards that contain 22 Major Arcana cards and 56 Minor Arcana cards. Each card represents something and are usually used to predict the future. Divination is the practice of seeking knowledge of the future or the unknown by supernatural means. There are various types of divination such as astrology, palmistry, and the Ouija boards. But there is one both popular and controversial; Tarot cards. Tarot cards are known to be a divination tool and came about in the early 1400s in Northern Italy. Tarot cards have hundreds of different interpretations, which is why one card can mean several different things for multiple people. These cards are a taboo subject, but how curious are you about your future? If there was an opportunity to get a tarot card reading, would you peek into your future? In this project, I investigate all the factors that may or may not lead one to take an interest in tarot cards and how the perspectives of persons have changed over time. Koerner, Brendan I. do tarot cards come Slate Magazine.N.p.10 Oct.2002.Web.11 Mar.2017. This article gives a brief explanation of where tarot cards came from and when they arose in society. The oldest set, one of the originals, left remaining is called the Visconti-Sforza deck and was made for the Duke of family around 1440. The article also tells a bit about how tarot Castillano 2 cards were originally a game called tarachhi. Taracchi cards are two sets of fifty 15 th century Italian prints. The game was spread throughout Europe until it was eventually called tarot and then later used to predict future. Further into the 18 th century, it is said that a man named Antoine Court de Gebeline wrote a book connecting tarot cards to a god called Thoth. As time passed, many have turned to tarot. History is very important when it comes to learning about something new and it can play a big part about whether one wants to learn about something or not. This article, although short, gives an informative piece about where tarot cards came from. When it comes to tarot cards, anyone, whether a businessman or office clerk, can be involved with them; just as in the past when it was a game called Tarachhi, anyone could play. Herman, Barbara. Is Tarot? A Professional Tarot Card Reader Tells Internation Business Times.N.p., 30 May 2015.Web.11 Mar.2017. In this article, Barbara Herman interviews and writes about Angeliska Polacheck of Sister Temperance Tarot which is the name of her shop/company. This article is Polacheck explaining the history of tarot cards and how she became a tarot card reader. To Polacheck, getting a tarot card reading, especially from her, just about her clients getting easy answers about their future. She wants them to put in work in their readings and actually have some kind of input. According to Polacheck, We have power over what we so seeking straight answers from her going to work. With her shop/company, Polacheck could and has peaked interest in quite a bunch of people from all over the world. She has had a lot of people who would much rather visit her than a therapist and has had even one client who said that Polacheck the most beautiful and loving and is than therapy and twice as Castillano 3 If people are more comfortable going to a tarot card reader than a therapist, it can influence others to do the same. The topics discussed in the 2002 and 2015 article differ completely. The 2002 article is all about telling the history of tarot; giving both the time frame of when it first came about and how it has changed and became what it is today. The 2015 article is about what tarot itself is and what tarot reading is. Both articles discuss the history and the perspective has changed a bit. In the 2002 article, tarot went from a game to a divination tool and it still can be used as both today, but in the 2015 article it is only used as a divination tool. Both perspectives become similar when they speak of who can use them. According to both, anyone can use or be associated with tarot. Uses for Reflections- Uses for Tarot.N.p.,n.d.Web.11 Mar.2017. Just as water just for drinking, tarot cards used only for fortune telling. This article explains the many different uses of tarot cards. It explains that tarot cards can be used to meditate and tells us about our past and present, and much more. This gives the tarot cards many different functions and meanings. The article even discusses a bit about how tarot cards were originally used as playing cards in a game (and can still be used as so.) As far as religion goes, most religions say not to get your fortune told. What about being told about your present or even past? Though there are these different uses for tarot cards, many religions forbid it completely. With Christianity, to be specific, the Bible condemns divination on a whole. Cole, Kresley, Poison Princess. New York: Simon & Schuster For Young Readers, 2012.Print. Kresley series, Arcana includes mostly the Major Arcana which consists of 22 tarot cards. In the book, the 22 Major Arcana are in a Castillano 4 war repeatedly, but every time the war happens, they forget who they are. The main character, Evangeline Greene, is in a sort of a trance. In the beginning of the book she thinks crazy for having visions of the apocalypse until it happens and more than half of the world is wiped out. Throughout the book, another character/love interest, Jackson Deveaux, vows to protect her and carry her to her house because her grandmother tried to teach her of the tarot cards when she was young; she was forced to forget her teachings. Her grandmother was trying to prepare her for the war that was to come with the Major Arcana. Although there are some that are skeptical about tarot, most are either for or against them. The topics discussed in the 2005 article and 2012 book are completely different. The 2005 article speaks of different ways to use tarot cards like for meditating and getting to know self while the 2012 book gives a whole imaginative perspective of tarot. They both use or gives images of a different side of tarot and the perspectives are both the same and different as time passed. In world, tarot is more than often used for fortune telling, but as time passed it has evolved and been created into different things through perspectives. Tarot was originally a game made into a divination tool and then used as a healing/entertainment tool. People have taken tarot up to create and shape it as their own and as more time passes, it will continue to develop into different things. Castillano 5 Works Cited Cole, Kresley, Poison Princess. New York: Simon & Schuster For Young Readers, 2012.Print. Herman, Barbara. Is Tarot? A Professional Tarot Card Reader Tells Internation Business Times.N.p., 30 May 2015.Web.11 Mar.2017. Koerner, Brendan I. do tarot cards come Slate Magazine.N.p.10 Oct.2002.Web.11 Mar.2017. Uses for Reflections- Uses for Tarot.N.p.,n.d.Web.11 Mar.2017.