Rainey 1 Kiersten Rainey 2/21/17 Sarah Basil British Petroleum BP is vital part of the United Sates economy, in 2015 they generated 80 billion dollars in economic value. They do many different things, but in summary, BP customers with fuel for transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants to keep engines moving, and the petrochemicals products used to make everyday (What We Do). They provide energy to many different countries through fossil fuels and are a leading contributor to the U.S. economy. The economic worth is something they pride themselves on very much, and how much they contribute to the U.S. economy as well. BP has gotten plenty of back lash over the years because of the harmful emissions fossil fuels give off and oil was dubbed Most Hated (Stephen 1). BP is doing their best to appeal to their customers, and are doing a good job considering all the hate they receive. Green energy (like solar energy) has become very popular recently, and BP is working and creating advertisements like the two analyzed here to keep up with the competition. To highlight this great economic success in the country, BP made advertisements utilizing several of the rhetorical appeals to appeal to their audiences. These rhetorical appeals are ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. They use statistics in the images and facts to appeal to logical readers, they use different color schemes to appeal to people driven by emotions and many other techniques as well. By using these different techniques, BP is able to attract a wide variety of people. The art of Rhetoric goes back to day, in fact he came up with the system of rhetoric in order to persuade individuals. He knew that most audiences be able to Rainey 2 follow scientific reason because they intelligent enough, so he persuaded through reason alone (McKay). He categorized ethos, logos and pathos as means of (McKay), and these three are very effective in their own ways. This practice is still used today to keep audiences interested and to persuade them into buying something, or to donate money or to vote for a certain candidate for public office. Rhetoric is used by BP to appeal to certain audiences and uses each appeal in a unique way. The first rhetorical appeal that stands out in the first image is pathos. Pathos is the rhetorical appeal that evokes emotions, this was done by the use of the color green. In this advertisement green represents money, and by the statistics presented it is obvious that BP generates a lot of money. Green also represents green energy like solar energy, and this usage is ironic because BP is a fossil fuel company. This use of green may be used to trick the viewer into thinking that BP is good for the environment, so this color choice was strategic. In the first image, there were drawings in the background that also could trigger emotions in some. The drawings were of factories and worker trucks which symbolize a hard-working company that does as much as they can for their customers. Also, there was a map of the U.S., this shows their dedication to America and how important the country is to BP, this can make viewers happy and proud to be an American and a customer of BP. There is a common theme in the second image, they use green to represent money and environmental friendly energy as well, but they also use orange. Orange is a warmer color and this may have been used to be a more inviting, friendlier advertisement. Colors like blue and green alone as inviting as orange and red so they used this color to represent home and warmth. In the second image the word commitment is used several times, and this word may evoke emotions because commitment mean they care about their customers. This image also has pictures on the advertisement, the one that stands out the Rainey 3 most is the neighborhood. Most Americans live is neighborhoods or developments of some kind, so seeing that image may be reassuring for viewers, it shows that BP is dedicated to people like them. Overall the use of pathos was executed very well, use of color and images made the emotional aspect of the advertisement very effective. Ethos is a rhetorical appeal that provide credibility to the company or organization usually through company logos or copyright symbols and to appeal to ethical values. In the first BP advertisement there is language used like which provides some credibility to their company, because they invest real money in to the economy. There is also an image of what looks like employees working on a project in hard hats, looking at this image it looks like several engineers working on something important which provides credibility to BP. Real workers (as opposed to artificial intelligence) is important to a lot of people, it is a very important value that many hold close to their hearts, that companies hire real hard workers and not just machines. In the second advertisement, the BP logo is in three places. Having the logo on an advertisement is important because it gives the viewer further understanding of the purpose of the words or pictures on the advertisement. The BP logo is also a credible source, when someone sees that logo they understand the message and trust it because the symbol is well known. In the second image the phrase to would appeal ethically to people, many people are proud of their nation and protective over it, so this phrase may make viewers feel better about the goals and agenda of the company. Ethos was done well in these advertisements, BP assured people that they were a good trustworthy company and that the customers were in good hands. Logos is the rhetorical appeal to logic, so typically logos links up with statistics and facts. In the first advertisement, there were a lot of monetary values all over the page in bold font, this Rainey 4 font size was strategic so the numbers were the first thing to catch the eye. Facts and statics are important to some people, they want to see cold hard evidence that convinces them why they should buy the product. day, BP sells 50 million gallons to our valued consumers via more than 7,000 BP-branded retail locations across the United (BP We facts like this one help convince people that BP is a great company that acts as a catalyst for economic success in the United States. The dollar amounts were statistics of how much money BP contributed to the economy, how much they are worth and how many employees they paid, this is important to some people because they want to buy from a company that gives back to the economy. In the second advertisement, there are images of a circuit board, a neighborhood and a pyramid these three may tie together to show the viewers that individuals (like the triangle ) come together to make up the neighborhood and all the energy is represented in the circuit board. This may appeal to logic because the images are like a chain of events, which may make sense to some. Logos can be a tricky appeal to understand, but overall the images used logos well, they appeal to viewers through the use of facts, statistics and pattern skills to sell their product. Kairos is the rhetorical appeal that appeals to urgency or timeliness, sayings like appeal to some audience and gets them thinking. Companies like World Wild Life Foundation have a mission and goal in mind that they want to be taken care of urgently, so the use of language like now is to influence people to take action and help the environment Species There is one subtle use of Kairos in image two, they use which implies that their fuel is new and improved and up to speed with the new times. Staying relevant and up to date is very important to some customers. Overall in both images are lacking the use of this appeal, there is no urgent message they are trying to get out to Rainey 5 the world. Sure, they want consumers to buy their oil or gasoline, but they use other appeals to attract consumers, not a time limit. All rhetorical strategies do not need to be used in order to make a good advertisement or argument, however the more implemented the more audiences you will appeal to. Every advertisement in the world has a purpose, whether it is to get you to buy their product, educate viewers on a topic or leave you in suspense, they have their ways of getting attention. Rhetoric has been used for centuries to persuade people to think a certain way or do a certain thing, and they have been pretty effective. BP utilized a few of these appeals in the two advertisements analyzed. They used logos and ethos effectively in both advertisements, but they did lack in the kairos and pathos area, and that is perfectly okay for advertisements to not utilize every appeal. Through the use of these four rhetorical appeals, BP effectively demonstrated their dedication to the U.S. economy and their vision for the future of new energy. Image one Rainey 6 Image two Works Cited: Our Commitment to America: Supporting the U.S.  Bp.com. BP 2017 Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Bp+advertisement+2016 - Google  Bp+advertisement+2016 - Google Search. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. What We  Bp.com. B.P. , 1996-2017. Web. 08 Feb. 2017. McKay, Brett & Kate. Classical Rhetoric: A Brief  The Art of Manliness. The Art Of Manliness, 17 Dec. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Fitzgerald, F. Scott. The Great Gatsby. London: Penguin, 2000. Print. Endangered Species  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Stephen, Chaye. Dear Oil Haters: Why You Gotta Be So  The N.p., 09 Sept. 2016. Web. 09 Mar. 2017.