Fasulo !1 Angelina Fasulo Dr. Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 04 March 2017 P2 Intermediate Draft Many would agree that a sad day when a veteran who had put their life on the line in the name of their country is seen living without a roof over their head or a comfortable bed to sleep in. There is much controversy to where the fault lies in this matter, whether it be a own, his or her peers in the military, or the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs for not taking care of them. However, there is a constant through all this controversy: the general health of veterans. Many, if not most, of the factors being discussed in the conversation about veteran homelessness, are a direct result of the negligence of a health. The journal article titled its Aftermath, and U.S. Health Policy: Toward a Compre- hensive Health Program for Military Personnel, Veterans, and their written in 2008, outlines some of the major issues with the U.S. veteran health programs. Due to restricted resources, and only within a decade of a widespread wave of successful veteran eligibility reform, the VHA (Veterans Health Administration) had no choice but to shift focus mainly on veterans with military service-connected health care problems such as PTSD, bodily burns, etc (Jackonis et al. 678). In 2003, the VA went as far as to discontinue enrollment of veterans with a high income. Veteran patients who previously took advantage of the resources due to low income would be forced to turn elsewhere (678). Oftentimes, a veteran and his or her working-class family income would be considered too high for federal or state Fasulo !2 programs such as Medicaid, and too low for privatized health insurance (680). Additional hardships that stood in the way of veterans receiving care generally included long waiting lists at VA health facilities, long distances to nearby facilities, and unaffordable co-payments (680). All in all, failure by the VA and the VHA to be structurally and monetarily capable of meeting the needs of the U.S. veteran population is the reason they are partly to blame for the tolls that veterans take on their wellbeing. Transition from military to civilian employment, mental health and substance abuse issues, and lack of Medicaid eligibility are factors that pave the way for a higher risk of homelessness among veterans (678). In 2010, the journal article titled Structure and Risk Factors for the Health Status of Homeless was published to show the results and conclusions of a factor analysis study of cardiac health, mood, stress, addiction, and psychosis among 3,595 homeless veterans (Goldstein et al. 314). Although correlation does not prove causation, this study revealed many interesting trends in health characteristics among homeless veterans that are worth considering. For instance, the study revealed high results of mood disorders, such as depression, to be associated with physical illness among participants (319). Also, physical illness and severe mental illness seemed to be linked to lower rates of employment among participants, more so than those that had an addictive personality with no sign of mental or physical illness. The authors of this article suggest that homeless veterans may fall into depression upon deterioration of physical health. Depression is known to cause one to induce self-neglect, leading to environ- mental threat, malnutrition, and a poor source of shelter. In a depressed case, he or she may become homeless based on these factors of self-neglect, although the authors do mention that further study is required (320). Fasulo !3 More recently, in 2013, the authors of the article Stressor Exposure and Post-Traumatic Symptoms in Homeless described a study which observed trauma exposure and responses in 115 homeless veterans (Carlson et al. 970). The results of this study imply that military trauma exposure and PTSD are known to increase risk of substance abuse, aggression, disability in relationship and life functionality, and low social support. In turn, these factors tend to lead to homelessness in veterans. The authors go on to suggest the assessment of trauma exposure among veterans and social support programs in order to help al- leviate the negative factors that point toward homelessness (972). A very recent source from 2016 titled Risk for Homelessness among US Male and Female Veterans with a Positive Screen for Military Sexual raises some very crucial statistics from a study involving just over 600,000 U.S. veterans who were deployed in Iraq or Afghanistan and separated from the military between 2001 and 2011 (Brignone 582). A whopping 25% of all female veterans report having experienced MST in the military, as well as 1% of all male veterans (583). Among veterans with positive screening for MST (military sexual trauma), veterans who had experienced MST during their service were homeless at a rate of 1.6% within 30 days, 4.4% within a year, and 9.6% within 5 years, more than double that of those who did not experience any MST (0.7%, 1.8%, and 4.3%, respectively). A positive screen for MST was exclusively linked to homelessness upon exiting the military, suggesting that MST may be a risk factor to homelessness among veterans, women especially (585). The conversation on the issue of veteran homelessness and its causing factors seems to be generally consistent, and even progressive. The common theme throughout all four of the sources listed is the health of veterans, both mentally and physically. Although the first source (2008) Fasulo !4 discusses much less about the individual health of veterans as a result of serving in the military and more so on the issues with the veteran health care system, it still deems the decline of veteran health an issue leading to homelessness. The second source (2010) puts the deterioration of veteran health into perspective by explaining how it may cause depression among veterans, which may eventually lead to homelessness. Now it has been made clear that the findings in the source from 2010 possibly occurred as an indirect result of the findings in the source from 2008. One may define that as progress in research. Both of the latter sources, from 2013 and 2016, deal more closely with mental health than physical health. Both the effects of combat trauma and military sexual trauma run the possibility of figuratively destroying mental health stability. It has been shown through various sources and various different ways that mental health problems can lead one, in this case, a veteran, down the path toward homelessness. It is safe to conclude that all four sources listed deal with a specific health issue among veterans, yet the conversation is consistently centered around how the negligence of a health and wellbeing can adversely affect his or her life, including the loss of a roof over their head. Fasulo !5 Sources Cited Brignone, Emily, Gundlapalli, Adi V., Blais, Rebecca K., Carter, Marjorie E., Suo, Ying, Samore, Matthew H., Kimerling, Rachel, and Fargo, Jamison. Risk for Homelessness among US Male and Female Veterans with a Positive Screen for Military Sexual JAMA Psychiatry. vol. 73, no. 6, 2016, pp. 582-589. Carlson, Eve B., Garvert, Donn W., Macia, Kathryn S., Ruzek, Josef I., and Burling, Thomas A. Stressor Exposure and Post-Traumatic Symptoms in Homeless Military Medicine. vol. 178, no. 9, 2013, pp. 970-973. Accessed 04 March 2017. Gerald Goldstein, James F. Luther, Gretchen L. Haas, Cathleen J. Appelt, and Adam J Gordon. Structure and Risk Factors for the Health Status of Homeless Psychiatry Quarterly. vol. 81, no. 4, 2010, pp. 311-323. Accessed 04 March 2017. Jackonis, Michael J, Deyton, Lawrence, and Hess, William J. its Aftermath, and U.S. Health Policy: Toward a Comprehensive Health Program for Military Personnel, Veterans, and their Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics. yol. 36, no. 4, 2008, pp. 677-689. Accessed 04 March 2017.