Student 1 Student Dr. Rick Gaspar ENC 1102 1 March 2017 The Tech Communities Unite In the United States, technology is one of the fastest growing industries and is manufacturing products at an outstanding rate. The jobs within this industry are advanced and require a lot of fast-thinking, teamwork, and vast knowledge in technological aspects. However, one notable issue is that this industry is mainly dominated by men and the number of women is significantly lower. Women Who Code is a non-profit organization that encourages women to excel in the tech careers they choose and provides worldwide programs to help improve their abilities. Who Eric Robert Morse is a web programmer/writer that operates and publishes articles on his website about controversial events. Morse wrote an article about various arguments people make about women in tech and how those arguments are invalid. These differences in whether or not women should be in tech between these two websites are causing issues within the tech industry and how the future of women roles in tech will be affected. A solution could be found through programs that can be developed to attract women who are genuinely interested in tech and want to learn about it. Instead of encouraging women into tech just to fill the gender gap, programs and organizations should be developed to attract and welcome women who are truly passionate about technology. The mission of Women Who Code (WWCode) is inspire women to excel in technology They dedicate their time to offer women the opportunity to make a difference for the future generations of girls going into tech. It is often said that the Student 2 number of women in tech is low because schools are not encouraging women to major in STEM areas. However, that there enough women in tech because there enough of them taking computer science degrees is just laziness on the behalf of companies. Blaming WWCode is trying to prevent companies from turning away from women by presenting jobs offers on their tab from companies that hire men and women equally. Also, WWCode is making sure that all women have the opportunity to pursue their dream in the tech industry by providing programs and resources to help them succeed. For many years, have often been portrayed as less valued in the work sphere, since they have been told that their primary place is with home and in Since that stigma has stood with women, it has been difficult for them to obtain jobs in certain industries, especially tech because it is essentially male-dominated, but WWCode wants to prevent this at all costs. WWCode wants to encourage young girls to be confident in choosing to study in STEM because you look at some of the top universities in sciences, math, engineering, seeing 90 percent male in those graduation The goal of Eric Robert Morse is to break down the arguments made to allow more women in tech and that these arguments as powerful as they seem on the We Need More Women in the Tech The three arguments he breaks down are: first is that the numbers speak for half the population is female, so should half of the tech workforce be female. The second is that minorities (including women in tech) are at a disadvantage. And, the third is that we need more women in tech to provide a more balanced perspective for decision-making. (No, We Need More Women in the Tech In relations to arguments one and two, this culture, the engineering metaphor be which means that because of the increasing Student 3 progress in the tech industry, it would not make sense to change certain aspects of it. 103). Morse mentions that last time I checked, IT was the most expansive and innovative industry on the and with that being said, sees the current status of this industry to be more than exceptional. We Need More Women in the Tech Also, the third argument talks about how women could provide more perspective for ideas, which Morse does not agree with because men tend to gravitate towards STEM majors unlike so these men are capable of providing great decisions to this growing industry. 103). Morse does not necessarily disagree with WWCode and agrees that there is a huge gender gap in the tech industry. For many years, men gravitated towards STEM fields, so the in men towards STEM may have been accompanied by a further shift in computing 13). Despite the differences they have, they both offer shared common ground. They both believe that more women should be allowed to work in the tech industry, just one believes the reasons given are not valid enough to be taken into consideration. Both of them have different opinions on things and want people to agree with the message they are trying to portray. Also, the future of the tech industry is something they deeply care about. While the tech industry is one of the fastest growing industries, there is still room for rise and fall and both stakeholders want to prevent the fall whether it be by incorporating more women or keeping it the way it is. The desire for a solution has always been a heightened subject for this industry, but nothing has really been done to eliminate the gender gap between men and women. However, there could be potential solutions if both stakeholders cooperate and reconcile their differences with each other. Women Who Code could comprise legitimate reasons why women deserve to excel in the tech industry. Also, they can develop skill/interest quizzes that could be taken on Student 4 their website to help women fully realize if they are interested in this field. website can offer advice to help women interested in the tech industry from a perspective. A new approach that could create a solution is for both stakeholders to work together. Women Who Code has high hopes for the future of women and since Morse does not think the reasons that more women should be involved in the tech industry are valid, Morse and WWCode can team up and come up with valid reasons to pursue further success for women. WWCode does not necessarily need a direction for greater success, but since this industry is dominated by males, Morse offering his advice as a male web developer could potentially aid in their progress for the future. By providing a little bit of direction for WWCode, Morse can truly understand the perspective of being a woman and how the struggle to start in the tech industry is difficult. This compromise can benefit both stakeholders by introducing them to different ideas and perspectives that could potentially lead them both to success. Instead having this ongoing incompatibility and them being stuck, both can work with this compromise and move forward. In order for this compromise to happen, both stakeholders will have to be notified and will have to get together to discuss a further plan of action to carry out this potential compromise. First, both stakeholders will have to meet and get familiar with what they believe in. Second, they will need to discuss different plans that could potentially end with success and in doing so, will have to share different ideas that fulfill both of their expectations. Finally, they will need to put their plans into action and wait for results. If it is successful, then they will stick to that plan, if it fails, then they will try again. Although both stakeholders do not fully see eye-to-eye, plenty of compromises can be implemented to benefit both stakeholders in future. WWCode could comprise legitimate reasons why women deserve to excel in the tech industry and Eric Morse offer advice to help women Student 5 interested in the tech industry from a perspective. With cooperation and dedication, both stakeholders can excel in the future and progress with their disagreements. Even controversial issues like this one can be resolved with a little compromise and open-mindness, so the little everyday issues people experience every day can easily be relieved with compromise. (WC: 1373). Student 6 Works Cited Abbate, Janet. Recoding Gender. Cambridge: MIT Press, 2012. www.ebookcentral-proquest- com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. ProQuest, 19 Oct. 2012. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Corneliussen, Hilde G. Gender-Technology Relations. Basingstroke: Palgrave Macmillan, 2011. www.ebookcentral-proquest-com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. ProQuest, 25 Nov. 2011. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Flair, I. Women in Technology in the United  Www.womenintechnology.com. Great Neck Publishing, 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Minter, Harriet. Stop blaming schools and universities for the lack of women in tech; Instead of finger-pointing, companies need to take responsibility for hiring women rather than creating workforces that are just  Www.theguardian.com. Guardian Newspapers , 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Misa, Thomas J., ed. Gender Codes. Los Angeles: IEEE Computer Society, 2010. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Morse, Eric Robert. No, We Need More Women in the Tech  Www.ericrobertmorse.com/. Code Interactive, 16 Aug. 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Rath. Randi Zuckerberg on Women in Tech:  Www.npr.org. National Public Radio, Inc., 2013. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. womenwhocode.com. Women Who Code, 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Student 7