Rashida Dacas Dacas 1 Professor Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 2/28/17 Years ago in a class discussion about how one sees race in society today. A peer simply stated that racism in the United States was dead. Is that in fact true? He stated laws were made and passed to help keep segregation of race under control. Can a written law truly change the way another mind works? These same laws that were said to help racial and biased ways seemed to have a way of leading in favor of certain cultural backgrounds. Almost as if the system was set up not to prevent one from back tracking but not to allow them to progress either. Over the years most recently in the 2000s, racial profiling started to become a popular topic due to current events that seemed racial to the naked eye. One may say not the way the system is set up but the people behind the system who try to cheat behind it. In reality without this system we the people look up to for protection and guidance having the gaps and unspoken faults the people behind it have the room to act with such racial ways. Does the criminal justice system we have structure itself not to be in favor of the african american citizen? Alexander, Michelle. New jim crow: mass incarceration in the age of colorblindness. Place of publication not identified: New Press, 2010. Print. In this book Professor Michelle argues that the justice system never got rid of the Jim Crow laws that they were simple redesigned. Her book goes into detail about the policies she believes is what the government uses in order to control cultural groups by not allowing them to have the access they need for growth. By using the war of drugs as the camel supporting her Dacas 2 Argument the author shows racism in America still factors against blacks. Professor Michelle Alexander is a civil rights activist that has only published two books. Both of her books are on the topic with race and empowerment. She has an educational background from Vanderbilt University and Stanford law school. Currently she is an associate professor of law at the school of Ohio State University mortises college of law. She is best known for her New Jim which is a well known book reviewed by others such as Lisa Chalet from Berkeley journal of employment and labor law and also Chronicle of higher education. She has been awarded an NAACP image award for outstanding literary work. Her work speaks more on the african american culture but it expands and touches other races when dealing with racism. This book is important to my paper because it supports a lot of the older facts showing racism being very prevalent in older times leading up to modern times. Berg, Mark T., Eric A. Stewart, Jonathan Intravia, Patricia Y. Warren, and Ronald L. Simons. Cynical Streets: Neighborhood Social Processes And Perceptions Of Criminal  Criminology 54.3 (2016): 520-47. Web. Within the Cynical Streets a study was conducted to support an argument that social groups within certain neighborhoods in the United States suffer different disadvantages than others. With African Americans being the highest race to endure these set backs. This article also ties in police encounters of all racial profiling and mass incarceration showing that blacks are indeed in the forefront of racial encounters . Department of Sociology, University of Iowa; College of Criminology and Criminal Dacas 3 Justice, Florida State University; Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology, Ball State University; Department of Sociology, University of Georgia. With all these accredited colleges these authors either work in departments of criminology or sociology showing their dedication and study on this topic. Being that they are in the field of the subject allows them to give data that is valuable. The article also comes from a well known and peer reviewed journal. With text facts the authors also conducted an experiment of their own collecting data and information strongly supporting the race behind the justice system. This information will help me with my argument to further prove the injustice behind local culture groups and the laws hindering social growth. Birzer, Michael L., and Gwynne Harris Birzer. Race matters: A critical look at racial profiling, a matter for the  Journal of Criminal Justice 34.6 (2006): 643-51. Web. This journal is an argumentative piece, it argues that police are given the right to racially profile minorities through the justice system because of the case v The United States . The authors use this case to show the practice that police officers use in order to stop minorities. This article also goes to explain how the court can minimize racial profiling by stating the flaws within the judicial precedent. The authors of this journal also contributed to several pieces dealing with police and racial issues. Gwynne one of the authors of this piece is a actually the sixth United States Magistrate Judge with her chair in Wichita, Kansas with a bachelor of arts in criminal justice. Dacas 4 The second author , Michael, is a professor of criminal justice and director of the school of Community Affairs. This goes to show how credible these authors are in the topic of criminology. This piece can help my argument by providing a judicial precedent and showing the breakdown on how it plays into racial profiling. By showing the effects the courts have on racism backs up my argument that racism is still prevalent in the criminal justice system. Brooms, D. R., and A. R. Perry. Its Simply Because Black : Black Mens Experiences and Responses to the Killing of Black  The Journal of Studies 24.2 (2016): 166-84. Web. This Article gives the inside version of how african american males feel treated in america. How they deal with encounters with police officers and authority within the government. The article also speaks on matters with recent unarmed killings of african american males. This article is an interviewed based research it gives a first hand account on how an african american feels about living in the walls of the united states and the negative connotations that come with the color of his skin. The authors of this piece attend the University of Louisville. This article comes from the journal of studies. The author Brooms contributes to a countless amount of other articles on the topic of black males in America. Even though the other author Perry has not contributed to as much pieces on race but she still speaks on the issue. This article will allow my argument to have a part of view from first hand encounters. Showing the effects that these facts actually are feared in the black male in America. Dacas 5 Case, P. F. The Relationship of Race and Criminal Behavior: Challenging Cultural Explanations for a Structural  Critical Sociology 34.2 (2008): 213-38. Web. This journal goes into the details of the disproportion of race and crime. It conducts a study on prisoners and ex prisoners from prison system. In the results of the study it shows how race deals with crime rates and the theory of institutionalized racism . This journal also suggests behavioral patterns and poverty issues that may contribute to the on going issue of crime rates in predominantly black communities. Even though the author is not known for speaking in this area of topic the research she conducted and gathered by survival analysis allows her to be credible to the topic. The results of this study can further help my argument to show that racism is still very common when dealing with the us judicial system. The results and information from this article can also show another side to the argument showing that it could potentially be the acts of the black community that cause them to be racially profiled. Taylor, Keeanga-Yamahtta. From #BlackLivesMatter to Black liberation. Chicago, IL: Haymarket , 2016. Print. Within #BLM to Black Liberation Dr.Taylor received her Ph.D, African American Studies at Northwestern University. She is currently an assistant professor at Princeton University in the Department of African American Studies. She was once the Postdoctoral Research Associate in the Department of African American Studies at the University of Illinois. Northwestern University Presidential Fellowship, the Ford Foundation, Dacas 6 and the Lannan Foundation all these foundations helped support Dr.Taylor in her findings and research. In 2016 Cultural Freedom Award for an Especially Notable Book was awarded to Taylor for her book #BlackLivesMatter to Black She is also a very active speaker on the current issues of race in the black culture. Her constant study of this topic allows her to be credible in her writings. This book is vital to my argument because it contains the newer pressing issues in society. Black Lives Matter is one of the new movements in the black culture. This covers the begins of where it all started and where current issues stand. This book also includes the incarnation rates data and black unemployment. That will allow for data to show how significantly tragic the rates of incarceration is versus the citizen population of blacks.