Major 1 Jesse Major Sabah Firoz Uddin, PhD ENC1101 2/28/17 Capital punishment is a possible consequence for committing crimes deemed heinous by society such as homicides and drug trafficking. Many states have chosen to abolish the punishment while some states have chosen to keep it as a deterrent for crimes. The process of charging a criminal for capital punishment is a long one. The crime has to be horrendous and the jury must be unanimous. It also depends on the state in which the crime is committed. Different states have capital punishment for different crimes. For example, sexual abuse of a minor in Wyoming gets you the death penalty but in Florida, one cannot get the death penalty. All jurors in these cases have to find the person on trial or defendant, guilty. If even a single person does not believe the defendant should receive the death penalty, the defendant will get life imprisonment. Since the introduction of DNA testing, many people charged with crimes have been released. However, with the death penalty, a person will not resurrect after the execution. This is why many people are hesitant to give someone that sentence. With a majority of people thinking this way, the question arises of does capital punishment deter people from committing crimes in the United States? Shepherd, Joanna M. versus Brutalization: Capital Differing Impacts among Michigan Law Review, vol. 104, no. 2, 2005, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/30044629. Major 2 This source talks about how deterrence is the only reason for capital punishment. The Supreme Court as well as President Bush has stated that capital punishment deters crime (Shepherd 204). Shepherd also talks about the difference in views, as economists sway towards that capital punishment does not deter crime while lawyers and sociologists say that crime deterrence is very small. if a state executes many people does deterrence Shepherd states this as criminals will continue committing crimes unless the state seeks the death penalty as many states seek for life imprisonment rather than capital punishment. This source is credible as it was published in a law review. The author is a lawyer therefore, knows the law and has studied the history of capital punishment. Shepard also cites many other studies and provides the data that backs the claims stated. Dezhbakhsh, Hashem, and Joanna Shepherd. The Deterrent Effect of Capital Punishment: Evidence from a  SSRN Electronic Journal (2006): 512-535. Web. This source by Dezhbakhsh and Shepherd uses the murder rate of states before and after they suspend and reinstate a death penalty (Dezhbakhsh and Shepherd 512). They found that murder rates did increase when the death penalty was suspended. unemployment rate is positive and highly significant in all equations, suggesting that more unemployment may lead to a higher murder rate, as expected from economic (Dezhbakhsh and Shepherd 519). They found a factor played a part in those rates, which was unemployment. A law professor, Joanna Shepherd and an economics professor, Hashem Dezhbakhsh, created this source. Readers can see that the source answers our research question of capital punishment deterring crime. The crime rate rose significantly without the death penalty. results indicate that the annual murder rate jumped by 0.8 or 9.3% when the moratorium was Major 3 imposed and dropped by 0.8 or 8.3% when the moratorium was (Dezhbakhsh and Shepherd 517). RADELET, MICHAEL L., and TRACI L. LACOCK. DEVELOPMENTS: DO EXECUTIONS LOWER HOMICIDE RATES?: THE VIEWS OF LEADING The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-), vol. 99, no. 2, 2009, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/20685045. This source by Lacock and Radelet talks about the history of capital punishment and its deterrence effect. a 1985 Gallip Poll, 62% of the respondents answered yes to the question, you feel that the death penalty acts as a deterrent to the commitment of murder, that it lowers the murder rate, or This fell to 34% in 2006, when the question was last (Lacock and Radelet 492). From this quotation, you can see that the people do not believe that capital punishment lowers crime rate. Other economists such as Paul Zimmerman initially argued that each execution deterred fourteen whatever deterrent effect the death penalty may have now had is now history (Lacock and Radelet 498). This source is credible as it was published in a journal. It uses many surveys and data as well as other known economists as evidence to back up its claims. The authors themselves are professionals. Lacock is an attorney and Radelet has a PHD in sociology. Charles, Kerwin Kofi, and Steven N. Durlauf. Pitfalls in the Use of Time Series Methods to Study Deterrence and Capital  Journal of Quantitative Criminology 29.1 (2012): 45-66. Web. Durlauf and Charles talk about why time series methods do not work together in seeing a pattern between crime deterrence and capital punishment. They talk about in the paper that approaches have provided any casual meaning that people most likely infer that Major 4 the death penalty deters crime (Charles and Durlauf 46). They also talk about the effect of a single execution. They view crime rates before an execution takes place and before. The source is reliable as the author Durlauf has written many papers on the subject. He also uses the methods himself and is able to show what is wrong with them. Both authors are scholars in their fields and can interpret data well. They are economic professors at a known university. Durlauf, Steven N., Chao Fu, and Salvador Navarro. Capital Punishment and Deterrence: Understanding Disparate  Journal of Quantitative Criminology 29.1 (2012): 103-21. Web. This source by Durlauf, Fu and Navarro talks about disparate results, which is defined as things so unlike that there is no basis for comparison. effectiveness of capital punishment in deterring homicides, despite decades of empirical work, remains very (Durlauf, et al. 103). This quote from the source shows that the numbers do not show a pattern with the death penalty lowering crime rates. The source continues on providing evidence that numbers do not show that capital punishment deters crime. It also shows that there are many factors that play a part in determining what lowers or raises crime rates. This source helps show that capital punishment has not deterred crime. Data cannot show us that crime has decreased due to capital punishment still being used as punishment. The authors are professors in the field of economics. While they are highly educated, they only view some factors of crime deterrence with capital punishment. The conclusion they drew does nothing to the argument of crime deterrence of capital punishment as it took a neutral conclusion. Engelen, Peter-Jan, Michel W. Lander, and Marc Van Essen. What Determines Crime Rates? An Empirical Test of Integrated Economic and Sociological Theories of Criminal  The Social Science Journal 53.2 (2016): 247-62. Web. Major 5 In this source by Engelen, Essen and Lander, they talk about how crime rates are calculated. They talk about the economic, demographic and sociological factors in crime. They determined that people who are not in poverty are less likely to commit crimes as they have things to lose. On the other hand, people in poverty commit crimes as they have anything to lose. Crime deterrent is not based on the death penalty but on social and economic factors. The cost of going to trial for the death penalty is much more expensive compared to seeking a longer sentence or a sentence of life without parole. Scholars wrote this paper and they are professors at a university. Lander is in the field of accounting research with a PHD, Engelen is a professor in the field of finance and accounting. Essen is a professor of entrepreneurship and innovation. Their analysis of cost and benefit is highly accurate. They are able to show that crime deterrence is more dependent on economic factors rather than the death penalty.