Braimoh 1 Taofeek Braimoh Sabah Firoz Uddin Composition 1 January 29, 2017 Birth Control: The situation of birth control on a global scale Birth control can be explained as the monitoring and observation of a natality rate with the major purpose of preventing unwanted pregnancies and this is usually by means of contraception and in some cases birth control is often associated with topics like overpopulation and underpopulation. There are various methods of birth control such as abstinence from sexual intercourse, use of protection during sexual intercourse, use of birth control pills, use of spermicide, by having a vasectomy and so on. All these methods are effective means of birth control but the most commonly used methods are either the use of protection during sexual intercourse, or the use of birth control pills. Birth control might be looked upon as a minor issue, but it is not a minor issue, although its effects are sometimes not noticeable in the society, it does have effects some of which are positive and the others being negative. Birth control has been issue for quite some time now, especially in countries such as China, where the effects are quite noticeable due to the population issues, a good example is the implementation of the birth control policy, the child what this policy says is that a family is only allowed to have one child, and sometimes there is an exception and they are allowed to have a second child if the first child was a girl. Birth control has various advantages and disadvantages, one advantage is that the lower the rate of birth control, the higher the population, meaning more labor and work force, one disadvantage is that the lower the rate of Braimoh 2 birth of birth control, the higher the population, meaning lack of resources, there are also health issues involved with birth control. So, with all this being said it raises the question, what is the situation of birth control on a global scale?. Jinying, Wang. Estimation on the Effects of Birth Control Policy Since 1972  Chinese Journal of Population Science 5 (2006): 003. This article talks about the birth control in China and its effects. The article uses a system, population development equation of a population dynamic to study and collate the change in population from the year 1972 to the year 2000. The study carried out by Jinying showed that the implementation of the birth control policy in China for twenty-eight years, brought about a general decrease in the total population. In the article, Jinying states that the implementation of the birth control policy in china reduced the working population, and brought about the of population age, and provided adequate human resources to preserve China in the future. This article is relevant to my topic because it identifies an effect of birth control, in this case, in China. Basically, the article is trying to prove that through the study conducted, birth control has proven to accomplish positive results. Therefore, if this article is to be considered, then birth control should be supported. The credibility of this article is reliable because Wang Jinying is a Professor and Doctoral Advisor from School of Economics Hebei University. This article was discovered through the use of the website Braimoh 3 Schmall, Lorraine A., Birth Control as a Labor Law Issue (Spring 2006). Duke Journal Gender Law & Policy, Vol. 13, No. 139, 2006. This article, as a labor talks about local pharmacists who refuse to approve prescriptions for women engaging in birth control or in other words, contraceptives, and state legislators, who aspire to reverse the privileges on family planning. From the article, readers understand that Governor Rod Blagojevich, after being informed that a pharmacist in Chicago refused to fill an order because he had an ethical opposition, and thus did not deem it fit to do so, rapidly reacted with the new rule. According to the article, regulation states that if a woman goes to a pharmacist for birth control, it is her right to do so, therefore she should be allowed to purchase birth control medication. So, in 2003, emergency contraception was anticipated to be permitted as a technique with the purpose of avoiding pregnancy after unprotected sex. Apparently, this method has a fifty percent chance of avoiding unwanted pregnancies. This article relates to my topic because it talks about a law implemented that has an affiliation with family planning and birth control, and provides relevant, useful and suitable information which is not too difficult to comprehend. The article also briefly mentions the approval of contraceptive drugs and devices. The credibility of this article is accountable because Schmall A. Lorraine was is a professor in Northern Illinois University college of law. This article was found through the use of the website Braimoh 4 Abbasi-Shavazi, Mohammad Jalal, et al. Family Change And Continuity In Iran: Birth Control Use Before First  Journal Of Marriage And Family 71.5 (2009): 1309-1324. PsycINFO. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. This article Change And Continuity In Iran: Birth Control Use Before First Is talking about the issue of birth situation, and how birth control took its effects on the Iranian society. From the article, we understand that there was a certain era in Iran when birth control was made available to majority of the populace. The article provides information regarding the birth situation in Iran through a series of detailed steps and analysis, it tells us how a survey was conducted to find out the different opinions and views people had concerning the birth rate and birth control. Finally, another piece of information that can be observed from this article is how Abbasi-Shavazi tells us birth control is used to control the rate of early marriage. This article is of relevance to the topic because it explains the process of birth control, providing proof and evidence such as tables, illustrating the results of the study and analysis carried out. In addition to that, the article also provides numerous historical contexts concerning the topic, and also sheds light on minor issues that are affiliated with the topic. The credibility of this source is reliable as it was obtained through the use of the University of South Florida library website Antonishak, Jill, et al. Impact of an Online Birth Control Support Network on Unintended  Social Marketing Quarterly, vol. 21, no. 1, Mar. 2015, p. 23. This article Of An Online Birth Control Support Network On Unintended Talks about the issue of birth control from a different perspective, unlike the other Braimoh 5 articles previously listed. From the article, we understand the internet was used as a basic medium to carry out a study on birth control This article is similar to the previous article talked about because in this article, a survey was also conducted and the results were evaluated, Antonishak, Kaye, and Swaider mention that African-American women were more likely to have unplanned pregnancy, In addition to this, the individual decisions of people who participated in the survey were observed. Another piece of information observed from this article is the health issues involved in the process of birth control. Finally, Antonishak, Kaye, and Swaider conclude that the use of the bedsider website improved the process of birth control. This article is relevant to the topic because it discusses birth control, and provides a website which can be accessed to learn more about birth control. The article also provides proof of the study by including graphs, tables and charts, which serve as an alternative means of understanding the information presented. The credibility of this article can be trusted because it was obtained from the University Of South Florida online library website. Dumitru, Ana Maria and Marguerite Duane. Behavioral Methods of Family Planning: A Comparative Study of Efficacy and Safety of Fertility Awareness Based Methods and Birth Control  Issues in Law & Medicine, vol. 31, no. 2, Fall2016, pp. 205-209. This article talks about birth control and its affiliation with family planning. From the article, Dumitru tells readers that 100 million women worldwide use the birth control or the Dumitru also informs readers that a study conducted by the Battelle Centers for Public Health Research and Evaluation showed that majority of women prefer to use fertility awareness based methods instead of birth control pills or this article shows a comparison between and Dumitru talks about the method, which involved the Braimoh 6 use of search engines to provide on and the articles were reviewed and scored by two and is there were any the scores will be sent to a third reviewer. Dumitru concludes that have more effects than This article is relevant to the topic because it talks about birth control and provides information n the level of awareness of birth control. This article is credible because Dumitru Ana Maria is affiliated with Dartmouth Geisel School of Medicine and Georgetown University, Fertility Awareness Collaborative to Teach the Science. This article was obtained through the University of South Florida database system. Hanson, Jessica D., et al. Indirect and Direct Perceived Behavioral Control and the Role of Intention in the Context of Birth Control  Maternal and Child Health Journal, vol. 19, no. 7, July 2015, pp. 1535-1542. This article talks about the behaviors exhibited by people towards birth control. From the article readers learn that unintended pregnancies can unfavorable effects on both the mother and the child involved. Hanson tells us that the goal of this study was to identify the relevant behavioral pattern that determines the use of birth control and to and analyze direct and indirect measures of PBC in context of birth control use among Hanson also tells readers that the method used involved the participation of two hundred women who took a survey. Finally, Hanson concludes that use of indirect measures of PBC the potential to inform future prevention methods on unintended and Hanson also mentions that PBC plays a vital part in the behavior of women towards birth control. Braimoh 7 This article is relevant to the topic because it talks about the behavior exhibited by individuals towards birth control and the consequences unwanted pregnancies have on women. In addition, Hanson also encourages future research on birth control to obtain more feedback. This source is credible because Jessica D. Hanson is a scholar from Center for Health Outcomes and Prevention Research, Sanford Research, Sioux Falls, SD, US and other academically sound scholars were involved too. This source as obtained from the University of South Florida database system.