Goodwin 1 Ciara Goodwin Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102. Sec 075 March 11 th , 2017 PETA Advertisements There are many animals around the world that are in captivity, and many organizations that try and protect these animals from potential harm. PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) is one of the largest organizations in the world that supports rights. They believe that animals are not for people to consume, experiment on, abuse, and most importantly use for entertainment purposes. Founded in 1980, PETA has worked vigorously to protect the silent voices of animals everywhere around the world (All About PETA). The organization does this through the releases of particularly controversial commercials and advertisements, that are specifically designed to make the general public aware of the cruel behaviors that occur to animals. PETA is a tremendous organization to use as a stakeholder for rights in zoos, because they send strong messages to the world about how inhuman it is to keep animals in captivity. The two images below are perfect examples of attention grabbing advertisements that stop and make humans contemplate whether zoos are really that fascinating or if keeping animals in zoos is deliberately wrong. Zoos are disliked by numerous organizations, just like PETA. Several credible sources support PETA and their mission statement to support the release of animals in captivity. Author Jozef Keulartz believes that, type of captivity or manipulation of a sentient animal is morally unacceptable, irrespective of the possibly beneficial consequences for the protection of rare or endangered (339). Goodwin 2 With many advertisements, the author or illustrator creates these ads a certain way to appeal to a certain audience; whether this be through sexuality, socioeconomic status, or gender, just to name a few. When discussing the two images below, one could say that image one and two are specifically made for more than one target audience. Image one is written in German, so the audience can assume that this ad was designed for German viewers. It also has a man on the front of the ad, but does not say who it is, so one can assume that this ad is meant for everyone to see. As for image two, the ad is written in English, but found in PETA India. It also features a famous musician in India named Anoushka Shankar, who is seen in a fierce stance on the front cover. Again, the audience can assume that this advertisement was intended for an Indian audience, and that gender does not play a role. Advertisements are designed with the intention of persuading the viewer to side with the given information using certain appeals. Organizations use tactics like appealing to credibility, emotion, logic, and timeliness to peak the view on a certain ad (Rhetoric Really Matters). For example, in image one, there are several appeals that PETA Germany has done to make the audience undergo certain emotions. In image one, the appeal to ethos, or credibility, the picture shows logo in the bottom right corner, which can be used as a big source of credibility on the topic of animals in zoos. The ad also shows a sponsor of the message, TV Digital, a German magazine company; hence a good form of credibility. This shows the public in Germany that a specific magazine company supports what PETA is trying to persuade in the advertisement. The man featured in this ad in scrunched down and has a turtle or tortoise shell painted on him. He is in terrible living conditions and surrounded by pale, bland walls like he is in animal prison. The surrounding makes the audience question what is happening to him. His head is positioned in just a way, that he looks as if he is looking around for help or even food. Goodwin 3 These different images are a way that the advertisement appeals to the audience logos; logic, or how they interpret the image. This scene is sensitive and upsetting to look at. This should make the audience feel flustered and feel the need to want to help him. The man in the image does a quality job of imitating what an actual tortoise would look like if under those conditions, and for that this ad appeals strongly to the emotion; pathos. After audiences see this man painted as a tortoise under hard living conditions, in a sad lonely cage, they then connect that logically to an actual animal. The image makes the viewer step back and think about what animals living conditions are, and how unfortunate it is for a human and an animal to be living in a cage. This then leads us to our final appeal, kairos, or timeliness. Appeals can all be strung together into one large persuasive advertisement, and PETA does this extremely well. After viewers think about the man in the cage, they then feel terrible about his living conditions, and then ask themselves can we This ad is written in Germany, and says (translation) Animals Belong in This is an act of timeliness. It makes the reader wonder what or how they can help the animal that is locked in the cage, and makes them wonder how much time the animal actually has left in that decrepit, small, cage until he dies of malnutrition or by any other type of fatality. PETA does an amazing job of appealing to every angle of their advertisements, when trying to persuade an audience. When focusing on rhetorical appeals in image two, once again PETA does a fascinating job of persuading its intended audience, with an ad headlining Animals Belong in the Wild NOT in This ad has a credible source in the Indian community because it features Anoushka Shankar, a musician, who is dressed as a leopard on the cover. It again also has the PETA logo located in the top right hand corner, which is a source of credibility for rights. Having Anoushka Shankar on the cover appeals to ethos because she is known in India, Goodwin 4 which is the ads target audience. We as humans know it is not right for other humans to be locked away in cages, so why do we continue to keep animals in zoos. The sentence Animals Belong in the Wild not in is a clear statement that it is logically wrong to keep animals locked away. Again, like image one, the second advertisement is a woman in a dark concrete cage with steel bars enclosing her. The cage is dark with no color, the only color seen is the orange dullness of her leopard outfit and PETA and the in orange as well. Her facial expression shows a more fearful scared look, standing for an animal that wants to be free. The audience can use logic to figure out that the woman is not content with where she is living. The pathos is this advertisement is none other than the girl dressed as a leopard in the enclosure. This appeals to the emotions in several ways and raises the question of, is a girl trapped in a If people have a problem with a famous musician in a cage resembling a leopard in captivity, then they should have an issue with an actual leopard living in a cage. With these types of questions being asked, it also brings awareness to logos, or logic. This statement appeals to kairos as well because if we do not act fast enough, again these animals could be in zoos forever, and die in captivity instead of being in their natural habitat. This is a second ad that PETA has released that portrays the same imagine and message throughout various countries. These two images were clearly made for an intended purpose, and PETA did a splendid job getting their point across in these two advertisements. PETA is known for having very controversial ads that stop and make people think about the wrong there are doing to animals. PETA has used logical fallacies before in many other advertisements. For the second image featuring Anoushka Shankar, the advertisement has one logical fallacy; an appeal to authority. The Indian musician on the front cover has no authority over the topic over animal captivity, Goodwin 5 because she is only known for being a musician. Although PETA may have not recognized it, they used an appeal to authority in the second image. When analyzing both image one and image two together, we can conclude that PETA is making a worldwide stance when it comes to the ethical treatment of animals. These two images were made for two different countries, but both are portraying the same exact thing. There are human beings dressed as animals in dilapidated cages, that state that wild animals should be free. These pictures are a great representation of this stakeholder, which is the freeing of animals in zoos. PETA is the superstar of all animal rights organizations and continues to put out strong messages in advertisements such as these that really make people consider changing their animal habits, and hopefully persuading people to boycott zoos. As an advertiser, PETA fulfils appeals by using emotionally manipulation, focusing on negative pathos. They also rely heavily of celebrity endorsement to attract the publics attentions. The underlying message in ads for saving animals in zoos is this; if people have a problem seeing humans locked away in cages, then they should feel the same agony towards animals. Overall, advertisements work immensely well when trying to persuade the general public on a certain topic or issue. For this paper, it focuses on the treatment of animals in zoos, and shows this through two ads brought to us by PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). These two advertisements clearly show humans dressed as animals trapped in cages. The ads have very strong messages and appeal to credibility, emotion, logic, and timeliness. PETA is a wonderful organization that stands for rights, and does this well by releasing advertisements such as these. Goodwin 6 Image 1 Image 2 Goodwin 7 Work Cited All About  PETA. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Keulartz, Jozef. for Conservation? Zoos at a Journal of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics, 28:2 (2015) pg335-351. Lane Emily, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides. The Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26.