Turaniczo1 Elisha Turaniczo Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Improving Self Image and Empowering Young Women Media has always had an impact on self-image and has progressively had more and more impact on younger females. Aerie is the lingerie brand for American Eagle Outfitters, and the have the ultimate goal to raise self esteem and lower the percentage of girls suffering from eating disorders nationwide. As it is known advertisements are very influential on a lot people because advertisements are seen all over the place, from billboards on the side of the road, to magazines, and all over television. In creating an advertisement many things are taken into consideration, which are the things to keep in mind while analyzing any type of advertisement. Creators have to think about who their targeted audience is going to be, they will need to establish a purpose for their ad, typography and arrangement are also very important in the process (Rhetoric Really Matters). Thus, Aerie uses these advertisements to help further their mission of improving self image and empowering young women. Media has impacted idea of beautiful. Not only has it also degraded how they look at themselves, showing models that are photo-shopped to be tall, skinny, and big breasted, they have altered the idea of ideal self image. The idea of what society labels as beautiful is not real, over time the image has progressively changed. Many lingerie companies make the woman out to be itemized to satisfy the man, and that they have to meet the standards to be considered beautiful. Aerie is one of the many companies to go against the norm, they are big supporters of high self-confidence and inner beauty. In almost every Aerie advertisement there is a young Turaniczo2 woman in her natural state, with no photoshop editing on her, and she looks happy in the skin she is in. Theses advertisements are typically aimed toward between the ages of (New York Times). Aerie has also partnered up with the National Eating Disorder Association (NEDA) to raise awareness of eating disorders, advertisements have even been put out to show such partnership. Image one is of a girl wearing a shirt that says Beautiful with a big grin on her face, next to her image is the text Beautiful and the logo for NEDA below. Using the method of typography, the creator of this advertisement used a font that is satisfying to the eye, and is more fun. With the typography and the placement of the image the girl on the advertisement catches your eye. The main purpose for this advertisement is to establish the partnership of Aerie with the NEDA and show that, what today would call a plus sized model, is happy the way she is and believes the message on the shirt that she is wearing. This advertisement appeals to the different appeals, such as pathos, seeing that the girl in the image is smiling and looks genuinely happy with herself, which would appeal to the person looking at the advertisement to get the feeling that if that girl is happy with her body, that they could also feel happy with their bodies. Every advertisement has a purpose, it seems that this image holds the main purpose of exposing that they have joined together with the National Eating Disorder Association. This image also appeals to Logos, showing the NEDA logo right beneath the #aerieSUPPORTS. With the logo for NEDA on the image makes the audience see the partnership and shows that it is an official campaign, with support. The second image is composed of several little pictures of different models holding sparklers and they all look happy and they look like they are having a good time. There are some girls in neutral colored lingerie and some in brighter colors. Through the methods of Turaniczo3 how to create the ideal advertisement the use of coloring has an impact of what the audience sees first(Rhetoric Really Matters). The additional method of typography is used in this advertisement, the font size change where it says Your not only is it a play on words because the models are holding sparklers in the pictures. The advertisements for this company tend to play a lot for the pathos because showing girls that are happy with their bodies. By showing women with no photoshop editing done to their bodies and having them appear to be happy and having a good time, essentially would make the audience feel that they too can have a good time and be happy with their bodies. Over all, Aerie is a big body positive supporter and have also partnered up with National Eating Disorder Association to raise awareness about eating disorders and trying to bring the epidemic to an end. Every advertisement consists of rhetoric which is a means of communication that uses images to create meaning or to make an (Rhetoric Really Matters). The creators of advertisements uses every one of the different elements of what makes a good advertisements. These advertisements appeals greatly to pathos, mostly to the fact that girls want to be happy in their own skin. By raising the efforts on making girls more confident with their bodies, not only will their company gain more customers and make more profit, they also will be able to raise awareness and hopefully lower the occurrence of young girls getting them. Something that is a sign of the times that is also brought to attention is the hashtag used in the campaign such as in and Today everything is given a hashtag, but the main reason behind Aerie using this hashtag is so that girls can take pictures, without the photoshop and use the hashtag #aerieREAL on all social media such as Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook (HelloGiggles). Turaniczo4 Image 1 Image 2 Turaniczo5 Work Cited  American Eagle Outfitters. Aerie, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. (image) Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Olson, Elizabeth. A Lingerie Brand Offers Real Women as (Role)  The New York Times. The New York Times, 21 Feb. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. (image and background info) Wilson, Teri. Body Positive Campaign Just Proved That It Pays to Portray Real Women in  HelloGiggles. Times Inc. Lifestyle Network, 09 Mar. 2016. Web. 09 Mar. 2017 Turaniczo6 Analyze Ethos and Logos: Ethos: Appeal to Ethics, credibility of the persuader. Image 1: Logos: Appeal to Logic, way of persuading the audience by reason. Image 1: Color Analysis: