Guzie 1 Brandon Guzie Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Smoking Weed is NORML For years, the debate of whether marijuana should be legalized has been an issue. In the past decade, the issue has rose to new levels. The desire for marijuana to become legalized is not going to dissipate. With more findings occurring daily, the benefits of the drug cannot be ignored. Government surveys show that around twenty-five million people have smoked marijuana in the past year. Considering that the drug cannot cause death by overdose and that alcohol poisoning is responsible for around fifty-thousand deaths a year, people are shocked that the drug is still considered illegal to Both pro-weed and anti-weed organizations are doing all they can to provide support for their respected arguments. A popular pro-weed organization is the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML). Their stance is not complicated: supports the adoption of a legally controlled market for marijuana, where consumers can buy marijuana for personal use from a safe legal source. NORML also supports the removal of all penalties for the private possession and responsible use of marijuana by adults, including cultivation for personal use, and casual nonprofit transfers of small to These policies, legalization and decriminalization, sound simple, but the factors that go into them are quite complex. Trying to persuade people to take their side and support the legalization is complicated and can be done through ads that utilize persuasive images. NORML has created or used numerous visual images that use rhetoric appeals such as Guzie 2 ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to help display their argument and provide support for why they believe in the legalization and decriminalization of marijuana. Image 1 is somewhat surprising and eye-opening to viewers because it uses a photograph of New Mayor, Michael Bloomberg, to get their point across that smoking marijuana is normal; it displays a picture of a successful politician admitting to smoking marijuana Gets There is no doubt that the image uses elements of ethos. First off, NORML has their organization name and website at the bottom of the image. NORML is a known and well-respected organization so this provides credibility to their image. Also, the quote, bet I did. And I enjoyed shows credibility in a unique way. The quote sounds very informal and relatable, making the successful politician look like a casual, everyday pot-smoker. The significance of a slang-like quote coming from a politician in a well-trusted organizational image results in an effective use of ethos in image 1. The image uses many elements of pathos to make the audience feel all sorts of emotions. The image structure is specific and NORML did not do this by accident. The mayor of New York is photographed smiling in front of an American Flag with a green background behind the wording in the image. Every element has a deeper meaning. The politician makes the viewer feel comfortable in a sense. He makes the audience feel as if it is normal to use marijuana. The fact that Bloomberg is quoted admitting to liking marijuana is even more of a convincing factor that goes into making the viewer feel like marijuana is okay and acceptable. The American Flag behind Bloomberg makes the audience feel accepting towards marijuana because it uses the idea of patriotism against the anti-marijuana arguer. Patriotism is a touchy subject that entices guilt in the audience due to the idea that not supporting marijuana is equivalent to not supporting the country. The comparison seems over-the-top, but NORML is effectively guilting the audience into supporting their standpoint. Lastly, green is used as the background color in the Guzie 3 image. NORML did this to symbolize growth (Chapman). People cannot deny the truth that an increasingly amount of people are accepting marijuana, and the gradual acceptance seems like an inevitable movement towards the legalization of the drug. Together, the flag, politician, and color green are quite effective in making the audience feel pressured into supporting the legalization of marijuana. Elements of logos are effectively used by NORML in this image. The American Flag portrays the idea that marijuana is not as despised in America as it used to be, and the picture of Bloomberg admitting to smoking tells the viewer that people can smoke marijuana and still become successful. NORML does not use any noticeable elements of kairos. There is no sense of urgency. The image could have been used twenty years ago and the viewer would not be able to tell, but all together, image is powerful and victorious in persuading people to follow their beliefs because of its rhetoric appeals. On the other hand, image 2 is a cartoon. Image 2 was created by cartoonist, Kirk Anderson, but was brought to light by NORML through their website. The message is conveyed much differently than in image 1, yet both images have common purposes. Image 2 is a cartoon where three unknown people are displayed yelling at what seems to be an elderly, old man smoking marijuana The main purpose of this cartoon is to show that people NEED marijuana for health purposes. Elements of ethos are essential for this image considering that the main persuasion in this image is in the wording used throughout the cartoon. But how does the viewer know the information is true and reliable rather than some bias information used by a random cartoonist? Kirk Anderson signed his name at the top and the bottom with his signature label. Anderson is a respected cartoonist with his own website, so when NORML adopted this cartoon, people can be assured that the information is true regarding the issue. For the goal of this specific image to be successfully reached, elements of pathos are essential. This image pictures Guzie 4 an elderly man in a wheelchair hooked up to a bunch of medical machinery getting screamed at by three unknown people. The three people look important, like congressmen/women. The emotions that are emitted from this image are feelings of sadness and responsibility. People feel sorrow for the old man and responsibility for his harassment. Seeing the poor old man suffer while getting lectured makes the audience angry. It makes the viewer think of the three unknown as torturous people. The detail in creating this cartoon makes the audience want to help the poor old man. NORML effectively used pathos by manipulating the emotions. Anderson also uses elements of logos to persuade viewers to support NORML and the legalization of marijuana. The image uses wording to give informational support rather than just emotional support. The cartoon reveals several health benefits including the curing of cancer which everyone knows is an extremely sensitive subject. The only reason three give the poor, old man for getting mad at him is that it causes paranoia. Kirk is not dumb. He knew that curing cancer and paranoia set side-by-side were not even comparable topics. This information tells the audience that legalizing marijuana, in this case, can potentially save the old life. Elements of kairos are minorly used in this cartoon. There is no direct call to action, but the elderly man does look like he does not have much time left, and the cartoon makes it seem as if the only way to prolong or save the old life is by allowing him to smoke marijuana. On a deeper scale, legalizing marijuana as quickly as possible can save many lives and potentially stop the suffering of innocent people. Ultimately, the cartoon is doing a superb job of trying to persuade people into legalizing marijuana for health-related purposes because the benefits outweigh the risks. When it comes down to effectiveness, these two images are quite pleasing for NORML. goal and standpoint is to accomplish legalization and decriminalization, and both these images portray a message that supports their stance. obvious that the design and creation of Guzie 5 these images were complex given that every detail carries a deeper meaning. Maybe the element of kairos was not used to the extent of some liking, but the presence and detail of other rhetorical appeals made up for it. The primary purpose of NORML these images are to gain as much support from the viewers as possible, and the images are successful in doing so. Guzie 6 Cited Archive Gets High: A Look Back At  Getty Images. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. http://www.gettyimages.co.uk/event/archive-gets-high-a-look-back-at-cannabis- 120117679#the-normlorg-web-site-posts-an-ad-created-by-the-national-for-the-picture- id758547. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/01/color-theory-for-designers-part-1-the- meaning-of-color/. Portland NORML Weekly News Release - January 2,  Portland NORML Weekly News Release - January 2, 1997. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. http://www.marijuanalibrary.org/010297.html. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. http://norml.org/. WORD COUNT: 1497 Guzie 7 Image 1: Image 2: