Anoos !1 Matthew Anoos Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Trying to Make Marijuana NORML prohibition causes far more problems than it solves, and results in the needless arrest of hundreds of thousands of otherwise law abiding citizens each (NORML) The stakeholder for the legalization of marijuana is an organization called NORML, which stands for National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. NORML is a nonprofit stakeholder that has the main goal to educate the public on the different policies that effect the people who have an interest in marijuana. According to a CNN poll conducted in 2016 one in eight U.S adults have stated that they smoke and 43% of people who were in this poll have admitted to smoking marijuana once in their life. NORML raises awareness by use of different ads and propaganda which can be explored through the use of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. Imagine 1 displays pathos by creating a sense of curiosity because of the name of the organization resembles the word Another part that sparks curiosity is that in the background there is a marijuana leaf. This causes an interest in the ad because there are different layers to the image that requires some time to comprehend. Another way that pathos is displayed in imagine 1 is through the text. not for everyone but not a can evict a sort of compassionate feeling because it is the organizations way of trying to passively pass their agenda without trying to offend anyone. This sort of text could make all types of audience feel secure because it does not press their opinion and does not make a differing opinion feel insignificant. Anoos !2 Image 1 is showing logos through the text as well because it is taking a logical approach on how to have the bill that makes marijuana illegal reformed. NORML realizes that in order to push for legalizing marijuana they have to get a large support group so that they can get politicians to change the law. By them (NORML) saying that it is not a crime, it is there way of trying to desensitize the public and prove to them that marijuana should not be considered a crime. If NORML can convince enough people that marijuana should not be considered a crime then people will vote to legalize marijuana. Logos is especially important in image 1 because it is one of the best approaches to peacefully and passively gather a large group of people to help pass the legislation. It is important because logically the organization does not want to solely get people who only use marijuana. They need more people, so in order to do this they must target both demographics if they are hoping to pass the legislation. Image 1 is a picture of a marijuana leaf and has the logo of NORML with everything in green. Green is a very earthly color, which is understandable because the marijuana leaf is a plant that comes from the earth.(Smashing Magazine) This can be related to ethos, or credibility, because the logo and the leaf are the main focusing component of the picture. The entire color scheme of the ad was made green because the color green is associated with marijuana. The other color that is present in this picture is the white. The color white makes the color green stand out and highlights every detail from the image. White is usually associated with a positive connotation which means this was done because NORML are trying to prove that marijuana can and should be viewed in a positive manner. Image 2 displays pathos because it creates a sense of curiosity and a sense of fear. Image 2 creates a sense of curiosity by making the audience question what actually can do more harm, Anoos !3 the marijuana or the present issue of gun violence in America. There have been zero reported cases of people overdosing on marijuana (Huffington post) while there have been over 100,000 deaths in America due to murders that deal with guns. (Brady Campaign) Image 2 also creates a sense of fear because the ad has a picture of a drug and bullets which have been constantly depicted has something that will do harm to anyone who is involved with either of them. Another way that image 2 displays pathos is through the text. the real while giving two options, one being the bullets and the other being marijuana. This text is a rhetorical question because it is can be easily determined on what the is. This text would make the audience feel curious because they would most likely want to know the organization who is trying to push the agenda of legalizing marijuana. In image 2 logos is used in the text as well because NORML is only giving two options for the audience to decide on whether a non harmful drug or bullets, which are used to kill thousands of people throughout the year, is more harmful. Specific to image 2 is the element of kairos. This can be seen in how there are bullets and marijuana in the image. Kairos is present because the bullets represent how gun violence is a current issue in the United States. With the death rate due to guns being over 100,000 annually it is no surprise that they have become a treading topic and have been used in comparison to marijuana. Kairos is linked to the bullets and marijuana in the image because it is way of subtly reaching out to the audience and asking them to make change happen now. If marijuana were to be legalized it is one less thing that the government would have to worry about. With the government no longer focused on having to do drug raids for marijuana they can redirect that focus into coming up with a plan on how to lower the number of deaths annually from gun violence. Anoos !4 In image 2 the two main colors that stand out are green and a dark yellow. The leaf and the logo for the stakeholder are green which represent how it is associated to marijuana and how they represent the natural aspect of the world. Typically a bright yellow means that there is hope and warmth because it is an energizing color. (Smashing Magazine) However, in the picture it is a dark yellow that is being used to depict the bullet. This can most likely mean that NORML chose to do this on purpose to hint at the fact that bullets are the real enemy. The dark yellow can mean that there is no hope and supposed to give a disgusted feeling. This analysis is derived from the fact that bright yellow is supposed to symbolize hope while a dark version of yellow can mean that there is no hope. Since NORML is trying to promote the legalization of marijuana they are trying to prove to the audience to think that bullets are the In conclusion, the images used for NORML have many elements that are being used to promote and passively pass their agenda of trying to legalize marijuana. This can be observed by looking at the images by dissecting them and looking at them through visual rhetoric. By looking at the images through pathos, ethos, and logos it can be observed that the images that were used were meant to help the organization gather a group of people to support the passing of the legalization of marijuana. It would be through their continued work of their propaganda that would allow them to make any changes in legislation. Anoos !5 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Greenpeace  Greenpeace USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2016. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Chen, Aria. 1 in 8 US Adults Says They Smoke Marijuana, Poll  CNN. Cable News Network, 8 Aug. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Streakl, Justin. Working to Reform Marijuana  The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. NORML Foundation, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Anoos !6 Image 1! Image 2 !