Watts 1 Mitchell Watts Professor Van Winkle ENC 1102 12 March 2017 The View on Violent Video Game Aggression The argument is strongly debated whether or not playing violent video games can have a negative effect on brain and behavior. Eighty five percent of video games that are being sold contain some form of violence (Scutti, CNN, July 26, 2016). This is an alarming percentage and with technology continuing to increase we can only expect that number to grow even more over time. Many parents believe that violent games will end up harming their children, and a group that supports this claim is the Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence organization (MAVAV). Their mission statement is parents of the fastest growing addiction and the most reckless endangerment of children (mavav.org). The MAVAV uses images to help relate to the audience and convince them through different rhetorical appeals that violent video games are terrible for the development of a young brain and behavior. Even though research shows the negative effects that they have on children there are still one hundred and fifty five million Americans that play video games regularly (Lofgren, 2016). When looking at Figure 1, the logo is recognized, but looks a little different than the normal logo. One of the many differences is the eyes. The girl has evil red eyes. They are all holding weapons and instead of the head sitting on top of a harmless young body, the logo rests on top of muscular male bodies that are covered with tattoos. This advertisement from the Nintendo Wii is trying to reach out to the audience to try to Watts 2 get interest from video game buyers. Nintendo Wii hopes that people will think the video game looks violent and fun. The purpose of Figure 2 is different. Researchers from the Indiana University School of Medicine created this image to try to persuade parents and people that play video games that playing video games can be dangerous. The red gun is supposed to represent what violent video game players think about even when they are not playing video games. The gun shows that they think about violence all the time, which can be dangerous for others. The other brain shows how a non-violent video game player thinks. Their brain does not think about violence very much, because a gun is not put into this part of Figure 2. Logos is the appeal to logic. Logos like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and reasons (Lane, McKee, McIntyre). Figure 1 is an image that was used by the Nintendo Wii, with the help of the restaurant, called This image helped promote a violent video game, called Manhunt 2. This game consisted of violence and by advertising this image it is logical and easy to tell that the game will consist of violence. The MAVAV completely disagreed with the way the Nintendo Wii went about advertising this violent game and how they transformed a normal girl logo into an evil girl. With this argument it is logical to understand where the MAVAV is coming from and why they think that people should agree with their stance on this dilemma. Jack Thompson is against the use of the logo being used for promoting a violent video game. He wants to decline its promotion meal plan for kids that features the Nintendo Wii (mavav.org). He knows someone that was very close to Dave Thomas, who is the founder of and from information that Thompson has heard, he knows that Dave Thomas would never allow the logo to be used for promoting a violent game if he was still alive (mavav.org). Jack Thompson was so disappointed Watts 3 when he saw this advertisement that he wrote a letter to and Nintendo Wii. He was scared for the possible effects this could have on children, such as their actions. In part of his letter, he wrote, of holding in hand the typical game controller, the player holds motion capture devices, so that by moving hands and limbs one is actually acting out with own body the violent (mavav.org). If kids were to play Manhunt 2, they would be committing violence through their actions of trying to kill someone in a virtual video game. This could potentially lead to them acting out on people in real life. Figure 2 also appeals to logos by making it easy for the audience to see what a violent video game player thinks about. They think about violence and Figure 2 shows this through the use of a gun. Guns are violent and are included in many violent video games. The non-violent video game player has a normal brain with no gun embedded in it. The MAVAV is trying to get their point across by comparing how a brain works when someone plays violent video games compared to someone who does not play violent video games. Ethos relies on the credibility of the source and is another rhetorical appeal that the MAVAV uses to try to abolish violent video games from children. Ethos is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or authority (McKee, McIntyre). Figure 1 does not include ethos, because the stance on this issue is opinionated and mothers may be very cautious when they see this image, but other people might not think that the image is a problem. Figure 2 does include ethos. Researchers at the Indiana University School of Medicine that have studied the topic of violent video games created this image, so they are a credible source. (mavav.org). Through their research they think that violent games have an effect on the development of children, so they created this image to help people realize that. Watts 4 The appeal to emotion, or is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the argument (Lee, McKee, McIntyre). Figure 1 makes the MAVAV and many other people feel many emotions, such as anger, disappointment, and a worried feeling. In Jack letter that he wrote to Nintendo Wii and he expressed anger, disappointment, and worry. I can tell from the phrase, dear friend of mine worked for and with Dave Thomas closely for years. From that I know that Dave Thomas never would have tolerated the use of good name to promote Wii, not with this game available on the Wii (mavav.org). Many people did not tolerate this advertisement and emotions flowed from people like Jack Thompson. Figure 2 does not persuade the audience through emotions, because it is a comparison picture. This picture does not make anyone feel angry, disappointed, satisfied, or any other emotion. It is just something researchers came up with for people to think about, so that parents can be more aware about what kinds of games their children are playing. If it were to appeal to pathos, then the only feeling that would arise would be worry. Seeing a gun embedded in brain could cause a parent to feel worried about their kid and wonder if all their kid thinks about is guns and violence. There are millions of children around the world that play video games and many parents and kids have heard that violent games can have an effect on development, yet information is ignored and avoided. The MAVAV is one organization that has acknowledged the effects of violent video games on children and have tried to inform people through images that include multiple rhetorical appeals. Maybe video game industries do an excellent job of advertising and that is what gets people to buy their games, because the facts on the negative effects of them seem to be shunned by millions of people. Rhetorical appeals can be used to help Watts 5 sell video games, such as what the Nintendo Wii and did with Manhunt 2, and the MAVAV has used rhetorical appeals in the attempt to abolish violent video games. Watts 6 Works Cited MAVAV. mavav.org. www.mavav.org/index.php?page=1 Lofgren, Krista. Video Game Statistics & Trends Playing What & bigfishgames.com. 8 February 2016. www.bigfishgames.com/blog/2016-video-game- statistics-and-trends/. Accessed 22 February 2017. Scutti, Susan. video games lead to cnn.com. 26 July 2016. www.cnn.com/2016/07/25/health/video-games-and-violence/. Accessed 22 February 2017. McKee, Jessica. McIntyre, Megan. Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA:XanEdu, 2016. Page numbers. E-text. Lane, Emily. McKee, Jessica. McIntyre, Megan. Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA:XanEdu, 2016. Page numbers. E-text. Lee, Kendra. McKee, Jessica. McIntyre, Megan. Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA:XanEdu, 2016. Page numbers. E-text. Thompson V.S. MAVAV. 8 May 2007. http://mavav.org/index.php?page=1 Game Violence Makes Teens MAVAV. 2 January 2007. http://mavav.org/index.php?page=2 Watts 7 Figure 1 Figure 2