Student 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Intermediate Project Two When it comes to a topic does scientific research and advancement triggers, that there is going to be a change in the way that people research, will there be a transition to different ideology as time progress? Does it depend on how long the topic has been in research for? When it comes GMOs, there has been little change in the views of genetically modified organisms. Why is this important because over time people have research GMOs does it have any environment impacts to the crops is beneficial or bad? And they have also studied the concept that deals with is it most beneficial to health. Over these past fifth teen years, there has been little to no change in the way people, views GMOs and that has to do with the small amount of research, and data that is available about the GMOs. First, were going to talk about topics that deal with the environment impacts that have on the environment going to take into consideration two sources. The first source partakes in a much earlier time than the second one this source. The first source which is an academic journal that was written in 2010, and we are going to be comparing it this to second source that was written in 2016. A little background about the first source the first source talks about a critique the data that has been given to the public by the company called Monsanto and it challenges the data over the effects of GMOs. that they provide here a statement from the text et al, these tests prove chronic innocuousness for mammalian and human public health. And they claim it is not essential to demonstrate the GMOs (Int J Biol Sci 595). This was taken in 2010 and they critically analysis the data that by an organization, Now going to talk about the second source and then going to have a comparison of the two sources to see if there any proof a transition of mindset on the Student 2 whole topic. So, the second topic It sources has to deal with a study on the crop of maize and soybeans this sources goes into deal about the integration of GMOs in these two crops in this source they go analysis they analyzed data in this paper here a statement from the report much of the existing work, our analysis relies on directly observed herbicide use for plots using GE and non-GE varieties, rather than arbitrarily constructed counterfactual use (Science Advance) from this statement they say there views are only able to go as far as the data that they are capable of providing. Now to compare these two sources to see if there is a transition in views over times. To be honest, comparing these two sources I see that they both deal with analyzing data in a similar way they provide data through graph and the way they handle analyzing the data is similar to one another they also both come to the conclusion that they can only form views from there data and they have similar views because of the lack of data there a correlation that leads back that there is a minimal change in the views of gmos in the past 10 years. these researchers view environment impact that GMOs have, it has to deal that there is little research because are relatively new scientific inventions at this time there has been little discovery at the time that why when it comes to the view on the environment impact. There seem kind of similar thought process between both of the two sources. Furthermore, now to talked about another point in my topic which deals with does GMOs have a bad an effect on human health or is it benefits to one life, and it improves the quality of people life. I have two sources that have to deal with this one of sources is written in 2009 this source test the correlation to GMOs to have any increase into the likely hood of those who come in contact of GMOs. Which means either through eating or other forms of GMOs are they more liable to be effect by chronic disease, in the long run, this source challenges the lack amount of data that is provided and demands that there should be more studies that shows how GMOs effect humans in the long-term. We call for more serious standardized tests such as those used for pesticides or drugs, on at least three mammalian species tested for at least three months employing larger sample sizes (Int J Student 3 Biol Sci 441) The second sources were written in 2016 it was written a by the National Academies Sciences , and it talks how GMOs. have little to no evidence that they can provide the consumer with cancer or that the GE food is less safe to eat it was stated in the report. committee also examined epidemiological data on the incidence of diseases and other human-health problems over time and found no substantiated evidence that foods from GE crops were less safe than foods from non-GE crops.( National Academies of Sciences 2). In this source, it seems similar to the previous source why also think that data is inadequate. , and brings it all back to there is little change of transition of thought. in when it comes to views on because there is a lack of evidence or research available to form much of a view so at this time research have little to go off leading them to have similar views even from a seven-year gap. In this paper, important to figure if there any transition. In the way researcher views GMOs into two sub-topic one that deals with have scholar change the way they think about the impact of GMOs have towards the environment. And other has to deal with the how views have changed over the times towards do GMOs have benefits for human health or are they just damaging and should be avoided. When it comes to the views of research on both of this topic there barely any change due to a few times between the research and because the topic being a relatively new topic there not that many types of research out that deals with topics.