Sabrina Downing 1 Sabrina Downing ENC 1101 Instructor Emil Smith March 5, 2017 Nuclear Power Before and After Fukushima in Japan Compared to other non-renewable resources, nuclear energy is economically less expensive to produce and emits significantly less carbon dioxide. Applied to the theory of global warming, this energy alternative reduces the impact energy production has on the destruction of ozone layer. Though nuclear power may be impressive, it carries some high-profile risks. Failures of the system can cause large disasters, which exposes humans and the environment to harmful amounts of radiation. This unflattering element of nuclear power stifles eagerness to construct nuclear plants in their towns. Japan, one of the leading countries in nuclear power technology, had goals of reducing its carbon emissions by erecting nuclear power plants. Public support was a struggle to maintain, and, following the 2011 disaster in Fukushima, this support had almost vanished. In 2009, there were a total of 435 nuclear reactors operating world-wide, 53 of which were in Japan. These plants generated 25 percent of electricity. (Schneider, Thomas, Froggatt, & Koplow, 2009). Public resistance for new reactors was present during this time due to a series of accidents that occurred between 1997 and 2007. We just start putting reactors wherever we have to get the understanding of the local residents, and that takes  says Takuyuki Kawauchi of the industry nuclear-energy policy division. Japan had two plants under construction, and 13 more planned. Assured support of the public was needed to complete the plans to decrease carbon emissions 25 percent below 1990s by 2020 Sabrina Downing 2 (Cyranoski, 2010). In 2002 the Tokyo Electric Power Company had to shut all 17 of their reactors down due to a data falsification. Making matters worse, July 2007, a severe earthquake hit the area surrounding the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear power plant, the largest nuclear power station in the world. Ever since, its seven reactors (totaling 8,212 megawatts of capacity) have remained closed for damage verification and repairs, and by October 2009, only two of the units had gotten as far as low-power testing prior to reentry into (Schneider, Thomas, Froggatt, & Koplow, 2009) Once damages were repaired, the least damaged unit was restarted. These events distorted future plans, and pushed back completion dates. On March 11, 2011, an earthquake of magnitude 9.0 shook East Japan. Next followed a tsunami, which wiped out power needed to maintain the cooling processes of the reactors. Back-up cooling was also destroyed by the water infiltration, and the nuclear reactor cores began to melt, releasing deadly amounts of radiation into the atmosphere. This accident alarmed people globally, and countries halted or suspended their nuclear power plants. instance, in 2014, the Japanese government adopted a new National Energy Strategy intended to reduce dependence on nuclear energy whilst still considering it as one of the important base-load electricity (Tatsujiro, 2015). The termination or reduction of nuclear development following this incident was mainly due to the retraction of public support. Worldwide actions were taken to investigate the safety of plants, like conducting stress tests examine the ability of nuclear plants to resist emergencies, such as earthquake, flood, tsunami, tornado, impacts of plane and Sabrina Downing 3 (Ming, Yingxin,, Shaojie, Hui, & Chunxue, 2016). Slowly, policy revisions and design renovations strengthened the safety of plants. Three years following the incident, suspended plans have been lifted, and construction has started again. Although the predicted number of new plants has decreased, the development is still following an upward trend. Nuclear power as a new alternative energy source compared to the others is a popular choice. Despite the clean production and use of nuclear energy, it is dangerous to work with. Framing this technology as an environmentally- friendly electricity source energized people to promote its development. Unexpected nuclear disasters such as Fukushima make the dangers of nuclear energy production apparent to the public, and support has dwindled. development of nuclear power technology experienced a halt in 2011, but slowly continued back to development. Residents of Japan have an important decision to make, if a reduced carbon dioxide emission process is worth the serious dangers of producing nuclear power. How sure can they be that safety precautions will support almost all unexpected incidents? It is up to the government and scientists to test and prepare, following with a presentation of security to the public. Sources E., Perko, T., & Thijssen, P. (2017). Public opinion change after the Fukushima nuclear accident: The role of national context revisited. Energy Policy, 104, 124-133. doi:10.1016/j.enpol.2017.01.027 Ming, Z., Yingxin, L., Shaojie, O., Hui, S., & Chunxue, L. (2016). Nuclear energy in the Post- Fukushima Era: Research on the developments of the Chinese and worldwide nuclear power Sabrina Downing 4 industries. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 58, 147-156. doi:10.1016/j.rser.2015.12.165 Schneider, M., Thomas, S., Froggatt, A., & Koplow, D. (2009). 2009 world nuclear industry status report. Bulletin Of The Atomic Scientists, 65(6), 1-19. Cyranoski, D. (2010). Japan plans nuclear power expansion: proposal for eight new reactors and nuclear fuel reprocessing faces public opposition. Nature, (7289), 661.