Gonzalez 1 Nicholas Gonzalez Bianca Hernandez Composition II 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft The United States is one of the most unique countries in the world due to its diversity and freedom for its civilians as opposed to those of other countries. One of the many reasons U.S civilians have so much freedom today is because of organizations like the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). The ACLU is an organization built on the foundation of representing the rights of those who call the United States home. Their mission is to and preserve the individual rights and liberties guaranteed to every person in this country by the Constitution and laws of the United (ACLU). Through the two images published by the ACLU it is apparent that they believe every person in the U.S should be treated equally no matter the color, status or any other factor of the civilian. By utilizing ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos in their images the ACLU are able to portray their protection of rights for the American people to secure a fair society. Pathos is a significant factor in both images as they both attempt to represent to those who do not feel they are well protected by the Constitution such as immigrants, the LGBT community and women in the work force. The first image appeals to the emotion of the viewers through the usage of colors and shapes. The consistent use of the colors red, white, and blue signify the patriotism that should be felt by everyone because of the American flag, it appeals to those who are immigrants that are welcome into the country. The rainbow colors and heart shape representing the LGBT community expresses an emotion of acceptance and love. The people Gonzalez 2 implies that everyone no matter what race or skin color should be able to vote because they should be represented in the government. The images underlying tone is one of acceptance as all aspects appeal to it. The second image has a more forceful tone to it. The text paired with the breaking of the glass suggest that if a rights are being infringed they should contact the ACLU. By putting the membership in a glass container like this the viewer can relate it to an emergency measure such as a fire alarm. The color of the surrounding, being red and white makes the message more urgent, further supported by the text that would be seen in a real-life scenario: Glass In Case of The image invokes a feeling of urgency and action that must be taken to preserve rights. The Statue of Liberty as a symbol of freedom should add authority to the image as anytime its symbolism is mentioned it should not have to be explained what it is standing for. Both images contain Ethos which is the credibility of information or images. In both advertisements the logo of the ACLU is present, in the first shown repeatedly and in the second one shown with the Statue of Liberty. In the first image the wording of the logo of the organization is what mainly lends credibility however, in the second image the membership card lends credibility to the way one would be recognized if they were part of the organization. The ACLU logo present in both images show that the organization supports what the images stand for and therefore should add credibility. The ethos present in the images helps the audience trust the organization while also sparking interest into what the organization stands for. In order to form an argument there must be logic, logos is the implantation of logic in information or images to form one. The ACLU implements logos into both images to create an argument that can support the purpose of their organization, without it there would be no ads and Gonzalez 3 no persuasion to help people follow their cause. The main purpose of the first image is to appeal to those whose rights are less represented in the government, particularly minorities such as Hispanics, African Americans, and Asians. It also appeals to arguably the most prominent sexual community in the U.S: the LGBT community. The badge that says People is a call for no prejudice during the voting process, there is reason here that this is not supposed to appeal to Caucasian voters but to those previously stated. Since the majority of the government has always been run by white males this statement is a call to other nationalities to be well represented with their different views. The heart signifying the LGBT community stands for the choice of people to love anyone they want no matter what gender or sexual orientation; it is easily understood that by using the heart as a symbol audiences are aware of the choice of love that it is expressing. The other two signs with and a signify the choice given in child birth and unjust arrest and search of people. People affected by the circumstances this image represents should have a voice for fair representation that the ACLU provides. Unlike the first image that has peaceful protest with it the second image uses something different. By showing the breaking of glass the audience can infer that something is clearly wrong, this covered with the Glass in Case of shows something is urgent. The country is in a state of emergency when it comes to equal rights as and Hispanics make up to 73% and 69% as much as white men make while black and Hispanic women make 65% and 58% as much as white (PEW Research). In this case by using the membership card in the background as reason the audience understands that the ACLU is using the infringement of rights as an emergency. The logic here is metaphorical, the membership card is a sort of safety precaution such as a fire extinguisher to dissipate any problem, it creates Gonzalez 4 instant relief. Both images have their own unique way of convincing the audience of the purpose, by utilizing visual aids that can immediately be associated with different ideas they are able to effectively convey their ideas. The rights of American citizens are always in constant discussion so the time in which these images are viewed (Kairos) can directly impact how the audience understands the purpose. With the new inauguration of President Trump more immigrants and foreigners than ever before are forced to fight for their own rights without persecution from the government because of their religion or nationality. These images, if viewed now have a massive effect on the audience because they can now relate them to what is going on now in the U.S today. The conversation is ongoing with the recent travel ban issued by President Trump and his cabinet on Muslims abroad. As an estimated refugees are to be prevented from entering the a far cry from the 110,000 that were supposed to be let in before inauguration (ACLU). With constant alerts and newsfeeds from various media the ACLU helps put in context how these immigrants are being treated. Not to say that all refugees should be let in, but this is just one example of the ongoing fight for the representation of rights that these images portray during this relative time period in the United States. The United States was built on principles by the founding fathers to represent each man equally as stated in the Declaration of Independence men are created (Shmoop Editorial Team). It is only just that organizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union provide a resource for the American people so that they understand their god-given rights so they are not taken advantage over. Through the use of advertisements, the ACLU uses the rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to effectively persuade the public into being aware of their rights and to inform others about the rights that make America the country it is today. Gonzalez 5 Gonzalez 6 Gonzalez 7 Gonzalez 8 Works Cited About the  American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. <https://www.aclu.org/about-aclu>. ACLU of  ACLU of Texas. ACLU, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.aclutx.org/>. Shmoop Editorial Team. Equality and the  Shmoop. Shmoop University, 11 Nov. 2008. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. <http://www.shmoop.com/equal-protection/equality- constitution.html>. Patten, Eileen. Racial, Gender Wage Gaps Persist in U.S. despite Some  Pew Research Center. N.p., 01 July 2016. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. <http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2016/07/01/racial-gender-wage-gaps-persist-in-u- s-despite-some-progress/>.