Sugawara 1 Mei Sugawara Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 22 February 2017 CCD Tobacco Free Campaign Advertisement Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) protects Americans from health threats by providing information of disease and working 24/7. They first started their organization in 1946 as Communicable Disease Center (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). Its first obstacle was to restrict malaria to be spread across the nation, and they kept challenging to fight with health issues which would bring great fear to health. Over years, they created connections with other public health related organizations and built their trust from Americans. With all these efforts, CDC became one of the main public health organizations in the U.S. The CDC works to providing information to inform Americans about several diseases such as HIV, Influenza and diabetes. Tobacco Free is one of the campaigns that CDC is working on to alert smokers and future smokers of the dangers of smoking and to encourage them to quit. The reason why CDC takes the problem of smoking seriously is that smoking would cause a lot of terrible health problems. According to Medical News Today, smoking causes all kinds of cancers, respiratory diseases and heart diseases, and more than 480,000 deaths per year occur because of smoking (Nordqvist). This is why the Tobacco Free campaign utilizes visual advertisements that appeal to smokers and potential smokers to further their message of a tobacco-free world. First image is one of the effective advertisements, which appeal to pathos. Pathos is the appeal to the emotions (Hoffman), and in this case, disgusting and horrific image of a woman having a hole on her throat will grab attentions. The more audiences look at her distorted face and the empty black hole, the more they feel disgusted. Then, they will know the Sugawara 2 fact of her tragedy by reading the texts. This is logos, which is the appeal to logic and reasons (Hoffman). She has a throat cancer, and audiences can predict that she cannot speak anymore by reading the context, YOUR VOICE FOR LOVED ONES WHILE YOU STILL This context is in all capital letters to remain great impact. Moreover, Pathos works on this context because audiences will feel sad and feel that their future should not be hers. The personal information provided below is also logos and pathos. By informing her specific name, age and the place where she is from which is ethos, audiences can see that this happened in actual life, and the information gives them more reality about this picture. This target is people aged twenty to forty and preferably having family because the woman on the image is fifty-two years old and has a son. Again, pathos works to make audiences feel heartbroken by showing the pictures of son. However, the picture that the woman holding and the picture behind the woman are blurry because CDC wants to make the pity face and the impact of the hole on her throat stand out. Besides that, CDC establishes ethos, which is the appeal to credibility or morality (Hoffman) by exhibiting its logo, website link and number to call. Lastly, CDC provides Kairos, which is the appeal to timeliness (Hoffman) with the text free help, call This addresses audiences, specifically present smokers, to quit smoking right now to protect their health and future. Image 1 mainly uses blue, black and white. As stated in Color Theory for Designers, blue is always associated with sadness (Chapman). Since the main purpose of the image is to make audiences feel sad about the woman, blue is the best color for it. Furthermore, blue gives audiences reliability and professionality (Chapman), and the main theme color of CDC is blue. CDC tries to appeal that they are reliable and tries to impact audiences with blue potentially by matching the clothes color and their main theme color. White with black background is Sugawara 3 used for most of the texts in the image. Black and white are at the end of opposite spectrum (Chapman), meaning that the text will stand out, and audiences can easily read the texts on the image. Therefore, the colors CDC picked for the image are highly effective for giving a strong impact to the audiences. The second image is also effective to promote the smoking problem by informing an appalling event. The main goal of the image is to make audiences feel sad, which relates to pathos. From logos, SMOKE TRIGGERS SEVERE ASTHMA audiences will understand that smoking tobacco will not only harm smokers themselves but also people around them. Information about the man in the picture provided below is to give audiences sense of reality. It makes audiences feel sad more deeply if the name is shown in the picture. All the texts are pathos and logos. The targeted audiences can be teenagers and age that is thirty to fifty. Smoker parents will keep in mind that they can harm their children spontaneously. However, main targeted age should be teenagers since the model of the image is teenager. Teenagers will feel more into this image than older aged audiences, and they will reflect themselves with the man in the picture. There are several medical equipment on the background, but they are blurred in order to make the man in the picture stand out. Similarly to the image 1, ethos works in image 2 because CDC shows its logo, website link and number to call. Moreover, free help, call is the symbol of the kairos. Because he is in the ER, the image is giving off a sense of urgency. By appealing to sadness for event, which occurred actually meaning that CDC establishes credibility, the image urges audiences to make an action. Image 2 uses blue, beige, black and white primarily. Similarly to the image 1, blue is working to bring the phase of sadness into the image. The differences between the blue used in image 1 Sugawara 4 and the one used in image 2 is the shade of the color. The blue used in image 2 is brighter and lighter than the image one. Since the darker blue represents reliability (Chapman), there is no reliability in the image 2, which can be found in image 1. Bright sky blue gives a young feeling that fits with the image because the model is teenager. In addition, main targeted aged audiences will be attracted by the color. Beige has warmness from brown and coolness from white (Chapman). Thus, it is best for background, and in this picture, beige plays the role to making blue stands out. As same as image 1, white with black background is used for most of the context, so that contexts appear clearly. Hence, the colors used in this image are greatly efficient for capturing attention. Both image 1 and 2 share a lot of similarities since these main theme is tobacco free. Firstly, both images use all rhetorical appeals which are ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. Moreover, both images appeal to sadness by providing facts that occurred to life. Lastly, both images use blue as main color. This is related to the aim for both images, which is to make audiences feel sad about models in the images. In addition, CDC tries to associate the color with its image color. The only difference between these two images is targeted audience. First image is targeted middle-age smokers, but second image is targeted teenager smokers and nonsmokers. This means that CDC tries to relate all generations into this smoking problem by creating advertisements that target each generations. By smoking, smokers are risking their life. There is no doubt that smokers dies ten years earlier than non-smokers do (Nordqvist). As these two advertisements show, in order to live longer and healthier, smokers have to quit smoking immediately. Otherwise, they will follow the same trace as the models of these images did. aim is to spread tobacco free campaign widely to smokers by using advertisements. Smokers should consider that they are not smoking Sugawara 5 by themselves. They are making others who are not willing to smoke, to smoke with them. It is no longer the problem of individual. It is your problem. You need to step forward right now to prevent smoking problem to threaten your future. Word Count: 1378 Sugawara 6 Work Cited CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 26 April. 2016. Web. 22 February. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p. 28 January. 2010. Web. 22 February. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoricand Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Nordqvist, Christian. Why Is Smoking Bad For  Medical News Today. MediLexicon, Intl., 22 Oct. 2015. Web. 22 February. 2017. Sugawara 7 Image 1 Sugawara 8 Image 2