Feyas 1 Student Jennifer Paquette ENC.1101 05 March 2017 Adderall Over Time Adderall was created in 1996 and has been used ever since to treat diseases like Attention Deficit Disorder(ADD) and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder(ADHD.) After the drugs introduction, it was not long before people began to abuse the drug by taking it without prescription or need. This problem was seen largely in college students and as time has gone by the abuse of Adderall on college campuses has inflated dramatically. Students rely on this drug to keep them focused and awake to study harder and longer for exams. The problem is that Adderall is proven to be an addictive substance and inhibits creativity in people who do not need it. Over time, researchers have all noted that the usage of Adderall in people who are not prescribed or are not in need of the drug has increased greatly and studies show new side effects that were previously unknown. In 2008 Martha J. Farah wrote, we enhance cognition with Adderall, do we sacrifice creativity? A preliminary In which she outlines a study she observed that concluded that Adderall only effected the performance of convergent tasks. A convergent task is where one must make a decision, for example, test taking. research differed greatly from Kyle Try This at Which he wrote in 2004. Smith focused on a different aspect of the drug, its addictive properties. In his study, he tested how addicted household mothers would get if they used the pill as a me throughout the day. Numerous reported weight loss and dependency on the drug. When Feyas 2 looking at these two journals it is clear that researchers were attempting to find out exactly what all of the side effects of using Adderall were during this time period. Further along the timeline, in 2012, Stephanie Stolz wrote, Abuse: Regulating the Academic Within this journal Stolz writes about Adderall moving into college campuses and about the that has been generated because of it. Stolz also notes that the drug can be extremely addictive to people who have not been prescribed to take it which coincides with Kyle research from 2004 about the addictive properties of the drug. In 2015 Moneer Osman writes, to Within his writing, he makes it clear that Adderall has had a large impact on college campuses and that the side effects vary from person to person. He states that is an extremely addictive and that side effects can range from mood changes and headaches to dangerously high blood pressure. (For those that do not know, high blood pressure can cause one to have a stroke.) Although these journals were written just three years apart, Osman mentions numerous side effects that Stolz does not which makes it appear that new information about the drug was discovered within this time period. Although there are journals here ranging from 2004-2015 each one mentions addictive properties of Adderall and each one seems to be identifying additional issues with the drug. In the earlier years, it seems as though researchers were trying to figure out what the drug did to the body but in more recent studies it seems that researchers know what it does and are now trying to figure out how vast and detrimental the effects are. Overall it is coherent that researchers have built new ideas off of the old ones and continue to learn additional information about effect on the human body. Feyas 3 Sources Cited: Farah, Martha J., et al. we enhance cognition with Adderall, do we sacrifice creativity? A preliminary Psychopharmacology, vol. 202, no. 1-3, 2008, pp. Moneer, Osman, et al. Addicted To  Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal 9. (2015): 8. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Kyle. Try This At  Suzlon Energy Limited SWOT Analysis 62.25 (2004): 87-88. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Stolz, Stephanie. Abuse: Regulating the Academic Journal of Law and Education, vol. 41, no. 3, July 2012, pp.