Student ENC Jenifer Project2 Intermediate draft May 5 2017 After researching the topic of climate change, I worked on the research question how climate change happened, how climate change affects the environment and how people solve the problem of climate change. Preparing to write the historical paper of project two, I will do in- depth research on the climate change, and I focus on the question that how climate change affect the environment and how people solve the problem of climate change has changed in a period? Therefore, this paper will show how climate change has changed about the two topics how climate change affect the environment and how people solve the problem of climate change in a period by using four sources. First, climate change will affect the sea levels, and climate change may cause the extinction of the animal to affect the environment which the argument has changed in a period. Second, it also shows how people solve the problem of climate change which the argument has not changed in a period by using special material to save energy and using new technology to save energy. First, the argument of how climate change affects the environment has changed in a period. According to the article climate change: agricultural implications and theological the author shows one of the problems of climate change which is global warming. John Wibberley shows more and more carbon dioxide are produced to the air and bring more and more greenhouse gasses, it make the temperature higher and higher, and it may cause some many serious environment problems (75). The author gives some real examples, for instance, global warming may cause severe weather and sea changes. The severe weather is more and more serious problem of the climate change; the article shows more extreme weather is set to persist, with winds more violent, weather patterns changing more dramatically with increased heat waves and more intense tropical (Wibberley 76). Wibberley also shows sea levels is rising because sea ice is disappearing under the climate change. However, sea levels will rise more than 18cm and it may cause more flood and water source issues (76). However, people at that time focused on the nature problems such as global warming which were caused by climate change. On the other side, the article When Climate Change Causes shows climate change cause a lot of problems which may affect the wildlife survival ( Beckrich 14). Amanda Beckrich gives some real examples, the pika which is a kind of rabbit can not accept the higher ocean melomys are losing their food sources and homes because of the flood (14). However, people at that time are focus on the problem of living things such as wildlife. Totally, the argument about how climate change affects the environment has changed from nature problem to living things problem. Second, the argument of how people solve the problem of climate change has no changed in a period. According to the article Use of stabilized earth in the construction of low cost sustainable housing in Africa- An energy solution in the era of climate the author shows climate change cause a lot of pollutions such as air pollution, water pollution especially the chemistry pollution (Zami and Lee 51). The author shows, more than 60 percent of the African population are living in the shantytowns, slums and uncontrolled settlements without normal conditions, so it need a lot of coals or the other energy to build the houses, it also has pollutions in the area ( Zami and Lee 51). The article shows the solution to the problem, using sustainable low cost housing material to build the houses to save energy, and it becomes to an energy solution to solve the climate change ( Zami and Lee 52). So the people at that time who want to solve the climate change focused on special material, and use it to save energy and solve the climate change. Moreover, the article Nickel: important part of climate change also focus on how people can solve the problem of climate change. S.Wong and G. Coates shows two methods relate to using new technology to save energy and solve climate c change. Using solar energy to save energy is a good method, it is a method concentrating solar power to concentrate energy and transfer heat to fluid to reduce the production of carbon dioxide. The other method is using ethanol production because ethanol is a renewable source and it can reduce the production of greenhouse gases (Wong and Coates 98-99). The people at that time also focus on how to save the energy such as using new technology relate with the engineer. Totally, the argument about how people solve the problem of climate change has no changed in a period, they all want to use the methods to save energy and solve climate change. Above all, climate change affects the environment and cause some problems such as change the sea level and make extinction of the animal. This argument has changed in a period, and people change their mind from nature issue to living things issue, after destroying the nature environment, climate change will affect wildlife animals even human beings. However, people will know the importance of saving the environment and solve the climate change. The argument of how people solve the climate change has no changed in a period, and people all focus on the technology to save energy because it is the best and easiest method to solve the pollution and save environment directly. Work Cited: Wibberley, John. Global Climate Change: Agricultural Implications And Theological Rural Theology 6.2 (2008): 75-89. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. Beckrich, Amanda. When Climate Change Causes The science Teacher 6 ( 2016) : Academic OneFile. Wong, S. and G. Coates. Nickel: Important Part of Climate Change Corrosion Engineering, Science &Technology 45.1 (2010): 97- 100. Academic Search Premier. Zami, Mohammad Sharif, and Angela Lee. Use of Stabilised Earth in the Construction of Low Cost Sustainable Housing in Africa An Energy Solution in the Era of Climate Archnet-IJAR 3.2 (2009) : 51-65. Art & Architecture Source.