Muatasim Al-Rawahi Mark J Nusspickel Outline 03,06 2017 Outline I. Introduction Are Americans requiring firearms in their lives to ensure protection, or is it only a reason to hold it? There are different reasons why people own guns, and one of them is to secure yourself against any unexpected events that may occur such as, robbery, hijack or rape and different other crimes. Adding to that, there are people who use firearms for hunting or they collect them as a hobby. However according to Eli Gottlieb, Americans currently killed by guns each day on average (excluding (Gottlieb, 58) To lose one life is a catastrophe, yet to lose more than 30 lives each day is something that should concern us all. You cannot take the rights of Americans to carry a gun, because it is mentioned in the second amendment that they have the right to bear it, but it a time to stop and look at everything that is going on because of the massacre that is going on because of guns? Gun violence is occurring in the American society whether you like it or not, and since you realize the issue here, the best way to try and reduce it is by prohibiting guns in the United States. Therefore this research will discuss about if Americans requires guns in their lives or should it be banned, the reason why Americans are devoted to their firearms, the relationship between guns and mental illness, and solutions to solve this problem. II. Between 2000 to 2010 A. Author/Tittle: Bogus, Car T. Gun Control And Cities. 1) You are more likely to be murdered or robbed with a gun in the big cities in America than any other nation in the world. 2) Most murders that happened in the United States are committed with handgun. 3) Guns have a significant effect on crimes such as murder, rape and robbery in America. B. Author/Tittle: Justin Daniels. Rates of Household Firearm Ownership And Homicide Across US Regions And States, 1988-1997. 1) Between the years 1988 to 1997, more than 200,00 people were killed because of murder and 68% of them were because of gun 2) Studies have suggested that a house that that owns a gun is a risk factor for committing homicide. 3) Studies have shown that there is a positive connection between the availability of the gun and overall homicide rates. Transition: Researches between 2000-2010 focused on the significant effect of guns on crime rate, the people who were killed by guns and the relationship between the availability of the gun and homicide. Later researches focused on how easy for people who are suffering from mental illness to purchase guns, and how background is not the solution as many think. I. Between 2010-2017 A. Author/Tittle: Eli Gottlieb. The Guns That Won. 1) America was born with guns and that is why they are so devoted to it. 2) In Swaziland, military suicide rates and suicide with firearms in general went down after the government took away firearms from the soldiers after their compulsory service. 3) When massive shooting happens in other countries the government had to change the law to ensure incident like that wont happen again. B. Author/Tittle: Lindsay Bramble. Putting A Band-Aid On A Bullet Wound: Why Gun Legislation Targeting Individuals With Mental Illness Working. 1) Gun violence that happened in the past few years the shooters have legally purchased firearms from the gun shop and they had a background check and passed it. 2) People who are suffering from mental illness can buy firearms and pass the background check easily, because the states is not required to report the information to the agencies that are doing the background check. 3) Individuals that are mentally ill are not more violence than other people. In fact only 4% of the violence that is happening in the United States is because of people with mental illness. Source Bogus, Carl T. Gun Control And Cities: Public Policy And  Albany Government Law Review 1.2 (2008): 441-482. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 30 Jan. 2017. In this paper the writer talks about how cities are dangerous in a sense that you are more likely to be murdered or robbed with a gun in the big cities in America than any other nation in the world. Most murders that happened in the United States are committed with handgun. Guns have a significant effect on crimes such as murder, rape and robbery in America, therefore if we are able to reduce the number of guns, homicide and robbery rates will go down. Not only that, but the amount of people that are dying due to these assaults will go down as well. And coming up with solutions like Waiting periods, trigger locks or gun safety programs dose not really reduce murder or robbery rates it can even make it worse. The best way to stop this assault is by gun control laws on handgun. The author is Bogus, Carl T. and the source is Albany Government Law Review. He is a law professor that teaches in Roger Williams University, He won American Bar Association Award. He has written two books and he has some articles. This source will be used this to talk about how guns are contributing to the huge amount of crime that is happening in the United States not only with murder but with most of the crimes. It will also answer one of the questions, how to solve this problem that we are facing? BRAMBLE, LINDSAY1. Putting A Band-Aid On A Bullet Wound: Why Gun Legislation Targeting Individuals With Mental Illness  Journal Of Health Care Law & Policy 17.2 (2014): 303-327. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The writer talks about the relationship between gun violence that happened in the past few years in the United States where the shooters had legally purchased a firearm from the gun shop and they had the background check and passed it, he also talks about how people who are suffering from mental illness are usually not violence. And he explains why it easy for people with mental illness to do so. One of the reasons people who are suffering from mental illness can buy firearms and pass the background check easily is because the states are not required to report the information to the agencies that are doing the background checks. Even if they reported to the agencies, there is no standard information that they give. Furthermore, he also mentions that studies have shown that individuals who are mentally ill are not more violence than the other people, and in fact, only 4% of the violence that is happing in the United States is because of mentally ill individuals. And he tells stories about families, and how they found out how to deal with their mental illness and with the hallucinations that they may have. The author is Lindsay Bramble and the source of the article is from Journal of Health Care Law & Policy. This source talks about mental illness and use this source to talk about the background checks and how it is not the answer to stopping crime. Also, people with mental illness can pass the test easily because a lot of information is not being processed to the background check system. And how we have to worry about the issue and not mental illness because people who are suffering from mental illness are not the cause of the crime, therefore we have to put the spotlight on the bigger problem, which are guns. GOTTLIEB, ELI. The Guns That  New Republic 247.4 (2016): 58-63. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 In this article, the writer talks about how guns are very important in life and that they have a special relationship with it, adding to that America was born with guns and that is what made them so devoted to it. She also talks about soldiers from Swaziland and how when they took away from them a firearm after their compulsory service was done, it changed the military suicide rates and suicide with firearms in general, which made it to drop and showed a significant change. And when you look at the other countries when a massive shooting occurs, the government had to change the law to ensure incident like that not to happen again that only it showed how murder rates went down and it helped them reduce the crime rates, unlike America when a massive shooting happens, the laws gets more loose instead of being stricter about it. Eli Gottlieb is an America author who was born in New York City, he has written four novel and won awards for them, he also have few articled published in his name. The author is Eli Gottlieb and the source is from New Republic. I will use this source to answer one of my questions which is why Americans are devoted to the guns. How other country changed their gun laws after a massive shooting to prevent that from happening again. And taking the gun away from soldiers who already did their time can reduce suicide rates. Miller, Matthew, Deborah Azrael, and David Hemenway. Rates Of Household Firearm Ownership And Homicide Across US Regions And States,  American Journal Of Public Health 92.12 (2002): 1988-1993. General Science Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. In this article, the writer talks about firearm ownership and homicide across United States and its region. Between 1988 to 1997 more than 200,000 people were killed because of murder and 68% of them were because of guns And studies have suggested that a house that owns a gun is a risk factor for committing homicide. And most studies have shown that there is a positive connection between the availability of the gun and the overall homicide rates. The author is Justin Daniels, the source is from British medical journal. This source is going to be used in the paper to add more credibility to it. Using the rates of the studies in the tables to compare how effective gun in the American society.