Student 1 ENC 1101 Dr. Jenifer Paquette 3, March 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Over the past two decades the argument and conversation about climate change has mounted to a much dynamic topic that is constantly observed and consistently researched. With many academic scholars and researchers that continue to study what climate change is and the effects that go along with it, they receive results and conclusions that continue to develop the same arguments made before and have not changed; yet actually supports their case even further through more evidence and data that was predicted and calculated. Thus, with much supported information and evidence from scholars, the topic of climate change and the effects of it have not changed, on the other hand it essentially added more to their argument that climate change is actually happening and effects the world. There have been plenty of arguments whether climate change is real and does it actually occur? Well for many scholars such as Chris Bronk, in which he has written a text Climate answers this question thoroughly. Bronk includes his findings and research done to explain his recordings regarding climate change and basically how it is actually happening. He states of the ten warmest years ever recorded occurred during the past decade /other changes in climate have been observed such as precipitation patterns, droughts, floods, storm intensity and polar and glacial (ch3.pg5). Bronk built up conclusions that fully support his answers regarding climate change by using similar findings that directed his perspective to change in terms of the overall in-take of climate change and the effects. With this pattern of drastic weather occurring over the past decade, he uses this history as an argument to exhibit his clarification regarding climate change that continues to support the argument of the topic. Likewise, from Chris text Climate another academic scholar and computational ocean chemist, David Archer, examined climate change and its effects in which he used to calculate similar answers and discoveries that displays the trends of climate change that have become more of a threat because of the effects it has presented. Archer, used his findings to compare to other scholars and researchers and similar to them he retrieved answers and perspectives such as patterns of weather that drastically take effect on our (235). Comparing research and findings clearly shows that ideally the topic and argument for climate change has consistently stayed the same and changed in terms of the perspectives and answers concerning climate change. As the topic of climate change has become more relevant and argued about, there have been many outlets and highly researched sources that are correlated in terms of information and data that explain the whole aspect of climate change. However, the Coastal Areas Climate Change Education (CACCE) Educational Resources, gives abundant perspectives that thoroughly explain the importance and matter of climate change. This source is truly reliable to improve the knowledge of many people regarding climate change and the different ways to look at all angles of this topic. Since the distinguished comparisons of climate change has become evident through plenty of credible sources, this program uses the opportunity to explain why the topic of climate change is still a continuously talked about subject that derived the importance of it. As stated within the program, impact of climate change has evolved over the years and has become more relevant / there needs to be an establishment of knowledge and recognition of climate Overall, this program is another supported source that collaborates its research and information with other academic scholars that have steadily stayed focused on the topic of climate change. The topic of climate change and the effects of it have become more evident as ever, therefore many scholars have clearly used much of the same structured answers and arguments that changed through the past decade and a half. With that being said, I valued Heat: Global Justice and Global as a great source to clearly show that the argument over this crucial topic changed, it only became a more relevant and imperiled subject. Athanasiou, Tom and Paul Baer wrote this book predicting the outcome of what climate change will bring. To go in more depth of their scholarly research, they evaluated the effects at the time (2002), of what climate change is effecting and how it will evolve into a much critical outcome. They state that because of and humanitarian differences, the effects of climate change take a toll on different people who are less fortunate, in terms of poor and rich would be Statistically that became true, and evidently they use those results as a platform for what would occur in the future. Athanasiou and the foreshadowed the and dire of how the world would be and why that the changes made enough and that since politics get too involved it becomes worse. As we evaluate these academic sources and programs, they all have a common ground towards the topic of climate change and their perspectives have relatively similar answers that changed from the years 2000-2016. All in all, it explains how critical climate change really is and how much of an effect it has on the world that many people take for granted. These sources align the reasoning behind their answers and arguments which formats the same topic year-in year-out. Works Cited Sass, Ronald. Global Climate Change. Houston: Rice, 2014. Ronald Sass / Chris Bronk. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Archer, David, and Stefan Rahmstorf. The Climate Crisis: An Introductory Guide to Climate Change. New York: Cambridge UP, 2010. Print. University of South Florida, Tampa Library, GIS Unit, Coastal Areas Climate Change Education (CACCE) Educational  (2011). 02 Feb. 2017 Athanasiou, Tom and Paul Baer. Dead Heat: Global Justice and Global Warming. New York: Sven Stories Press, 2002.