Student 1 Student 1 Jenifer Paquette ENC1101 05 March 2017 Intermediate Draft Historiography Cordry, Sheila and Janell D. Wilson (2004) stated that parental involvement is critical to student success. Inadequate to parental involvement teacher are challenged by the changing culture and increasing diversity that also impacts learning in the classroom. How can the students of today lead our country into a better tomorrow? Students, will need guidance and an education to complete this task and who else to help the students do so than the parent and teachers. Parental involvement is needed because it helps the students stay focused and keeps the classroom focused on teaching. Currently, teachers have a more difficult challenge because of cultural changes and diversity. Teachers need help fostering an atmosphere of welcome for these parents of divers students, by inviting parents to invest in the education so that the student may be successful academically. Whose responsibility is it to make sure that a student comes to school prepared to be a productive student? Parents or Teachers? If students are going to be great leaders, then it must start at home with the parents being productive and having character and integrity themselves. In this article as teachers (2004), A study done by the Parenting Resource (1999) and the Child Trends Databank (1999), confirms that parents who are strongly Student 2 involved in the education do well academically and are less likely to dropout, get involved with drugs, violence, and teen sex. (p.57). A survey done by Annual Surveys (2003) reveled that most teacher believe that parent spend less time with their children, less involved in their academic growth, and just plain self-centered (p.58); then the student enters school with no respect, moral issues, bad character. The Law Child Left act was instituted by President George Bush back in 2001 and signed into law Jan 8, 2002, to help get parents more involved in the education. The President felt that parents being involved in education is vital; therefore, I used this source as evidence to support the topic of parental involvement on the impact of a education, and a quoted by Richard W. Riley, U.S. Secretary of Education, as saying American family is the rock on which solid education can be built. If we as families teach the love of learning in the home it can make all the (p.56). Parents have about 43,800 hours before a student enters school to instill qualities in the student that would either support or hinder them academically. Parent must find a way to get involved in the education and help the student be successful in school so we will have great leaders. In this article Parental Involvement and Culture in (2015), we find that much diversity has taken place in the last eleven years in schools. This article (Malone) mentions that parental involvement in a education began to be considered in the early 20 th century and 50 years later scholars continue to show interest in it (p.14). Malone also states that the education system is dismayed by the low rate of parental involvement but at the same time difficult to foster an environment that is conducive for parental involvement. Without parental involvement at any level will bring a negative impact on the education (p.14). Culture could be a big reason for the decline of parental involvement, we have so many different Student 3 nationalities than we did eleven years ago. If the parent feels that the teacher cannot connect with their student who is of another culture, then the parent will certainly not feel welcome in the classroom and therefore is a decrease in parental involvement. If the education system removes the obstacles, and start communicating and promoting a welcoming atmosphere parents will become involved and that is a win for the community and school. The author offers many studies to support her argument. (Hill & Craft, 2003; Jasso, 2007), (Ryan, Kelly-Vance, Ryallas, & Nero, 2010), (Epstein, 2010). Malone is an educator and recently received her doctoral work in education administration at the university of Mary Hardin-Baylor. (Malone) has also been a secondary science teacher, assistant principal, and superintendent intern. I think that her background in education helps create a voice about parental involvement in the education and culture difference teacher struggle to consider. In conclusion, (Cordry & Wislon) the main points were parents should start teaching the student respect, and character at home very early in the childhood. Parents getting involved in the education will enhance the academic success. main point is that if educators foster a more inviting atmosphere for students of different cultures, parental involvement will increase and both the community and the school system wins. The difference in the articles are changes in culture and diversity; eleven years ago, diversity was lower than it is now in school, and educators should foster more parental involvement. Both authors believe that parental involvement is good and much more is needed even though eleven years has passed between both articles. Student 4 Citations Cordry, Sheila and Janell D. Wilson. Parents as First  Education, vol. 125, no. 1, Fall2004, pp. 56-62. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=eft&AN=507940146&site=eds-live Malone, Debra. Culture: A Potential Challenge for Parental Involvement in  Delta Kappa Gamma Bulletin, vol. 82, no. 1, Sept. 2015, pp. 14-18. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=a2h&AN=110364691&site=eds-live. (Word Count: 908). Student 5