Lewis 1 Alexandria Lewis Hernandez ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 Rhetorical Appeals Used by the NRA The National Rifle Association (NRA) is a nonprofit organization that advocates for the constitutional right to keep and bear arms This organization believes that gun control laws should not be extended in the United States due to the Second Amendment of the Constitution. The overall goals of this organization are to laws that recognize the right of honest citizens to carry firearms for self- protection and prevent attacks on gun owner rights by local anti-gun The NRA has used a plethora of visual advertisements for the purpose of convincing on lookers of their goals. Among these images is one showing the word freedom above an assault rifle with the American flag as its color scheme. The NRA has also used an image depicting deer in a forest with a hunter in the background with the heading our The intention of these images is to show that the Second Amendment, hunting, and guns are all instrumental parts of what it means to be an American. This comes across through the use of rhetorical appeals such as Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos. Ultimately, The NRA uses these rhetorical appeals in their visual advertisements to advocate that guns are a must in society. Lewis 2 Ethos is a rhetorical appeal that attempts to appeal to audiences through credibility and morality. In the first poster, the NRA created, shows the hues of the American Flag in the background as well as in the words and The logo NRA is also incorporated in the poster underneath Freedom which shows that the NRA should be entrusted in protecting the Americans freedom and rights. This is seen through The National Rifle Association of America lobbying against the extension of gun laws with the maintained belief that gun control laws are already strong In the second image, the NRA logo is as big as the deer. This shows the audience that the importance of American style hunting is a fundamental part of the NRA. The NRA showcases this by supporting many efforts to preserve and promote hunting heritage. According to the NRA, they are to advocating policies that assure no net loss of public land open to hunting, mentoring programs for new hunters, hunter safety training programs, range development programs, the use of firearm sound suppressors, and the repeal of laws that prohibit hunting on Therefore, the NRA is a trustworthy organization due to their importance to American society. Both images by the NRA, illustrates trust by adding in American aspects, this makes the audience see the poster as something important to the country. The most prominent rhetorical element used by the NRA in their images is Logos. Logos is a property that appeals to the sense of reason and logic. The first Lewis 3 picture the NRA uses depicts a gun in the word and a background reminiscent of the American Flag. This leads their audience to believe that guns are inherently interwoven into what it means to be free in America. This reasoning is brought so that Americans will notice that the of gun control laws are an enormous cultural (Bowen, 299). This basically means that government involvement in gun ownership in the United States is an invasion on a fundamental right. However, their second image depicts deer in the woods with the words our and a hunter in the NRA logo. According to an article by Ryan Notarangelo, Second Amendment protects an individual right to keep and bear arms for the lawful purpose of (241). Therefore, the overall message of this is showing hunting as an essential part of the country and that hunters should work with the NRA to work towards their common desires. Also, seen in this image is a turkey amongst the deer which can be seen as a Thanksgiving reference. The reference shows that hunting and guns is an American tradition. Both of these images uses logic and reason to persuade their audience that guns are a fundamental element of what it means to be an American. Pathos is another element used that appeals to audiences through accessing their emotions. Pathos is applied to the first image by incorporating the term This image also uses pathos by using the colors of the American Flag which is associated with freedom. A plethora of Americans have strong emotions when it Lewis 4 comes to American Freedom because it is what the country is founded upon. By using these emotions in a gun advertisement, the audience feels compelled to synthesize that American freedom and rights are in jeopardy. The hunters of America are targeted in their second image. This artwork attempts to make hunters feel like they must ally with the NRA by showing a hunter in their logo. It influences them that the cause to defend the rights of guns in the country, is their stake too. In accessing all of these strong emotions, the NRA persuades people that their freedom is facing increasing restrictions in an uncompromisingly totalitarian fashion (Bowen 399). The last strategy the NRA utilizes to persuade their audience is Kairos. This element of rhetorical appeals seeks to persuade by using a sense of urgency. Kairos is utilized in the first image with the background of the American Flag. In this poster, the American Flag symbolizes the Second Amendment of the Constitution. According to an article by Notarangelo, gun owners believe that extending gun control laws would be the government taking away Second Amendment rights unlawfully (241). Therefore, the significance of using the American Flag, shows gun owners that they should work against gun control laws with the NRA. In the second poster by the NRA, the same message is being sent with the headline Our According to an article by Matthew Bowen, and tradition tell the story of a Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms for (240). This means that the constitution is longstanding custom that established certain protections for citizens. In using this Lewis 5 stance in their image, the NRA shows Americans that they are quickly working to preserve American gun rights. The NRA establishes a sense of urgency in both of their posters by displaying that Americans should act to save their Second Amendment rights. In modern day society, there is a brewing controversy on the extension of gun control laws in America. Overall the fundamental purpose is continue securing the future of (Bowen 399). This basically means that the NRA works towards stopping the addition of gun control laws in America to make sure freedom is always attainable for every American. The NRA is an organization that utilizes their images to persuade their audience that they are providing an American service in saving Second Amendment rights. This is accomplished by using their images take on American ideals and the four rhetorical appeals; Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos. Through both of these conducts the NRA attempts to sway Americans that their goals are important to society, gun owners, and Americans in general. Lewis 6 Lewis 7 Work Cited The National Rifle Association of America. 2016. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Bowen, Matthew, and Angelica Chang. Veterans on Civilian Gun Society. August 2016, Vol. 53 Issue 4, p398, 10 p. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. The National Rifle Association of America. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Notarangelo, Ryan. Hunting Down the Meaning of The Second Amendment: An American Right to Pursue  South Dakota Law Review 61.2 (2016): 201- 241. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017.