Zambrano 1 Maria Zambrano Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 February 23, 2017 Student loans effects in college students and graduates in United States Education in one of the most important steps in life. The United States provides a free educational system from kindergarten to high school. After graduating from high school, there is an important decision to make; whether to attend postsecondary education, or not. Due to the extreme costs of attendance in college or university, most of the students decide to get into a personal student debt. Student loans has always been looked at as a helpful, but harmful tool to pay for college expenses. Between 2000 and 2010, researches focused more on the percentages of low-income students, to whom the costs of postsecondary education prevent them to attend an university, this due to the fact that the government supported more the private sectors, meaning that less federal funding aim was given to the colleges or universities, making them to raise the costs of attendance considerably. However, recent researches between 2011- 2017, focuses more on the increasing percentages of student loans borrowed by undergraduate and graduate students, and their opinion about the decision they made of getting into debt. Although education should be an inspiration for all humans. The excessive costs of attending postsecondary education, make a barrier between students and their success to pay educational dues. From 2000 to 2010, researches made a major emphasis on the effects that Zambrano 2 reducing the government federal aid to educational institutes in each state of the United States, may have on the decision of whether to attend postsecondary education or not. The author J. Peterson states that figures show that cost factors prevent 48% of college-qualified high school graduates from low-income families from attending a four-year (Peterson 51). He explains the necessity of low-income families to borrow money, whether from federal loan or private loan, in order for their child to study postsecondary education. Simultaneously, the author Peterson mentions that long as state governments are unable to compete more meaningfully and as long as parents are unable to save, volume will grow (Peterson 53). This explains the benefits that banks and private lenders, are going to continue getting, by acquiring more money from the high interest on the loans given. In a second research made by J. Williams in 2006, he wrote that has increased in large part because there is significantly less federal funding to states for education, and the states fund a far smaller percentage of tuition (Williams 54). This can definitely affect for someone, the way of paying for college. He also points out that teaches career (Williams 56). Before getting into a debt, the student must analyze the career path that he or she is going to take, and valuate the amount of money owed at the end with the amount of earnings someone can get after graduating from that particular degree. Despite the previous mentioned researches, simultaneously, researches between 2011- 2017, focuses more on investigations that are more leaned towards the increasing amount of money lent to students and their viewpoint after a couple of years with their loan. The writer C. Vien, wrote that percent of adults with college loans or whose children have loans said they regret how they financed their own or their (Vien 1). Even Zambrano 3 though the person acquiring the loan have the ultimate decision of whether to sign for it or not, people should look deeper before deciding to go into a debt. The high levels of interest can make someone pay almost double of what they actually borrowed to pay tuition, books and other common college expenses. At the same time, one of the main benefits of acquiring higher education, is the qualification for higher paying jobs, which can definitely make someone doubt the decision of not taking a loan. A second research made by M. Luke and S. Frank, shows how can someone receive a low interest rate on a student loan. The author addresses that a result of decades of expanding access to student loans along with the increasing cost of college and the failure of federal grants to keep pace with such costs, the percentages of students with student loans has increased (Luke and Frank 36). Additionally, a loan forgiveness can be acquired after ten years of consecutive payments, if the person decides to work on an educational branch. In synthesis, the United States provides an expensive, but well integrated, postsecondary education system. Some researches dedicated time to the most useful way of paying for college, student loans. Between 2000-2010 and 2011-2017, there have been an important shift to be mentioned. The focus on research about student loans have changed dramatically. The amount of money lent increases every day. There used to be an inclination in researches of how government have been providing less and less aid to public universities in each state of the US, but now the ones who dedicate time to academic journals or analysis, focus extremely more on the fact of the increasing percentages of student loans and their effects after graduation in life. Zambrano 4 Works Cited Cornelius, Luke M., and Sharon A. Frank. Student Loan Debt Levels And Their Implications For Borrowers, Society, And The  Educational Considerations 42.2 (2015): 35-38. ERIC. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Peterson, James R. Students Need You More Than  ABA Banking Journal 96.5 (2004): 50-53. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Vien, Courtney L. 68% Of Americans With Student Loans Are Unhappy With How They Financed  Journal Of Accountancy 220.1 (2015): 1-2. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Williams, Jeffrey J. Debt Education: Bad For The Young, Bad For  Dissent (00123846) 53.3 (2006): 53-59. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017.