Leslie 1 Amanda Leslie Emil Smith Composition 1 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Over time, as college athletics have become bigger and bigger and more and more money has been generated, there has been a greater movement to treat college athletes like employees and to provide them with wages and benefits. While college athletes are in school to earn a degree, most of their time is spent on their sport. It is a widely talked about topic among ex-college athletes, coaches and current players how college athletes spend the same amount of time playing their sport as people do at their job. It is easy to forget that college athletes are not just athletes; they are students first. Their lives are always non-stop from schoolwork to practices to workouts. They often work as strenuously as those who are employed full-time, yet receive none of the benefits. It appears that over time, the opinions on student-athlete compensation have remained relatively consistent, with most agreeing that they are entitled to wages. Critiques from the early 2000s believe it is a well-known fact that colleges receive a large portion of their revenues from their athletes. It is a 60 billion dollar industry. An article in the College Student Journal stated 1988 the NCAA has received in excess of $150 million per year from CBS for rights to broadcast the NCAA basketball 2001). Many agree that since college athletes are bringing in that much money, it is obvious that they should be compensated for it. In fact, some schools earn over $2 million from sponsorship agreement with sporting apparel Leslie 2 companies, such as Nike. Another point that was made was that since coaches are paid so lavishly, students should be entitled to salaries. The salaries of many head coaches can top $100,000 annually. With endorsements, coaches at top programs can earn in excess of $1 million per year. Surprisingly, the modern views on this issue differ very little to the views in the early 2000s. Karaim agreed that since coaches are paid so much, players should be paid too. Karaim argued that has rippled down through college athletics, with escalating salaries and construction of bigger and better sports facilities. Top coaches earn salaries in the millions of dollars, often many times the salary of their For example, Nick Saban receives approximately $6.9 million a year. Moreover, college athletes under a scholarship have to adhere to a strict set of NCAA rules that restricts their ability to earn any type of outside income. Not all scholarships are sufficient to cover the full cost of tuition, room and board. Additionally, scholarships are not guaranteed from year to year, leaving some students having to pay their own way or take on debt to get through college (Karaim 2014). The general opinion in the early 2000s is that the massive demands placed upon student-athletes make them employees. In 2006, McCormick argued that since the athletes are the ones producing the product, they should be the ones receiving the wage. McCormick stated that virtue of this camouflage, the NCAA and its members are permitted, like no other association of institutions or businesses in this country, to employ one type of labor without paying a competitive wage for However, some of these athletes are considered employees by law and the relationship between them and their university is an employee-employer relationship. Colleges earn millions of dollars from Leslie 3 their student athletes. Likewise, corporate sponsors of college teams gain extensive exposure in newspapers, on television, on the internet and other forms of media. Furthermore, McCormick wrote labor in the demanding, and often brutal, college sports vineyard, sometimes risking life and limb, and are entitled, as a matter of right and law, to a just portion of the fruits of their 2006). After 2010, this belief remains unchanged; athletes should be considered employees. Cooper believes that there is more demand put on the athletes than any employee of the universities. Some schedules are even altered to accommodate their practice and game schedules. They may be encouraged to not take certain classes if they conflict with their sport schedule. Cooper goes on to argue that the demands placed upon college athletes are very similar to those expected in the workplace. A standard job involves given time allotments, rules and regulations. Employees are expected to put in their full effort. These characteristics closely resemble those of college athletes. It is clear that the prevailing belief regarding compensation for college athletes has remained stable throughout the past decade. Since the athletes are bringing in millions of dollars for the colleges, working as hard and long as any paying job and have similar rules and restrictions to a job, they should be reimbursed. The majority of people continue to agree that college athletes are entitled to compensation for all of the hard work that they put in. Leslie 4 Works Cited Cooper, Kenneth J. Should College Athletes Be Paid To Play?. Diverse: Issues In Higher Education 28.10 (2011): 12.Biography Reference Bank (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Karaim, Reed. Paying College Athletes: Are Players School  CQ Researcher 24.25 (2014): 577. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. McCormick, Robert A., and Amy Christian McCormick. The Myth Of The Student- Athlete: The College Athlete As  Washington Law Review 81.1 (2006): 71-157. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Schneider, Raymond G. College Perceptions On The Payment Of Intercollegiate  College Student Journal 35.2 (2001): 232- 240. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 18 Feb. 2017.