Daffner 1 Marcus Daffner Composition II Professor Spring 2017 You Shall Not Pass? In August 2014, an undocumented immigrant by the name of Javier Flores resided with his wife and four kids, who are all 10 and under, in Akron, Ohio ( Saslow). Flores was living the American dream, he had come worked his way up to the middle class, now having a steady job as a manager for a glass factory, paying $850 a month in taxes, and living in the quiet and pleasant suburbs (Saslow). Only about a month later Flores found himself handcuffed and on a one way flight back to Mexico unsure if he would ever see his wife and kids again (Saslow). Stories like these give the anonymous immigrants all across America a face. An example of a stakeholder standing up for people like Javier Flores is the Fair Immigration Reform Movement ( FIRM). According to their website, FIRM is a coalition of grassroots organizations fighting for immigrant rights at the local, state and federal (FIRM). The coalition has fought diligently for a more open border within the United States. Established in 2000, the Fair Immigration Reform ultimate goal has been creating unanimous voice of all organizations campaigning for the reform of current border and immigration policies and fighting for civil rights to ultimately improve the living conditions of people of color and low income (FIRM). The coalition believes that by providing citizenship to undocumented immigrants who are currently active members in their communities and are contributing to society will ultimately benefit the economy (FIRM). In the United States, immigrants make up about 13 percent of the population while making up about 17 percent of the Daffner 2 workforce ( Atlantic). Below is an image that represents an opinion of the current immigration policies. (Political Cartoon) Essentially Donald Trump and the Republican Party are firing the Statue of Liberty and her message. The image could be interpreted as Donald Trump and the Republican party essentially throwing out the values of which the border/immigration policies were founded on, which can be seen on the Statue of tablet that reads Give me your tired, your If we delve deeper into the Ethos, Pathos, and Logos of this image we will be able to see a deeper and more elaborate meaning. The Ethos of the image lies within the two Daffner 3 characters portrayed. When viewing the mysterious figure in a suit behind the desk we can assume that he can be interpreted as just the republican party based on the republican logo on the desk. If you read the text coming from the republican that reads we can instantly recognize this as the catchphrase of Donald Trump, also if you look at the mannerism of the hand you can recognize it as signature hand movement. An example of Logos could be the Statue of Liberty, it represents immigration on the east coast of the United States. The Statue of tablet says me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden . This signifies that the United States of America essentially would allow and even welcome any person seeking refuge, a new start, or for any reason would be accepted with open arms into the United States. Thus Donald Trump and the Republican Party firing the Statue of Liberty means that the United States is throwing out its immigration policies. In the first image there are a number of examples of Pathos, for example the size and posture of both the Statue of Liberty and Donald Trump. In reality, the Statue of Liberty is a giant statue that would normally tower over buildings.In the image you can see how the Statue of Liberty is significantly smaller than Donald Trump, also she is slouched in her chair, almost cowering in the presence of Trump. On the other hand Trump is pictured to be large and sitting incredibly straight and tall at his desk, this could be representing the power he has recently acquired or his ultra-inflated ego. If you were to look at the corner where the Statue of Liberty sits you can clearly see a darkness creeping about from underneath her. This could represent the negative feelings toward the way Trump has been dealing with the immigration Daffner 4 policies. The light shining from the Statue of torch still provides light to the picture, this can be interpreted as the artist still believing that there is hope for the country and that even in times of strife and oppression there will alway be glimmer of hope to keep trying. Another example of a stakeholder participating in the ever evolving issue of immigration would be the Federation for American Immigration Reform ( FAIR). According to their website, Federation for American Immigration Reform is a non-profit, non-partisan organization of concerned individuals who believe that our immigration laws must be reformed to better serve the needs of current and future (FAIR). FAIR seeks to educate the public about the current and pressing issues that surround the controversial topic of immigration, create their own solutions and present them to the public, and ensure that the voice of the public is heard by our leaders ( FAIR). ultimate goal is to limit immigration to a manageable number within the ballpark of about 300,000 immigrants each year, which would give time for the U.S. to adjust accordingly to population growth. Below is an image that represents the ideals of FAIR. (NewsMax) Daffner 5 This image depicts a man holding up a sign that reads My family did it right everyone else can From the sign we can assume that the man himself is an immigrant. Based on the image itself we can infer that this man is at protest of some sort against illegal immigration. The Ethos of the image is that the man comes from an immigrant family. This man has had the experience of legally immigrating into the US. Himself and his family know what life is like in Mexico and understand the importance of entering the US legally. The Logos of the image would be the decision this family made. The man shown in the image opposes illegal immigration because of the negative effect it has on himself as well as the US economy. According to website, as of 2006 in Pennsylvania, the education of illegal children costs an estimated $285 million ( FAIR). FAIR estimates that in 2020 this cost will rise to an astounding $812 million (FAIR). An example of pathos in this picture would be the expression on the face. His face looks somber but very serious. In the US 52% of all illegal immigrants are Mexican, because Mexicans make up most of the illegal immigrant population, Mexicans are easily associated with illegal immigrants in the US ( al). Also 62% Hispanics who are born in the US are likely to experience discrimination occasionally and regularly while 41% of immigrants say they experience discrimination or unfair treatment because of their ethnicity (Krogstad and These statistics reveal the struggle that hispanics and immigrants face while being in the US. The man in the picture knows this struggle and his face shows the pain that he and his family go through. Both Stakeholders have a vested interest in the outcome of the debate that surround immigration, but they both only want what is best for the country. FIRM aims to ultimately Daffner 6 protect the rights of undocumented immigrants and provide a clear path to citizenship. FAIR believes that the current immigration policies are too lenient and believe that tighter regulation of immigration will allow the economy to grow with the increasing population instead of the population outgrowing the economy. While organizations battle it out over the topic of immigration, it is the people like Javier Flores who are harmed. The faceless masses of immigrants who are subject to discrimination, deportation, and uncertainty for their future while two parties argue over what is right and what is wrong. There is no clear answer to the problem of immigration, it is ultimately up to you to decide and then advocate for what you believe in. Daffner 7 Works Cited Change Takes  Immigration Reform Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Home Federation for American Immigration  Federation for American Immigration Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Illegal Immigration Sparks Protests Across  21 July 2014. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Krogstad, Jens Manuel, Jeffrey S. Passel, and Cohn. 5 Facts about Illegal Immigration in the  Research 03 Nov. 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Krogstad, Jens Manuel, and Gustavo Roughly Half of Hispanics Have Experienced  Research 29 June 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. PoliticalCartoons.com  Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Saslow, An Undocumented Dream  Washington WP Company. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. The Pew Charitable Trusts, Route Fifty. Immigrants in the Workforce, State by State and Industry By  Atlantic Media Company, 07 Jan. 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.