Caruso 1 Paige Caruso Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 3/5/17 Technology and Children In this day and age, technology plays a huge part in everyday activities. Not only are adults being affected by the new and fascinating technology, children are being subjected to it as well. There is an increased use of computers at elementary schools in addition to abundant learning that is being done through some form of technological media. Learning is not being restricted to the classroom as media based learning is also done at home. Children are exposed to screens from the day they enter this world now, children have televisions in their rooms, handheld toys that are by theirs sides (i.e. Leapfrog), and an increased trend of children under ten receiving all access to smartphones or tablets. Within the past ten years the rate of growth of technology has changed exponentially. Just a decade ago, smartphones were an unrealistic idea, and today they are seen in every hand. Children are being exposed to so much more technological things now, how do parents and teachers know if what they are doing is harmful or beneficial? While the rapid progression of technology in home and the classroom seems like a fantastic idea and a way to create individual learning, research over the past decade has not changed much as the constant idea is that the need of parents and teachers to be present during learning is just as important as the content being taught. Research done in 2005 and 2010 was limited but had the same root ideas the recent research within the past few years has. Michael Eisenberg wrote a research paper Educational Caruso 2 Technology, , where he explains that technology in education is not simply desktop computers and education is not restricted to the classroom. This was a new idea because before now classrooms were where all learning was done and if any technology was used it was strictly desktop computers. Elementary aged kids are exposed to all sorts of technological items such as, 3-D printers, automated sewing machines and handheld E books. This type of learning is exposed outside of the classroom but still qualifies as an educational aspect of the life. Eisenberg looks at past anthropological themes that shape children and their use of technology. of these economies, rooms, rituals, displays, and represents an opportunity to rethink educational (Eisenberg, 32) He further explains the themes and evaluates how technology can play a part in that part of a young adolescence life. Another past research that was done was in 2005 by Lau, Higgins, Gelfer, Hong, and Miller who wrote a paper, The Effects Of Teacher Facilitation On The Social Interactions Of Young Children During Computer , conducted an experiment/research study of 18 groups of children that included both disabled and non-disabled children. The groups also involved teachers who acted as facilitators and ones who did not. The result was found that children benefit greatly from teacher interaction. The students (with or without disabilities) in the groups with a teacher present (and giving instruction) had a more positive time illustrated by their social behaviors, they were more friendly and overall and happier about the entire situation that the kids without the facilitator. The result and solution to the continuous impact of technology in education was that a teacher needs to lead the programs when the students are doing technology based learning rather than leaving children to fend for themselves on the computers. Theses researchers show us that even a decade ago the idea that Caruso 3 technology can be a good thing if instructed by the adult in lives takes a part in the learning activities. Studies in the past laid the groundwork for resent research about children and technology based learning. In 2010 Ching-Ting, Hsin, Li Ming-Chaun, and Tsai Chin-Chung wrote an academic journal The Influence of Young Use of Technology on Their Learning: A  In the journal the authors bring to light the idea that when children are instructed by teachers while using technology to learn the result is overall better. The main question being asked is by the researchers is the technology-related practices developmentally appropriate for young (Ching-Ting, 86) The study also found that interaction with their children and technology greatly effects the outcome as well. Children whose parents provided them with a safe learning environment succeeded exponentially rather than children with parents who left them to their own demise. This shows us that children thrive on direction in where to go with their technology. In school, it was found that children strived when using technology based math learning and online books they could read with their friends. This is because when they incorporate technology and their friends it is easier than alone, this goes back to how young students do better with direction from their parents. Similar to the ideas presented in The Effects of Teacher Facilitation on The Social Interactions of Young Children During Computer  By Lau and her colleges they both bring up the need for adults to be around for learning to do any good to the child. Finally, the journal, Playing with Technology: Is It All , written by Slutsky, Ruslan, Mindy Slutsky, and Lori M. Shelter takes into consideration that technology is a growing trend and that we must learn how to shape it to benefit us the most. If a child sits in front of a television all day they then have no time to play and act out what they learned in the supposed learning program, this is where a facilitator comes in, the parents or Caruso 4 teacher regulates how much screen time is allowed and produces intervals of non-technology activities. The writers describe positive technology as such that is open ended, leaving room for creative thinking. They say problem is that there is too much technology compared to the amount of (Slutsky,20). It is like the saying is good in the same goes for technology around children, it is the parent or teachers job to instruct to moderation. While the rapid progression of technology in home and the classroom seems like a fantastic idea and a way to create individual learning, research over the past decade has not changed much as the constant idea is that the need of parents and teachers to be present during learning is just as important as the content being taught. Over the past ten to fifteen years there has not been much change on the thought of technology learning and children. Research among all four sources has shown that the impact of technology on children and adolescence has become more accepted and beneficial when there is an authoritative figure around mediating the learning. Caruso 5 Ching-Ting, Hsin, Li Ming-Chaun, and Tsai Chin-Chung. The Influence of Young Use of Technology on Their Learning: A  Journal of Educational Technology & Society 17.4 (2014): 85-99. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Eisenberg, Michael. Educational Technology,  New Directions for Youth Development 2010.128 (2010): 25-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Lau, Cynthia, et al. The Effects of Teacher Facilitation on The Social Interactions of Young Children During Computer  Topics in Early Childhood Special Education 25.4 (2005): 208. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Slutsky, Ruslan, Mindy Slutsky, and Lori M. Shelter. Playing with Technology: Is It All  Dimensions of Early Childhood 42.3 (2014): 18-23. Education Source. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.