Napoliello 1 Dylan Napoliello Adam Phillips ENC 1102.022 26 February 2017 Rhetorical Appeals and Their Uses Since the start of solar panel usage, there has been much controversy in the public and private sectors of business and government. The powerhouses of fossil-fuel energy seek to continue the production and use of fossil-fuels, believing it to be more reliable and economically efficient. However, the side pushing for an increase in the use of solar power has sprouted multiple organizations that each work to further the collective cause. Among these organizations lies SEIA, the Solar Energy Industries Association, an organization that works to organize events for solar power progression and helps people find jobs in the field. They also entice the public to assist them in furthering their goals by using promotional advertisements, which are made up of images making use of the rhetorical appeals; ethos, logos, pathos and Kairos. The Solar Energy Industries Association is a non-profit group of over a thousand member companies working to expand the solar market. They have been in play since 1974, around the time solar energy started to take a noticeable hold over the public. One of the ways that they help to expand the solar market is by helping those who seek jobs find them in the solar power trade. By doing so, they assist in reducing unemployment, while at the same time furthering their cause. They also help to make solar power more affordable for consumers, and take direct participation in the implementation of solar panels. In the year 2012, SEIA merged itself with The Solar Alliance, an organization that wants to put into practice state legislation on solar Napoliello 2 energy policies. sister organization, The Solar Foundation, manages education and outreach programs to help further the development of solar energy policies in the United States. Image one presents a family in front of a sunset, most likely in an attempt to appeal to the emotions, while image two presents workers, presumably those whom SEIA has given jobs. This is more likely to appeal to the self-interest of the unemployed in the audience. In the aforementioned advertisements, are the four hidden rhetorical appeals. One of these appeals, pathos, is used to appeal to the emotions or self-interest of the audience. In the first image, Napoliello 3 we see a family standing together in front of a sunset background. Right from the start, one can see that SEIA is attempting appeal to parents and family. By holding a happy family in front of a colorful sunset, SEIA seems to be attempting an appeal to the parents in the audience, and their parental instincts to care for their children, and are hoping that this emotion will drive them to want to help SEIA make the world cleaner for their future (Williams, 2015.). In addition, the word is in a different color than the rest of the words in the image, even further using the children as a means to appeal to the emotions (Williams, 2015.). In image two, we have three panels of pictures taken of actual workers SEIA has helped to find jobs in the solar market. The pathos in this image most likely comes from a sense of community, like the one shown in the final panel. The intended audience for this image is made up of those looking for work, which is indicated by the presence of the workers in the images. By using images of real workers SEIA has given jobs, they not only become a credible source but appeal to the self-interest of their target audience (Williams, 2015.). Logos is the appeal that represents logic or reason in an argument. The logos in image one is hard to find, but is seen in the same place as the pathos in the image. The image contains a happy family sitting in front of a sunset. This not only appeals to families that want to be happy, but also makes the statement that if they want to be happy, they should invest time in solar energy (Williams, 2015.). It also ties into the idea that solar power will help the environment stay healthy for their kids in that if a parent wants their children to grow up in a clean environment that they should invest in solar power (Williams, 2015.). In image two, the logos is found within the construction workers. This is a sort of logos that ties into ethos, in which the rhetor cites a source that contains experience in the field of subject (Williams, 2015.). In this case, SEIA acts as the rhetor, using real workers as their source and attempting to make potential workers believe that if Napoliello 4 these workers got their jobs from SEIA, that they should give them a call if they want such a job. It also suggests that they should do the same if they desire the same community as is depicted in the three panels. While logos has uses that relate to credibility, ethos is the rhetorical appeal that concerns authority or credibility. By using ethos, an advertisement gains credibility with their audience. In image number one, the ethos comes from the pictured family and from SEIA itself. The family presented in the image also has ethos because the target audience of this image is the parents in a family (Williams, 2015.). When a mother or father views this image, they see the family first. The intention is that they will then think that if another family has benefited from solar power in some way, so will they (Williams, 2015.). The part of the ethos that comes from SEIA is more obvious. A member of the audience would be inclined to trust an advertisement that comes from one of the largest solar power advocate groups in the world. In the second image, the ethos comes mostly from the workers depicted. As previously stated, the images are of actual workers SEIA has helped find jobs. When advertisements come from those directly benefited from the source of the advertisement, the credibility skyrockets (Williams, 2015.). This image also shares the ethos from SEIA that is present in image number one. Aside from the usual three appeals, the lesser known Kairos is the rhetorical appeal that relates to timeliness (Nordquist, 2015.). Kairos is used when an advertisement is released at an opportune time for its success. For instance, a presidential campaign ad released a year after the election would not be as effective as being released during the campaign. In both images, kairos plays an important role. Solar energy is becoming larger every year, and right now is a great time to start advertising for it. The first image contains the family that has been previously discussed. The kairos in this image is that not only is solar power growing every year, but families are heavily Napoliello 5 encouraged to act now rather than later (Nordquist, 2015.). This is because of climate acceleration due to fossil fuel usage. The second kairos is associated with the unemployed. Unemployment was a publicly discussed issue at the time of the release, and no doubt was used to take advantage of that (Nordquist, 2015.). In conclusion, each of these images uses rhetorical appeals to strengthen their arguments. They do this by forming a target audience, and editing their images accordingly so that the proper rhetorical appeals meet the appropriate audience. purpose in using the images is to accelerate the expansion of the solar power market. In doing so, they would expand the use of clean and affordable energy sources in the United States and elsewhere. SEIA does this by hiring new workers to assist in the market expansion. They also ally themselves with other organizations in order to pass legislation on solar power policies. If they succeed, people today and in the generations to come will have clean, affordable, and efficient energy powering their appliances and homes. Napoliello 6 Works Cited Energy Industries SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association, www.seia.org/. Williams, George H. Dr. Williams : USC Upstate : English Program / Ethos-Pathos-Logos-The-3-Rhetorical-Appeals, 2015, georgehwilliams.pbworks.com/w/page/14266873/Ethos-Pathos-Logos-The-3-Rhetorical- Appeals. Accessed 11 Mar. 2017. Nordquist, Richard. The Right Time and the Right ThoughtCo, 16 Oct. 2015, www.thoughtco.com/kairos-rhetoric-term-1691209. Accessed 11 Mar. 2017.