Thorpe1 Geno Thorpe Professor Paquette ENC.1101.Composition 3/4/17 Free tuition for community college has been a topic for a numerous amount of years. Although we have made strides to give opportunities of free tuition, should community college have free tuition is still an unanswered question to people of our generation. Between the years 2000-2010, there have been many ideas of how free tuition can become existent and benefit college students. The points that were being made over seven years ago are still similar to the facts today about the tuition. Not only could these benefit students by giving them an opportunity of further education but could also help of economy as well. Another concern that was found of the past years was the cost of college tuitions rising every year to a substantial amount of money. These universities were making tuition almost unaffordable for even middle class families. As years go by the creation of financial aid and academic scholarships have created a pathway for more students to receive a higher education. Having a free scholarship to a university is not easy to obtain or come by, but my research is proof that free tuition for community college can be possible. the financial hardship of the country, simply astonishing that colleges and universities would have this kind of Mr. Callan said. tells you that higher education is still a market. The level of debt asking people to undertake is unsustainable. A lot of people think we can solve the Thorpe1 problem with more financial aid, but I think we have to have some cost containment. For all the talk about reinventing higher education, I see any (Tamar). For my sources that were more recent between 2011-2016, it shows that we are moving closer to having free tuition for community college. Although the information may seem different the main argument still seems to be the same. In the first source written by Professor Goldrick, there are a similar amount of reasons and concerns of free tuition. The second journal article by Marie Gould gave a viewpoint of free tuition from the year 2015 aspect. Some of the facts that were given in these articles are very informing but presented in different ways. In the first article listed it was more relevant to what our economy is going through currently with college tuition of the education system. Professor Glodrick helped with the Obama planning of funds for free tuition for students who have received this reward. proposal for tuition-free community college, issued earlier this year, seems to have laid down a marker for the Democratic Party. Vermont senator Bernie Sanders is touting his plan for free four-year public college on the primary trail; Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren called for in a high-profile speech; and former senator and U.S. secretary of state Hillary Clinton has proposed her own plans for tuition-free community college and tuition at four-year public (Glodrick). The message that was that free tuition can give students that opportunity, but they could not guarantee the college or success of the student. With the second journal article that was only a few years back, has information on older adult students and universities who have established policies for their free tuition. It was more of information of our society and the credit situation of our community education. Toward the end of the journal page it gave Thorpe1 summaries of free tuition being attractive and older students might of got reduced tuition by the early 1970. It also gave a list of concepts that have been trying to fight for the attraction of free tuition to benefit students. All of these journal articles demonstrated the difference of information but the concept of the main subject has not changed after generations. There are many reasons why my topic can be beneficial and can give more young people opportunities. College has become a system of higher education only for people who are able to afford tuition, the other half are fighting for loans or play a sport that is able to cover their scholarship. People today are still fighting for free community college but after doing research on articles in the past, my topic has not changed over the period of time. Thorpe1 Work Cited Goldrick-Rab, Sara, and Andrew P Kelly. community college be free? Education next talks with Sara Goldrick-Rab and Andrew Forum. Education Next, 14 Oct. 2015. Web. 22 Jan. 2016. Gould, Marie. Tuition-Free  Research Starters: Education (Online Edition), 2015. EBSCOhost. Sawhill, Isabel V, and Stephanie Owen. Should everyone go to college? Brookings, 29 July 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2013. Lewin, Tamar. College May Become Unaffordable for Most in  The New York Times. The New York Times, 02 Dec. 2008. Lewin, Tamar. College Costs Keep Rising, Report  The New York Times. The New York Times, 20 Oct. 2009.