Caleb Scott Enc 1101 3/5/2017 Throughout history the conversation over whether or not Americans should get rid of the penny has changed very little. It has floated around for a long time but no matter how many times the idea pops up it always gets shot down. Anti penny activists will point out that it costs more to make a penny than worth and that no one wants pennies so they fall out of circulation quickly and fall into coin jars. Then Save the Penny activists will counter with the fact that studies show that abolition of the penny will cause financial crisis. about time that Americans accept the fact that pennies are here to stay. In the late there was a strong call for the elimination of pennies. In 1990 Raymond E Lombra went before the senate banking committee on behalf of the Americans for common cents. Raymond pointed out many good reasons for the continued existence of the penny. First he pointed out that the average cost of goods would increase due to rounding tactics that businesses would employ. Throughout his speech he refers to this as a rounding tax that would heavily impact the poorer portion of the population. Lombra hits another key point that pennies will be in circulation for some period of time so even though it costs us mints 1.7 Cents to make one they are getting their value out of it. Lombra also brings into light that according to some surveys most Americans favor keeping the penny in circulation for one reason or another. In 1994 the idea of removing the penny from circulation still appeals to some individuals even though the ideas obvious dangers have been brought into the light. New Republics article brings the same problems back into the light to shut down the idea once more. The only differences are the events surrounding this time period. When this article was released the general public was calling for new bills that be counterfeited. While we did receive a new set of bills that were much harder to replicate the idea of removing the penny was again shot down. New Republic also points out that people love the penny for a multitude of reasons. There are sentimental reasons as well as practical ones to keep the penny. Amy Livingston wrote a great article in 2013 that summarizes both sides of the argument very well. She does an amazing job of showing how pennies keep prices low and keep us from the rounding tax. A unique point made in her argument was that rely on Television is crowded with plenty of ads about how for a few pennies a day you can change Later in her article Livingston claims that Americans are emotionally attached to the penny. are to the penny because it brings back happy childhood memories of saving pennies in piggy banks and seeing them eventually turn into While this sounds childish and unreasonable to some a genuine reason that we like pennies. Livingston continues by calling pennies useless and a waste of time.She makes a very valid point that you purchase anything with a single penny. Also her claim that they are a waste of time is supported by the idea that cashiers are wasting time fiddling with the small coins to make change that the customer probably want anyways. Of all the sources in this paper this is that strongest one on the account that it establishes so much for both sides of the argument. While Livingston is clearly anti penny she does a good job of keeping her writing relatively unbiased. The U.S. Department of histories History of the Lincoln Does an amazing job of the past of the penny. The U.S. Department of History develops the argument by showing how the penny has changed over the years. It makes it simple to see when arguments around the penny formed and what other events impacted the decision. The penny has a long history involving many visual changes as well as some changes to its metallic properties. The most recent being in 1982 when U.S. mints decided that it was time to change the penny to being 97.6% Zinc and 2.4% copper. This change lowered cost of production as well as the physical value of the coin. just a few years later that the anti penny activists start popping up causing mayhem. The way this source connects the history of the penny with the history of its removal is invaluable.