Plouffe 1 Michaela Plouffe Adam Phillips ENC 1102 24 February 2017 United States Students Association The opportunity for one to further their education at a university reaps countless benefits, but for some this opportunity is too far out of reach. It is no secret that attending a university is not cheap. In fact, student debt in the United States is at an all time high, sitting at $1.3 trillion (Free Higher Education). The United States Student Association sees how damaging this can be not only to individuals but also to society as a whole. They want to put an end to student debt and want to create free public higher education for all. They try to achieve this goal by working to persuade people to join their cause and make their voice heard. The images posted on the United States Student website have appeals and features that communicate their goal of making higher education completely free. One image is an image is a poster for their Free Higher Education campaign featuring a photograph of a protest and the other image is a photograph of the protesters marching in Washington D.C. By analyzing the purpose and the rhetorical appeals of pathos and logos within the images on their website it can be understood how the images can be effective in acting as persuasive tactics. The United States Student Association is the largest and oldest student-led organization in the country. They have developed multiple campaigns dedicated to promoting justice in education. They believe education is a natural right and should be accessible to everyone. The United States Student Association is aware of how the high costs of higher education creates inequality. They created a Free Higher Education campaign to put an end to student debt by developing a plan to Plouffe 2 make all public four-year universities tuition free. To execute their goal, they will gain massive public support by educating students on college campuses and will express their power through large protest They will make it clear that they are displeased with the current polices and demand change. The United States Student Association also wants to increase democratic governance on college campuses. By looking at the goals of the United States Student Association the purpose of the images on their website can be better understood. The purpose of the United States Student website is work as persuasive tactics to grow their campaign. Image one is a campaign poster promoting their free higher education campaign. The purpose of image one is to get the audience to feel moved to put an end to student debt and to act on those feelings by joining their campaign. The image is trying to persuade people to work with them to develop free higher education. Image two is a photograph of a group of protesters from the United States Student Association marching across the street. The purpose of image two is to show the audience how they reach their goals. The image shows how their organization protests and works in Washington to make change. Like image one, image two also tries to make the audience feel motivated to work for their campaigns. By analyzing the rhetorical images of each of these images the purpose of each image can be better understood. Pathos is the rhetorical appeal concerning the emotions the image gives the audience. In the book Rhetoric Really Matters, Kendra Gayle, Jessica Mckee, and Megan McIntyre say, appeal to emotion, or is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Gayle, Mckee, & McIntyre 37). In Image one, the phrase to and the black and white color scheme makes the audience feel as if they are being kept in the dark and trapped by debt. These feelings establish a pathos appeal, making the audience feel a certain way. In image two, the people marching makes the audience feel as if they Plouffe 3 should be taking action and to fight what they believe in. The capitol building in the background also gives the audience a sense of patriotism and reminds them how the united states is a democratic country. These feelings establish a pathos appeal, making the audience feel a certain way. Both images capture protest occurring which can stir up emotions within in the audience. Pnina Werbner looks at how the aesthetics of protest in North Africa and the Middle East create emotions with in people and motivates them to join such protests in her book, The Political Aesthetics of Global Protests: The Arab Spring and Beyond. She says, protest provided a format for expressing ideas and emotions that were culturally resonant. However, there is more to the images of protest than that, for a while they helped define a form of protest, they also helped generate its emotional (Werbner 37). She also later notes that, emotional power of the image helped create the outrage, which then had to be channeled in the form of (Werbner 37). Images of protest create emotions within the audience. These emotions often act as a call of action, making the audience want to get involved in the cause. By observing the images on the United States Student website, it is clear that they are using their images to motivate people to join their cause. While the images present an emotional appeal to the audience, they also present a logical appeal to the audience. Logos is the rhetorical appeal concerning how logical an image is. In the book Rhetoric Really Matters, Emily Lane, Jessica Mckee, and Megan McIntyre say, is the appeal to logic. Logos like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Lane, Mckee, & McIntyre 32). In image one, the words opportunity, and present a logos appeal, because those are logical things to want. Most people, if not everyone, wants to be treated fairly, to have the same opportunities as others, and to have their voices heard. The Plouffe 4 and protest are also an appeal, because it is logical to fight and work for something you believe in. In image two, the people calmly protesting and marching presents a logos appeal. Its logical to have a peaceful protest for a cause you believe in. Herman L. Boschken examines the logic of political protest in his article, The Logic of Protest Action. He analyzes how there are certain benefits and cost that arises when a collective groups decides to make a political statement by participating in a protest. In his conclusion he notes, logic of protest action suggests several implications, but perhaps the most important is that, though its analytical structure, it more systematically allows both disenfranchised groups and established collective decision units to better assess and evaluate their own and opposition (Boschken 70). While not all protests are successful, ever protest has great potential to start change. A protest establishes that there is a problem present that needs to be addressed. One of the United States Student main strategies of their Free Higher Education campaign is to make sure their voices are heard, so that they can successfully have free higher education developed in the United States. The national debt is a huge problem in the United States. It prevents equality by taking away the opportunity of higher education from many people. The United States Student Association believes making higher education free would decrease student debt tremendously and would increase opportunity for all. The images on the website express their goal of making higher education free. By analyzing the purpose and the rhetorical appeals of pathos and logos with in the images on their website it can be understood how the images can be effective in acting as persuasive tactics. The United States Student Association effectively uses these rhetorical appeals to achieve their goals. The images create a call of action affect and motivate people to work towards the cause. By understanding how to properly use rhetorical appeals, Plouffe 5 people can use these persuasive tactics in their own lives, so that they can motivate other people to work towards causes they are passionate about to spark change. Plouffe 6 Image one: Image two: Plouffe 7 Works Cited Boschken, Herman L. Logic of Protest The Western Political Quarterly, no. 1,1975, p. 59. Free Higher  United States Student Association. United States Student Association, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Free Higher Education Toolkit. Digital image. Free Higher Education. United States Student Association, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. United States Student Association. United States Student Association, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. USSA Banner Image. Digital image. United States Student Association. United States Student Association, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Werbner, Pnina, et al. The Politial Aesthetics of Global Protest: The Arab Spring and Beyond. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 2014., 2014