Behan 1 Nathan Behan Professor Staiger Composition II 12 March 2017 Rhetorical Concepts in Tesla Advertisements Tesla Motors as a company is changing the automotive world. What started as a brainstorming idea from Paypal and SpaceX founder Elon Musk, turned into one of the most popular rising automotive companies of the Koning). Tesla is not an average car company; it creates electric powered vehicles only. This company believes that the era of the internal combustion vehicle is over, and the future of automobiles is the electric car. The electric car means zero emissions as well as zero use of fossil fuels. Tesla Motors uses advertisements that utilize Ethos, Logos, Pathos and Kairos in order to show why people should invest in electric vehicles. The rhetorical concept of ethos is an appeal to credibility. An example of the use of this concept is in Image Two through the new roadster model from Tesla. By creating sporty and interesting looking cars, Tesla as well as other electric car companies are able to show that an electric car does not have to be boring, which is more relatable to younger people as well as car enthusiasts of all ages. Having attractive, sporty cars help increase popularity in the brand as well as with sales. After announcing the new Tesla Roadster model, Tesla sales have increased in the past year (Stringham, Miller, Clark) Another appeal these images make is through logos, which appeals to logic. In Image One, logos is present through the depiction of the Earth as either a polluted mess or clean and Behan 2 utilizing wind turbines. Essentially, the advertisement is trying to say that logically, buying electric cars through Tesla will lead to a world with less pollution that utilizes clean energy. Therefore, if one chooses not to buy a Tesla car, they are attributing to pollution and basically killing Earth. This puts positive pressure on purchasing a Tesla vehicle. Appealing to emotions is another very effective strategy used in advertisements, and this concept is called pathos. The quote shown at the top of image one is a prime example of this. By saying more than just choosing a Tesla attempts to make purchasing an electric car seem like a world-changing act. Using the clean and polluted Earth comparison, the quote makes people feel like they are almost saving the world if they buy a vehicle from Tesla. The second image uses pathos as well by stating that archaeologists of the future are going to have no clue what a gas station is. This seems comical because gas stations are so relevant today, there is no way they would be forgotten anytime soon. The next rhetorical concept is called kairos, which relates to time. This is a main subject in both images, putting stress on how electric cars will be better off in the long run. The first image shows the two ways the environment will change over time if people either do or do not start investing in electric vehicles. The polluted left side depicting smog and a factory show what they think the world would look like in the future. This is compared to the right side which is sunny and shows wind turbines, hinting at clean energy use. The second image uses the depiction of an old and run-down gas station found by archaeologists of the future. The future is shown as a place with no need for gas stations, with no need to pay for gas. Tesla wants people to think this is the future that will come if everyone buys a Tesla vehicle. Behan 3 Both of these images show what Tesla is fighting for: a better world. They show that the gas stations that we rely on are not necessary, and that the environment as a whole would greatly benefit from the switch to electric vehicles. Without the need for fossil fuels, people would save incredible amounts of money by not having to stop at a gas station to fill their car up every couple of weeks. Electric vehicles also have zero emissions from their motors, which leads to a cleaner environment. Another point being made is the fact that fossil fuels are a limited resource; they will not last forever. At the rate which we are consuming fossil fuels, fifty years from now the Earth will have run out of crude oil (Weldon, Morrissey, This only strengthens the argument Tesla makes in the race against internal combustion vehicles. By utilizing Ethos, Logos, Pathos and Kairos, these two images from Tesla Motors attempt to turn the tide in the argument for electric vehicles. Using rhetorical concepts leads to more relatable ways of communicating a point, and all forms of communication have at least one of these concepts. These advertisements would have no effect and would not even be an advertisement if none of these rhetorical concepts were used. Behan 4 Behan 5 Behan 6 Works Cited and Martin Koning. Electric Vehicles: A Tentative Economic And Environmental  Policy 23.(2012): 60-69. . Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Stringham, Edward Peter, Jennifer Kelly Miller, and J. R. Clark. Overcoming Barriers To Entry In An Established Industry: TESLA  Management Review 57.4 (2015): 85. Provided Full Text Searching File . Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Weldon, Peter, Patrick Morrissey, and Margaret Environmental Impacts Of Varying Electric Vehicle User Behaviours And Comparisons To Internal Combustion Engine Vehicle Usage An Irish Case  Of Power Sources 319.(2016): 27-38. ScienceDirect . Web. 09 Mar. 2017.