Barnhill 1 Renee Barnhill Professor Staiger ENC 1102.005 14 March 2017 Pro-BSL Organization The Dogsbite Organization is an organization that stands by Breed-Specific Legislation (BSL). BSL are laws that allow areas to ban the ownership of certain breeds that are labeled as dangerous. However, this primary focus are breeds that get categorized as such as the English bulldog, American Staffordshire terrier, and the bull mastiff. The motto is dogs let (Dogsbite website). This refers to these lock jaw, which is a trait that allows their jaw to lock down on an object. This organization uses victim stories from their webpage to sway their audience to agree with their opinion, which is that breed-specific legislation is the only way to protect the public from dangerous canines. This idea is a logical fallacy known as a false dilemma. Logical fallacies are incorrect arguments in logic which undermines the logical soundness of the argument. A false dilemma does this by telling the audience that there is only one solution to a problem. This organizations argument that BSL is the only way to stop dog attacks is a false dilemma that was created to get the audience to sway more towards their side of this debate. Other ways to an audience are through rhetorical appeals. The Dogsbite Organization incorporates images that contain rhetorical appeals such as logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos to get the audience to agree that are dangerous by nature and Breed-Specific Legislation is the only solution to the dog attack epidemic. The Dogsbite Organization uses pathos, emotional appeals, in their images to grab the attention and lead them to read the victim stories on their page. Many of the images this organization uses are associated with victim stories. These images attract the Barnhill 2 attention allowing for a higher chance of these viewers to read the victim stories associated with the image. The first image is an example of an image that is linked to a victim story. In this case, it is a photograph taken of a dog attack memorial. The image shows how fatal these dog attacks can be when a pit bull breed is involved in an attack. The organization uses pathos in the form of sympathy to prove to the audience that these breeds are dangerous and in some cases, like the one shown, deadly. This image also gives the audience a sense of fear that is correlated with these breeds. When the viewer looks at this images and correlates the death of this man to a pit bull breed, they are left with fear of these breeds. The other image also correlates fear with these breeds. The second image uses a chart with the percentage if the dog attacks from different breeds but is zoomed in to where the audience can only see the percentage of attacks that pit bull breeds are involved in. Both images give the audience a sense of fear of these breeds but do so with different techniques. Though the first photo does not give the audience a sense of timeliness, the second image uses kairos to show that attacks are still relevant today. Kairos is the rhetorical appeal to an sense of timeliness. The second image is a representation of an dog bite fatality chart this shows that these incidents are still relevant in current news. The Dogsbite Organization has been updating this chart every year since 2005. This chart is created from the data gathered from the CDC, eyewitnesses and victims of these attacks (Dogsbite website). This chart gives the audiences a sense of relevance to this topic and allows them to be more likely to agree with the beliefs or just allow them to read more about this issue. The Dogsbite Organization uses their eyewitness and victim stories in a way that gives their beliefs credibility. Credibility is also known as ethos. The first image shows ethos because Barnhill 3 it is an actual photo taken of a memorial service. This is one of the many photographs that are a part of a victim attack story. These images show how real and serious these attacks are and gives the audience more reason to agree with the organizations beliefs. A viewer can find these images anywhere on the Dogsbite website. The images also allow for the audience to be more likely to read the victim stories connected to these photographs. The use of logos in these images are used to give the audience more evidence to favor this belief on this topic instead of the various other beliefs. The second photo uses logos to show that pit bull breeds cause more attacks than any other breed between 2005 and 2015. The chart states that were accountable for sixty-four percent of the attacks within those years (Dogsbite website). This information is used to spook the audience into believing that these breeds are more dangerous than any other breed and therefore they should be banned as pets to keep the public safe. However, there are a few problems with this claim starting with are not a set breed but instead it is a label given to any canine with a certain set of physical traits. This already gives these breeds a disadvantage on this chart because the category is actually many breeds clumped together under this label. In a psychological study, it was seen that the average person cannot accurately identify a breed solely on appearance (Gunter, Barber, Wynne). This means that both victims and eyewitnesses cannot clearly identify the attackers breed. Another concern regarding this image is all the attacks that go unrecorded do to the lack of severity of the attack or the size of the attacker. Many attacks that are caused by smaller breeds like the Jack Russel terrier go unrecorded in many public documentations, though these dogs are more likely to show aggression then larger breeds (Pratt 858). This information goes unstated in the Dogsbite Barnhill 4 Organizations set of data. Without outside research the audience is more likely to see this chart as credible and logical therefore leading them to believe the ideas created by this organization. When a stakeholder posts a photo or image in its argument it is always to benefit that argument. For the Dogsbite Organization these images are supporting their belief that, breed- specific legislation against canines categorized as is the only way to protect the public from fatal canine attacks. The first photo gives the audience an emotional appeal that allows them to have a feeling of fear towards these breeds and sympathy to the victims that post their stories on their website. As well as, using actual attack stories and images give their belief credibility and moral support from the audience. The second image is made to appeal more towards the audiences logical and timely mindset. With kairos it proves that this problem is still a reoccurring issue that has not been handled. While using the logical appeal to consider the chart which in turn also causes the audience to fear these breeds. However, this organization had a few flaws in their chart that make their logic bias to their viewpoint on this topic. Overall, the Dogsbite Organization uses various rhetorical appeals in images to provide more evidence that supports their beliefs. Barnhill 5 Work Cited 2015 U.S. Dog Bite  DogsBite.org - Some dogs let go. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. Gunter, Lisa M., Rebecca T. Barber, and Clive D. L. Wynne. in a Name? Effect of Breed Perceptions & Labeling on Attractiveness, Adoptions & Length of Stay for Pit- Bull-Type  Plos One 11.3 (2016): n. pag. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Http://www.dogsbite.org/img/vigil-for-david-fear-1.jpg. 2016, Accessed 13 Mar. 2017. Pit Bull Attacks - Victims of Dangerous Dog  DogsBite.org - Some dogs let go. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Pratt, Heather K. Profiling: Does Breed-Specific Legislation Take a Bite out of Canine Penn State Law Review 108. (2004): 855. LexisNexis Academic Law Reviews. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Barnhill 6