Herman 1 Madison Herman Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 14 March 2017 The Marijuana Industry Through NORML The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana laws, or NORML, aims to be voice for responsible marijuana (NORML). Founded in 1970, the organization provides a voice in the public policy debate for people who believe in the legalization of marijuana. During the 1970s alone, NORML led to the decriminalization of minor marijuana offenses in eleven states and marijuana penalties in all (NORML). NORML is the largest, and the oldest, marijuana legalization organization nationwide, and together the group is able to lead successful efforts in reforming state and federal marijuana laws and legalizing the use of marijuana by (NORML). In a video by founder Keith Stroup and an ad with Joe Rogan advocating NORML, the organization uses Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos as strategies to attract an audience to their cause of marijuana reform laws. To represent ethos, NORML uses founder Keith Stroup and comedian Joe Rogan to establish credibility and promote marijuana legalization in their videos and photo ads, respectively. In a video found on Twitter page, the founder himself Keith Stroup speaks out in favor of marijuana legalization nationwide. Stroup founded NORML in 1970 after graduating from the University of Illinois with a political science degree in 1965, and Georgetown Law School in Washington, D.C. in 1968. The video establishes credibility because Keith Stroup himself is speaking to the audience. The audience is more likely to listen to Herman 2 what the speaker is saying about marijuana legalization because an important figure of the organization is at the forefront. Also, further credibility appears because Keith Stroup is educated; graduating with a political science degree and a law degree shows the audience Stroup is someone they are able to trust. He is educated and also the standing image of NORML, therefore the information he brings forward about marijuana legalization and the methods used to get there are more secure and trustworthy strategies. Joe Rogan is also used to establish credibility in a photo ad. Rogan is a comedian, sports commentator, and podcaster who advocates the use of marijuana by responsible adults. The ad is more trustworthy to the audience because Joe Rogan is a well-known, well-liked public figure. If he is endorsing NORML the audience is more likely to advocate for NORML as well, seeing we can trust those who speak for the organization and marijuana legalization. The second rhetorical appeal used by Keith Stroup is logos. Stroup uses logos by explaining that as of October 2016, marijuana was legal for recreational use in four states and Washington D.C.. Now, in March of 2017, according to Elizabeth Nelson in the Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, marijuana has passed legalization laws for recreational use in seven states and D.C.. It is also legal for medicinal use in twenty-eight states and D.C. (Nelson). Where marijuana is not legal for medical or recreational use, the drug has been decriminalized below a certain amount. Stroup informs his viewers and followers that NORML has helped to decriminalize marijuana and pass reform laws by consistent fighting for victory of legalization. The facts behind marijuana legalization come from the solid evidence of medicinal benefits, such as treatment of epilepsy, muscle spasms, anxiety, insomnia, depression, poor appetite, and glaucoma (Nelson). The drug often receives severe back-lash due to its psychoactive effects, however what is not covered in the media is the ability of marijuana to treat illness without the Herman 3 high that comes from THC. Cannabidiol, or CBD, an ingredient found in cannabis that offers the medical benefits but no psychoactive (Nelson), meaning a patient can obtain the benefits without any other consequences. Stroup aims to bring forward responsible smoking habits when it comes to marijuana use, and since the birth of the organization forty-six years ago, NORML has been there to help pass marijuana legalization and emphasize the idea of responsible smoking from the beginning. Furthermore, logos is in use by comedian Joe Rogan in ad for marijuana reform. In the media ad for NORML, Rogan says one has died from pot in over 10,000 years of According to Christopher Aanstoos in the Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, is the most widely used and oldest illegal The information Rogan displays about the lack of death from marijuana may help the audience realize the minimal risk from marijuana usage. Since 8000 BCE, when marijuana was discovered and used, there have been no reported deaths of overdose from marijuana or significant health defects associated with the drug, which is part of the reason why NORML is promoting cannabis responsibility and legalization. Knowing the worst possible side effect does not include death, when other drugs such as tobacco and alcohol have been known to be fatal, presents itself as all the more reason to proceed with marijuana reform laws. One of the biggest issues with marijuana reform is finding the means to legalize the drug in a timely manner. It has been forty-six years since NORML was founded by Keith Stroup, which means advocates of marijuana have been fighting this battle for at least forty-six years, although it is realistic to say the battle began far before 1970. To promote timeliness in his video to advocates, Stroup says in order to help take marijuana reform laws to city councils, state legislators, and congress. Any donation from marijuana supporters, he says, helps Herman 4 towards the passing of marijuana legalization. The fast action can also dissipate the negative connotation associated with the drug and its hopeful legalization. Fighting and winning an uphill battle takes time, but in promoting swift donations and backup for NORML there is a better chance in passing the reform laws for pot. Finally, pathos is seen in efforts by Joe Rogan to allow the audience to see humor in the issue of marijuana reform laws. Rogan, in the picture, says say you can abuse marijuana. You can abuse cheeseburgers. Does that mean we should close Burger He is essentially making the point that yes, it is possible to abuse marijuana. It is possible to abuse anything though; Rogan uses humor joking about cheeseburgers to prove that point. His humor helps the audience to realize people can realistically just about anything, whether it be drugs, or cheeseburgers, or tobacco, or what-have-you. However, it is responsible smoking, which Joe Rogan advocates for and campaign ultimately promotes, that is the premise of marijuana legalization. Not all who can abuse the drug will, and because there are so few side effects from pot, abusing the drug is decently hard to come by in comparison to everything else in the world that is abused. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or more simply NORML, aims to change the way society views marijuana smoking and the responsible use of marijuana by (NORML). Since the birth of the organization forty-six years ago, NORML, a nonprofit organization, has been working hard to promote responsible marijuana usage and take reform laws to congress in the hopes of legalizing marijuana across the country. According to founder Keith Stroup, in 2016 marijuana was legal in four states and D.C., and is currently legal for recreational use in seven states and D.C,. as well as twenty-seven states for medical use. In a campaign video to NORML supports, founder Keith Stroup uses ethos, logos, Herman 5 and kairos to persuade Americans to help him take marijuana reform laws to congress and pass legalization of recreational use. In addition, Joe Rogan, a comedian and public sports figure, endorses a picture by NORML where ethos, pathos, and logos are used to state a fact of marijuana; in the past 10,000+ years marijuana has been around, there have been no reported deaths in the history of the drug. Using the rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos, the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws is able to advocate for a society with safe, responsible marijuana use and influence their audience to assist them in the fight for recreational marijuana legalization. Herman 6 Works Cited Aanstoos, Christopher.  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health. , 2015. USF Library. Ebscohost. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Nelson, Elizabeth M. Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health. , 2016. USF Library. Ebscohost. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. NORML, NORML Foundation, 2016. USF Library. Ebscohost, norml.org/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. NORML. Advertisement. Instagram, Instagram, 1 Aug. 2015, https://instagram.com/p/52wzFMAlxy/. Accessed 14 Mar. 2017. NORML. Advertisement. Twitter, Twitter, 19 Oct. 2016, https://mobile.twitter.com/NORML/status/788763892369330177/video/1. Accessed 14 Mar. 2017. Herman 7 NORML video https://mobile.twitter.com/NORML/status/788763892369330177/video/1 NORML photo ad