Elisa Terrill 3-5-17 Intermediate Draft As technology has advanced, so has the research on the effects cell phone use has on people. While academic discussion has remained consistently negative regarding cellphone use, the focuses have become more specific over time. For instance, between 2000-2010, the studies of cell phone use effects had a more immediate focus, such as driver aggression. However, between 2011-2015, research consisted of effects on deeper level topics, such as saliva. In comparison to how long humans have been documented to exist, the use of technology in general is relatively new. Given this, no surprise that the research conducted a little over a decade ago as specific or in-depth as the newer research. In the experiments conducted by McGarva, driver aggression linked to the use of a cell phone was tested. The purpose of the experiments was to intentionally aggravate the videotaped driver that was being studied by having someone drive in front of them under the speed limit and also not moving when the traffic light turned green. Based on the reactions and facial expressions, conclusions were drawn that these situations caused aggression for the drivers. This is a very superficial observation compared to if they had done some type of brain mapping on the drivers or something related to the physical toll. Another earlier academic discussion regarding cell phone use and impact by Elder explored how distracted students are by using their phones during lecture and if it Terrill 2 had any effect on how well they perform in that class. The results show that although the grades on quizzes were not significantly different between the people who used their phone during lecture and those who but it was reported by those who did use their phone during lecture that they expected lower grades on the quizzes. This is another surface level examination of how phones affect humans. The observations are of less immediate results and supports the thesis, as this is an older source. A more recent and less direct/straightforward study conducted in 2015 analyzed the effect cell phone use has on salivary enzymes levels, protein and oxidant- antioxidant systems in college going students. The results found express an inverse relationship between the amount of cell use and the level of salivary enzyme levels. The higher the cell phone use, the lower the number of salivary enzymes present. This is a deeper level of research because it is not merely based on an observation made based on facial expression or how the students expressed they felt about being distracted. In 2014, a study about the electromagnetic field and the radiation it causes to people was studied. It was concluded from the research that although radiation levels vary on a wide spread amount of circumstances and on a person to person basis, everyone should still attempt to keep their phone 10-30 centimeters away from their head to avoid raised radiation levels. Just as the salivary enzyme discussion, this study is deeper than results drawn from opinion of the subjects or facial expression. Because these more recent studies are more hard-hitting and have actual number to support their conclusions, the original thesis that the more recent research is more descriptive and explanatory is supported. Terrill 3 Works Cited: McGarva, Andrew R., et al. Effects of Driver Cell-Phone Use on Driver  Journal of Social Psychology, vol. 146, no. 2, Apr. 2006, pp. 133-146. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=buh&AN=20814869&site=eds-live. SHIVASHANKARA, ARNADI RAMACHANDRAYYA, et al. Effect of Cell Phone Use on Salivary Total Protein, Enzymes and Oxidative Stress Markers in Young Adults: A Pilot  Journal of Clinical & Diagnostic Research, vol. 9, no. 2, Feb. 2015, pp. 19-22. EBSCOhoi:10.7860/JCDR/2015/10872.5580.st, do ELDER, ANASTASIA D.1. College Cell Phone Use, Beliefs, and Effects on Their  College Student Journal, vol. 47, no. 4, Winter2013, pp. 585- 592. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=eft&AN=93813987&site=eds-live. Buckus, Raimondas, et al. The Assessment of Electromagnetic Field Radiation Exposure for Mobile Phone  korisnika mobilnih telefona elektromagnetnog Vojnosanitetski Pregled: Military Medical & Pharmaceutical Journal of Serbia, vol. 71, no. 12, Dec. 2014, pp. 1138-1143. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2298/VSP140119013B.