Chen, 1 Mengshan Chen Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 8 March 2017 Help to Cure PTSD Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, also named PTSD, is a mental health issue that some people develop after experiencing a life-threatening event, such as possible death, serious injury, or sexual violence (PTSD, National Center for). Since PTSD usually occurs in soldiers who come back from the war, the US department of Veterans Affairs website has a sub-area named PTSD: National Center for PTSD, which can help the public understand PTSD scientifically and promote improved treatment of PTSD for veterans. The organization believes that PTSD is curable, and veterans who are suffering from PTSD are encouraged to ask for help through this website. The organization of PTSD: National Center for PTSD designs several pictures as an advertisement to help PTSD sufferers understand and overcome the disorder. The PTSD: National Center for PTSD, which is a sub-area of the website of US Department of Veterans Affairs. It is a government organization which uses research, education, and training to help stricken veterans defeat PTSD and others trauma. The public can also understand PTSD through this website. The PTSD: National Center for PTSD was built in 1989 and the foremost leader on PTSD and others trauma in the world. The National Center for PTSD has six goals and objectives. The government wants the public to understand PTSD scientifically and support the global war on terrorism. Also, the government will offer PTSD education for researchers and clinicians, and promote improved treatment of PTSD. In addition, the Chen, 2 government will aid veterans and advance their emergency medical response capability (PTSD, National Center for). There are two sections on the website. The first one is the public section, which is created for veterans, their families and friends and the general public. It can allow family and friends identify the disorder so they can help the sufferer overcome it. Another one is a professional section, where psychologists and other helpers of PTSD sufferers can visit to search for useful materials (PTSD, National Center for). The first image shows six who are suffering from PTSD, and they share their experiences about how to overcome it. The audience of this image is PTSD sufferers. The purpose of this image is helping people to understand PTSD scientifically and allow sufferers to accept the symptoms of PTSD. It is an advertisement which encourages sufferers to go to this website and read stories about overcoming PTSD. At the same time, it allows sufferers to be hopeful since most of the veterans shared their experiences were eventually cured. There are four rhetorical strategies in this image. The article named Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of written by Ben Bernanke introduces rhetorical strategies. Ethos the ethical appeal, means to convince an audience of the credibility or (Bernanke). For ethos, there are two words in the image which are which is a sub- area of the PTSD: National Center for PTSD that includes many stories about the experiences of overcoming PTSD. The most important thing is that those veterans made several videos about themselves to answer questions such as I knew I had or treatment helps making it credible (PTSD, National Center for). Pathos the emotional appeal, means to persuade an audience by appealing to their (Bernanke). For pathos, the expression on those six faces is determined but gaunt. All of them were soldiers who fought for their country, and this allows the public sympathize with and understand PTSD Chen, 3 sufferers and make PTSD sufferers confident that it is because possible to be treated. Logos the appeal to logic, means to convince an audience by use of logic or (Bernanke). The logos in the first image tell the audience that there are many PTSD sufferers in the world and now they are living well. Therefore, other sufferers should not lose home or stop living their lives (PTSD, National Center for). There is no Kairos in the image. The color used in the image one is full of variety. Would rather think it is colorful than accept the color of each part of the picture is different. There are six pictures combining in one image. The variety of colors shows those six veterans have different stories about suffering from PTSD. background is warm color. are the colors of fire, of fall leaves, and of sunsets and sunrises, and are generally energizing, passionate, and (Chapman), which shows those veterans are living with hope. It also points out that those veterans have overcome the disorder and they are having a good time. The background is cool color. are the colors of night, of water, of nature, and are usually calming, relaxing, and somewhat (Chapman). The sense of cooling allows the audience to feel that those lives are peaceful and relaxing. Thus, the image one and its colors are trying to show the hopeful life after the treatment of PTSD. The second image shows two hands, one holding the other, which makes the audience feel warm and hopeful. The audiences of the image 2 are PTSD sufferers, too. This one makes audiences know that there are many people want to help them to overcome the disorder. It shows that PTSD sufferers are not few or helpless. There only words on the screen are after in the second image, which further emphasizes the purpose of the picture. For ethos, this picture is found on the website named PTSD: National Center for PTSD, so credible. For pathos, there are two hands and one holds another one. The audience can understand that the Chen, 4 taken hand need help and another hand offers help and warmth. The audiences can feel hopeful because many people will help PTSD sufferers. For logos, the second image tells audiences that PTSD sufferers should not give up. There are still many people that to help sufferers if they need help and ask for it. Kairos means calling to action. About the Kairos, those two hand means if an audience is a PTSD sufferer, so the audience should ask for help now and get help immediately (TOPIC: Who I am). The color used in the image 2 is monotoned. The image is mostly in white. White used in the image shows a soft background and bring a clean feeling to the audience. White is with the health care industry, especially with doctors, nurses and dentists. White is associated with goodness, and angels are often depicted in (Chapman). Thus, this image allows the audience to feel that PTSD is curable. In addition, the soft background gives sufferers the sense of hope. The image two is showing to the audience that the course of treatment is warmth. In conclusion, those two images express the purpose of helping PTSD sufferers understand and overcome the disorder. The image one uses different colors which shows that different veterans have different stories. But all of them express the sense of hopeful. The image two uses white color to express the feeling of warmth. Also, the organization of PTSD: National Center for PTSD will offer help if sufferers need it. Therefore, even suffering from PTSD, sufferers should understand and ask for help on their own initiative. (WC: 1217) Chen, 5 Works Cited Bernanke, Ben. Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and  Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and Examples. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Mar. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Smashing Magazine. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. PTSD, National Center for. PTSD: National Center for  PTSD: National Center for PTSD Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. TOPIC: Who I  National Center for PTSD. N.p., 07 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Chen, 6