Quadros 1 Nicole Quadros Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The appeals to antiabortion National Right to Life is an organization against abortion and their mission to protect and defend the most fundamental right of humankind, the right to life of every innocent human being from the beginning of life to natural (National Right to Life Mission Statement) Their goal is to respect human life, born or unborn so that they can live. With the appeal, to pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos they get the message that abortion is unethical out to the public. The two pictures, found on the Instagram, use the rhetorical appeals to inform people that abortion is a choice that some would regret in the long run. They want the audience to understand that life is precious, and it should be respected. The first picture displays half of a face looking at the audience. The background of the picture is grey to portray a more serious tone. It also has a quote from William Wilberforce, may choose to look away, but you can never say again that you did not William Wilberforce was a deeply religious English member of parliament and social reformer who was very influential in the abolition of the slave trade and eventually slavery itself in the British empire. (BBC-HistoryWilliam Wilberforce) It is peculiar why they used this quote. William Wilberforce said this quote around the late 1700s, abortion even a thought back then. The quote is referenced for slavery, so it is very strange why they included this quote. The purpose of the picture is for the person or persons looking at it to see the innocence in the face, especially eyes and feel guilt. Their motive is to make the target audience understand that Quadros 2 abortion may not be the right option and it may be a decision that one could regret later in life. The image is trying to accomplish the goal of evoking thought into the mind. Abortion once performed could weigh on the conscience for a long time, and affect their relationships with others throughout life. The appeal to ethos means that it appeals to credibility or morality. On the bottom, right hand side of the picture, there is a logo of the organization and its website. This shows that the picture came from the credible source. In this case, it came from the Texas Right to Life organization. They are the oldest, largest, and only statewide Pro-Life organization in Texas. (Who we are) Having the baby look straight out to the audience in a serious innocent mood, appeals to the emotional maternal instinct of women. The overall tone and color of the picture creates a gloomy and depressing scenario atmosphere picture. These aspects appeal to pathos, because it evokes emotion from the target audience which is mostly women. In addition, the quote from William Wilberforce appeals to logos, although he talking about abortions, the quote itself provides the audience with an understanding that the choice to abort could lead to regret and in some cases depression. The quote gives a drive to women that they need to take a stand against abortion and understand the pros and cons for their actions. It is making them aware of the consequences their action would do to an innocent baby. The baby cannot talk and voice their opinion or display their thoughts for his/her choice to live and the quote is letting them know just that. Women need to understand and comprehend the implications of their decision and make the right choice accordingly. The appeal to kairos fully demonstrated in the picture. The point of the picture is for women to see it before they have their abortions. This appeals to kairos, an appeal to timeliness. They want to communicate the innocence of the baby, and the possible regret that they might feel if they do abort. Quadros 3 The second picture shows a baby laying on a blanket, with its eyes closed and mouth open. The purple and white color combination have a calming and relaxed effect when you see the picture. The image wants the target audience to feel an empathy and emotional connection to the unborn baby in the womb. The message the NLRC wants to convey via this picture is that life is valuable and is worth fighting for. They are trying to accomplish a goal of conveying a message that everyone can understand and relate to. The image appeals to ethos by having the National Right to Life logo at the bottom of the picture. This gives the picture credibility since the NLRC is an organization that everyone knows about, they have been in existence since 1968. The facial expressions including the background color combination appeals to the sensitivity of women who are the main target audience. The picture displays the soft and smooth complexion of the baby, to symbolize that life is precious. This aspect appeals to emotions which is related to pathos. The text is is intended to evoke thought and appeal to the rational part of the human mind that life is important and cannot be aborted for convenience or lack of responsibility by the parents. This appeals to logos, which is an appeal to logical reasoning. The text, is also incites a sense of urgency or timeliness since abortion has to be done within a specific period for it to be safe for the mother. By informing the mother of the ramifications of her actions is critical, this appeals to kairos. The first image is more focused on appealing and educating the masses about the consequences of abortion from the standpoint relating to conscience. Other than the second which has a softer approach to get the message of abortion out. The main goal the organization is trying to achieve is to get people to understand that abortion should not be a choice and that there are other options open to women that are more satisfying from a guilt standpoint. And the second picture is informing the audience that life is indeed precious and more so for unborn babies who Quadros 4 cannot talk and voice their opinion. The NLRC is informing the audience that life should not be taken for granted and that every life is precious and should be respected. The two pictures appeal to the rhetoric devices, and fulfill the mission statement of the National Right to Life. They inform people that abortion is a choice many people could later regret. The pictures successfully represent a good image of pro-life, and get the message of the organization across. Image 1: Image 2: Quadros 5 Works Cited - History - William BBC News, BBC, 2014, Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Right to Life Mission National Right to Life, National Right to Life, www.nrlc.org/about/mission/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. We Texas Right to Life, Texas Right to Life, 16 July 2010, www.texasrighttolife.com/who-we-are/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.