Watts 1 Aaron Watts Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 20 February 2017 Assisted Suicide: Fact vs. Belief Since assisted suicide has first surfaced, it has been a growing topic that has attained many arguments for and against it, but only a handful of legalizations throughout the U.S.. Assisted suicide is formal aid from a legal doctor and/or physician in yourself but is not as easy as it seems. This is because, as of now, assisted suicide is only legal in a handful of states. Oregon, being the first state to legalize assisted suicide in 1997 on October 27 th , has received a lot of hate for doing so. Even though it did take it a while for it to catch on, the tide eventually turned toward assisted suicide with legalization of it in a second state, Washington in November 4 th , 2008. Oregon was not favored for legalizing it, but other states that have legalized assisted suicide since then used Oregon as a when setting up their own laws and rules. They use a combination of some made from other states or use similar ones and tweak them to what seems best for their own state. However, arranging assisted suicide is not always simple by any means. The process from request of the patient to the stage of yourself is quite a long one. In some states, for correct procedure, it requires other doctors or key authority figures to witness the event. A major concept of assisted suicide is the wide range of quantitative opinions where there are pros and cons which can generally sway the population for or against the issue. Being a national issue from yesterday and world means that it is a topic that is ultimately hypothetical, having more than enough support on both sides that both sides can be considered right or wrong. In researching the topic, there has been qualitative Watts 2 sources ranging from 1997 to 2016 that show how a lot of different people feel and believe about in this topic. Therefore, the question that remains is, is assisted suicide legalized in some states but not in Emanuel, Ezekiel J. What Is the Great Benefit of Legalizing Euthanasia or  Ethics 1999: 629. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article here addresses the pros and cons of assisted suicide and whether it is worth having legal or not. A main argument for why we should legalize assisted suicide can be found on page 630 of the article where is states individual autonomy, reducing needless pain and suffering, and providing psychological reassurance to dying (Emanuel). This shows that back then people cared more about enjoying their last moments with loved ones instead of seeing them go through a worse time. People back then did not want others to suffer in their last moments or be someone they were not mentally, but leave with a sense of reality and sense of themselves. On the other hand, a main argument for why it should not can be found on page 336 where it states, the integrity of the medical profession, psychological distress and harm to surviving family members of the and more (Emanuel). This shows it should not because of belief that it would make our medical professionals look weak or dishonest. jobs are to do anything they can to help someone no matter the risk and they believe assisted suicide goes against it completely. The article also goes more in depth with each reason it gives whether it is positive or negative with factual information. This source/article connects to the research question because it not only addresses assisted suicide and understands that it is legal in some states and not in others, but also approaches the topic in a different way. It does not answer the question directly but instead gives the advantages and disadvantages if assisted suicide is legalized. Emanuel establishes credibility Watts 3 throughout his article by stating both sides of the argument, but also being unbiased throughout it as well, talking and explaining both sides. He also uses authentic information and evidence throughout and compares the topic to what professionals see the topic as. Emanuel is the Chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania and was the founding chair of the Department of Bioethics of the National Institutes of Health until August of 2011, which shows us that he is a huge authority figure and massively educated in his field. Frank, John N. Physician-Assisted Suicide Up For Debate In States: What Role Should Physicians Have In States Where Assisted Suicide Is  Medical Economics 9 (2016): 36. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Overall, this source used national organizations and well known high end authority figures to show that most of the opinions were against the legalization of assisted suicide. Some said rather than good, it will do more harm, and another said that we should not trust our doctors that easily. However, even though many may be against it, with the few states that do have it legalized, their state medical association actually have a neutral stance on assisted suicide. Furthermore, all states that has legalized assisted suicide since Oregon being the first one, coincidentally use the Oregon Law as a template for how they set up their laws. California has been the latest state to legalize assisted suicide and this has showed that it is better to attack bigger states because it would have a bigger impact. Since then Minnesota, Massachusetts, Iowa, and other states have thought about changing too. The source then goes on by explaining the Oregon model and gives examples why assisted suicide should not be legalized and a few of why it should be. Watts 4 This source connects to the research question because even though national organizations and high authority figures were giving great reasons why assisted suicide is bad, you still have state medical associations who legalize it. It shows that even though some people have good evidence or are against something does not mean you should too. It showed that every state and their medical association all have different views on the subject and that can be why some have assisted suicide legalized and some do not. This source has credibility because not only does Frank seem educated on the topic but he also has a lot of quotes from national organizations and educated professionals which in turn can be trusted and acknowledged. Being a news editor for modern healthcare and editor/director for other multiple journals not only establishes credibility for Frank, but also shows that he is experienced in the field and can be trusted with the information he provides. Golden, Marilyn, and Tyler Zoanni. Killing Us Softly: The Dangers Of Legalizing Assisted  Disability And Health Journal 3.A Disability Perspective on the Issue of Physician Assisted Suicide (2010): 16-30. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. The main deal surrounding this whole article can be as easy as reading the title of it, the cons of legalizing assisted suicide. It tells the people that are reading to wake up and see that the reason why people want it legalized is not for the same reason they are already using it for. A great example is, in Oregon who have reportedly used that assisted suicide law wanted to die not because of pain, but for reasons associated with (Golden 17). The article expands on this by explaining that people use assisted suicide for more than just pain purposes which is what its only intended purpose was for to begin with. It shows how other people with other various health issues take advantage of the system of assisted suicide and their reason(s) for why they need it. Overall, this source sees the legalization of assisted suicide as a Watts 5 mistake to our health care system. It explains how because of many taking advantage of this system the effect is only making our health care system worse. Although it exposes many ways in which assisted suicide is wrong, even to the point of Oregon, it does provide legal solutions to what we can use instead of assisted suicide, so it does provide some solutions in the massive hill of criticizing. This article not only talks about assisted suicide but goes into detail about its cons as well. That being so, this source can be an example of others that professionals look at when thinking/determining if they should legalize assisted suicide for their state or not. It also connects because of the way Golden explains her statements throughout the article. From reading you can tell she understands assisted suicide so much that she is even able to point/figure out parts that she believes is wrong or we will make a mistake about. She also establishes credibility by giving solutions to the problem instead of only picking out its flaws and letting it be. Being a policy analyst at the Disability Rights Education and Defense not only supports her with credibility but it shows that she is educated in the field and knows what assisted suicide deals with, or is supposed to deal with. King, Steven A. PAIN MANAGEMENT. Physician-Assisted Suicide: More Than Meets The  Psychiatric Times 33.1 (2016): 38. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. The purpose of this article is to expose the loop holes that assisted suicide laws have that many people can go through, when there is actual treatment/medication instead that can keep them from that route. For example, all RTD (Right To Die) laws say that if a patient or anyone that wants to die has any signs of mental disease or anything else that can be treated then they are simply not allowed to die. However, the problem is even though some are trained to see signs of Watts 6 mental illness, some unfortunately are not, which means that some patients can be assisted to suicide when they could have been treated instead. Kind supports this by showing, 2014, fewer than 3% were referred for a mental health (38). This quote not only shows the mistake we have been making for a while now, but also makes you think of how many lives that possibly could have been saved. King himself then goes into explaining his own opinion in how mismanaged pain is in world. He expresses his belief in how there is untreated pain out there or people who are not clarified to ask for help, but that even some professionals see that there is something wrong with pain management, but do not correct it because of RTD laws. Connecting to my research question by talking about assisted suicide, this source shows that there is more to it than everyone makes it out to be. It shows what is wrong with some of the RTD laws, which ones are not tight enough or good enough, and which ones that need to be fixed. However, King from his article does acquire a good sense of credibility. King himself, sides in New York where he private practices in pain medicine and is a professor of Psychiatry at the University School of Medicine there in New York. Providing credibility, he talks about this issue because he has education and experience in the fields that he mentions. Mariner, Wendy K. Physician Assisted Suicide And The Supreme Court: Putting The Constitutional Claim To  American Journal Of Public Health 87.(1997): 2058- 2062. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Two cases in 1997 had different grounds for rights to physician assisted suicide in saying that the 14 th Amendment protected fundamentally right for terminally ill (Mariner 2058). However, the 14 th Amendment allow anyone to take any person of life, liberty or property, without due process of (Mariner 2058). The Justices did end up agreeing that the amendment does not protect assisted suicide when people would compare it to abortion and try Watts 7 to show the comparison between the two. Overall, the Supreme decisions did not change anything and said that there is constitutional right to commit suicide but remains because you cannot punish someone who is dead (Mariner 2061). Even though it was considered medical states were still free to discourage it and prohibit physicians to do it, as suicide was the 9 th leading cause of death in that time (Mariner 2059). Overall, the reason for assisted suicide back then was for freedom for the terminally ill. This source effectively showed how the controversy was for assisted suicide back then in 1997. It showed that there were many differing opinions and was so serious that they even got an Amendment involved. It also connects to my topic because it had a connection to world, where there is no one side that is right or everyone stands for, but quantitative and qualitative data for each side try to persuade you why they are right. It showed how the justices and the people of our country could not even agree on the same side, and so, that carried to world. I see this as a credible source because Mariner uses a lot of references, information from case studies throughout, and uses plenty of evidence that involves stats and facts. When someone uses references to back their information it shows credibility because they took the time out to gain education from their sources and actually retained info from doing so. Mariner is also a professor at Boston University in the School of Public Health and others where she has also published more than 100 articles that are in the legal medical and health policy and so much more that only adds to her credibility. McCrae, N., and J. Bloomfield. Mental Health Nursing And The Debate On Assisted  Journal Of Psychiatric & Mental Health Nursing 20.7 (2013): 655- 661. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Watts 8 Basically, the whole thing about this article is that it is a great short overview of the whole debate on assisted suicide. It also gives a background of the issue telling you what the definition of assisted suicide is, shows what the major talking points are for both sides, and even what race/ethnicities are taking this issue more seriously. It also talks about how ethics and religion plays into assisted suicide and how some reject accepting assisted suicide no matter what because of their firm beliefs. However, it goes into different levels in why people would or not want assisted suicide in the first place. It goes into dementia and depression levels and gives examples from each that help the reader chooses which side they agree more with. Again, this source aids in support in giving the answer to the research question. It gives trustworthy information, whether it is facts or information from case studies they used. The source gives a good balance of knowledge about assisted suicide, giving a background of it, different talking points for both sides, etc. article is a credible source because of the fact he uses different types of educational resources whether statistics or case studies. His ability to restate knowledge that is not considered common and pull reasoning or conclusions from the sources he uses increases his credibility as well. Not only has McCrae published a book in 2011 about mental illness but he is also a lecturer and researcher about mental health in College London. Therefore, it is easy to see that he is educated about his topic and can be trusted. Watts 9 Works Cited Emanuel, Ezekiel J. What Is the Great Benefit of Legalizing Euthanasia or  Ethics 1999: 629. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Frank, John N. Physician-Assisted Suicide Up For Debate In States: What Role Should Physicians Have In States Where Assisted Suicide Is  Medical Economics 9 (2016): 36. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Golden, Marilyn, and Tyler Zoanni. Killing Us Softly: The Dangers Of Legalizing Assisted  Disability And Health Journal 3.A Disability Perspective on the Issue of Physician Assisted Suicide (2010): 16-30. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. King, Steven A. PAIN MANAGEMENT. Physician-Assisted Suicide: More Than Meets The  Psychiatric Times 33.1 (2016): 38. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Mariner, Wendy K. Physician Assisted Suicide And The Supreme Court: Putting The Constitutional Claim To  American Journal Of Public Health 87.(1997): 2058- 2062. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017. McCrae, N., and J. Bloomfield. Mental Health Nursing And The Debate On Assisted  Journal Of Psychiatric & Mental Health Nursing 20.7 (2013): 655- 661. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.