Outline for Project 2 (ENC 1102) Shakyra Jones March 2, 2017 I. Introduction A. My first stakeholder organization is NCSSE, the National Coalition to Support Sexual Education. The NCSSE provides networking, resource sharing, and collaboration among national organizations supporting comprehensive sexuality education and responding to existing and emerging sexuality education and health topics my first picture comes from this stake holder. My second image supports this stake holder but come from an article. B. Sexual education being taught in schools comes with a variety of topics and problems, but students should not be missing out on important information that is needed in life just because their parents feel as if they ready. II. Body Paragraph A. The purpose for NCSSE image is to give an understanding on what the organization is about and stands for. B. the Future of Sex Education: A Tool Kit for States and http://www.futureofsexed.org/envisioningthefuture.html. a. I plan to discuss the evidence by using pathos, ethos, and logos. b. The image coming from the stakeholder itself c. Ethos in my image that allow it to be effective will have to be the quote at the bottom stating the Coalition Convened by the sexuality information and education council for the This gives the supporters accurate information and credibility of the logo. That should convince supporters of character. Pathos the logo that I have choose for my stakeholder NCSSE does not show any emotions, feelings, and passion in the image. The national coalition to support sexual education does not attempt to persuade supporters through appeals involving the use of strong emotions. Logos words used to clarify the message of the picture itself the name of the stakeholder. On the side of the image it says National Coalition to Support Sexuality This evidence supports the image and allows supports to understand what the image is pertaining to. C. The topic sexual education speaks or different topics and my next image demonstrates some of those topics. III. Body Paragraph A. This is an article written which supports my stakeholder. The article is about Planned Parenthood assisting students in their pursuit of sex, stepping into their identities as well as in their gender identities. B. news 2017 Planned Parenthood of South, East and North Florida, Inc. https://www.plannedparenthood.org/planned-parenthood-south-east-north- florida/newsroom/press-releases/sex-education-survey-in-miami-dade-county- reveals-need-for-curriculum-standards a. I plan to discuss the evidence by using logos pathos ethos and logos. b. The article which provide my second picture relates to my stake holder, its purpose of is to ensure all topics regarding sexual education will be taught in the classroom. The picture identifies several topics that will be spoken on with dealing with sexual education. c. Ethos In the second image the form of rhetoric in which the article author persuades the audience that this image or subject is correct is by involving the teacher, involving a teacher is showing that she has knowledge, she has background on the subject and is prepared to teach it to others. Pathos The picture provided by Inquisitr has a teacher where emotion is shown on her face. She seems to be serious, important and significant. I feel as the picture wants to get people to connect and feel the message just by understanding the words and looking at her face. Logos logic of this image are the specified tasks that are stated. The words and questions themselves are facts the information stated on the board is very reliable and true when talking about sex. IV. Conclusion A. I feel as if my first image lacks on pathos the way this can change is by adding more color to represent the meaning of the picture. As for Kairos, both images lack on it. My second image could have involved a celebrity that has been involved or thinks this topic is in important, the random teacher seems to be not so important. I have no one to tie these two images to. B. My second image is very powerful because it not only serves as a picture but it has words that serve a message, this image may be used as a guideline for lessons in sexual education classroom, an example for students who want to know what sexual education is about and what will be taught, social media meme, and many other things. V. Works Cited A. state Copyright 2002-2008 SIECUS http://www.ncsse.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.ViewPage&PageID=1017 news worth ALL CONTENT 2008 - 2017 THE INQUISITR NEWS http://www.inquisitr.com/ the Future of Sex Education: A Tool Kit for States and http://www.futureofsexed.org/envisioningthefuture.html sex education be taught in schools 2002-2008 SIECUS http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/parents/167?task=view B.