Elkadi 1 Carina Elkadi ENC 1102-060 Kristen Rouisse February 26, 2017 Shocked into Awareness Child sexual abuse is an issue that is not often addressed or publicized. Children are innocent and vulnerable, and often their lack of life experience blurs the lines between right and wrong what is okay and what is not. This allows pedophiles to harm children with no fear of retribution. According to the National Center for Victims of Crime, 1 in 5 girls and 1 in 20 boys is a victim of child sexual abuse, and 20% of adult females and 5-10% of adult males recall a childhood sexual assault or sexual abuse incident (Victims of Crime).The fact is children are not aware enough to report incidents at the time, but often realize that they have been abused later on in life. However, sexual abuse does not remain in the past it continues to affect its victims as they live and grow. A child who is the victim of prolonged sexual abuse usually develops low self-esteem, a feeling of worthlessness and an abnormal or distorted view of sex. The child may become withdrawn and mistrustful of adults, and can become suicidal (Victims of Crime). This is why organizations like Innocence in Danger take an initiative to make parents and guardians more aware of the threats their children may be exposed to. Innocence in Danger is an organization that uses provocative advertisements placed on simple backdrops to shock parents and guardians into awareness, pushing them to play a stronger role in the safety of all children. In the first image, attention is immediately drawn to the shocking face of the boy in the center of the image. He has a hand raised to his hair in distress, and his face is overtaken but not one, but three screaming mouths. The pathos, or appeal to emotion, in this image is in the alarm it raises inside its viewers (Hoffman, et al, 20-22). The mouths look much Elkadi 2 like gaping holes, creating the sense that this boy has lost pieces of himself to an unknown culprit. The black darkness inside the mouths makes for an air of mystery, fear, and evil. The boy is standing alone in a dull kitchen with no one to come to his aid. He seems to have experienced something that has left him screaming on the inside, instantly sparking protective instincts in its viewers. These images often circulate on social media and sometimes billboards in busy cities. They catch the attention of parents on the internet and leave them to wonder just what their children are up to, and whether or not they are safe. The appeal to logos, or logic, informs viewers of where to direct their curiosity and instincts to protect (Hoffman, et al, 24-25). The only sentence in the image, written in straight, bold script, asks you know what your kids are watching on the internet right The words appeal to Kairos, or urgency, by telling parents that they need to act as soon as possible (Hoffman, et al, 24-25). Children, when left to their own devices (pun intended), can often stumble upon explicit or age-sensitive material. It is scientifically proven that viewing inappropriate material has damaging psychological effects on children. unfamiliar looking bodies engaging in acts that a child cannot comprehend is a confusing and frightening experience for a child or (Prevent Child Abuse). Not only does suggestive material scare children, but they may even attempt to act it out with their peers. Small text, written at the bottom of the image, encourages the audiences to visit the organization website to learn how to keep their children safe from such material, giving the opportunity to confirm that this concerns are valid based on the information they have placed online. Finally, at the bottom right corner - the last place viewers look - the organization has placed its logo to further build its credibility, or ethos (Hoffman, et al, 20). Elkadi 3 The second image also uses alarm to shock parents and guardians into action. The backdrop is a simple grey background, and the pastel pink color of the pants creates an air of good taste and sophistication. The iPhone in the seemingly young pants indicates to viewers that she comes from at least a middle or upper class family, making her a relatable subject to most people. The image leads its viewers to believe that there is nothing wrong, but as they continue to take it in, they see that there appears to be a ghost hand in the back pocket when there should be nothing but the outline of her phone. This hand, combined with the surrounding dull colors, creates the pathos in this image. After the initial shock that the hand leaves, viewers have a growing sense of curiosity as to why it is in this pocket, followed by outrage at her being inappropriately grabbed, and then the urge to protect her. This instant desire to do something is in itself an appeal to Kairos. The logos in the image, which lies in the small caption in the corner, explains to viewers what exactly is going on -- the hand is that of a child predator who has gained access to this little girl through her own cellphone. in five U.S. teenagers who regularly log on to the Internet says they have received an unwanted sexual solicitation via the Web. Solicitations were defined as requests to engage in sexual activities or sexual talk, or to give out personal sexual information (only 25% of those told a (PureSight). Innocence in Danger once again places its ethos in the lower right corner, where it is noticeable but not distracting. Both images use dull backgrounds, meant only to set a mood and not take away from the focus of the image the children. The main color in these background is gray, which can often be considered moody or depressing (Chapman). This grey magnifies the helplessness and inability to understand exactly how the world works. Children have not yet gained the knowledge or awareness to differentiate between right and wrong, normal and abnormal to Elkadi 4 them, everything is a grey area. This dull grey also subliminally hints to parents and guardians that it is their responsibility to clear up these grey areas by providing children with the knowledge and materials to draw their black and white lines. Though child predators are a problem that humanity has been combatting since the beginning of time, organizations like Innocence in Danger have been shocking parents, guardians, and other adults into awareness image by image. Innocence in Danger successfully combines the four rhetorical appeals, pathos, ethos, logos, and Kairos in creative and meaningful images that deliver not just a change in its emotions, but a lasting thought in their heads. Its alarming images draw attention to the silent plight of abused children that so often cannot speak for themselves, encouraging adults to take an initiative in protecting the children in their lives. If each person who sees one of Innocence in images makes a pledge to protect at least one child in their life, child sexual offenders will find more obstacles between them and the realization of their wicked plans. Child sexual abuse is far more common than most people realize, but if awareness is spread through organizations like these, this problem can be resolved, or at the very least minimized, in society. (wc: 1,238) Elkadi 5 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2016. Web. 09 Oct. 2016 Child Sexual Abuse  Child Sexual Abuse Statistics. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://victimsofcrime.org/media/reporting-on-child-sexual-abuse/child-sexual-abuse- statistics>. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Online Predators -  PureSight. PureSight, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.puresight.com/Pedophiles/Online-Predators/online-predators-statistics.html>. Elkadi 6 Elkadi 7