Kaserman 1 James Kaserman Jewell ENC 1101 03/03/17 The Evolution of the Conversation Surrounding Healthcare in America The debate of healthcare has changed all around the world towards more coverage for more people, but the United system has stagnated. system is heavily gated by the ability to pay exorbitant amounts through insurance because medical pricing systems have caused healthcare costs to increase year after year. Therefore, the conversation surrounding socialized healthcare in America has been gaining traction over recent years through a combination of more industrialized countries adopting the practice and the recent presidential election, most notably Senator efforts. Even America resist the ever-changing healthcare landscape across the globe. The healthcare industry in America has only recently grown into the juggernaut that currently exists. It represents a huge portion of the economy, but important to analyze the history of how it became the monster that it is today. In the late Justin Ford Kimbalo formed the Blue Cross, the United first medical insurance company (Frezza 1). The organization was created to combat patients not paying their medical bills at the end of their treatment. This was necessary to help financially protect the non-profit hospital model that was prevalent during the era. However, it evolved into a much bigger beast when the hospital construction boom of the occurred through government funds and the profitability of hospitals due to the lack of oversight that is inherent to a budding industry (Frezza 1). Prior to Kaserman 2 the establishments could charge high arbitrary amounts due to the lack of competition, but when the market became too saturated with healthcare facilities hospitals began to fall prey to the competitive nature of capitalism. This led to the consolidation of hospitals into complexes that became more efficient, but became corporate-like in nature, which could be argued that it goes against the philosophies of healthcare. Thus, competition was almost eliminated and hospitals could increase premiums across the board. It is important to remember that it was not a choice for most complexes because of the pressures from the ever-growing health insurance systems, that included malpractice insurance that doctors are forced to obtain. The Obama administration was extremely important in establishing a foundation for increased healthcare coverage in the United States through the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Over the past 80 years, healthcare has become gated by the ability to pay whether through out-of- pocket payments or health insurance coverage. The ACA was enacted to expand coverage to populations of people that did not have access to healthcare because of inabilities to afford it. Estimates from the Nation Health Interview Survey (NHIS) showed a decline of 14.7 million uninsured nonelderly adults (Shartzer et al. 1). The law was accomplishing its goal of expanding coverage, but it did not account for the strain that additional patients would put onto the system. In addition, the law was passed after major changes were made that benefited the already powerful health insurance companies. For example, the legislation made it so that medical insurance became mandatory. This obviously benefits the companies at the expense of underprivileged adults that were seeking for a means of affordable healthcare. Additionally, the ACA failed to ensure that doctors would have an incentive to take new patients covered by the expansion of healthcare. It was common for doctors to reject patients that were younger, female, Hispanic, impoverished, and had poor health problems prior to the implementation of the bill Kaserman 3 (Shartzer et al. 4). Despite all the setbacks and negative effects that came along with increased coverage, the ACA did setup important groundwork for socialized healthcare in America. Following the ObamaCare era, Senator Bernie Sanders launched a presidential campaign platform that brought many issues to the forefront, including the proposed implementation of single-payer healthcare. Advocates of form of single-payer healthcare argue that while the ACA was integral in advancing the movement towards more accessible healthcare, it did little to help doctors. A study by the Physicians Foundation Survey found that 20,000 doctors cited the legislation exposed them to more regulatory requirements, increased paperwork and overhead, and conflicting rates from different sources (Seegert 1). This led to doctors having to deal with increased administrative paperwork and unable to focus on providing care to patients. In addition, physicians have the extra worry of patients not being able to pay the rapidly increasing premiums that the ACA produced. (Seegert 1). The central argument for single-payer healthcare is that doctors would be able to increase their efficiency to match the increased demand of expanded coverage. A study produced by a team of researchers at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden made claims that the current healthcare system required multiple reforms to increase the safety of doctors and patients which would increase healthcare efficiency. They argue that technology advances, routines, and caregiving systems are not sufficient for ensuring patient and doctor/nurse safety, and cite that physiological well-being is more important when addressing the expected efficiency of healthcare professionals et al. 1). The researchers argue the qualitative detriment of stress is a huge problem when it comes to the quality of care. The stress originates from a lack of resources and the Swedish research team maintain that an increase in resources, such as medical supplies and adequate staff, can lead to quantitative results. This is Kaserman 4 important to monitor because policymakers and business administrators naturally look for quantitative evidence for implementing reform, instead of numbers that rely on more abstract ideas. The conclusion that is reached by the end of this paper is that the healthcare industry grew too quickly and unmonitored, so the growth was unregulated and into an economic and political giant. This was a result of the conversation of healthcare coverage not being a priority among the American populace. However, the argument favoring socialized healthcare in the United States has been gaining traction over recent years through a combination of more industrialized nations adopting the practice and the recent presidential election, most notably Senator efforts. Kaserman 5 Works Cited Eldo E., Frezza. The Six Stages Of The Healthcare Economy-Is Socialized Medicine At The Door? Historical  Journal Of Social Sciences, Vol 1, Iss 4, Pp 197-198 (2005) 4 (2005): 197. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Adele Shartzer, Sharon K. Long and Nathaniel Anderson Access To Care and Affordability Have Improved Following Affordable Care Act Implementation; Problems Remain Health Affairs 35, no. 1 (2016): 161-168 Doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2015.0755 originally published online December 16, 2015. Seegert, Liz. What Single-Payer Healthcare Would Mean to Doctors: Senator Bernie Sanders Has Revived Debate, But Experts Say It Remains an Unlikely Dream in The United  Medical Economics 10 (2016): 54. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. Mats, Marianne and Anders Pousette. Organizational And Social-Psychological Conditions In Healthcare And Their Importance For Patient And Staff Safety. A Critical Incident Study Among Doctors And  Safety Science 70.(2014): 211 221. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017