Chillura 1 Michael Chillura Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 7 March 2017 Gun control is not the answer-Education is Imagine a student or instructor being allowed to bring a gun on campus. Imagine what would happen if that student or instructor were having a bad day or had a disagreement with someone. Allowing guns on campus make it safer. Some would argue that their 2nd amendment right to carry a gun but some also argue that it is unsafe for campus and will disrupt and distract the learning environment. Guns should not be allowed on college campuses because they will increase violence, raise the number of accidental shootings, and create a mood of fear on campus by disrupting a good learning environment. Allowing guns on campus will only increase the risk of violence. Gun-owning college students have a greater propensity for engaging in risky, sometimes violent, behavior than non-gun- owning students. They might often decide to do risky things and not want to have a consequence for that action. Non-gun-owning college students might not be as violent because they own a gun because they have the mindset of those who own a gun. In a 2002 study from the journal of American college Health, found that students who owned guns were more likely than non-gun-owning students to binge drink, vandalize property and have unprotected sexual intercourse. This meaning that college students who are in a fraternity or a sorority are more likely to do more damage with a gun because they are under the influence and they drink too much to even know what is going on around them which causes very bad situations. Usually at fraternity parties people will drink too much, obtain drugs in their system and end up hooking up with whoever and by adding guns to that mix, it will cause even more problems than there Chillura 2 already are. Guns should not be included in the mix so that there are no accidental shooting occurring or purposely shootings happening. When a gun enters the mix, a suicide attempt becomes considerably more lethal, as 85 % of gun suicide attempts are fatal. With all the drinking and the drugs are involved adding a gun is dangerous. Suicides happen because people feel like they are welcomed into the party or get invited or they are getting abused by someone and they stand it anymore. really bad when suicides happen because of this mix of alcohol and drugs. Guns should be banned so this problem occur. Having guns on campus will raise the number of accidental shootings. Several accidents have occurred over the past several years at school with campus carry, they are accidents that almost certainly would have not occurred had concealed carry not been permitted on school grounds. not really safe having guns on campuses where kids are even if they are over the age of 18. It increases risks and parents worry because they want to end up hearing that their kid has gotten shot or injured by a gun. An example of an accidental shooting was on January 4th, 2012, a student at Weber State University in Utah was carrying a handgun in his pocket when it accidentally discharged, wounding him in his leg. This been avoided if the campus allow guns on school premises. A student got injured because the college campus allows guns. It is not safe because he got injured and he possibly injured someone else as well. Another incident that happened because guns are allowed on campus was on September 3rd, 2014, a professor at Idaho State University accidentally shot himself in the foot in the middle of class. Idaho had allowed campus carry only two months before. He shot himself in front of his students not only harming himself but also harming them for having the gun in the classroom. He sustained injuries to his foot and leaving students in shock. It is unsafe to have guns on campus especially when they are going off and injuring. Chillura 3 Allowing guns on campus will create a mood of fear on campus by disrupting a good learning environment. Attending school each day knowing that anyone could be armed with a deadly weapon can create a hostile and unsafe environment for both students and instructors. It can scare students and even the instructors that teach at the school. It can cause students to be very alarmed which they have to be looking around every second wondering if someone is going to shoot them or pull a gun on them. It can make them paranoid and crazy and then they even sleep at night because they are going insane thinking about the guns on campus that can harm them in any way. Also a classroom that welcomes deadly weapons in a classroom fueled by fear, which appropriate for an environment that needs to encourage learning, expression of thought and above all, safety. Students should feel safe in the environment in which they are learning in. They have to fear going to class and end up saying the wrong thing in a debate and getting shot at. Most importantly I think guns are not a good add on to a place of learning. Students go there to learn and get and education not having students armed with guns. Here is another thing, law makers need to be concerned with protecting guns but with protecting people and enforcing safety in the learning environment. Allowing guns on campus is not a step in the right direction. They need to be focused on protecting the people that have guns because they feel safe without them but when you allow other students to have guns then there is a problem because they are not safe anymore. Guns should not be allowed on college campuses because they will increase violence, raise the number of accidental shootings, and create a mood of fear on campus by disrupting a good learning environment. By banning guns on college campuses, tragedies can be prevented and everyone will be safe. Chillura 4 Works Cited 1.) Smart gun laws. in smartgunlaws.org. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 (For first body paragraph) 2.) Defilippis Evan and Hughes Devin. numbers on arming college students show risks outweigh Thetrace.org. 9 Nov. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 (For second body paragraph) 3.) Mesquite editorial board. on campus would affect learning 6 Dec. 2012. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 (For third body paragraph)