Kaserman 1 James Kaserman Jewell ENC 1101 01/29/2017 The Economic Effects of Socialized Healthcare on America The distribution of healthcare in America has recently come to the front of the spotlight because of its importance as a political issue in the recent presidential campaign. a complex issue that affects everyone and was quickly adopted by the DNC platform. There are numerous countries with universal medicine, such as Canada, the United Kingdom, Denmark, and Germany. Per these other policies, the United States could gain large economic benefits and increase hospital efficiency from implementing a form of socialized healthcare for its citizens. Why the United States of America make major changes in its healthcare system to a more modern, socialized form of healthcare? The question of why America change its current system lies in the health insurance complex and the general attitude of the public. Introducing this type of legislation in current political environment could prove to be difficult. However, if the United States were to set up the program, then it would set a precedent across the globe. Adele Shartzer, Sharon K. Long and Nathaniel Anderson Access To Care and Affordability Have Improved Following Affordable Care Act Implementation; Problems Remain Health Affairs 35, no. 1 (2016): 161-168 Doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2015.0755 originally published online December 16, 2015. Kaserman 2 The above article discussed the triumphs and failures of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) that was enacted under the Obama administration. It is a peer-reviewed source that explains the declines in the uninsured population of low-income level adults. It offers many dates of how the law affected the groups of people it was supposed to offer healthcare insurance to. It also displays many graphs that help to illustrate the numbers that were affected when the law was enacted. It is an incredibly helpful article because it outlined the failures of the Obamacare act (ACA). Most of the failures came about because it was a truncated law that was passed forcefully with numerous amounts of concessions. It supports the idea that healthcare is an issue that cannot be thought of partially. It requires a full overhaul of a system to be executed successfully. It benefits my research because it offers an analysis of an attempt to implement a form of socialized healthcare into the American healthcare system. The article was written by three authors that all hold a position in the medical research field. Shartzer is a research associate in the Urban Institute, Long is a senior fellow, and Anderson is a researcher at UCLA. It explores the numbers and the social situations that many Americans are put into and it relates to the situation surrounding Planned Parenthood. Many conservatives and people in the middle of the partisan debate are probably not the first ones to support an organization that allows people to basically receive sex-related services for free, but it is an important part of the healthcare system. Without planned parenthood, the amount of pregnancies and abortions increases and it causes a strain on the healthcare economic system. It is more economically conscious to focus on preventive care instead of curative cure. A preventive system is more desirable economically and morally. Kaserman 3 Seegert, Liz. What Single-Payer Healthcare Would Mean to Doctors: Senator Bernie Sanders Has Revived Debate, But Experts Say It Remains an Unlikely Dream in The United  Medical Economics 10 (2016): 54. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. My second source describes the benefits of a healthcare system that is like Canada and own healthcare systems. It gives doctors and other practicing physicians increased freedoms over insurance contracts and overall less overhead when they see a patient. Imagine a system that allows a doctor to not worry about the cost of any procedure or medication when prescribing to a certain patient. It removes the cost from the equation and allows doctors and physicians the ability to worry about the profession that they spent countless years and dollars on, instead of the administrative side of healthcare. This source ties into my research question because it explores the freedom that it grants doctors that are in the system. When doctors have to worry about the cost of the level of care they are providing, then it benefits both parties. This is because both parties feel the best they can at an emotional level. The doctors can feel like they offered the patient the greatest level of care they could receive and the patient has the best level of care provided. However, it will be important to carefully analyze the information in this article because the author hold any medical positions in the research area, but she does establish and draws from credible sources. Mats, Marianne and Anders Pousette. Organizational And Social-Psychological Conditions In Healthcare And Their Importance For Patient And Staff Safety. A Critical Incident Study Among Doctors And  Safety Science 70.(2014): 211 221. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Kaserman 4 This source offers supplementary actions towards the implementation of universal healthcare. It calls for an increase into the amount of research and analysis of patient safety, ensuring that all hospitals have adequate resources, and a reduced workload for healthcare professionals, like doctors and nurses. It makes logical sense because the healthcare industry on the physical hospital side is inherently concerned about the patient foremost, but if the people administering the care are stressed and have inadequate resources, then they cannot perform to their highest degree. Additionally, there are claims that there would be a reduction of patient and healthcare professional injuries that result from mistakes that are caused from stress. All of these elements could easily be enacted along with the main parts of universal healthcare to increase efficiency and add more counterpoints to supporters of the current system. The credentials of the authors that wrote this paper are substantial. They all hold positions in the Department of Psychology at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden. Additionally, and Pousette are involved in occupational and environmental sciences at the Salhgrenska Academy, which is also located at the university. It was important to obtain a source that accurately captured the psychological questions and concerns that surround the hardy, stressful lifestyle that healthcare professionals are subjected to daily. also a bonus that the paper has numerous references to other works and the authors have years of experience under their belts. Kondoro, Wayne. Budget Causes  N.p., n.d. Web. My fourth source focuses on the budget concerns that are related to an extensive and including overall of healthcare. In America, the healthcare system is accessed through money, while in Canada everyone accesses it. It explores the budget concerns that come along with an increased amount of coverage towards the general population. Canada would have a budget Kaserman 5 shortfall because of the projected initial costs of socialized healthcare, but it does not account for surpluses that can be forecasted with introduction of preventative care. Preventative care is the goal when it comes to socialized healthcare because the costs of preventing a healthcare disaster are a lot smaller than the costs of immediate surgery. This article supports my topic because it explores the monetary side of a government that has had a form of socialized healthcare that neighbors the United States of America. Kondoro, the author of the article, has written numerous stories and articles covering health-related issues and concerns in Canada, so likely the information presented is accurate. In addition, Canada is our largest, friendliest socioeconomical neighbor and it makes sense to explore their challenges and solutions to their healthcare issue. The amount of false ideas that stem from healthcare system are put out of place because of medical insurance injecting false lies and ideas into the propaganda stream that is fed into news sources. Pozanti, M. Suheyl, and Paul Bruder. The Turkish Healthcare System: Can The United States Learn From The Ottoman  Hospital Topics 73.2 (1995): 28. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 The article explains about the costs associated with healthcare on a national level and it uses Turkey as an example. It ensures that the readers understand that turkey is considered a gateway between the and the The two directions described include the western culture and the eastern, Asian cultures. Turkey is described as a hotbed of international thinking and it proves by implementing a healthcare system that provides answers at a cost-effective level. It focuses on preventative healthcare as opposed to immediate healthcare needs and the article shows that the country saves money because of the mentality switch. Kaserman 6 It relates to my research question because it explains on a level that preventative care is the most economical and cost-effective type of care that a hospital or healthcare system could provide. It also offers a look into healthcare systems around the world because of the culture and geopolitical nature that relates to turkey being the gateway between the and the This allows it to enter the conversation of healthcare as a global power. Half of the article was written by a professor at Bahsecehir University which is located in Turkey, so it brings in an accurate record of history and Bruder is a business litigation attorney. have to find deeper information to find how Bruder has connections to a paper discussing health care insurance in Turkey. Eldo E., Frezza. The Six Stages Of The Healthcare Economy-Is Socialized Medicine At The Door? Historical  Journal Of Social Sciences, Vol 1, Iss 4, Pp 197-198 (2005) 4 (2005): 197. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 This article describes the six stages of healthcare that happen naturally overtime. It is an important piece of information because a lot of it is based on recent history because health insurance was not a huge topic over a century ago and it until a professor at the University of Texas raised the question of whether patients would be able to afford the level of care that was being currently being offered to them. It explores the economic stages of healthcare and a bit of the history of healthcare insurance as a whole. It relates to the research topic because it directly relates to the topic of money in the healthcare system and offers hindsight and foresight that can be analyzed. In addition, it offers a brief history of health insurance from the point of view of a general surgeon at the Texas Tech University Health Science Center. It encompasses a huge fraction of the United States of Kaserman 7 economy and it continues to grow at obscene rates as healthcare insurance companies raise rates and the government continues to resist change.