Santos 1 Ryan Santos Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.12 20 February 2017 Annotated bibliography Throughout history many people have immigrated to multiple countries across the world. People have immigrated from England to the New World to escape a monarch that accept their religious beliefs, or to escape a country that is in civil war to seek refuge in a safer country that seen war since its own civil war in 1865. Many people say that immigration is a good thing and many people oppose saying that immigration is destroying our economy. Immigration can be beneficial to the economy of the United States, immigration Is a huge part of the way that we live, lastly, with references that will be able to show that immigration can be a good asset to the United States. Exploring and researching immigration it could be explained on how immigration affects the united states. Clark, Ximena, et al. U.S. Immigration, The Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 89, no. 2, 2007, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/40043066. In this article, she explains variations in immigration through the years 1971-1998. Also she will explain different variations of where people come from and immigrate to the united states, and will show the differences in income, education, and racial ethnicity of people coming into the united states. Also, Ximena used different quotas on people coming and saying in the united states using and overstaying the visa granted to the by there countries. They use the rise and fall in percentages from different countries for example the rise of Asian immigrants from countries in Asia and the decline of Hispanic-Latino immigrants to the United States. Santos 2 Ximena Clark is a credible source because throughout her research she has shown multiple times the economics downfalls and uprisings of immigration.in addition she has two degrees from Georgetown University and Boston university in economics. Also she has a public office position in the Ministry of Economic Promotion and Tourism, an Adviser in Budget Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, and the director of the Spanish Statistical office. Bedard, Ana T. Us versus Them? U.S. Immigration and the Common  Journal of the Society of Christian Ethics 2008: 117. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. In this article it shows undocumented immigration through the common good and post directions of the united states in favor of immigration to the common good. many of these acquisitions are based on protecting immigrant rights through legalization or naturalization many of these are based upon religious catholic beliefs but also consider with liberal agenda. Such as people have the right to migrate to where ever they want and refugees and people seeking asylum should be given and placed in protection from war filled countries, and human rights and dignity should be protected. Ana Bedhard is a credible source because she has over twenty year experience in the field. She has a bachelors from the University of Chicago, a Master in Loyola University of Chicago, and a PhD from Loyola University of Chicago. She now is the senior outreach and project manager in the institute for workforce education. Fernandez, Henry The Facts on Immigration  Center for American Progress. CAP.immigration team, 23 Oct. 2014 . Web. 29 Jan. 2017 In this article, it discussed in detail the impacts of jobs in America due to immigration to the united states, in addition, it gives information on how immigration is beneficial to the Santos 3 economy of the united states. Also, its explained how immigrants come from diverse backgrounds and education. Also, it should poverty rates of immigrants coming into the united states, and it states that only one in immigrants live in poverty. Also, it showed that in the studies they have taken that immigrants from different countries that use Medicaid and welfare use it at approximately the same rate as natural born citizens. Henry Fernandez is a reputable source because he has graduated from Yale law school and Harvard college He has served on numerous boards and commissions, including the National Commission on Civic Renewal. He has been interviewed by The New York Times, The Boston Globe, and The Wall Street Journal, he has also served under Obamas transition team in the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development where he focused on community development. He also has many experience in State and municipal policy, elections, civil rights, immigration. Diamond, Jeremy http://www.cnn.com/2017/01/28/politics/donald-trump-executive-order- immigration- reaction/mm immigration ban sends  CNN. Cable News Network, 27 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article talks about Donald ban on Muslims coming into the united states of America. President Donald move to ban two hundred eighteen million people from the united states and to not allow entry to any refugee took the world in shock. The executive order ban several citizens from seven Muslim countries from coming into the united states for the next three months or ninety days and suspends the intake of all refugees for the next one hundred twenty days Many people were imidiatly affected by as their families where stuck at a airport awaiting to get home or stuck in a different country trying to get home with no way how to get back home due to the ban. President trump said that it was going to be a smooth ban and it was Santos 4 going to be handled very strictly but it was seen that many airports where caught struggling due to the new rules and directives. Jermemy is a reputable source because he is a reporter for CNN politics concerning Donald Trump. Before Joining CNN, Diamond earned the Political Collegaite Journalism Award from the College Media Assoiation. He graduated from George Washington University with a degree in International Affairs. Pitt, Kristin E. The Vulnerable  Aztlan 41.2 (2016): 13-36. America: History & Life. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. In this article, it goes in depth on how the impact of immigration induced changes in labor in agriculture such as Americans not wanting to take those jobs and immigrants filling in. it also talks about technology change in response to immigrant labor force coming in and the rise of immigrant labor helping the United states in our food supplies. Also without the immigrants working in our agriculture, the whole infrastructure would collapse because other natural born American want to the job. Kristin pit is a reputable author because she has over 10 years of expertise in this subject. She has a Ph.D. from the university of Wisconsin. Also, she does research on Latin America and modern contemporary narratives in the Americas. She has studied the impacts of immigration labor and this will help the essay. Auerbach, Alan J., and Philip Oreopoulos. The Fiscal Effect Of U.S. Immigration: A Generational-Accounting  NBER/Tax Policy & The Economy (MIT Press) 14.1 (2000): 123-156. Business Source Premier. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Through Past research the research has traditionally been adopted as static but in this article it proves it wrong because it fails to take in fact The impact of current immigrants and Santos 5 their future children .in this article it shows generational accounting to measure the fiscal effects of immigration and the potential benefits of it as well. Also, it shows that changes in immigration have a uncertain effect on the United States economy. And usually immigration policy has always focused on the level of immigration coming into the United States instead of the type of people or composition of the immigrant population of this changes the argument of immigration itself. This is a reputable source because its author is a professor of economics from Berkley and he is also the director of the Robert D. Burch Center for Tax Policy and Public finance. he has many experience and has written and published multiple papers on the effects of immigration.