Lopez 1 Manami Lopez Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.021 21 Feb 20171 Constitutional rights of the death penalty Death Penalty. Some may deserve the punishment, but some do not. To what extent can a person be judged by his or her actions? Let alone be put to death for said actions. When the Bill of Rights was added to the Constitution, the Anti-Federalists were concerned that the large majority of criminals would be subjected to harsh punishment for the crimes they committed. The Eighth Amendment to the Constitution silenced those fears, promising that no criminals would be subjected to or unusual For the last two hundred years, Americans have grappled with whether the death penalty in any fashion is a violation of Eighth Amendment rights. Through lethal injection, the electric chair, or a firing squad, Americans have had to ask themselves if the death penalty violates those rights given to the people through the Eighth Amendment. The Federal Government has given the states complete authority on to view the death penalty, creating some regional differences around the country. Some states, including Florida, have eliminated the electric chair and have leaned more towards lethal injection; some states, like Texas, favor the firing squad, and some have outlawed the practice completely. The death penalty has sparked a national debate on the practice and whether it should continue in the United States. Groups such as the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) work endlessly to prove that the death penalty is an inappropriate way to handle capital crimes. Lopez 2 But the ultimate question is, the death penalty violate the Constitutional right of citizens not to be Sithole, Kundai. NGO-IGO Relations: Amnesty International, Council Of Europe, And Abolition Of The Death  Global Governance 22.1 (2016): 79-97. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. In this article, Sithole talks about Amnesty (AI) contribution to the abolition of the death penalty. They were considering the need for regional intervention to prevent European states from exposing individuals to the death penalty (Sithole 79). The subject of the death penalty has been debated in the Council of Europe since 1949, but the change did not occur until 1958. There was a regional treaty to secure a peacetime abolition of the death penalty by the International Nongovernmental Organization (INGO) (Sithole 80). Through the Al-Saadoon and Mufdhi v. United Kingdom. The Strasbourg Court declared that the individual possesses the right not to be subjected to the death penalty (Sithole 80). The author has concluded that the perception as to the right to expose the individuals to the death penalty, which led to the Committee of Ministers adopted second abolition protocol to secure an end to judicial executions in all circumstances (Sithole 92). This article relates to my topic because the author explains why the Council of Europe were working on abolition the death penalty. Kundai Sithole was a research associate in the Department of politics and International Studies at the University of Cambridge. Her research focus is on legitimacy and Strasbourg human rights regime. She was previously Anglo-German Research Fellow in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Oxford. Lopez 3 Bufacchi, Vittorio, and Laura Fairrie. Execution As  Peace Review 13.4 (2001): 511-517. Academic Search Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. In this article, the authors, Bufacchi and Fairrie discuss all the methods of execution that were used in the past and how they were used. For instance, lethal injection became popular because it was perceived as a medical procedure (Bufacchi and Fairrie 515). Which was more humane than hanging or electroshock. They also discussed the use of guillotine and how people thought it was more humane than existing methods of execution since it was quick and painless to prisoners (Bufacchi and Fairrie 511). The authors say that the reason for the death penalty is the rejection of torture has precipitated efforts to find a humane execution method. They also mention that the history of the death penalty in the United States is similar to the elusive or illusory search for a humane method of killing people (Bufacchi and Fairrie 516). The authors conclude that the death penalty is considered a capital punishment, no matter which method is used, it is a legitimized form of torture (Bufacchi and Fairrie 516). This article is related to my research question because, the author goes into detail about how they have done the executions before, and how they came up with more of a humane method than in the past. Laura Fairrie is a current-affairs documentary producer and director living and working in London (Bufacchi and Fairrie 517). Whereas, Vittorio Bufacchi teaches philosophy at University College, Cork, Ireland. He received his Ph.D. at the London School of Economics. He also wrote six books in political philosophy and Italian politics, who is work has been translated into Chinese, Spanish and Italian (Bufacchi and Fairrie 517). Blocher, Joseph. The Death Penalty And The Fifth  Northwestern University Law Review 111.1 (2016): 275-293. Academic Search Premier. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Lopez 4 At the beginning of the article, the author mentions some developments that gave new hopes for citizens who was seeking a constitutional abolition of the death penalty (Blocher 275). However, this argument has been going on for years due to Furman v. Georgia William Henry Furman was given a death penalty for committing a robbery when the resident of the house came home, which led to Furman tripping, falling, accidentally triggering his gun, and killing the resident; this violated the Eighth Amendment of cruel and unusual punishment because the death penalty must be constitutional under the Fifth Amendment (Blocher 275). The author mentions Justice argument that the death penalty is approved by the constitution under the Fifth Amendment (Blocher 277). Which may have led to the rise of arguments about the death penalty. Blocher properly discusses why the Fifth Amendment is flawed because that amendment contains prohibitions on the use of capital punishment, not a grant of governmental power (Blocher 283). The author concludes the article by stating, death penalty may be abolished; however, it will not be effective using the Fifth (Blocher 293). This article relates to my question because it discusses all the flaws as to why the author is against the death penalty, explaining why it is against the constitutional rights. The author, Joseph Blocher is a professor at Duke Law School, his interest includes federal and state constitutional law, the First and Second Amendments, capital punishment, and property. His articles have been published or are forthcoming in the Yale Law Journal, Stanford Law Review, New York University Law Review, Duke Law Journal and other journals. Simon, Douglas L. Making Sense Of Cruel And Unusual Punishment: A New Approach To Reconciling Military And Civilian Eighth Amendment  Military Law Review 184. (2005): 66-128. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Lopez 5 In this article, the author, Simon discusses how the Eighth Amendment that provides, bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishment was created due to act amongst those who were accused and guilty of committing crimes (Simon 66). In addition, the author goes more in detail about the Eighth Amendment and how it has developed throughout the years. Simon mentions that the Eighth Amendment law is an extension of the death penalty debate and the death proper role in a civilized society (Simon 67). He provides examples of when the cruel and unusual punishment under the Eighth Amendment such as, Woodson v. North Carolina, Coker v. Georgia, Enmund v. Florida, and Tison v. Arizona which challenged the state laws that authorized the death penalty (Simon 79-81). This article relates to my topic because the author provides examples and explain why the cases have challenged the amendments. Douglas L. Simon was in the U.S. Army, he was presently assigned as Chief of Claims, Office of the Staff Judge Advocate, 34 th Infantry Division (Simon 66). He has recently received his Ph.D. in Sociology at South Dakota State University. He is a professor at the department of Political Science, Southwest Minnesota State University, he teaches Business Law both graduate and undergraduate, American government, constitutional law, public policy, and public administration. Lanier, Charles S., and James R. Acker. Capital Punishment, The Moratorium Movement, And Empirical Questions: Looking Beyond Innocence, Race, And Bad Lawyering In Death Penalty  Psychology, Public Policy, And Law 10.4 (2004): 577-617. PsycARTICLES. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. In this article, the authors, Lanier and Acker discuss wide ranges of issues and cases of the death penalty. This article also mentioned Furman v. Georgia and how it violated the Eighth Lopez 6 Amendment of cruel and unusual punishment (Lanier ad Acker 578). The author discusses Governor speech at Northwestern University College of Law, saying, capital system is haunted by the demon of I am commuting the sentences of all death row he has granted clemency to all 156 prisoners who were on death row (Lanier and Acker 579). He also discusses the proposed Moratorium Act which calls for a review of the administration of the death penalty to determine whether it with constitutional principles and requirements of fairness, justice, equality, and due the bill have contemplated the constitutional protections by the Supreme Court including the right to effective trial council, post-conviction representation, concerns about racially disparate, arbitrary or uneven charging, and sentencing decisions in capital cases (Lanier and Acker 583). This article is related to my topic because the authors discuss all the court cases and acts that were related to the death penalty. The authors, Charles S. Lanier and James R. Acker have both graduated from the School of Criminal Justice, University at Albany, State University of New York (Lanier and Acker 577). Lanier is affiliated especially with the Capital Punishment Research Initiative, he also conducts investigations in death penalty cases, on both the state and federal levels (Lanier and Acker 577). Acker is interested in the integration of social science into law, and legal doctrine relating to criminal procedure, criminal law, juvenile justice, miscarriages of justice, and capital punishment. He has also authored and co-edited many books. Barry, Kevin. The Death Penalty & The Dignity  Iowa Law Review 102.2 (2017): 383-444. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. whether American society has reached a point where abolition is not dependent on a successful grass roots movement in particular jurisdiction but is demanded by the Eighth has been the question that has been asked multiple times throughout the years Lopez 7 (Barry 383). Barry connects some of the cases with dignity, for example, there was a dignity in the freedom to marry, especially for the same-sex marriages, which was a dignity that the constitution protected; to prohibit marriage was to deny that dignity in violation of the Constitution (Barry 385). As well as a woman who was executed had graduated from a theology program and received the forgiveness from her children but their pleas for communication were rejected by parole board (Barry 385). The author was showing how dignity and death penalty correlated to each other. The author concludes this article by saying, one day accept that when the state punishes with death, it denies the humanity and dignity of the and transgresses the prohibition against cruel and unusual hoping that the country will stop performing death penalty as one of the major punishments (Barry 444). This article is related to my research question because the author believes that the death penalty is not an acceptable punishment and does not believe that it is constitutional. In other words, the death penalty does violate the constitutional rights of the citizens. The author, Kevin Barry is a professor at Quinnipiac University School of Law (Barry 383). He teaches disability law and is the co-director of the law civil justice clinic, which represents low-income clients through a combination of direct law and employment discrimination, death penalty abolition, transgender rights, and other civil of rights issues.