Li 1 Yang Li Lorie Jewell ENC1101 24 Jan 2017 Violent video implications on youth Nowadays, video games have already become the most popular entertainment for people, especially youth. Almost every youth will take a lot of times to play video game at every day. Some parents think that their children can relax and develop interest by playing some video game, such as study game, music game, paint game and sport game. However, these parents know that video can develop interest to youth, these parents realize that video game have negative influence to youth, especially violent video game. Violent game includes blood, death and sex. Therefore, the major problem is how to prevent youth to play violent video game. Because youths cannot control emotion like adults, violent video has bad influence to youths than adults. Rowsell, Jennifer, Isabel Pedersen, and Douglas Trueman. Playing As A Mutant In A Virtual World: Understanding Overlapping Story Worlds In Popular Culture Video  Literacy 48.1 (2014): 47-53. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The article talks about why video games became popular. There is a very important reason from the article. The reason is that producer will add popular culture and stories when they design a new video game. For example, World of Warcraft is a very famous video game. In the game, there are a lot of stories and virtual history. When people play the game, they hope Li 2 to get more information about stories and history in the game. Therefore, people will play the game day by day, because these stories and histories attract people. Hence, world of Warcraft is very popular. Due to the popularity of video games, more people will engage in playing video games, so more people will be influenced when they play video game. Because of the reason, the article supports my research. At the same time, this article has strong credibility because it came from Education Source; and author is Dr. Jennifer Rowsell, she is Professor (PhD) Canada Research Chair in Multiliteracies. Tulupman, Peter. Video Games: The School Of Hard Knocks, Knives And  Business And Society Review 87 (1993): 41. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The article explains why more youths will play video game, especially violent game. Author analysis some reasons that youth like violent game in this article. These reasons are important, such as youth people have strong curiosity, it leads youth to play violent game. Another reason is that youth would like to release pressure by playing video game, but traditional video game is not a good way to release pressure. Therefore, youth will choose violent game, and get excited by violent game. why more youth will play violent games and violent video games will influence more people that before. According to the article, people could know youth play violent video game, and more youth will choose to play violent video game in the future. It gives a lot of information for my research, this information includes the reasons that why youth like violent video game Li 3 and more violent video games will be produced. This information is very important and credible, because the article from Academic OneFile. Hasan, Youssef. Violent Video Games Increase Voice Stress: An Experimental  Psychology Of Popular Media Culture 6.1 (2017): 74-81. PsycARTICLES. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. According to the article, people know video violent games that cannot make people feel relax, because it makes people feel street by voice. Traditional video games have beautiful music, fancy picture and pleasant story, these things will make people relax and happy, especially beautiful music. Beautiful music makes people feel better on mentally, it is very important. Violent game is very bad on the music, because usual violent music makes people street, such as heart rate, blood pressure, and skin conductance. However recent research shows that violent game already reduces horrific music to decrease people street, influence is not good. In the article, writer shows some research and his opinions, these opinions are important for my research; because some youth disagree my opinion on the reason that violent video game can make people relax. The article gives a batter opposite opinion, it is that violent video game would make people street. The article is from PsycARTICLES, the author is Youssef Hasan, he is Assistant Professor of Social & Psychology at Qatar university. Therefore, the article is credible. Hanson, Gayle M.B. The Violent World of Video  Insight on the News 1999: Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 Li 4 The news shows some facts that people would be crime ease by playing violent video game. For example, on Dec. 7, 1997, a student killed three his classmates at Ky. high-school. Due to the student, be addicted to playing violent video game. When the student opened fire at classroom, he thought that he belongs to world of violent video game. In the world, the student thought that he can do every thing, but he forgot the world of video is not truth. Therefore, violent video game has bad influence to youth, The news shows that youth get bad influence by playing violent game. The opinion is very important for me, it supports my main idea. Because my main idea is youth should stop to touch violent game. The news from Academic OneFile; and it include a lot of facts things and news. Therefore, the source is credible and useful. Schlafly, Andrew L. Game Over For Childhood? Violent Video Games As First Amendment  Rutgers Computer And Technology Law Journal 38.(2012): 173. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Violent video has bad influence to people, especially youth. Youths are not able to control their emotion like adults. Therefore, the kind of video has more influence to youth than adult. Some cities, which use law to protect youths to get away from violent video. For example, California issued a law to stop youths to tach violent at 2005. The law like to stop youths to tach alcohol, cigarettes, gambling, pornography, and other adult vices. The article is very important for my research, because my research is that avoids youths to paly violent video games. The article provides some useful information, especially some cities issue law to avoid youths to tach the kind of game, it proves governments already Li 5 realize that violent video games have bad influence to youths. Besides, the article is credible, because first source from Law Reviews and there are many fact things. Second Andrew Layton is an American lawyer and Christian conservative activist. Hence, the article is credible. Vessey, Judith A., and Joanne E. Lee. Violent Video Games Affecting Our  Pediatric Nursing 26.6 (2000): 607. Education Source. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Only influence is not enough on the violent, parents and manufactures more important to youths that government. The article give two methods. First, parents should know that what video games are healthy to their children; and parents should control time when children play video games. Second, producers formulate level of video games similar to movies. For example, ECEarly Childhood for 3 age and older pay, AOAdults Only is for adults. According to the article, some methods can help youths to get away from violent video game. Besides, it also helps parents and producers to avoid youths to tech the kind of game. But only hie article answer my research question, not also it is credible. The author is Dr. Vessey, she received a BSN from Goshen College, a Developmental Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Certificate from the University of Miami, and an MSN and a PhD in Nursing from the University of Pennsylvania.