Santos 1 Ryan Santos Lorie Jewell ENC1101.12 26 February 2017 Immigration Through a Looking Glass Throughout history many people have immigrated to multiple countries across the world. People have immigrated from England to the New World to escape a monarch that accept their religious beliefs, or to escape a country that is in civil war to seek refuge in a safer country that seen war on their own soil since its own civil war in 1865. Many people say that immigration is a good thing and many people oppose saying that immigration is destroying our economy. Immigration can be beneficial to the economy of the United States, immigration Is a huge part of the way that we live, lastly, with references that will be able to show that immigration can be a good asset to the United States. Exploring and researching immigration it could be explained on how immigration affects the united states. During the history of the United states farming and agriculture was the cornerstone of sustaining life and bringing in income to the economy. Throughout the United States immigrants are working in farms picking out fruits, vegetables, and more cash crops that help the united states more than it hurts it. Many people through this election has said that when a certain group of immigrants come in they are criminals, drug dealers, and rapist; but in contrary many come in to work in harsh conditions in farm that pay well. In an article from the New York Times it was stated that are the only labor available to do many unskilled jobs, and if they were eliminated most would not be replaced. instead whole sectors of the economy would Santos 2 (Jacoby,2010). Also, stating from author Kristen E. Pitt the jobs the immigrants do would not be jobs Americans would want to-do Also throughout history the united states used immigrant labor to build, our skyscrapers, our railroads, and now our farmlands. Immigrants come from all places from all over the world. We have people of many religions some for those include Hinduism, Muslims, Christians, and Buddhist; these all help shape America in how it is today. America to many people is the best place in the world the most opportunistic place to bring their families to start a better life. In addition, many people come to seek refuge form war stricken countries. as people have the right to migrate to where ever they want and refugees and people seeking asylum should be given and placed in protection from war filled countries, and human rights and dignity should be (Bedard,2017). This statement shows that people should be able to come in America without losing their dignity. To be remembered this country was built upon immigrants coming into foreign land to seek refuge from a monarch. Also, many of the immigrants coming in have a degree of higher education(Ximena,359). Since 1950-1970 over 25 million have been admitted into the united states (Ximena,359) America is a melting pot of the best of the best and as people come in America get diverse and what makes America great because people can experience freedom that they have in the home countries. Immigrants can be beneficial to the united states. They can be beneficial to the United States in many ways. Throughout history the United States saw the way how they could be beneficial such as , when immigrant Asian workers built our railroads, or how even forced immigration (slavery) built the foundations of the United States with picking cotton. Even today with the 11.3 million unauthorized immigrants living in the United States today unauthorized immigrants contribute 11.64 billion dollars in state and local taxes each year(Estrada,2016). Santos 3 about a billion per million people going to help our infrastructure, economy, and education. Furthermore, the Social Security Administration estimates that unauthorized immigrants contribute a net worth of about 13 billion dollars in payroll taxes annually, which helps to strengthen the Social Security system (Estrada, 2016). In addition, according to the Small Business Administration, immigrants are 30 percent more likely to start a business in the United States than non-immigrants, and 18 percent of all small business owners in the United States are immigrants (Furman et al, 2012). In past years from the late nineteen hundred the United States saw an Increase in people coming to the U.S with a degree of higher learning as mentioned in the article Ximena Clark wrote in 2007. Showing how immigration can help the U.S can be very helpful to people that say they just take our resources even though immigrants help contributes so much to the united states because they all have the same goal as normal citizens which is to achieve the American dream. In conclusion immigration effects the united states in many ways such as making the U.S more diverse and it affecting the agriculture of the nation. Also without immigration and he workers it brings in the agriculture areas it will collapse and it will directly affect us in a drastic way. Additionally, throughout the years immigrates have helps the united states such as in the migrants Asian railroads to the Latino immigrants coming in building our agriculture. The United States need them to survive and thrive; they come in and help our economy in the billions. In all, immigrants and citizens are all trying to achieve one goal and it is the American dream Santos 4 Works Cited Jacoby, Tamar Without Immigrant labor the Economy would crumble  The New York Times. The New York Times, n.d. 2012 Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Clark, Ximena, et al. U.S. Immigration, The Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 89, no. 2, 2007, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/40043066 Pitt, Kristin E. The Vulnerable  Aztlan 41.2 (2016): 13-36. America: History & Life. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Bedard, Ana T. Us versus Them? U.S. Immigration and the Common  Journal of the Society of Christian Ethics 2008: 117. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Furman, Jason, and Danielle Gray. Ten Ways Immigrants Help Build and Strengthen Our  National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, 12 July 2012. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Santos 5