Cheyanne Wells Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 5 Mar. 2017 Project 2 Vaccines have saved approximately 122 million children in 25 years while Autism Spectrum Disorder affects one in sixty-eight people, and the numbers are rising. This disorder causes developmental delays that vary with each person, which is why it is a spectrum. The main reason that autism is so frightening is because there is no known cause. One of the main causes that are debated is vaccination of children. An article in the that was later retracted put this idea forth the idea of vaccines causing Autism Spectrum Disorder. Even though the article was proven to be false, the damage was still done. There is still debate about whether or not vaccines cause Autism Spectrum Disorder. An article published in The Lancet sparked the debate about vaccines. This article claims that vaccines are the cause of Autism Spectrum Disorder. It says that they studied twelve children with disorders and eight of them relate the disorders to vaccinations. (Wakefield 637) This article was later retracted, but the damage was already done. With the publication of this article people believed that vaccines caused Autism Spectrum Disorder. The biggest harm was that some celebrities starting spreading the false truth that vaccines were harmful such as Donald Trump, Robert Kennedy Jr., Robert DeNiro, and the biggest perpetuator, Jenny McCarthy. None of these people are experts in the fields of either vaccines or Autism Spectrum Disorder so their non-researched opinion is very dangerous. What is even more concerning is how wide of a range of an attentive audience these people reach using their celebrity status. All this is based off of an article that was proven to be falsified by the scientists who conducted the experiment. The contributors were found to have been paid money by people who would benefit from vaccines no longer being administered. All this lie is achieving is getting children killed because of parents seeing this information and refusing to get their kid vaccinated. Autism Spectrum Disorder is not a scary thing, but the diseases that vaccines prevent are. Vaccines prevent diseases such as Polio and the Measles, both potentially fatal maladies. An article in the Tampa Bay Times by the Sacramento Bee states that deaths have been falling worldwide since And it also states that and Melinda Gates estimated that science has saved 122 million children in the last quarter (4A) Vaccines are saving lives, this fact is proven, while Autism Spectrum Disorder does not cause any related death. There was a law passed that required parents to vaccinate their children, but there are still loopholes to get out of it. Parents can seek and be granted exemptions from vaccinating their children if they desire to. (Johnson 2) This is proving dangerous, as the number of people contracting these diseases will have a direct correlation with the number of people not getting vaccinated. The anti vaccine movement is a death sentence for some children. Vaccines do not just save people; they do not cause Autism Spectrum Disorder. The only connection between the two is that Autism Spectrum Disorder is diagnosed around the same time that most vaccines are administered. What is not scientifically proven is that vaccines cause Autism Spectrum Disorder. This is not based on opinion or falsified evidence though it is based on fact. Christofer Price conducted a study to find out whether vaccines can cause Autism Spectrum Disorder and his conclusion was that there is no correlation between the two. And this is not the only study that has taken place. One only has to look to find credible sources that show that the two are not linked. No matter how you look at it, there is no connection between the two. There still is more research being done to this day because there is no known cause for Autism Spectrum Disorder and until the cause is found the scientists will still have work to do to uncover the mysteries Of Autism Spectrum Disorder. In conclusion, Autism Spectrum Disorder is not and never was caused by vaccines. People have been led to believe this by strategic lying and a phony article that was then backed by celebrities. This information is false and should be treated as such. Vaccines are very important to keeping our society healthy and all the evidence points to vaccines not causing Autism Spectrum Disorder. It is fine to be concerned for the welfare of the children, but that is why we have vaccines. We are trying to stop the preventable death of children, and that is what is most important.