Jones 1 Ellie Jones Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.17 19 February 2017 As the scientific community welcomes new and developing therapies and techniques in medicine and research, it is important that regulations on treatments and studies protect ethical, environmental and social norms. One issue that has several regulations is stem cells, and some critics are looking to legislative officials to ease these rules to make way for many more opportunities that could benefit not only individuals, but companies, institutions and the future of the global scientific research community. They often argue that funding should be allowed to some research groups that are not currently funded due to the lack of compliance with the current regulatory guidelines. In short, stem cells can be collected from several different tissue types and generally promote growth, re-growth and healing in an area they are deposited in every species of animal that contains viable stem cells, possibly even across special borders. So, one must ask themselves, for the sake of our present as well as our future: Are the regulations currently in pace appropriate? And if not, what sort of action should be taken to correct the issue? Kingston, Raynard S, PhD. Institutes of Health Guidelines on Human Stem Cell National Institutes of Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ,2009 Web. Accessed 26 January 2017 In 2009, an executive order was signed by President Barack Obama that made it possible for the National Institute of Health (NIH) to regulate the guidelines of stem cell research and related therapies. The power was shifted from the government to one of the highest authorities in Jones 2 the scientific and medical that they abide all federally mandate laws of ethical treatment of patients, experiments, etc. Dr. Raynard Kingston, the acting director of the NIH at the time of the publication, and the author of the web guideline update, states that there were multiple acts of research and therapy that were not permitted under NIH funding. These include things such as: the use of human pluripotent stem cells (or stem cells that can be used to make a variety of different types of cells) for the introduction to primitive juvenile cells and any involvement in breeding animals in which human pluripotent stem cells would be introduced. Both practices are not permitted under their guidelines as it is generally seen as unethical to attempt to mutate, clone or alter human cells in any fashion, especially when they include cells that have the potential to become a variety of different tissue cells. He also details the permitted ways in which human embryonic stem cells can be eligible for use in research and/or therapies under their guidelines, which pertains to all facilities and individuals whether they are receiving NIH funding or not, as well as who is eligible to be a donor of the embryos used to collect the stem cells necessary for research and therapeutic development. The use of this article is vital to answer the research question that challenges the regulations in place; first we must know what is currently in affect to decide if it should be changed, and what changes need to be any. As this topic is extremely complex, the regulations can be hard to not only organize and implement, but it is also difficult to understand and follow. But in this article, the guidelines for stem cell research and therapies are clear and well thought out making it much more efficient for analysis by peers and skeptics alike. Dr. Kingston makes the rules and regulations clear and easy to understand, even for an individual with minimal knowledge of the practices discussed. As a graduate from University of PhD program in health sciences and economics, an alum of the University of Jones 3 BS/MS program, and current President of Grinnell College, Dr. Kingston shows a plethora of information proving the institution he represents in this publication of the guidelines from a reputable and credible source of information on the research question at hand. Blakemore, Erin. Hybrid Created in the Lab-Her Are the National Geographic, National Geographic Society, 2017 Web. Accessed 29 Jan 2017. The article used provides an insight on developments in stem-cell technology and research. The study that took place at the university of California, Davis showed that human-pig hybrid embryos could be formed from stem cells to make viable human organs. This changes this dynamic in medicine as thousands die while on organ-donation waiting lists every year. This method shows that it could be possible to create a seemingly never-ending supply of organs if successful. However, due to current guidelines the embryos are destroyed after 28 days of growth. Because of this restriction, the scientific community is unable to provide proof that the organs could be used in adult humans needing transplant organs. Erin Blakemore is a journalist and historian for the National Geographic and has appeared in TIME and The Washington Post per her personal website. She sites and references research from UC Davis that was overseen by Dr. Pablo J. Ross. Dr. Ross can be trusted as a credible source for the following reasons: He gained his M.S. in Animal Science and D.V.M. in Veterinary Medicine in Argentina and then graduated with his Ph.D. in Animal Science from Michigan State University in 2007. His specific research interests include genetics and genomics and biotechnologies, all of which he currently studies at the University of California, Davis as an associate professor in the department of animal science. LaBerge, Greggory S, Eric Duvall, Zachary Grasmick, Kay Haedicke, John Pawelek. Jones 4 Melanoma Lymph Node Metastasis with a Donor-Patient Hybrid Genome following Bone Marrow Transplantation: A Second Case of Leucocyte-Tumor Cell Hybridization in Cancer (2017) Web. Accessed 6 February 2017. In this study, the scientists involved had a goal of seeing how cancer can be treated using stem cells and what impact the rate of reproduction of metastatic cancer cells. In short, the team worked together to inject stem cells from the bone marrow of a donor into a patient who has a leucocyte-tumor. At Yale University, where the research took place, the researchers concluded, evidence supports fusion and hybridization between donor and patient cells as the initiator of metastasis in this Simply put, they found a direct correlation between the introduction of cells and a metastastic tumor causes the cells from the donor and patient to fuse and create cells with characteristics from both individuals: a donor-patient hybrid. They claim that this research might to new avenues of treatment for this most problematic The researchers involved all hold great authority in the scientific community. For example, George S. LaBerge is the current Scientific Director of the Crime Laboratory Bureau, for the Denver Police Department, and Eric Duvall has participated in published research for the Police Laboratory, Tulsa Police Department in Oklahoma. Kay Haedicke, who is a clinician Yale Medicine center for Medical Oncology, Graduated with her MD from Michigan state University in 1982. Another researcher on the team, John Pawelek, is a research scientist in clinical dermatology and has authored almost 200 peer-reviewed papers in his respective field of study. This proves that the article is a reliable source because of the combined years of background expertise in the medical and experimental fields. Daar, Abdallah S., Lorraine Sheremeta. Science of Stem Cells: Some Implications for Law and Health Law Review, 2002, Vol. 11 Issue 1, pg 5 Web. Accessed 6 February Jones 5 2017. This article reviews the controversy surrounding stem cells and why there is much more controversy in stem cell research and use than most any other medical advancement, and evaluates why people are so against stem cells in use for scientific research and clinical treatments. To help the audience best understand the topic of stem cell research in all aspects of experimentation and understand the reasons some might have to oppose each-- cultural, religious, and moral. They even go into depth of cloning as to explain each method of cloning, and the reasons behind cloning: reproductive cloning, therapeutic cloning, and cloning that may be unsafe. To conclude, they look at current policies and regulations in place and note on what they think should be changed to better represent the opinions of much of the population. They add that there was a bill that was being reviewed at the time--which passed-- the C-13 Bill, titled Assisted Human Reproduction Act. They state that this bill will the development and use of embryonic stem and they also expressed their concerns for ignorance of the topic in Canadian legislators to fully grasp the concept and bill at hand. Abdallah Daar is currently a Professor of Public Health and Sciences at the Dalla Lana Facility of Public Health at University of Toronto, and a senior scientist at the University Health/Toronto General Research Institute. He gained his education from both Makerere University and the University of Oxford. Dr. Daar has written over 300 articles in research, several being published solo. Lorraine Sheremeta, the other scientist with input in the article, has published fourteen academic journals, with most of her work being focused on bioethics or several different scientific methods and research currently being used around the globe. Together, Dr. Daar and Dr. Sheremeta have written four journals and currently work in close- proximity at the University of Toronto. This is more than enough evidence to support this article Jones 6 as reliable with highly credible sources. Bigloo, Kiyan. of Powers: Stem Cell Research and the Scope of Presidential Power Examined Through the Lens of Executive Order American Psychological Association , 2012 Vol. 18, No. 3, pg Web. Accessed 15 February 2017 The authors of this article relate the Presidential power of previous leaders such as: Clinton, Obama and Bush to the current regulations and guidelines implemented by the federal government and the NIH. Bigloo goes into detail as to how the regulations were decided upon by the NIH, stating, NIH convened the Human Embryo Research Panel (the Panel) to the issues surrounding such research and to propose new guidelines for potential applications for (522). Thus, they concluded that human embryos could be used in stem cell research, but that it should only be included in research and not for treatment options. They show how the President at the time, Bill Clinton, advised and oversaw decisions and ensured the organization followed all current federal mandates (522). Throughout the article, he analyses restrictions and guidelines put in place by the various boards and how they interact with current Presidents in office to form one cohesive decision to develop a statement or mandate representative of both the ethics, and the federal values. Bigloo, a graduate of the University of Miami Law school from the class of 2012, currently serves the community as a corporate & securities lawyer in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Written in 2011, while he was a student, he showed exceptional expertise on the topic as a result of extensive research. To further prove that the source is credible, the article was posted in the American Physiological journal of Psychology, Public Law and Policy. All journals published and distributed by the American Physiological Association are peer-reviewed, Jones 7 which is a process in which several colleagues from various backgrounds review articles for credibility and correctness, while staying impartial and unbiased. By doing so, he proves to be a reliable source himself who can be trusted as a trusted amateur opinion on the subject at hand. Isasi, Rosario M., Thu Minh Nguyen. Rationale for a Registry of Clinical Trials Involving Human Stem Cells Health Law Review, Vol. 16 Issue 2, 2008, p56. Web. Accessed 17 February 2017. The authors, Isasi and Ngugen collaborated for the article for these following reasons: to identify issues in human embryonic stem cell research and suggest resolutions to these problems. Some of the issues they make clear to the audience are that current articles and reports have the potential to be biased and unregulated and statistically dishonest, and they argue that a registry would be able to better manage the content within the scientific community which is honest, unbiased, and peer-reviewed or discussed before published. The thought behind this is that there might be better clarification and more seamless access to information if it were stored in one area and organized in a way that anyone can gain the knowledge of current studies, while knowing that their sources are clear and full of integrity. Rosario, a health and human rights attorney currently specializing his practice in human genetic technologies gained her education from the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru and Boston University School of Public Health to prepare her for representing individuals and organizations in court to argue and support regulations in stem cell, cloning, and other genetic technological issues. She is also a member of the Advisory Board of Global Lawyers and Physicians and Academic Secretary of the International Stem Cell Forum Ethics Working Party. Similarly to her colleague, Thu Minh Nguyen is a lawyer who focuses primarily stem cell research, cloning and regenerative medicine. He graduated from McGill University, University of Toronto and the Jones 8 de She also was a fellow in the Canadian Institute for Health Research training program in Health Law and Policy in 2009. Both authors add information and experience to the journal and prove they have the expertise to make the paper credible. For this reason, the topic and its discussion can use the paper as a reference because it brings in new information and a new side of the conversation to the story and adds insight to the topic of laws and regulations of stem cell research and therapies.