Watts 1 Aaron Watts Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 5 March 2017 The History of Assisted Suicide Jack Kevorkian is considered to be the Bill Gates of assisted suicide, promoting and being a main reason for why it caught air in the U.S. Since then it has been a growing topic that has attained many arguments for and against it with only a handful of legalizations throughout the U.S. Assisted suicide is formal aid from a legal doctor/physician in yourself but is only legal in a handful of states. Oregon, being the first state to legalize assisted suicide in 1997 on October 27 th , received hate for doing so. After a while, the tide eventually turned toward assisted suicide with legalization of it in a second state, Washington in November 4 th , 2008. Other states that have legalized assisted suicide since then used Oregon as a when setting up their own laws and rules. They use a combination of some from other states or use similar ones and tweak them to what seems best for their own state. However, arranging assisted suicide is not simple where the process is rather a long one. In some states, correct procedure requires other doctors or key authoritative figures to witness the event. A major concept of assisted suicide is the wide range of quantitative opinions where the pros and cons can sway the population for or against the issue. Being a national and historical issue means it is a hypothetical topic, having more than enough support on both sides, that both sides can be considered right or wrong. In researching the topic, there has been qualitative sources ranging from 1997 to 2016 that show different feelings and beliefs from people about this topic. The way in people have supported themselves in their argument against/for assisted suicide has changed with different evidence and old evidence for support, but the overall argument of whether assisted suicide should be legalized has not progressed. One major observation found when researching the ins and outs of assisted suicide is the fact that most evidence that has been found or released through recent years deals with why assisted suicide should not be legal. They do make compelling arguments and have quantitative detailed evidence, but only some really stand out. For example, one source states, anyone with a chronic but nonterminal illness is not eligible for assisted suicide in either Oregon or Washington (Golden 17), while another from a different source states, study from Watts 2 Oregon found that of those who died under its RTD [ Rights To law in 2014, fewer than 3% were referred for a mental health (King 38). The reason for the inclusion of these quotes is to show that people throughout the years have seen how people have been misusing the law in the few states it has been legalized in. A major case when this comes into play, is the state of mental illnesses of the patients where many do not believe assisted suicide should be allowed or even thought of when there are many medications out there that can benefit the individual. These sources show the importance why doctors should thoroughly go through their medical history and how this law can be easily manipulated and not be used for its intended purpose, however, only some states recognize that. Overall, people from time have been able to gain strong evidence for why assisted suicide should not be legal, but the fundamentals from the past for why it should be legal has strength of its own. On the other side, the surprising observation was that for people who did support assisted suicide, their evidence would restate or hang around the ideas first presented or given when the issue first arrived a while back. They would not necessarily use new evidence, but instead restate already given/shown evidence in different ways, being that most hovered around the same fundamentals/ main ideas. For example, a typical argument given would be, individual autonomy, reducing needless pain and suffering, and providing psychological reassurance to dying (Emanuel 630). The sources back then tended to stay around moral/ethical rights that everyone should or already has. Similar to the quote I gave from 1999, they would express their opinion in why people should never suffer through unnecessary pain, pay for it, or put themselves and their family, loved ones, and friends into psychological harm. Others would also support their side with a common belief of human rights, being that people should do whatever they please with their body because everyone has the freedom to do what they want and has individual control of it. The sources would support their sides and say that assisted suicide should be left up to the person in pain, because yet again they are the ones that are actually going through it. Even though most supporting arguments for legalization of assisted suicide is dated, their effects did work sometimes, but never got the argument to fully sway to their side either. Even though both sides create strong reasonable arguments into why their side should be considered the right choice, even to this day there is no specific right or wrong side. Through researching it is easy to believe that the answer people pull from this issue is opinionated rather than factual. A great example of this is stated in a source by John Frank saying, in every Watts 3 state where it has been legalized, the state medical association has taken a neutral stance. Whenever that happens, it (Frank 37). This source shows that with an issue regrading assisted suicide, every medical association does not deicide on the legalization of assisted suicide because it is truly/certainly right or wrong but rather if they agree if they themselves believe it is right or wrong. Again, this shows that people do not decide on the legalization of assisted suicide because it is 100% right or wrong, but on the base of opinion and feelings toward it, showing no improvement on the topic of assisted suicide. Throughout the history of assisted suicide, the evidence may have helped people decide which side they see as the right or wrong side, but not everyone had the same opinion. Even with the addition of California, Colorado, Oregon, Vermont, and Washington legalizing assisted suicide, there is still no correct answer in the question, assisted suicide right or Overall, the way in people have supported themselves in their argument against/for assisted suicide has changed with different evidence and old evidence for support, but the overall argument of whether assisted suicide should be legalized has not progressed. In fact, the only thing that has changed is the evidence, arguments, and people for it or against it. With the true topic of assisted suicide and how it has not changed over time, it is hard to see how the ultimate question will be answered of off opinion and preference. However, all it can take is one piece of evidence to sway the mind one way, and have a factual answer. Watts 4 Works Cited Emanuel, Ezekiel J. What Is the Great Benefit of Legalizing Euthanasia or  Ethics 1999: 629. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Frank, John N. Physician-Assisted Suicide Up For Debate In States: What Role Should Physicians Have In States Where Assisted Suicide Is  Medical Economics 9 (2016): 36. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Golden, Marilyn, and Tyler Zoanni. Killing Us Softly: The Dangers Of Legalizing Assisted  Disability And Health Journal 3.A Disability Perspective on the Issue of Physician Assisted Suicide (2010): 16-30. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. King, Steven A. PAIN MANAGEMENT. Physician-Assisted Suicide: More Than Meets The  Psychiatric Times 33.1 (2016): 38. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 18 Feb. 2017.