Kazbour 1 Zachary Kazbour Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 20 February 2017 Annotated Bibliography Marijuana has been in use for hundreds of years, including before the pilgrims settled in the Americas. It was used for medicinal purposes and talking to the spirits, or gods. Marijuana or cannabis was not made officially illegal in the United States of America until the mid-1900s. A series of laws and taxes where created by the federal government banning the use of cannabis for recreational and medicinal purposes. Many people found this unconstitutional and during the it was ruled just that but also on that ruling it was placed under another series of laws that made it an illegal substance just like alcohol was during the prohibition era. From the till around a few years ago it has remained illegal in all states. A few states now allow for the medicinal use of cannabis and even fewer allow for the recreational use against the federal governments laws. Major concepts that come from the topic of cannabis or marijuana are the medicinal benefits, the economic benefits, and the question of whether it causes lung cancer. In society the medicinal benefits are the most talked about along side of the economic benefits that the sale of marijuana brings to the government through taxes. The research question that comes with the topic, makes many people wonder if marijuana has economic and health benefits? Wallace, Mark S., MD, and Mark A. Ware, MD. Medicinal Marijuana: Here to Stay and Time to Take Responsib... : The Clinical Journal of LWW. Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc, Nov.-Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kazbour 2 This article is about the history of legalizing medical marijuana in the United States. It starts off by talking about how Arizona and California where the first states to legalize its use in medicine. Then it continues to talk about why the legalization was so questionable, because there enough evidence to support that there are no long-term side effects of cannabis. It finishes with talking about how society should accept the fact that marijuana is going to become more accepted and legalized because there is no evidence that disputes that cannabis has long term side effects. The way this relates to the research question is because it shows both stand points on how people benefit in society from the health benefits but it also shows the skepticism of physicians prescribing cannabis for use in treating different illnesses. It also provides historical context to use in describing how the United States came about legalizing marijuana. Another topic it backs up is the research that Canada did on medicinal marijuana and there prove that it helps with types of cancer and neuropathic illnesses. Spetz, Joanne, and Laura Schmidt. Impact of Medicinal Marijuana Laws on Youth Attitudes toward and Use of Illicit Health and Healthcare in America: From Economics to Policy, 24 June 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 This article talks about how the recent 18 states that have passed MMLs or Medicinal Marijuana Laws could have rebound effects on the younger population such as teens. It also talks about how if these teens start to gain easier access to marijuana how it could drive down the prices and eventually hurt the dispensaries and the minds of young adults. In the last parts of this article it talks about how the demographics in each state could also affect the cannabis economy, and how this could also lead to the use of marijuana at a younger age. Kazbour 3 This relates to the research paper because it backs up one side of the economic aspect in the research question. It also will support the argument that medicinal marijuana may have health benefits but it could also have negative side effects not necessarily on the human body but on society its self. Another way this relates to the research topic is that it talks about marijuana becoming an economic substitute for alcohol or tobacco, which may or may not benefit society. Ronen, Adi, et al. Of THC On Driving Performance, Physiological State and Subjective Feelings Relative To Accident Analysis And Prevention 40.(2008): 926-934. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This peer reviewed journal article is about a study to show the effects of THC on driving and other motor skills. The study is also conducted to see the relations between THC and alcohol effects on the subjects. This is one of the first studies conducted to show the two next to each other, which is a huge advancement in the science world because it actually means people are starting to realize that marijuana does have motor skill impairment, which is proven in this article. The credibility of this source is that the author was a professor at the University of Jerusalem and was part of the Israel Anti-Drug Authority. How this source relates to my topic is that it shows the side effects of marijuana and how it impairs driving and other functions. This is important because many medicinal marijuana users tend to take their and then go to work or out in town. Fuler, MD, et al. And Recreational Marijuana Use By Patients Infected With AIDS Patient Care & Stds 18.4 (2004): 215-228. CINAHL. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This journal article is peer reviewed and published in 2004. The article is about the uses of marijuana medicinal and/ or recreational specifically among HIV-positive adults in Ontario, Kazbour 4 Canada. This study was used to show why these patients used marijuana and the benefits it had for them. It also gives information on the trends of people who tend to use marijuana such as age, gender, and reasoning. The benefits in this study/article where experienced first hand by marijuana users so they are not theoretical like many scientist benefits are. Some of these benefits included pain management, weight gain, and temporary cure for anxiety. The credibility of the author comes from him having a Ph.D and other awards, also the reputation of the journal that published his work. This relates to my topic because it shows the benefits from using marijuana first hand versus using theoretical lab studies done controlled by the state and federal government. These first hand experiences allow for quotes and other great resources for my final project 1 too. Fleming, Charles B., et al. Original Article: Examination Of The Divergence In Trends For Adolescent Marijuana Use And Marijuana-Specific Risk Factors In Washington  Journal Of Adolescent Health 59.(2016): 269-275. ScienceDirect. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. This academic journal is peer reviewed and written in late 2016, which means it discusses the current side of the marijuana industry. The article is about the use of recreational marijuana in adolescences. The article is about a study that was conducted to see the trend in college students who drink and use marijuana on the regular and if it has changed since the legalization. The authors also examine the risks and effects it has on the college students. The final outcome or conclusion for the study was that marijuana indeed has a negative effect on the adolescence population and more awareness needs to be spread. The credibility of this article comes from the fact that it is peer reviewed and published in a very respected adolescent health journal. The way this study/article relates to my topic is because it shows that there is proof of harm in the legalization of recreational marijuana. This is Kazbour 5 important because many people believe that marijuana has no effects on the human body or mind. The study was conducted for around 15 years allowing for a mass of information to be gathered. This allows for no questioning of the final results also making it credible. Bachman, Jerald G., et al. Explaining the Recent Decline in Marijuana Use: Differentiating the Effects of Perceived Risks, Disapproval, and General Lifestyle  Journal of Health and Social Behavior 1988: 92. JSTOR Journals. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. The above newspaper article was peer reviewed and published in 1988. This allows for an older side of the history to be told. The article is about the two explanations in why marijuana use decreased between 1976 and 1986 in high school seniors. The explanation that is most relevant to the research question is, that because of the social un-acceptance of marijuana use increasing it decreased the use of weed. Because of society frowning upon marijuana during this time people stopped smoking it, does this mean that because weed is being accepting in society it will increase the use? The credibility of this article comes from the publisher, which is the American Sociological Association. They are credible because it is a government peer reviewed staff who wrote the article. This source is relevant because it talks about the historical use of marijuana as recreational and the decline in its use because of social trends. This shows that society has the final say in the end not the government. This article proves that.