Jackson 1 Christian Jackson Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.12 3/5/2017 Do We Still Need the Electoral College? The Founding Fathers, the people who laid the foundation for this country, also argued whether the electoral college would be necessary to keep this nation moving forward just as we are debating today. From Bush and the Al Gore election to the recent victory Donald Trump gained over Hilary Clinton, the electoral college has been an intense political topic for decades now. The debate over whether the electoral college is still effective has changed in relatively minor manners and theories such as the direct election proposal have remained consistent over the generations, but the voices have changed and new scenarios have arisen that have amplified this debate. Gerald Webster, the author of, Purpose, Structure and Limitations of the Electoral and Estes Kefauver, the author of, Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New both discuss the overall structure of the electoral college and they both propose some of the main proposals that have been presented over time. Webster said that the Founding Fathers considered several different options to how the electoral college would be conducted: One idea was to have the Congress select the president, but this option was rejected for several a second option was to allow state legislatures to select the the direct election of the president was also considered, but there was insufficient support for its selection. (Webster 101) Jackson 2 Just as Webster said the direct national solution is the primary tool many believe should replace the current electoral college system, but we never gain enough support within Congress, Kefauver, just like our Founding Fathers and Webster, said this: The most frequent argument made against direct national election in the Congress is that it would be futile for Congress to submit such an amendment to the states; that it would have no chance of ramification by three-fourths of the states because thirty-six of them have added weight in the election of the President by reason of the electoral college system. (Kefauver 195) Bollinger Benjamin, the author of, Abolishing The Electoral and several of the following authors, Richard Lampert, Honorable Barbara Boxer, Michael W. McConnell, John Hendrickson, Jack Rakove, and Bob Barr, the authors of, Pros and Cons of the Electoral College present an anti-electoral college stance in multiple ways. Bollinger strongly support the electoral college for he believes it is an unbalanced system and he supports this claim by using accurate research: According to the 2000 census, population was 33,871,648, giving it fifty-five electoral votes. Wyoming, the least populous state, had only 493, 782 residents, earning it three electoral votes. In other words, California gets one electoral vote per 615,848 residents; Wyoming receives one vote per 164, 594 residents. That is nearly a 4:1 ratio in favor of Wyoming. (Bollinger 180) Lampert, who takes a strong stance against the electoral college, said this, democracy means the majority rules, the Electoral College is an undemocratic (Lampert 18) Estes Kefauver, the author of, Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New and several of the following authors, Richard Lampert, Honorable Barbara Boxer, Jackson 3 Michael W. McConnell, John Hendrickson, Jack Rakove, and Bob Barr, the authors of, Pros and Cons of the Electoral College present a balanced and at times positive stance on the electoral in a variety of ways. Michael W. McConnell, a professor at the University of Law School, provides a positive stance on the current electoral college system for he said this, Electoral College is not going to be changed, and there are far more urgent and promising topics for reform of our presidential selection (Lampert 24). Kefauver displays a balanced stance on the electoral college because he discusses the issues with the current electoral college system, but he also talks about the issues that appear within each of the major proposals that people believe should replace the current voting system, as well. The debate over whether the electoral college is still effective has changed in relatively minor manners and theories such as the direct election proposal have remained consistent over the generations, but the voices have changed and new scenarios have arisen that have amplified this debate. The claims within this essay present the overall structure of the electoral college and its current state, an anti-electoral college stance, and a balanced electoral college stance. Jackson 4 Benjamin, Bolinger. Abolishing The Electoral International Social Science Review, Volume p182-186, 5p. Web. 2007 Kefauver, Estes, Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New Law and Contemporary Problems, Volume 27.2 The Electoral Process: Part 1, : p.188-212. Web. Spring 1962 Lampert, Richard, Honorable Barbara Boxer, Michael W. McConnell, Public Interest Institute (John Hendrickson), Jack Rakove, Bob Barr, Pros and Cons of the Electoral College Congressional Digest, Volume 96.1: p18-31,14p. Web. January 2017 Webster, Gerald, Purpose, Structure and Limitations of the Electoral The Geography Teacher, Volume 13.3: p101-105, 5p. Web. Jul-Sep 2016