Ellie Jones Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.17 5 March 2017 Stem Cells: Forward-Thinking or Deteriorating-Decency? Twenty years ago, many of us may have thought it impossible to configure any sort of human-animal hybrid, but many studies have proved our premonitions wrong. Through the constant continuation of advancements in medicine and science, we have reached new highs in the search for cures and treatments to diseases using stem cells. However, stem cell therapies and research are becoming a more and more controversial topic as science and technology make advances. One must ask themselves how they feel about the advancements and where they are headed, and decide if they believe it is a vital part of the future of our world, or if the research being conducted is inherently unethical. When Stem Cells were first discovered, no one knew the affects that they would have on the world just a short time later. But, as more research was being done and scientists better understood the potential that each cell held, skeptics cried for tight regulations and some even rallied for banning the practice due to ethical, moral, and religious reasons. The public then turned to the government for guidance and authority, but many officials lacked the experience in the field to write all the bills and guidelines needed. For this reason, Barack Obama handed the torch to the National Institute of Health (NIH) and awarded them with the responsibility to write guidelines for a variety of techniques and practices in which stem cells are used. Once written, the federal government would help to implement these regulations alongside the NIH. In 2009, the NIH released the official guidelines on human stem cell research to their public website, authorized by the president of the organization at the time, Dr. Raynard Kingston. Other experts understood the long-lasting affect that the conversation about stem cell research would have, which led Lorraine Sheremeta and Abdallah S. Daar to write Science of Stem Cells: Some Implications for Law and Their article detailed the laws and regulations that the federal government and the NIH published, and commented on the effectiveness they believe it would have, as well as what changes should be made. This shows that they understood that it would be an important topic in our country for years to come, and that it would be important to have deep analysis on the current laws for historical referencing. Today the conversation has changed drastically from ridicule to praise for the research being conducted. This can be seen in many instances, but especially in the countless advancements that have been made in recent years. For example, researcher have found a direct link between cancerous tumors shrinking and becoming less metastatic and stem cells. They begin by harvesting stem cell samples from a donor who has also had cancer, but was treated and placed in remission. Then, they implant the cells into the tumor of a current cancer patient and found that the patients had a significant decrease in size and symptoms. Scientists believe this is a giant leap for the community to become closer to a potential treatment for cancers. Other advancements have happened, including one of the most controversial, yet it still lacks the amount of conversation that it would have gotten had the study occurred just ten years prior. At UC Davis, researchers created a human-pig hybrid fetus with fully functioning organs and systems. One may assume that the conversation is much more positive due to the reason the researchers were conducting the experiment: to test if human organs could be grown in pig embryos and, in theory, harvested and used for replacement in patients with organ failures. This means that if successful, the scientists would be able to eliminate a massive not the current organ donation waiting lists. Currently, the embryos must be terminated after 28 days of growth, but regulations are subject to change at any point, and many believe regulations should be changed to allow the growth to continue longer, perhaps even full-term. This would let the researchers and public know if the organs would be viable options for patients needing transplants. As research continues, one may notice that the conversation continues to be positive and uplifting, and less harsh towards the efforts in developments. Although arguably unethical, which will always be a debate, the scientific community continues researching new cases in stem cell therapies to discover how it can change our world and the way we treat diseases. For this reason, one must continue the conversation in own life to ensure that we are informed, and challenge one another regularly on this difficult topic.