Power 1 Molly Power Adam Phillips ENC1102.022 26 Feb 2017 Impact of Visual Rhetoric within Health Care Visual rhetoric is used as a strategy conveyed through images or design used primarily by organizations to demonstrate their objective. These strategies hold rhetoric appeals within the images or designs to persuade their audiences and reflect the goals. The Agency for Healthcare Research and goal is to provide quality and affordable health care to the public. Two images from the AHRQ create statements made based on how this organization can help. The concerned theme placed on both images aid in persuading the audience. The first image is discussing the need for the involvement with their health care and the ability to help with that involvement. The second image persuades the audience to come to AHRQ for help instead of having the time consuming and expensive obligation of unnecessary medical tests. Both images use each of the rhetoric appeals: ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to explain their goal through visual rhetoric. Each appeal has specific and technical contributions found in the images above that enhance argument and clarify their goal. The urgent need for quality health care is Power 2 represented in these images taken from the official website through demonstrating their involvement of, and concern for, the access to healthcare. The use of the rhetoric appeal, ethos, is prevalent in both images found on the AHRQ official website. Ethos is used to establish trust and credibility for the audience when glancing at the images. AHRQ uses this appeal to establish a certain amount of this credibility with the audience. As described in Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition, may want to think of ethos as related to or the moral principles of the writer: ethos is the way of establishing trust with his or her (Lane et al, 18). It is understood that organizations use ethos to persuade their audiences using their authority. This is demonstrated by the AHRQ label in both images. Labels ensure the credibility of the message and the truth behind it. With these, the audience is more willing to trust the organization. Other examples of the use of ethos within the first image include the doctor uniform. This uniform, linked to a authoritative position, allows the audience to identify the woman as trustful. This makes the audience realize the credibility of the abilities within health care services. Without the label and the credit given to the organization, the images would not be as motivating for individuals looking into health care. Along with ethos, the rhetoric appeal of pathos is heavily examined within the images. Pathos has a strong relationship with the feeling of empathy, or the toward (Lane et al, 20). In the first image, the doctor portrayed looks concerned for the assumed wellbeing. This makes the audience question if they should see a doctor for their own wellbeing. The goal is for more of the community to be able to become more involved with healthcare services. By showing a Power 3 doctor sincerely concerned, more will be inclined to see one. In the second image, the audience gets a sense of how many tests they would have to take through the x-rays in front of the woman. This would only happen if they chose not to get involved with the AHRQ who would be able to answer their medical questions. This includes their questions on what tests are necessary along with how the AHRQ can make these tests easier and more convenient for the patient. A similar argument within the rhetorical appeal of logos is found on the Purdue Owl. Purdue Owl considers the arrangement of elements on a page, an application to visual rhetoric (Visual Rhetoric: Overview). This application is seen on the second image through the multiple tests arranged in front of the woman. The arrangement is linked to pathos because medical testing is understood to be difficult and time consuming, creating an empathetic audience. AHRQ was able to create an image and message that empathized with the audience on the hardships that come with health care and ensured that their goal is to help change that. Logos, the rhetoric appeal to logic, can be found within both messages portrayed by the visual rhetoric. The AHRQ uses this appeal in both images to create a logical reputation that their audience should consider. When an audience is able to consider the logic behind an message, they can easily be persuaded. In the first image, they are stating a logical demand to get more involved in healthcare. The AHRQ is there to help and states that they have tips for the patients, as well. It is well understood that for their personal well being, the audience should be more involved with AHRQ and healthcare. In the second image, logos is incorporated because it is more logical to ask AHRQ a question about health and healthcare than taking costly and time consuming Power 4 tests. Evidence behind this statement comes from Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition stating, logos the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Lane et al 30). The audience understands this statement clearly through the image portrayed. Logos is a very beneficial appeal to the AHRQ due to the controversy centered around health care. Many people question the importance of goal. With a logical statement like in both images, it is hard to find an appropriate argument against the organization. Elements of kairos, otherwise know as the appeal to timeliness (Lane et al 23), are identified in each image from the official AHRQ website. When it comes to healthcare, timeliness is extremely crucial to a wellbeing. The AHRQ wants their audience to understand the importance and the demand for healthcare, now. For example, the first image tells the patient to become more involved, now. If the audience they are negatively effecting their health and well being. According to Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition, is an appeal to identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman et al 39). This is evidence behind the fact that by AHRQ telling their audience to obtain healthcare now, they are using the kairotic appeal. Because kairos is considered the call to action appeal, demonstrating the urgency like portrayed in the first image gives the audience a sense of importance of getting involved with AHRQ and healthcare, now. The second image asks the question, are our goals for This gives the audience a similar sense of urgency as the first image. Because they use the word the audience realizes healthcare is a reality happening today. AHRQ creates two very kairotic images for the purpose of persuading their audience to not only Power 5 get more involved with healthcare, but to get involved immediately. The AHRQ combines each of these rhetoric appeals within their images to persuade their audience to put more emphasis on proper health care. main intention is to inform their audience of the importance and their impact on health care. The visual rhetoric analyzed gets the audience more on board with public health care and persuades them by demonstrating their intentions. Ethos creates a sense of credibility for the audience through the AHRQ logo. Pathos appeals to the empathy towards themselves and the people they know who have to endure the cost and time involved with medical tests AHRQ can prevent. Logos is the logic behind becoming involved with AHRQ while Kairos is the appeal to getting involved immediately. Each of these appeals are portrayed through the visual rhetoric within the images. Visual rhetoric is found in so much of society and it enables individuals to become more motivated to get involved. goal is to get more of the community involved in, and understand the quality of, their health care services. With visual rhetoric, the organization is able to communicate this goal it is up to their audience to take action. Power 6 Works Cited Agency for Healthcare Research &  AHRQ. U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides Rhetoric Matters. 1.1 The Rhetorical Appeals. Myreviewers. Web. Visual Rhetoric:  Purdue Online Writing Lab. Purdue. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.