After conducting research on how social media has affected our youth then and now, the conversation shift is pretty clear. When social media first was put into the spotlight, it was viewed as a great addition to society. People from all around the world were able to keep in touch via internet rather than paying those crazy long distance phone call fees. Social media also allowed people with like-interests to interact without that social boundary that face-to- face interactions often have. In more recent conversations, however, social media has been viewed as a less than positive part of our growing society. The medium is now being used in a few negative ways other than intended uses. Social media has now become a new source of peer pressure, as well a fuel system for already existent problems. In the past 20 years alone, the conversation on social media has skewed from being viewed as a positive impact in young society to a detrimental part of it. At the turn of century, social media had just begun to spread across the internet. It was the change in communication that our society needed. People were saying that this new wave of communication was a positive contribution to our society. of the biggest attractions for teenagers is the ability to connect with more than one person at a time, through chat rooms and instant (Wolcott) Children were finding the internet as a much more productive way of keeping in touch with friends for various reasons. The internet was actually preferred over phone calls for not only the cost, but also the amount of people they could connect with at once. Even parents preferred their children to use internet rather than the telephone at night. media is an aspect of the internet which allows individuals and groups to create and publish online content, share the content, and interact about (Lusk) Experts show that a majority of teens used social media to meet and/or keep in touch with people as well as contact and make social plans with others. The conversation also showed that teens used social media to interact with people with like interests and/or issues. It was a way for individuals in the LGBTQ community to interact as well as individuals with like religious affiliation, or even mental health disorders. With so many ways to take advantage of the new platform, it was no surprise a majority of people were reacting positively to the rise of social media. As the years went on, the conversation seems to have skewed in a different direction. Contrary to what was said in the past, more recent talk has expressed social media to be a more negative aspect of our social order. The youth of society have begun to use social media in negative ways, and in return are actually becoming addicted to using it. For one, peer pressure is no longer just that and try moment at a party. Peer pressure has now been extended to online interaction between colleagues. As teens scroll up and down Twitter and/or Instagram, seeing posts on top of posts of their peers at wild house parties, or smoking marijuana, or drinking underage, accompanied by multiple and which is considered to be the thing to do. David Tran of UCLA conducted a survey at substance abuse program for young people, and 92% of them admitted to engage in social media. Of that 92%, 44% posted drug- related content; 94% had friends who posted drug related content; and 66% wanted to try drugs due to content they saw posted by friends. (Kardaras) Children playing outside with the neighbors anymore. Instead glued to the computers in chat rooms and on Facebook. Addiction expert, Nicholas Kardaras said, connection is not only the most essential part of being human, it is also a key ingredient in happiness and (Kardaras) The problem arising is that our youth is replacing real life social interaction with online social interaction in order to fulfill their need for novelty and reward. Society has indeed taken advantage of the rise of social media, and now the people are utterly consumed in it, and, just like any other addiction, are having trouble stopping without withdrawals. As time and society has evolved, so has the conversation on the impacts of social media on the youth. As social media continued to progress throughout the internet, the negative conversation started to outweigh the good. Experts and statistics showed that 20 years ago, social media was viewed and conversed about in more positive ways because of its way of bringing all kinds of people together by sharing posts all over the world wide web, however, in more recent years, social media has been talked down upon for its addictive qualities as well as its harmful uses that seem to be becoming more and more apparent. evident that the conversation on social media has changed quite a bit since the original buzz about it. Various ends of the argument shared information that led to the skew in opinion in the past 20 years. Social media went from being a social saver to being a social slayer. Now that our society is becoming more aware of how social media causes individuals to act, they can choose to make a change in their behavior if and when they realize that they too have become an addict to the propaganda. Cited Sources Wolcott, Jennifer. Hanging out - Online; Chat Rooms and E-Mail Are the Electronic Mall, a Place to Gather and  The Christian Science Monitor, no. 56, 1999. EBSCOhost, Lusk, Brooke. Digital Natives and Social Media Behaviors: An  Prevention Researcher, vol. 17, Dec2010 Supplement, pp. 3-9 Ridings, Amy. Drugs and the Rise of Social Media - Adolescent Rehab Louisiana - Drug Abuse Treatment Centers  Adolescent Rehab Louisiana Drug Abuse Treatment Centers Louisiana. N.p., 19 Feb. 2016. Web. 11 Sept. 2016. Kardaras, Nicholas. Z: Online and at Scientific American Mind, vol. 27, no. 5, Sept. 2016, pp.