Lamusse 1 Kelly Lamusse Erika Staiger ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Diego Garcia: The Loss of One-Thousand Five-Hundred Homes Diego Garcia was the largest and only inhabited island in the Chagos Archipelago; a group of sixty small islands located in the Indian ocean. In 1965 all islanders were evacuated and sent to the neighboring island of Mauritius. This horrific eviction occurred to enable the US military to build one of their most important air and naval base in the Indian Ocean. After such an injustice, the Chagos Refugee Group (CRG) was created to help and support to all the who lost their homes, to promote their welfare and protect their interests. According to the chair of the organization, Olivier Bancoult, there is a dire need to further and preserve the Chagos island culture and Bancoult mentions that after losing his home, there was a sudden threat that his cultural heritage would fade away. The CRG uses pathos, logos, ethos and Kairos in both images to raise awareness about the Diego Garcia issue, and give the Chagossians hope that they will soon return to their native land. Ethos refers to the credibility of the source. The first image builds trust with the audience by including several highly acclaimed figures in the image such as Amal Clooney. David Snoxell, the key coordinator of the Chagos Islands Parliamentary Group, refers to Clooney as one of the most popular UN ambassadors and lawyers; activist has a distinguished career in International law and Human Clooney studied at Oxford University and NYU, now teaches a Human Rights course at Columbia Law School, and has played an important role in the fight to send the Chagossians home (Snoxell 123). This photo also features the chair of the CRG, Olivier Bancoult. Lamusse 2 The CRG boasts that Mr. Bancoult has gained international praise for representing the Islanders; as president and co-founder of the CRG, Bancoult spent the past 30 years leading the organization through victories in three law suits against the presence of the US military on Diego Garcia. Publishing a photo with such respected and influential people on the CRG website helps the audience believe that the fate of the Chagossians is in good hands. The audience almost jumps to a conclusion that the islanders will definitely be returning home. Snoxell proves that the audience should feel optimistic since prior to this photo being taken, a vessel took a group of 150 Chagossians to visit the graves of their ancestors on the island of Diego Garcia. This was a promising event since nobody had ever been allowed to visit the island since the military first invaded (120). Although Snoxell strongly voiced the credibility of the source, such potent people do not always proper regard to the interests of the (Snoxell 122). The member of the Chagos Parliamentary Group believes that the Islanders should be wary about the true reason why each person becomes involved in the case (122). Ethos is also present in the second photo; the march is done by those who personally experienced the traumatic loss of their homes. Capturing a live march is not a propaganda shot since the islanders are directly displaying their true anger about the unfair situation. Rebecca Rotter and Laura Jeffrey, two social anthropologists from the University of Edingborough, recall in their article that everyone present was an islander protesting against the US military presence on the homeland (390). However, the women later questioned the credibility of the source since no positive images about the Chagossians are featured on the CRG website. In order to display ethos, the CRG should present an unbiased argument; there are an abundance of positive photos on the internet which display how several Chagossians now enjoy a higher standard of living with better education, higher paid jobs and opportunities which were Lamusse 3 unavailable in Diego Garcia (Rotter and Jeffery 390). Both images further utilize pathos to make the audience feel specific emotions to move them into action. In the first image, the whole United nations team representing the Islanders at the 2015 National Assembly is smiling. Posting such a positive image immediately gives the Islanders as well as the audience hope that the Chagossians will one-day return home; the team stand strong and united, and look confident which encourages the audience to keep fighting for Diego Garcia as the future is bright. In the second image, the marchers effectively evoke pity and sadness; the islanders look tired and old. The audience becomes sensitive about the issue, and understands that the Islanders have been fighting for too long. This image encourages the audience to join the fight and help the Islanders return home. Snoxell further commented that this image successfully displays the solidarity of the Chagossians (123). Marching together shows the loyalty and great team work of the islanders which is a great use of pathos to inspire the audience that this team is worth fighting for (Snoxell 123). Rotter and Jeffery mention that there were over 20 protests and marches which makes the reader even more compassionate. Lastly, the image of the protest uses Kairos to encourage the reader to act quickly: the majority of the marchers are old and therefore do not have a lot of time left to visit their island (CRG). Snoxell highlighted that the citizens will most likely never return as once the decision is finally made to grant each Chagossians the right to return, they will not own the correct resources to make the journey (122). Sadly, as stated by Snoxell, it is already too late for some of the islanders who have passed away, or are suffering from old age and sickness. The photo taken at the United Nations conference sends a different message; the image was strategically posted just before the last court case regarding the fate of Diego Garcia, and calls for all the Chagossians to keep fighting, not to give up since the end is near and the end is good (Snoxell Lamusse 4 122). The reader understands that by providing such a hopeful and joyful image, the CRG successfully motivates the islanders to stand together one last time. Finally, the CRG have effectively used pathos, ethos and Kairos in both images to demonstrate their overall aim and message. The first image focused more on displaying the courage of the Chagossians and their absolute will to return home whereas the second image delivered a powerful message of hope that the future would be bright. After analyzing both images as well as considering two outside sources, the Chagossians must remember to be careful with how they important information that may be used in or against their by prominent individuals and organizations (Rotter and Jeffery 390). Whereas the United Nations are willing to support the islanders and help them finally return home, the Chagossians must realize that the US military is a powerful force that can even influence the people they trust. Although many Chagossians will never return, those who are still alive and willing must believe in the ability to visit their homes one last time. Lamusse 5 Works Cited is our The Chagos Refugee Group. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rotter, Rebecca and Laura Jeffery. No Longer Have Faith and Trust in Anyone. Misadventures in Community Consultation on the Future of the Chagos International Development Planning Review, vol. 38, no. 4, Oct. 2016, p. 383-403 Snoxell, David. Expulsion from Chagos: Regaining  Journal of Imperial & Commonwealth History, vol. 36, no. 1, Mar. 2008, pp. 119-129 Lamusse 6 Lamusse 7