Mahmood 1 Ahmed Mahmood Kristen Rouisse Composition 2 25 February 2017 The Brady Campaign America has had many problems with gun control, as other nation has had more mass shootings in the past 15 years than the U.S. There are also more guns per capita in the U.S. than in any other guns per 100 (The Hub). There are more guns in the United States of America than there is people. There has been 11 million guns made in the U.S. in 2013, which is double the number of firearms that were made and produced back in 2010. The Brady Campaign is an organization that works towards creating a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by 2025. This organizations works towards having the least amount of deaths from gun use. To do so, The Brady Campaign has unique approaches: a policy focus to Finish the  so that life-saving Brady background checks are applied to all gun sales; (2) to Stop Gun  the 5 percent of gun dealers that supply 90 percent of all crime guns; and (3) to lead a new national conversation and change social norms around the real dangers of guns in the home, to prevent the homicides, suicides, and unintentional shootings that happen every day as a (The Brady Campaign). Through advertisements, campaigning and educating people about guns The Brady Campaign is able to reduce gun deaths and shown people the negatives of using guns. Image 1 is a picture of a man holding a gun towards the audience. The Brady logo in the right bottom corner shows ethos, which is an appeal to credibility. The logo is in white and the whole background is black which makes the logo visible in the image. The Brady Campaign is a famous organization in America. Their logo has the stars Mahmood 2 and stripes from the American flag which shows that it is an American Campaign. The logo also shows patriotism because it has an American flag. The statement money or his provides Kairos, which gives the image a sense of timeliness in the image. The statement tells the viewers to choose between ending the life or just giving him the money. The image makes the viewer think about morality and what is the right thing to do. There is a statistic in the image which says in three people survive armed which shows logos in this picture, which is the appeal to logic. The image is shocking and it makes the viewers feel a certain emotion which is evil because the background is mostly black (color wheel). The picture also has a back ground of a city which shows that gun violence happens in cities. The colour of the writings on the image that says and are both in red and are capitalized so that the viewers would get a certain emotion or feeling towards the life a blood which shows pathos, which is an appeal to emotion. This image would make the audience think twice before shooting someone that wants to rob them because it shows that losing the money is better than the man losing his life. Image 2 has the same Brady Campaign logo. The logo is placed in a different place though, it is on the bottom left corner and there is also the website in the bottom right corner. The logo and the website both show the ethos in the image, which is an appeal to credibility. The logo is larger in this image which makes it easy and clear to see. The background of the image is black just like the first image and the logo is white which makes the logo visible. The statement rape can last thirty seconds but a murder lasts is the Kairos. This statement shows how a murder is worse than a rape because it lasts for thirty seconds while a murder with a gun will last forever. The logos of this image is the statistic rape can last thirty which is also a faulty generalization because this is not the case for all rape crimes. The image has a woman that looks devastated after she has killed Mahmood 3 someone which shows emotions and establishes pathos. The woman is holding her head in guilt and regret for what she has done. This can be relatable for women that have been harassed. The image tells us how a murder is forever and you will feel this guilt and regret forever just like the woman in the picture. The words rape, thirty seconds, forever, and guns are all in red which shows war, danger, and power (color wheel). This will make the audience focus on the words in red because they stand out in the image and have a feeling or emotion towards it, which also establishes pathos. There is a statement in the bottom right that says are not the In both pictures, the background colour is black. The colour black is associated with power, elegance, formality, death, evil and mystery (color wheel). It also gives an aggressive colour scheme. The deaths are happening from guns which makes the colour black a good choice of colour for the background. There are some words in the statement that stand out more than the other words because they are capitalized and put in red colour. Red is the colour of blood and it is highly visible which is effective in this advertisement or image because it made some of the words more visible than other words. Both images are simple and they both have statements that explain their message clearly. After reading the statements for both images you can understand the purpose for them and how they are related to their images. They are both a bit similar to each other because they both use pathos to give the viewers the same sense of emotion because of the use of colours in both images. Also, both images use pathos by making some of the words in the statements in the colour red which makes these words stand out and more visible for the audience. Both images show the organizations logo clearly which quickly establishes ethos, which is an appeal to credibility in the images. The logo has an American flag for both images which can give the American audience a sense of patriotism. Again, there is Kairos shown in both pictures in the statements that are in the images because both of them show a Mahmood 4 sense of timelessness. The two images have successfully shown the audience that guns are not always the best answer. Word Count: 1121 Mahmood 5 Works Cited Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  About Brady Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. By Greg Rienzi / Published Feb 8, 2017. Guns in America: Facts, Figures, and an Up-close Look at the Gun Reform  The Hub. N.p., 12 Oct. 2016. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Mahmood 6