Kirsten Hawkins Emil Smith Composition 1 2/24/16 Breed-Specific Legislation, Then and Now Over the years, the legislation on breed-specific dogs has been altered in many different ways due to new and upcoming research. This research has provided communities with facts and answers on Breed-Specific Legislation (BSL). The United States is not the only place where incidents with canines occur, and recently in the news we see more and more news broadcastings of the incidents that have taken place and what the person involved in the case would like to be done about the issue. With the rise of publicity, legislation is creating new rules and limitations on owning and handling a dog that can be considered breed-specific. Breed-specific legislation are laws that restrict dogs based on their appearance; this is set into place because some people see certain dogs as As new information about Breed- Specific Legislation is filtering its way into the public eye, the views of BSL, and the effects on BSL have become less lenient from the early to 2015. There are millions of information around the world that changes on a day to day basis due to new improved research, there is also information that can only slightly change over a course of a couple years. The views on Breed-Specific Legislation has effected and continues to affect millions of people around the world today. However, the views always been seen as similar. According to the article published in 2002, Bull the media is playing a huge role in the community by providing harsh comments on the subject itself, such as archetype of canine evil, predators of the (pg. 285). These types of comments relay into the eyes and makes people believe what the media is forcing them to believe. Once a community views a certain situation one way it takes a lot to change that view in a positive way. Breed-Specific Legislation was viewed as a reasonable plan, due to the fact in 2002 the media was paying that vital role in showing the dangerous side to specific breeds. Also in the article, stories covered legislation restricting Pit Bull ownership; nine described Pit Bull owners, who are portrayed as the dregs of (pg. 287). Since 2002 enforcement of BSL has become stricter, where landlords could make decisions based on their own personal views on whether or not pit bulls were allowed in a certain housing development. In the article, Liable Landlords Could Mean the Pound for Pit the statement, strict liability standard was specific to pit bulls because the court held that pit bulls were inherently (pg.84) provides reasoning behind the views of BSL. If Breed-Specific Legislation views changed more dramatically, there would most likely be more protests against why communities, should or should not have BSL in-tact. The views on Breed-Specific Legislation the only thing that has had a conversation change over time. Legislation has altered what is seen as humane in treatment for dogs in the world today. In 2010, the article Dogs: Breed bans, euthanasia, and preemptive was published which provided evidence behind what happens to the dogs if they are found under the legislation. Some dogs would be banned from public places, euthanized, or their owners would be tried in court for owning such a breed. This placed a huge effect on owners with a breed considered to be such effects included, eviction, getting arrested, or an increase in insurance. The effects of BSL have changed more within the last couple years, in that the regulations are a lot easier to compromise with. In the article dog aggression: Epidemiologic aspects: In memoriam, Rudy de Meester published in 2015, we are shown how Breed-Specific Legislation has an effect on not just the owners of the animal, but also it has an effect on the veterinary offices. These veterinary offices have to make such rational decisions on whether to euthanize a dog or help it come back to good health and give it a second chance. The article states, behavior is one of the main reasons why dogs are given away, abandoned, or This effect is so harsh upon such an animal due to a type of legislation. If Breed-Specific Legislation has changed its concepts and regulations over the years so did the effect it has on people owning a specific dog around the world. Breed-Specific Legislation from the early to 2015 has slightly been altered in ways society goes through on a daily basis. The rules and regulations have been less lenient, and the views on BSL have slightly changed due to the leniency of the legislation. As you can see every topic, whether really important or not change in some way or another, without change things could maybe become forgotten, or not focused on and some things need that direct focus.