Schrum - 1 Jonathan Schrum Professor Karen Hanson ENC-1102.084 2/25/2017 Project 2 Final Draft Commercial fishing is an industry that has been around for decades upon decades. Thousands across the United States and many more countries count on fishing to provide for their families and loved ones. Should the marine areas where fishermen regularly catch fish be so heavily regulated that it impedes directly on them and their ability to produce fish, undoubtedly the oceans would benefit substantially, but at what cost? Organizations such as the Florida Keys Commercial Association and its members would suffer financially as fishing is obviously their main source of income. Establishments such as coastal restaurants, fish markets, and grocery stores would not be able to provide fresh local seafood and would have to rely on seafood that has been imported from other countries. In fact, fish may be more likely to be contaminated than locally harvested (Arnett). Fishing is a way of life for thousands of people, has been a part of coastal communities for decades and supports said communities by providing food and revenue. In the first image provided an argument based off the rhetorical appeal Kairos is used. It supports the idea that commercial fishing has been around for a long period of time by picturing fishing boats with an appearance of older make and model. Should one take a close look at this image they will find that they do in fact appear older than some of the modern fishing boats seen today. The reasoning behind this is to show that while industry has had to adapt through the Schrum - 2 years in order to keep earning a (Science Daily), it was a simple way of life that many used to rely on back in the day. This image could also be considered an appeal to emotion as it shows that fishing is a way of life that has been relevant for years and years. If it suddenly begins to experience a decline in productivity due to closures of fishing grounds, many individuals way of life quite possibly could slip into chaos as they will not be able to provide for themselves. While this is not directly stated by the image, a viewer might come to this conclusion when considering how fishing closures might affect fishermen. This image does not directly appeal to logic or facts, but one can put two and two together and find that closure of certain fishing grounds has the potential to turn many peoples lives upside down. Commercial fishermen do not only focus on catching fish species, but also other types of sea food such as shrimp, scallops, lobster and many more. The second image provided reinforces this idea with a logical argument as it shows a certain kind of seafood that would be hard to find in grocery stores and fish markets alike should fishing not be permitted in certain marine areas. Certain viewers might see this image and wonder what would happen to foods such as lobster etc. should marine areas be closed to fishing. In the same general areas where fishermen might set lines for certain fish species, they also might possibly set crab traps or shrimp nets as well. Should these areas be closed to fishing, not only will fishermen not be able to catch fish there, but they also be able to catch shrimp or crab as well. This in turn will affect places of business such as grocery stores, seafood restaurants, and fish markets as the supply of seafood will be next to non-existent. Consumers around the country would not be able to find and consume seafood as easily as before. It is quite possible also that if they do find seafood it is from distant countries such as China and Taiwan as it has been imported into our country. This form of seafood is in no way the same quality of seafood that is caught locally as it has been Schrum - 3 repackaged and preserved multiple times before being put on the dinner plate. Even if one were to be okay with their seafood going through that process, they might not like the idea that antibiotics have been (Siegner) in fish samples coming from China. Information such as that alone should be enough to convince individuals that seafood in our country is a needed commodity that has the potential to slip into non-existence should fishing grounds be closed. Both images do a successful job of getting across why they are relevant and how they support the Florida Keys Commercial Association and their stance on commercial fishing. As explained before, the first image appeals to its audience by way of Kairos in its usage of older fishing boats. It could also be described as an appeal to emotion as it goes to show that fishing is a way of life and should certain fishing grounds be closed, many individuals ways of life would be impacted negatively. Ethos, or an appeal to facts or statistics as well as an appeal to logic are not relevantly used by this image. The second image provided appeals to logic as it shows that commercial fishing not only targets certain fish species, but that fishermen also a wide variety of animals, ranging from tuna, cod, carp, and salmon to shrimp, krill, lobster, clams, squid, and crab, in various fisheries for these (Science Daily). If commercial fishing is halted in certain marine areas that means they can no longer fish for crabs, lobster, or shrimp in said area as well. This idea appeals to logic by demonstrating that shutting down commercial fishing would affect more than just fish markets. For instance, restaurants that serve seafood and grocery stores that provide it would all not be able to deliver for their customers. To conclude, the usage of the first image by the FKCFA somewhat informally shows how fishing has been around for decades and is a way of life for hundreds to thousands of people. The organizations usage of the second image goes to show that fishing ground closures Schrum - 4 will affect many different types of seafood, not just fish. All in all, the images work to show that while implementing fishing bans in certain marine areas would do a questionable amount of good to our oceans, it also has the potential to negatively impact thousands of lives around the country. Schrum - 5 Works Cited Siegner, Cathy. Imports and Exports: How Safe Is Seafood From Foreign  Food Safety News. N.p., 11 Nov. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Elnahar, RD Jackie Arnett. Seafood Safety: What You Need To Know About The Fish We Eat From  The Green Plate Special. N.p., 09 Aug. 2013. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Commercial  ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.