Landen Eberline Professor Emil Smith ENC 1101 015 24 February 2017 The Clear and Consistent Conversation about the Impact of Deforestation on Climate Change Continually, the popular argument surrounding climate change is focused on fossil fuels. However, scholars point to not just these fossil fuel emissions, which do play a part in climate change, and instead point towards deforestation and numerous other factors. Deforestation has taken a toll of around 3 million square miles of forests around the world since 1947. The evidence of large-scale deforestation is clear to see when comparing satellite images of the earth from the 1980s to present day. The changing land-cover effects many organisms and similarly effects the climate in adverse manners. The impacts that deforestation and afforestation have on climate change have remained clear and consistent in scholarly conversations over the past decade. And the message scholars have continually expressed to the public is an urgent need to cease deforestation and implement strategic afforestation as a means for mitigation of climate change. The conversation presented in research studies of 2010 on deforestation and its effects on climate change have expressed similar concerns from previous years. Scholars observed the effects of deforestation on surface air temperatures and have concluded that deforestation plays an adverse effect on surface air temperatures. The study by McAlpine and his crew conducted in 2010 states, on page 336, that is critical that clearing of native forests and woodlands in tropical and subtropical regions be dramatically reduced, as these ecosystems have a significant capacity to sequester carbon and underpin the hydrological cycle. Tropical forests absorb about 18% of all carbon dioxide added by fossil fuels, annually processing about six times as much carbon via photosynthesis and respiration as humans emit from fossil fuel This research suggests that tropical forests have a greater impact on carbon dioxide sequestration than fossil fuel emissions. Because of their research, they conclude that it is urgent that tropical deforestation is ceased. Another 2010 study states that or reforestation has been proposed as a strategy to mitigate climate change, but the climate benefit of such policies is still evaluated in terms of carbon sequestration potential without considering biogeophysical implications (Nabuurs et al. 2007). There is thus a growing need to advance our understanding of the biogeophysical impact of land cover and to address more the potential of afforestation or reforestation to mitigate climate (Davin 98). This study expresses the same concern surrounding deforestation as did study but considers more factors than just carbon dioxide sequestration. Both 2010 research studies conclusions suggest deforestation plays a significant role in climate change and that deforestation needs to be halted. Similarly, the scholarly conversations held in 2014 have expressed the same concerns as the 2010 studies. 2014 study on the possibility of afforestation as a means for mitigating climate change states, on page 1624, that The latest International Panel on Climate Change finds that these land-based carbon removal methods such as afforestation and Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS) are absolutely essential for mitigation it projects that scenarios which reach 450 ppm of CO2-equivalent by 2100 and keep temperature change below the of 2 degrees Celsius will rely on the availability and widespread deployment of BECCS and afforestation in the second half of the Bala expresses the potential of afforestation in reducing climate change. He states that it is essential to address deforestation by reducing the number of trees chopped and planting trees to replace the ones that are to be chopped for various human purposes. Implementing afforestation will help to avoid increasing the temperature by 2 degrees Celsius by 2100. Another 2014 study articulates that efforts to mitigate the impact of climate change are through ways of increasing carbon sequestration and/or mitigating carbon emission (Rahayu et al., 2005). Mitigating carbon emission can be accomplished through: (a) conservation of existing carbon stocks by protecting forest reserves, controlling (Sookun 350). This study suggests that a method of carbon sequestration or carbon emission mitigation is by means of ceasing deforestation. Both 2014 studies have kept the scholarly conversation consistent since the studies of 2010. They alarm the public of a dangerous increase in temperature by 2100 unless we take the necessary means such as afforestation and reducing deforestation. Scholarly conversations on deforestation in its adverse effects on the climate have remained clear and consistent over all the years. While each study focuses on the different ways deforestation effects climate change, such as albedo, nonradiative and radiative forcing, and carbon dioxide sequestration, they all assess that deforestation is harmful to the earth and its climate. While the public narrowly focuses on the fossil fuel emissions, they neglect the small scale of these emissions when compared to all of carbon cycle factors. While it is vital to reduce these emissions, it is even more crucial to heed the prompting of ceasing deforestation. While afforestation on its own will not fix the climate, it is a step in the right direction. In the issue of preventing climate change, every effort matters.