Lankford 1 Caroline Lankford Professor Staiger ENC1102 26 February 2017 The Freedom to Read Foundation Against Book Censorship Hundreds of books are either banned or challenged each year in the United States. Advocates for book censorship argue that some books containing sexually explicit, vulgar, or violent material are unsuitable for young children and should therefore be removed from their environments. On the other hand, critics of this practice argue that it is up to the American people to decide what ideas they do or do not wish to embrace and that no organization should be allowed to limit their choices. The Freedom to Read Foundation (FTRF) is one of many organizations against book censorship. It is a non-profit anti-censorship organization founded in 1969 by members of the American Library Association. Through hosted programs such as Banned Books Week, FTRF promotes books that they believe are necessary to initiate meaningful conversations about complex topics and encourage independent thought to Read In 2013, as part of a Banned Books Week project, Bookmans Bookstore in Arizona produced an effective campaigning video entitled Bookmans Does Banned  FTRF now has this short film displayed on their official Banned Books Week website. Another advertisement posted on behalf of Banned Books Week is an image depicting the prevalence of book censorship in the U.S. The target audience is the American reading community. Within both the video and the image, rhetorical elements of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos strongly persuade the audience to consider the ways in which book banning is a detrimental loss to literature as a whole. Lankford 2 Both the video and the image contain appeals to ethos by drawing on two credible organizations, the Freedom to Read Foundation and the American Library Association. The video establishes ethos from the title as it appears on the information bar on the YouTube channel, which reflects its affiliation with the Freedom to Read since it says Does Banned Books Bookmans is the name of the bookstore responsible for recording and producing the video. Although the video was made by a bookstore in Arizona, it was made in support of annual Banned Books Week event. It was then specially selected to be posted on official website in order to promote book censorship awareness. The audience can then trust the legitimacy of the content since it is backed up by the stakeholder directly. Janja an accomplished author and analyst of semantics, asserts that ethos allows the orator self-presentation that grants them the goodwill and (4). This means that when Bookman associates itself with a reputable organization such as FTRF, it is borrowing from reliability. The image employs ethos in a similar manner, though more directly by displaying the American Library logo on the bottom right- hand corner. After building trust with the audience through ethos, the stakeholder begins introducing the argument against book censorship using pathos. Pathos, the appeal to emotions, is a major contributor to the success as a tool used to persuade the audience into believing that book banning is a rash decision. Examples of pathos are found upon analyzing the written text, the individuals being filmed, the use of animated black censorship bars, and the quotes from challenged books. The first appeal to pathos is in the beginning of the video. A blank screen appears with the words to select or adapt (as by obscuring or removing sensitive information) for publication or Towards the end of the video, this definition is followed up with the message not a play on the Lankford 3 word overreact. Interchanging these words is a demonstration to the audience that redaction in the form of book censorship is an example of an overreaction. The negative connotation attached to the word overreaction then spills over to the word redact and prompts the audience to consider if perhaps book censorship is a hasty and unwise reaction to controversial material. A second appeal to pathos involves the invasion of animated black bars that sway the audience into fearing the consequences of book censorship. While the customers and employees are reading, a growing number of ominous black censorship bars first begin to slide over book titles, followed by the eyes and mouths of the readers. This is a visual metaphor meant to demonstrate how book censorship does more than censor books, it censors people. In the same way that it suppresses ideas, it suppresses human beings and their thoughts. On a more literal level, there is something very scary about the thought of being blind and mute. As humans, our eyesight and ability to intelligently communicate with one another are some of the most important factors keeping us safe from harm. By the end of the video, every person has a bar covering his or her eyes and mouth. This video forces the audience to imagine a word in which both the import and export of ideas was compromised. A parallel is drawn between our eyes and mouth and written expression here in order to tie everything back to the topic of book censorship. Finally, pathos is felt in the words that are being read by the customers and employees of Bookmans in the video which strategically hint at the harsh reality of censorship, causing the audience to feel frustrated. The video shows people reading excerpts from commonly banned or challenged books. Some examples are as follows: who try to control situations all the time are afraid that if they do not, nothing will work out the way they to get hurt by the truth, than comforted with a and people do not express themselves, they die Lankford 4 one piece at a Does Banned Books Week The audience can easily relate and feel connected to the truth behind these quotes to reach a common understanding with the authors. Hearing these passages, in addition to seeing the black censorship bars simultaneously cover the book titles and the people, stirs the audience into wanting to be free from censorship altogether. The audience is driven to feel frustrated by the force that is preventing the full truth from being heard. In addition, many of these readers are young children, making the audience experience a sense of compassion for their innocence and curiosity about the world. The images of children also invoke feelings of trust, since, according to psychology professor Ann do not usually assume young children are trying to trick or take advantage of (12). Therefore, the audience is more likely to be responsive to the message about book censorship when it is being presented via the gentle, unassuming voice of a child. Logos and kairos, the rhetorical appeals to logic and timeliness respectively, are present mainly in the image as they effectively persuade the audience to oppose book banning. Written on the lower half of the image is the sentence year hundreds of books are banned or challenged in public schools and libraries across the By specifying the statistic that hundreds of books are censored is the example of logos in the image. This vague, yet large number is disconcerting to the audience and leads them to feel the weight of censorship and its effects. Kairos is expressed by the warning that censorship is a yearly occurrence. By setting a time frame, the audience is alerted to the fact that books are being banned and challenged frequently. The American Library Association, and in turn FTRF, use the rhetorical devises of logos and kairos in the image to inspire the audience to see the severity of the issue and feel compelled to solve it quickly. Lankford 5 Together, the rhetorical appeals to ethos and pathos in the video lead the audience into having a common goal with FTRF in striving for the abolition of censorship and the protection of controversial books. After ethos establishes credibility and merit with the audience, pathos contributes the main driving force of the argument. Although the video does not present any claims to logos or kairos, the combination of ethos and pathos is more than sufficient. The image, however, relies on just the opposite pair of appeals. Its strongest rhetorical devises are logos and kairos, which allow the audience to connect with the issue of book censorship on a more logical and time-sensitive level. The net effect is the Freedom to Read ability to use both the video and image to gain support for their ultimate goal, the end of book censorship in America. Lankford 6 Works Cited Bookmans Does Banned Books Week. 2013. , YouTube, 2013. Accessed 7 Mar. 2017. to Read Freedom to Read Foundation, American Library Association, www.ftrf.org Morrison, Toni. The Bluest Eye. New York City, Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1970. Ann M. The Quest for Executive Effectiveness: Consultants Bridge the Gap between Psychological Research and Organizational  Consulting Psychology Journal: Practice and Research, vol. 54, no. 1, Win 2002, pp. 44-54. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/1061-4087.54.1.44. The Freedom to Read Foundation. Advertisement. Banned Books Week, The American Library Association, 15 Sept. 2013. Accessed 7 Mar. 2017. J. Pre-Aristotelian notions of ethos and pathos: the case of Rhetoric to Alexander. (Slovenian). Solsko Polje [serial April 2015;26(1/2):121-140. Available from: Education Source, Ipswich, MA. Accessed February 25, 2017. Lankford 7 Video Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e1u9tjjUz5o&feature=youtu.be Image: