Huang 1 Jiayi Huang Kristen Rouisse ENG 1102 March 10 2017 Greenpeace and the Modern World: Impact and the Future The industrialization has taken its toll on the world and causes many environmental issues, such as global warming, overhunting, natural resource depletion, deforestation, etc. This problem vastly impacts not only mankind, but also diverse species all over the world. Since the environment supports every life form of the earth, the lack of any natural commodities can affect the environment situation and, consequently, lead to death of living organisms. It is necessary for more people in the world to realize and to become aware that the planet faces challenges and needs constructive actions. Founded in 1971, Greenpeace is the largest independent, non-government/non-profit campaigning environmental organization. They are keen on exposing global environmental problems and are essential to a green and better future For instance, Greenpeace has been making effort in protecting the ancient forest and ocean, creating a toxic-free future, and campaigning for sustainable agriculture A total of 55 countries with 2.8 million adherers worldwide support Greenpeace in persuading more people around the world to enhance their awareness about the negative attributes of the environment Through the use of images and videos in their advertisements, Greenpeace effectively convinces the public to help them to achieve a better world. Huang 2 The two pictures created by Greenpeace outline what the organization wants public get attention on. There are a lot of rhetorical strategies are used to communicate the message that affected the individual in the world. The first image exposes the problem of global warming. To convince readers about the seriousness of global warming, the pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos are used. In the picture, Greenpeace tries to focus on grabbing attention by appealing it to their emotion. In order to communicate their ideas, Greenpeace shows the image of a polar bear that is melting away, the reluctant emotion gives readers a sense of sorrow, compassion, and self- accusation. Besides that, the dark background color in contrast to the white polar bear and appeal to the audiences that innocent and overwhelmed animal is going to die not only give a sad mood or uncomfortable feeling to the readers, but also increase awareness about polar bears which are going to extinct because of global warming. When the colors and the contents of the image are combined together, it creates an atmosphere that turns feeling and mood to convince them to feel sympathy toward the polar bear in the image. Ciotti underlines that psychology of color is one of the most effective tools of persuasion in advertising. Not only words, but also colors are used to communicate ideas to the target audience (Ciotti). Most important, there is a careful selection of words in the picture. To be more precise, the means that something happens right now and is important, which is a vivid example of kairos. The global warming is the environment issue that transpires currently, and that gives readers sense of nervousness and the right moment they should take the responsibility and act in order to protect the polar bears in particular and the planet in general. The evidence of polar extinction supports the evidence of overall threat to the planet and the mankind. Hence, logos is also employed in the given advertisement. Moreover, in order to motivate and convince readers to take action in this matter, the credibility of ethos is also very Huang 3 vital. In this picture, the name of the organization and the website are under the polar bear to show that the picture has been examined by the Greenpeace organization and that is officiated by their organization and that it can be trusted. Therefore, the picture can be used to convince people to protect the environment. The next picture also includes the rhetorical strategies aimed to convey the message to the public. The kairos was used to show a big contrast between the current situation and the past. The left-side of the picture shows the current situation that encompasses a lot of boats to catch fishes by the marked red spots and fishermen, extensively and unscrupulous fishing marine organisms with a very big fish net. Not only fishes are caught, but also marine species such as turtles and sharks. The absurd action and the unlimited desire cause serious pollution and less marine species living in the ocean. In contrary to the right side, the rational fishing and fewer boats would not affect the marine environment and life in the ocean. Moreover, there are a lot of details in the image that should be taken into account, such as the fishing net size, rust color of fishing boat, the variety of marine species in the ocean, the number and size of fishing boats, the length of fishing line and the color. The colors fade, the fish decrease in number, and incremental amount of ships may be interpreted as an attack on the nature. These details embody decay, destructive impact of activity of mankind and approaching catastrophe and, therefore, not only give readers sense of compassion and sympathy to the lives but also symbolize the changing from the past to now and it is very clear that the situation becomes harsher and riskier in the future if people do not realize the problem. Apart from that, the simple phrase BOATS MORE on the bottom of the image is the Logos. It directly shows the message and logic of the picture, and also gives readers the idea of the seriousness of this environmental issue. To be more precise, the phrase clearly highlights that by decreasing negative impact of human activity embodied by ships Huang 4 he mankind can save the fish and other inhabitants of the ocean. Hence, the implicit meaning of the advertisement is vividly illustrated by color, number and other meaningful details of the picture. In the bottom of the image, the name of the organization Greenpeace (Ethos) is mentioned. It gives authentication and credibility to the picture, meaning it is worthy and can be trusted. Moreover, it supports the core values Greenpeace adheres to and clearly points to the solution of the given problem. By comparing these two images it is evident that both use color to get attention and highlight the core message conveyed to the audience. In the first image, the dark black background color shows the message of the death of the polar bear (Bourn). Similarly, the contrast colors between the left and right side show the difference that reveals the environmental problem of overfished marine organisms. It is an effective approach as far as is powerful because it can change our mood the mood of potential (Kaminska). However, the second picture is more effective than the first picture because it brings more useful and detailed message to the public. For instance, the contrast of the left and right sides image gives audience big difference visually and makes people think about the reasons that cause the difference from the past to current as well as leads to evidence of solution. Not only the increasing number of fishing boats, and bigger fishing net, but also the background colors of the marine, fewer species and the rust boats show the critical problem. Although the melting polar bear implies the problem of global warming, there is lack of comprehensive message in the picture. The meaning behind the second image is more powerful and it will convince more people to take action and response to the environment. In conclusion, those two images that officiated by Greenpeace shared the main goal of protecting the environment. The first picture addresses the problem of global warming that of Huang 5 Arctic animals is suffering, so they use dark background color theme and graphic design of an unhappiness polar bear to make audiences feel compassion for the polar bear, while the second picture was taken in a different way through contrasting approach in order to encourage people to join Greenpeace to protect the environment. Even though both images are in different styles, they both play a big role convincing people from the world to take action and response or join Greenpeace to expose and protect the environment. Although much of public awareness has been brought out, there is still much that should be done. Therefore, more organizations should join and take actions to protect the environment. Huang 6 Works Cited Greenpeace  Greenpeace USA, n.d., http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/. Accessed 25 February 2017. Ciotti, Gregory. Psychology of Color in Marketing and Entrepreneur, 2016, https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/233843. Accessed 04 March 2017. Kaminska, Paula. Impact of Color in Advertising, Marketing, and BlurGroup, 2014, https://www.blurgroup.com/blogs/group/the-impact-of-colour-in-advertising- marketing-and-design/. Accessed 04 March 2017. Rinkesh. 15 Current Environmental Problems That Our World is  Conserve Energy Future, 2016, http://www.conserve-energy-future.com/15-current-environmental- problems.php. Accessed 25 February 2017. Bourn, Jennifer, and About Jennifer Bourn Creative Director Digital Strategist WordPress Evangelist Probably a Sith... Her Passion Brings Forth Intuitive Design Solutions. As Founder of Bourn Creative, Jennifer Is an Award-winning Designer Who Has Been Working in the Desig. Meaning of the Color Black  Bourn Creative. N.p., 03 June 2016, http://www.bourncreative.com/meaning-of-the-color-black/. Accessed. 06 Mar. 2017. Huang 7 - Image 1 - Image 2