Tate 1 Spencer Tate Instructor Williams ENC 1102 01-29-17 NRA Advertisements on Gun Control In modern day America, there has been a great deal of controversy over the issue of gun control and the second amendment, the right to bear arms. One of the biggest stakeholders connected to this issue is the National Rifle Association, also known as the NRA. The NRA is a non-profit organization that supports the second amendment and is one of the oldest civil rights organizations in the history of America dating all the way back to 1871. The NRA is one of the largest organizations that certifies gun safety and host several training courses for police departments and hunting. Their goal is to defend and foster the second amendment to the United States Constitution and show America that we as citizens have the right to own a gun. Thriving throughout American history, the NRA owes its success because of its members. As said by the NRA, successes would not be possible without the tireless efforts and countless hours of service our nearly four million members have given to champion Second Amendment 1. The NRA is a non-profit organization that creates advertisements to persuade viewers to be anti-gun control by using techniques such as pathos, ethos, and kairos. A main portion of their advertisements are intended for parents with children; two advertisements in specific are attended for this audience because they are based on children that are in danger. One advertisement with a plethora of visual and rhetorical techniques created by the NRA is an online image that has a grey background and has dark figures playing that appears to be children. These children appear to be playing some sort of a sport in the grass with an American flag swaying in the background. The intention of this image is to persuade viewers to Tate 2 support the second amendment, which is the main goal. Across this advertisement in bolded red letters reads, the kids more important than the What the advertisement is trying to say is since the president has men with guns who protect his kids, then why should not guns also protect your kids. The intended audience for this advertisement would be parents with small children or even any person that has a child because they are the ones who have to protect children. The NRA uses pathos, kairos, and ethos to persuade their viewers of their goals. The NRA uses pathos by making this advertisement about children, which is a common way to appeal to emotion (Lee 70). They put this question in the image in order to have the audience think about the protection of their children. Humans as a whole care for children and when they are put in way it is an emotional topic. Similarly, another technique that is used is kairos, which appeals to timeliness (Pantelides 73). During the time period when this image was created there have been several incidents of American children dying because they were not protected. Due to certain gun control laws, elementary school cops are not allowed to have a gun while they are on campus and if cops involved in these events had a gun, then these events around America may have been prevented. This advertisement uses kairos along with pathos in order to make viewers more sympathetic over current events. Throughout history, the NRA has been known as a strong civil rights organization so they use ethos by putting their name in the top-left hand corner of the advertisement, appealing to their credibility (McIntyre 66). The second advertisement is an image that can be placed into certain forms of entertainment such as a newspaper or magazine. In this advertisement there five newspapers that are spread out over a dark background that have headlines which ask questions such as attacked on your porch, do you want your neighbors to be opposed to gun ownership or members of the Also in this ad there are black and white pictures on each of the five newspapers Tate 3 that relate to the headlines, which all related to their corresponding headline to the newspaper 1). The NRA created this advertisement using several techniques to persuade viewers that the second amendment, the right to bear arms, is necessary. All of the answers to these fake headlines point towards a direction that says having a gun is necessary. By describing a great deal of situations where having a gun would be a good thing could persuade the viewers that they need a gun in order to protect themselves. The intended audience is more of a general audience. There are different headlines that pertain to different people with different lifestyles, therefore getting a larger amount of attention. One headline in particular is focused on women. The advertisement shows how defenseless you can be without a gun and that there are rapists and murders in this world, but if a person had a gun they could better protect themselves. The reason the audience for this headline is women are because women are the main targets for rapists. In this advertisement there is a picture of two defenseless women under the headline that talks about being in a bad situation without a gun. This makes women seeing this advertisement not want to be in that situation like the one in the picture. Headlines are the biggest attention grabbers in advertisements. In these headlines there are many different rhetorical techniques used but the most significant is pathos. The headlines center on someone getting killed or seriously hurt which strikes the emotion of fear into the audience. Fear is one of the most powerful emotions and is used correctly in this ad by making the audience afraid if a firearm does not protect them. The fact that this ad is in black and white makes it seems more serious than if it were in color. The color black symbolizes many things such as seriousness, mystery, depth, sadness, death, fear, anger, and remorse 1). Some of the things the color black in this ad represents are seriousness, fear, and anger. All of the components in this advertisement tries to put viewers in a serious mood and makes them be afraid of what could happen if you did not have a firearm. Tate 4 Both advertisements created by the NRA do a great job at trying to get their audience to agree with the second amendment. Some of the things both advertisements have in common are that they both use the rhetorical technique of pathos as their major way to persuade you. Both of the backgrounds are black or have black as the dominant color to represent seriousness in the advertisements. Some of the differences in the ads is that were made for different audiences. The first advertisement was made for parents with children and the second one was mainly for a more general audience. By creating advertisements for different audiences allows for a larger amount of people being reached out to which is good for their campaign. Being one of the oldest civil right organizations, the NRA has been extremely successful in persuading its viewers to support the right to bear arms. One of the biggest rhetorical techniques they use is pathos, by making viewers afraid of what would happen in a world without the second amendment. Fear is a very powerful emotion. By using it in their advertisements the NRA tries to persuade its audience that it necessary to have the right to own a firearm. Creating advertisements that have different audiences increases the size of their total audience, which will increase the amount of people who support the second amendment. Although there are a great deal of people in America who are against the second amendment, the NRA has successfully gained more supporters for the past 140 years by mastering their use of visual and rhetorical techniques in their advertisements. Tate 5 Tate 6 Works Cited Are the Kids More Important then yours. 2013. Photograph. CNN. Web. 21 Jan 2014. CNN.com. Symbolism and Incredibibleart. Incredible Art Department. Web 16 Nov 2013. www.incredibleart.org. Lee, Kendra, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Pathos: Appeals to  Carabelli, Jason, Sullivan, Brogan, Eds. Rhetoric Matters. (2013): 70-71. Print. McIntyre, Megan, Jessica McKee. Ethos: Appeals to Authority and  Carabelli, Jason, Sullivan, Brogan, Eds. Rhetoric Matters. (2013): 66. Print. NRA digital  NRA. National Rifle Association. Web. 20 Jan 2014. NRA.org. Pantelides, Kate, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Kairos: Appeals to  Carabelli, Jason, Sullivan, Brogan, Eds. Rhetoric Matters. (2013): 73. Print. Why a policeman be there when you need him. 1990. Photograph. Mother Jones. Web. 21 Jan 2014. <Motherjones.com>.