Sierralta 1 Carliette Sierralta Dr. Oana Cimpean English Composition II 26 February 2017 Families for Freedom: A Fight for Mixed-Status Families About 11.1 million illegal immigrants resided in the United States in 2014, supporting the view that this population of people has been steadily increasing throughout the recent years. (Passel and Cohn) As a result of the steady population of undocumented people in the U.S., there has been a constant presence of first generation Americans being born. In 2012, about 8 percent of the American population was recorded of having at least one undocumented parent. (Bump) This percentage has stayed consistent throughout the years and has ultimately helped create what is commonly referred as a mixed-status family. The stakeholder Families for Freedom (FFF) believes that the current U.S. immigration policies do not take into consideration the existence of these mixed-status families, and therefore should work towards new legislations that would not contribute to the separation of families. For This beliefs and interests are perfectly exemplified through their advertisements and through their use of rhetorical strategies. The rhetorical appeal of pathos is evident in both of the images created by FFF. The first image shows the reuniting of what appears to be a father and his daughter. The facial expression is seemingly delighted to see his small daughter. Although the image does not display the face, her arms are reaching out in front of her indicating that she is eagerly awaiting the embrace of her father. By their body language and expressions one can assume they Sierralta 2 have not been able to see each other for quite some time. This plays on the emotions of missing loved ones and family members. The top of the image reads Ice Hold in large capitalized orange and white text. The colors and size of the text contrast the grey background and therefore are more visible and noticeable. In the same manner, the cartoons themselves are made to seem innocent and joyous with the use of bright colors such as shades of yellow clothing for both the father and daughter. This is meant to get the audience to think about the type of people who are being held in immigration customs which may in many situations be caring mothers and fathers. Similarly, the image is intended to get the audience to sympathize with this child. There is a need to acknowledge on how the absence of undocumented parents might be affecting countless children around the country. Pathos can be seen in the second image through the messages being presented on the posters of the protestors. One of the protesters holds a sign reading, fatherless child thanks to the U.S and uses the picture of a gloomy child to further emphasize the reality of the message.. Another poster reads, punishes innocent The protesters and their posters demonstrate an overwhelming compassion for the situation of these children. This plays on the emotions by placing the innocent children as the victims of the situation. Even those who wish for all illegal immigrants to be removed cannot deny the negative emotional and psychological effects that missing a parent could have on a child growing up. Logos can also be seen in many aspects of both pictures. In the second picture the sign reading, punishes innocent seems to not only play on the emotions of the audience but also on their logic. It is logical to point out that no one should suffer the consequences for actions that they are not responsible for. In this case it is the children who are Sierralta 3 suffering despite them having done nothing to deserve it. This is seemingly logical, as it is condemning the actions of the U.S. government for not acknowledging these children and is stating that children are the overall victims in these situations. The first picture also uses some elements of logos in regards to the use of the father and daughter characters. It is logical to want a parent and child to be together. It plays on the idea of what is actually reasonable in these situations, which more likely is that families should be able to stay together no matter the conditions they face. At the bottom of first picture there is an attempt of showing ethos or credibility by displaying the supporting organizations of the Washington Defender Association (WDA), the Immigrant Legal Resource Center (ILRC), the National Immigration Project of the National Lawyers Guild, the National Immigration Law Center (NILC), and the Immigrant Defense Project (IDP). These national organizations are in support of this image and may be credible in regards to their expertise on the subject of immigration. However, when looking closer at these for-profit organizations, it would be reasonable to assume that they support this image of a child reuniting with their parent, as it gives hope to current illegal aliens that are facing legal action. Ultimately, these organizations profit on undocumented immigrants who want to be reunited with their U.S. citizen children or families, as these are the people that will seek legal assistance when facing deportation and U.S. Immigration Customs and Enforcement (ICE) holds. Thus, the support being shown by the above organizations is evidently bias. The second image does not seem to show any sort of legitimacy or credibility, as the people pictured seem to be regular people who may or may not have been directly affected by this immigration issue. The picture is focusing on other tactics to get their point across. Sierralta 4 Both of the images shown have elements of Kairos, as they both insinuate a feeling of urgency and action. In both images there is a protest occuring, implicating that this is a current issue. By showing protesters and posters with different slogans the pictures are creating something similar to what campaigning a movement looks like. This not only emphasizes the current importance of the issues being faced by mixed-status families, but shows a variety of people supporting what is described by FFF to be an injustice within the American immigration system. By portraying that this is indeed a current issue and a movement, the pictures are giving initiative and the idea that solutions to this problem are wanted right now. There is an urgency in these pictures for people to notice and pay attention to as most protests are meant to do. Consequently, Families for Freedom is able to express their disagreement with the current immigration policies in place through the images and advertisements found on their website. These images use countless aspects of rhetorical appeals including pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos in order to try and persuade their audiences to agree with this overall goals and beliefs. With an estimated 4.5 million U.S. citizen children having one or more parents as undocumented immigrants, the issue of mixed- status families is becoming all the more common in the United States today. (APA) Therefore, Families for Freedom will continue to promote and advertise for the right of these families to stay together despite the current legislations that are believed to ignore them. Sierralta 5 Sierralta 6 Sierralta 7 Sierralta 8 Works Cited APA. Our American Psychological Association, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Bump, Philip. How many American children are citizens born to illegal  Washington WP Company, 20 Aug. 2015. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Families for  Us Families for N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Passel, Jeffrey S., and Cohn. Overall Number of U.S. Unauthorized Immigrants Holds Steady Since  Research Hispanic Trends N.p., 20 Sept. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.