Alvarez 1 Gabriela Alvarez Professor Spencer ENC 1102 19 March 2017 Images on Inclusive Sexual Education Over the past few decades, sexual education has slowly made its way into social normativity and has strayed from being a taboo. People have become more open to discussion and have been trying to inform the public on ways to understand the act and how to practice it safely. Originally parents were the ones informing their children about birds and the but as the education system advanced, educators began funding for sexual education courses. At first, these courses paved the way for revolutionized sexual education. Little did educators know that these courses would lead to a spark in discussion of course flaws as the years progressed. As sexuality became a more open topic, controversy about the depth and inclusiveness of the courses arose. Children were not being properly informed and it was discovered that children with disabilities were being excluded from the curriculums. A large majority of the public had predetermined ideas about how people with disabilities could not have sexual relations or process sexual concepts (Szydlowski 1). Advocates for Youth is a group that fights for better sexual education and inclusiveness for students with disabilities (Mission 1). Their Facebook tries to promote their various ideas and efforts towards better sexual education through campaigns and pictures. Two visual pieces that they have shared with the public clearly display the need for improvement in the curriculum and improve understanding of the matter through their rhetoric use of ethos, pathos, and kairos. Alvarez 2 For starters, both images shared by Advocates for Youth demonstrate the problem with sexual inclusiveness and efficacy amongst teens with disabilities by using the rhetoric devices. They try to target the education system in order to resolve this issue and make sexual education courses better through more in depth teaching methods such as hands on experience and worksheets. The images display ethos, which is credibility and reliability, through their crediting of novels and scholarly sources pertaining to the issue. The first image, besides being from an accredited foundation, adds to its reliability by citing a novel written by Laura Lindberg called Changes in Receipt of Sex Education. It cites the argument of another scholarly source to support its point that sexual education is and must improve. The logo in the bottom right corner also adds to the dependability of the image being that the image comes directly from the foundation trying to promote this change. Subsequently, the second image they shared was that of a book cover called Sexuality and Relationship Education which is a novel written by Davida Hartman; it was written to educate children with autism and other disorders about sexual relations (1). It was also intended to show the public that this was a matter that needed to be addressed, taught, and normalized in society. The issue with the image is that it does not specifically or clearly display that it is affiliated with the organization. One would not be able to tell if it came from another source, thus challenging its effectiveness alongside the campaign. Although, being that it is a published professional work, it would clearly discuss the issue and give professional insight on the importance of sexual education inclusiveness for those with disabilities to allow them to have a better understanding of sex and practice is as effectively and safely as their fellow classmates. In addition to ethos, Advocates for Youth must use eye grabbing images to reach their intended audience: young adults and the education system. The rhetoric device pathos, a method Alvarez 3 of using emotion to gain the interest of your audience, is clearly seen in both images. The first image utilizes harsh statements such as and along with failing marks to display the negativity of the issue. The second image displays pathos through the feel of comfort and togetherness displayed by the people on the cover of the novel. Their smiling faces allow children, or the adults viewing it, to feel an inviting sense towards the topic and feel more comfortable towards learning about it. Also, a psychological, indirect, method of attracting the viewers is through color symbolism. The blue background implies a welcoming nature, trustworthiness, and knowledge. Additionally, the yellow demonstrates clarity and intellect. This subconsciously draws the readers, again mostly the target audience which is children, into the matter in order to inform them of what sexual inclusivity means and how to improve it. Lastly, both images display a sense of urgency and intensity, the rhetorical device kairos, to cause the reader to act toward fixing the issues of flawed sexual education courses. The first image utilizes bold red lettering to suggest seriousness and negativity calling for immediate action for improvement. The color red also signifies anger over the issue and the weight of the severity of the matter. It attempts to stress the viewer to read more about the cause and get involved. The inclusion of the words also triggers a sense of urgency, a call to action of sorts. The second image does not send that critical or dire sense as completely as the first image. Subtle key words such as and to inappropriate inform the viewer that the topic is a matter that needs to be resolved and that this book allows for the audience to help make a change and take a stand. Advocates for Youth needs the help of those viewing it in order to have an impact on society. The group Advocates for Youth is an organization that is trying to promote the improvement of sexual education to increase the inclusiveness toward students with disabilities. Alvarez 4 People have yet to let go of the idea that children, let alone those with disabilities, be taught about sex. This only gets worse for children with disabilities because a vast majority of the public does not believe that they could comprehend such a topic; which is of course a negative prejudice. However, teachers do not go the extra mile to stray from the curriculums in order to help them understand the topic which only seems to support these illogical ideas. The lack of effort to educate those students is harming their ability to carry out sexual relations since they are not being informed well enough about the safety nor the actions involved. Their organization publicizes various images on the issue through social media such as Facebook to get teens and educators involved in changing the curriculum. The organization has been trying to gain more and more followers over the years to stand up and come up with methods of showing the school board, and society alike, that a course specifically for children with disabilities would create a healthier, safer, and more knowledgeable community. They encourage everyone to think about the matter and participate in active projects or reach out to already established groups to help in this effort. The two images shared clearly set out to get more teens and educators involved in a more structured course that allows for inclusiveness through the rhetoric methods of ethos, pathos, and kairos. By using the rhetorical devices, Advocates for Youth knew that they could engage their viewers towards this topic in order to make a change. Alvarez 5 Works Cited Hartman, Davida. Sexuality and Relationship Education. N.d. Pinterest. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https://s-media- cacheak0.pinimg.com/736x/68/42/ff/6842ffc80b4c195d3be56d749ec685cf.jpg>. How Are Schools Doing At Teaching About Sex Education? 2017. Facebook. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https://www.facebook.com/Advocates4Youth/photos/a.410396922705.197243.8719981 2705/10152981348667706/?type=3&theater>. Advocates for Youth. Feb 2016. Web. 28 January 2017. <http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/about-us/mission> Szydlowski, Mary Beth. Sexual Health Education for Young People with Disabilities Research and Resources for  Advocates for Youth. School Health Equity Advocates for Youth, Feb. 2016. Web. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/publications/publications-a-z/2559>. Image 1: Alvarez 6 Image 2: