Milica Devura Ricketts ENC 1101 16 October 2016 Spanking: Past and Present The idea of corporal punishment is decades old, with more than 80% of parents agreeing that spanking is an effective method of discipline in the 1980s and 1990s. However, the scholarly conversation about corporal punishment has changed incredibly over the years, with it being supported in the past, and more frowned upon in the present. Parents are changing their minds on the way they raise their children and how they punish them. Ten or twenty years ago, parents used physical punishment to teach their children how to behave in the proper way. They would use an open hand to spank them, or if in public, gave their child the until we get look. Nowadays, most parents would not even think about hitting their kids under any circumstances. They choose to have conversations with their children instead, even though the child could not be old enough to form a rational argument as to why they drew on the walls. Past conversations of this topic included that the use of corporal punishment benefitted the children and their behavior by giving them an immediate response and consequence to their actions. Punishment In America Today: Spare The Rod, Spoil The Child? A Systematic Review Of The Literature specifically states that researchers have found that the use of corporal punishment has the benefit of immediate compliance with few detrimental (Hicks-Pass). This supports the past opinions on spanking children, and explains that spanking is a reliable go-to for disciplining a child. Another article called Punishment And Externalizing Problems: A Cross-Sectional Study Of Tanzanian Primary School Aged Children talks about corporal punishment in the classroom, and how it affects the behavior of school children. In some cases it says that it is beneficial, because it goes along with the cultural values and norms of the country. The current conversation that people are having on this topic is more aimed towards ending the use of corporal punishment, because more parents are beginning to think it is unethical and immoral to induce light physical harm on their children to teach a lesson. The article And Child Outcomes: Old Controversies And New Meta-Analyses addresses the new conversation about spanking children. It states, meta-analyses presented here found no evidence that spanking is associated with improved child behavior and rather found spanking to be associated with increased risk of 13 detrimental (Gershoff). Here, Gershoff argues that spanking is not beneficial to the behavior of a child. Another source, Parenting, Parasympathetic Activity, And Development Of Delinquency And Substance Use stands behind the idea that physical punishment is not at all beneficial to kids and their behavior. It argues that corporal punishment induces stress and depression on youth, and could lead to poor life decisions such as substance abuse and juvenile delinquency. Being a very controversial and argumentative topic, the scholarly conversation about corporal punishment has changed from it being accepted and beneficial for children, to being frowned upon and negatively affecting children over time. So far, the past has had an opinion on corporal punishment of it being beneficial for the discipline of children. People with this opinion have thought that spanking gave an immediate consequence to the negative behavior in children, telling them that what they were doing was not acceptable. However, most parents today are completely against using physical punishment in their parenting methods. They think that it is unethical and immoral and could have negative health effects on children, both mentally and physically. All parents have their own opinions on how to raise their children, and as the generations go on, the views and opinions on this matter will continue to change indefinitely. Works Cited Breen, Alison, Karen Daniels, and Mark Tomlinson. Research Article: Experiences Of Corporal Punishment: A Qualitative Study In An Urban Township Of South Abuse & Neglect 48.(2015): 131-139. . Web. 18 Sept. 2016. duRivage, Nathalie, et al. Parental Use Of Corporal Punishment In Europe: Intersection Between Public Health And  ONE 10.2 (2015): 1-11. Search Premier . Web. 18 Sept. 2016 Gershoff, Elizabeth T., and Andrew Grogan-Kaylor. Spanking And Child Outcomes: Old Controversies And New Of Family Psychology 30.4 (2016): 453-469. . Web. 7 Sept. 2016. Hecker, Tobias, et al. Corporal Punishment And Externalizing Problems: A Cross-Sectional Study Of Tanzanian Primary School Aged  Abuse & Neglect 38.(2014): 884-892. . Web. 2 Oct. 2016. Hicks-Pass, Stephanie. Corporal Punishment In America Today: Spare The Rod, Spoil The Child? A Systematic Review Of The  Practice In Mental Health 5.2 (2009): 71-88. Search Premier . Web. 2 Oct. 2016. Hinnant, J. Benjamin, Stephen A. Erath, and Mona El-Sheikh. Harsh Parenting, Parasympathetic Activity, And Development Of Delinquency And Substance  Of Abnormal Psychology 124.1 (2015): 137-151. . Web. 7 Sept. 2016.