Aljahwari 1 Elias Aljahwari Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 23 February 2017 NRA Efforts Towards Keeping Guns in The Market Of all the strong and controversial topics out there on the news, gun rights and gun regulation are most certainly at the top of the list. Especially after mass shootings in Orlando, Virginia Tech, and Aurora. According to a recent CNN poll, the American people are closely divided on the issue of guns. The NRA (National Rifle Association) is an American non-profit organization that stands for guns, and the right for every American to own a gun. The NRA is an established organization that is over 145 years olds, it was established on 1871. The NRA wants every American to have a gun in their house. From the perspective, if each person out there had a gun for protection, mass shooting could be stopped before they even happen. The NRA is the oldest civil rights organization in the United States, with more than 5 million members. The NRA endorsed a presidential candidate for the first time in 1980, backing Ronald Regan, who was pro guns. NRA executive vice president Wayne LA Pierre once said, only thing that stops a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a (Martin and Jackson 178). He said the NRA wants a federal law immediately. My two pictures represent the NRA point of view and concern towards gun control. Aljahwari 2 Image 1 is a strong message from the NRA. The Picture is of a young girl, who is about 12 or 13 years old. The girl is holding out a pistol and practicing how to shoot a gun. The NRA logo at the bottom left hand side establishes ethos, or an appeal of credibility to the source. The background is an empty field of grass, with an empty field. Which represents that anyone can go out there and teach their kids how to protect themselves. The picture has this text in huge letters RAISE A This statement shows a sense of urgency, or Kairos. It explains how much of a problem guns are, but it also displays that there are ways to avoid becoming a victim. This young girl is probably going to face a tough situation and be put in a position where she might have to use her gun, and if she is, she will be ready for the occasion. The text is also a remainder to other parents, encouraging them to teach their kids how to shoot a gun, this would be considered logos. The first thing that catches the viewers eye is how young the girls is, and the fact that she is holding up a firearm. The girl is very focused on ahead. The image is supposed to make the viewer feel proud of the girl, and make the viewer want to teach the younger generation about guns. The NRA wants more people to have guns, that is their main goal. This image is also trying to appeal to the emotional side of the viewers, because we are talking about a serious issue, kids are getting shot and kidnaped all around in this country. The colors used in image 1 to bring out attention and address the main focus of the photo, which is the young girl standing in the middle of picture. The background is an empty grass field, and the sun looks like it is about to set, the image of the sunset and clear blue skies is supposed to make the viewer feel a sense of freedom, and faith. Aljahwari 3 Image 2 was used as a campaign ad during the 2017 election between Hillary and President Trump. The image displays a woman holding the phone, while in complete shock, as if someone is holding a gun against her. There is also a flash pointed at her. The NRA logo is bold on the right side of the image establishes ethos, or an appeal of credibility to the source (National Rifle Association). The logo seems a bit too strong, they could have put it on the bottom, but it is right in the center. The background of this picture is interesting, because there is almost nothing there, they want the viewer to focus all their attention on the woman and the flashing light. The background has a wall and a picture on the side, but you can barely see half the picture. As the picture is not relevant to what they are trying to show. The image has this text in the top right side LET HILLARY LEAVE YOU This statement shows a sense of urgency, or Kairos. It tells the viewer to act swiftly before the damage is done. The NRA was against Hillary in the election, they sided with President Trump, and he won. The NRA has lobbied heavily against all forms of gun control and argues aggressively that more guns will make this country safer. could be the biggest This relates back to image because the image is making fun of Hillary and her actions. Clinton has attacked the NRA like no other presidential candidate in history. Hillary wants to take away your guns. what the picture is saying. Hillary is going to make a situation like that happen to you. The colors in the picture are almost non-existent. Only black and white, with a bright red NRA logo in the middle. There are no colors in the background, just a dark grey wall. The image is plain, simple, and straightforward, you can understand what is happening and what they are trying to tell you instantly. The colors are very minimal but create a metaphorical message on the bad things that could happen if Hillary won the election. Aljahwari 4 In total, both images convey focus on action to keep guns around and to stop anyone who is trying to ban guns. The somewhat graphic images the NRA posts could be controversial, as they are representing that something bad is going to happen in the near future. The only way to stay safe is if you can protect yourself when something bad happens. Having a gun in the house makes people feel safer. Gun right and regulations are extremely crucial; this topic is highly controversial and talked about a lot by the news and media. Which makes it extremely delicate, because there are two sides who might get very upset if you say the wrong thing. The NRA wants the majority of citizens to be gun owners. The NRA has lobbied heavily against all forms of gun control and argues aggressively that more guns will make this country safer. Work Cited Wayne LA, Pierre President of the NRA: The gun The gun magazine Y.t.,2014. Web. 12 December 2014. McVicar, D., Moschion, J., &van Ours, J.C. (2015). From substance use to homelessness or vice virca?. Social Science & Medicine, 136-13789-98. Doi:10.1016/jsocscimed.2015.05.005 Johnson, Guy, Chris Chamberlain, Australian Journal of Social Issues (Australian Council Of Social Services) 46.1 (2011): 29-48 McNeil Smith, S., Holtrop, K,. & Reynolds, J. (2015). Does the NRA hold too much power? Family Relations, (5), 606. Doi:10.1111/fare.12166