Aye Aye Sint ENC-1102 Dr. Oana Cimpean 26 th February 2017 Project 2: Benefits of using solar energy in United States According to the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), solar energy is a energy which means that solar plant or solar panels can be built as a distributed generation, utility-scale solar power and central-station. Solar energy is the use of sunlight to produce electricity for the uses of homes, industries as well as factories. Solar energy is a sustainable, clean and affordable energy that can be find everywhere. SEIA believes that spreading the uses of solar energy around the world would help to reduce global warming. So their mission is to build solar panel around the world. The organization uses poster to spread the uses of solar energy to get investment from the people. The poster uses ethos, pathos, logos and Kairos to expand the uses of solar energy in United States. In picture 1, the picture demonstrates the fast development of solar nation that will help Americans to create more jobs, increase the income of the country and especially to reduce pollution. It also explains about the for freedom of choice, affirming the right of lowans to decide how they want to power their homes and businesses in the (Resch, 2014). The SEIA uses Uncle Sam to make the audience feel that everyone especially Americans have to care about the environment by investing money in solar energy project. Uncle Sam who is a common national personification of the United States or American government and become important person after the war of 1812. By the help of Uncle Sam the demand for a supply of meat for the troops has increased. This make American feels special. The world need tells that need everyone to make the world better place and to save natural resources such as coal. Logos is an appeal to logic and is a way of persuading an audience by reason. The logo in the poster is solar growing and invest American It explains that by investing more money to produce more solar energy can help the United States to sustain the future uses of natural resources as solar energy comes from the sun. Also, our force to fight which means that to enlarge the uses of solar, everyone needs to join forces and support solar energy. It be possible with only the effort of the organization, everyone needs to put their effort. According to Merriam-Webster dictionary Kairos means time when conditions are right for the accomplishment of a crucial action: the opportune and decisive Kairos in the poster is that tax is expiring which means that Americans should invest their money right now otherwise you will miss the chance. It also tells that this is the right time to invest money in solar energy to save the environment and also for the stake of American future we need to do it now when it is not too late. In picture 2, the poster is used by the University of Delaware to find more advanced technology about solar panel. The poster uses the picture of the sunlight which makes people feel warm, and the ray of sunshine in a picture makes a person life brighter or more cheerful. The sunshine tells the audience to make the environment safe and clean. The ray of sunshine on the picture make people to have positive mind, often during at difficult times. It also make the audience feel that make the environment we stay to be safe and clean and sustain the natural resources we have on the earth. It is telling to have empathy on the earth. The orange color of the sunshine in the picture make people feel emotional to feel sensual, warm and secure. Logos is that U.S. Photovoltaics Industry Roadmap Through 2030 and which means that in the future the US photovoltaics industry will become one of the important industry and that everyone will use solar panel everywhere. The future of solar energy is bright as the technology is developing. Although both of the images are from the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) organization it is not credible as it only shows the logo of the organization. It does not establish any credibility as it is not link with other UN organization. In conclusion, both of the picture are used to advertise the use of solar energy in the future and the organization wants everyone especially the citizen of American to become more interested in the use of solar energy. The main audience for both of the images is Americans. The organization wants to join the forces from both the organization and the citizen of the country to develop a more advanced technology of solar energy in America. The organization uses rhetorical appeals- pathos, ethos, logos and Kairos to attract the audience. Picture 1 Picture 2 Works cited: Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) Resh. R, for US. Solar Remains Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) (July 17,2014). Web: 26 th February 2017 Solar Power Program-University of Delaware. Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA). (2015). Web. 26 th February 2017