Chen 1 Lulu Chen Dennis ENC 1102 February 02, 2017 The U.S Immigrant Debate The new President of United States Donald Trump is already causing a stir, with his controversial methods of making America great again. One of the most contentious debates resulting from his presidency at the moment is the travel ban. The president released a law that temporarily bans immigrants from 7 predominantly Muslim countries: Sudan, Syria, Iran, Iraq, Yemen, Somalia, and Libya; from visiting the U.S. The ban received widespread criticism from artists, ordinary citizens, and civil society. The proponents and opponents of immigration are using every possible means including mass media to steer their campaign. Two of the groups that have been caught up in the debate as they try to air their views are the National Immigration Forum (NIF) and the Federation for American Immigration (FAIR). According to the Washington post, the sum of illegal settlers in the U.S in 2014 was 11.3 million (Markon). This article analyses two images; one has been used by the NIF while the other has been utilized by the FAIR. The NIF is one of oldest pro-immigration organizations that focus on advocating for the value of immigrants in the U.S.A. the belief of the NIF that immigrants whether legal or illegal should be treated like any other American citizen. The forum thus strives to help immigrants have a better life in the U.S.A. NIF was established in 1982 (NIF). Since Chen 2 then, the forum has worked with Congress on matters related to immigration. Located in Washington, DC, its primary focus is immigration reform, integration, and border and interior enforcement. The first image shows protestors carrying placards. This picture suits the agenda. The dominant poster is of a Muslim woman dressed in hijab that looks like the American Flag. The picture is timely as a protest against the Trump immigration ban. Statistically, more than 30 cities were rolling to protest immigration ban(Bacon). The subject of the placard is a Muslim in direct relation to the seven Muslim countries that the prohibition affects. There are around 3.3 million Muslims live in the America(Mohamed). The inclusion of the Muslim woman appeals to both the logos and pathos. The fact that her hijab is the American flag gives the impression that even Muslim immigrants have the ability to have patriotism for the U.S.A. The inscription also appeals to Americans that their fear of the motives of immigrants should not cause them to go against their national values of love and harmony. Unlike the other Chen 3 image which is mostly fictional, this one captures real events and hence appeals to the Logos. When the viewer sees the face of the protester in the picture, his emotions change to match those expressed by the protestor. Consequently, the picture convinces the audience of agenda by appealing to Pathos. Moreover, the picture is an actual photograph of an event that happened. As a result, it appeals to the credibility and morality of the audience. The image is relevant in the wake of protests against President immigration ban. Therefore, it appeals to Kairos. On the side is the FAIR which is one of the most vocal anti-immigration organizations in the U.S.A. Founded in 1979, FAIR advocates for reforms in the U.S immigration policy with the hope of a reduction in the number of immigrants entering the U.S.A both legally and illegally each year. The FAIR has also been involved in the making of immigration laws whereby they have been to the Congress more often than not to testify on immigration bills. The primary driving force of agenda is the fear that immigrants could cause unemployment and social security issues. Headquartered in Washington D.C, the group has over 1.3 million supporters and more than 50 corporate sponsors. Chen 4 The image showing a tsunami about to sweep over the Statue of Liberty resonates with agenda. Most illegal immigrants get to the U.S by water, a fact that is reflected by portraying the immigrants in the picture as a Tsunami. For pathos, above the Statue of Liberty, is a thought bubble; the lady in the statue trying to figure out the exact intentions of the aliens. The thought ends with the statue cursing in frustration. Also, her facial expression appeals fear. The Tsunami picture has used visual rhetoric to convince people that immigrants are dangerous. The use of the word is not very friendly which shows the stand of FAIR towards immigrants. Moreover, the picture spells out an air of coldness towards immigrants: Firstly, they have been depicted in a tidal wave of a Tsunami. Tsunamis are highly destructive. The depiction of refugees in Tsunami shows that FAIR is very suspicious of refugees. In the minds of FAIR, immigrants can only cause harm in the United States. This portrayal appeals to Chen 5 the ethos. Moreover, the statue is wearing a scared expression which translates to an ulterior motive on the part of the refugees. Moreover, the statue is about to topple over which symbolizes the threat immigrants pose to the U.S.A. The picture appeals more to the emotions of those who already oppose immigration more than to reason and logic. Not every refugee who comes to the U.S.A has an ulterior motive; some are just pushed out of their countries by circumstances like war. According to CNN, 158 million people in those states make up the same share of the U.S. population -- 49% -- as the proportion of Syrians that have fled carnage (Bixler). If the situation were to improve in their country, they would gladly go back. Using the statue of liberty which is the symbol of freedom and democracy is ironic but resonates with concern that immigrants could cause security issues. The use of a statistical figure persuades the audience that immigration poses problems by appealing to logos. When it comes to debates about immigration, the Statue of Liberty has had an unusual position. An article carried by the CNN describes how on February 22, 2017, nation park service rangers were forced to pull down a huge banner that said; are from the figurine. An immigration activist group later took responsibility of the banner saying they wanted to remind Americans of the value of immigrants since almost every American has some relationship with the immigrants. According to Denhart (19), virtually all the people living in America are immigrants or progenies of settlers who settled in the U.S.A long before it was founded. The action of the activists was perhaps in protest of the new traveling bans by President Donald Trump. The scenario begs the question the figurine of Chen 6 The trump administration is determined to provide a solution to problems of immigration once and for all. In the civil society, battle lines have drawn as both proponents and opponents of immigration strive to propel their agenda. Though the immigration ban was not signed into law, it revealed that the immigration issue is a touchy problem that needs careful deliberation to get to a solution that will not divide the country. Chen 7 Works Cited Bacon, John., Gomez, Alan. against immigration plan rolling in more than 30 USA Today, 2017, http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2017/01/29/homeland-security-judges-stay- has-little-impact-travel-ban/97211720/. Accessed 12 Mar, 2017 Bixer, Mark., Martinez, Michael. forced half of all Syrians from home. where they CNN, 2016, http://www.cnn.com/2015/09/11/world/syria-refugee-crisis-when- war-displaces-half-a-country/. Accessed 12 Mar, 2017 Denhart, Matthew. Advantage; a Handbook on Immigration and Economic  The Bush Institute, 2015. Jackson, Amanda. Banner unfurled at Statue of CNN, 22 Feb.2017, http://edition.cnn.com/2017/02/21/us/statue-of-liberty-refugees-welcome- banner-trnd/.Accessed 23 Feb, 2017 Mohamed, Besheer. new estimate of the U.S. Muslim PewResearchCenter, 2016, http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2016/01/06/a-new-estimate-of-the-u-s- muslim-population/. Accessed 12 Mar, 2017 Markon, Jerry. U.S illegal immigrant population falls below 11  The Washington Post, 20 Jan. 2016, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/federal-eye/wp/2016/01/20/u-s- illegal- immigrant-population. Accessed 23 Feb, 2017 The Statue of Liberty. American Immigration Center. n.d, https://www.us- immigration.com/statue-of- liberty/ Accessed 23 Feb 2017 Chen 8