Martin 1 Yanmark Martin Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 March 12, 2017 PETA Putting an End to Animal Suffrage Around the World Animals in every corner of the globe are being mistreated and abused in a variety of ways by humans. Some of the ways that animals are mistreated range from dogs being forced to fight in dog fighting rings to animals being killed for their fur. People may think that they live far away from a lot of these problems but in reality these problems can be closer than people think. In 2008, Florida was tied with California for most dog fighting cases in the U.S. with 204 (OFCL). Florida would rank first in dog beating cases, animal deaths due to drowning, choking along with suffocation, and abandonment of animals (OFCL). People that wear fur coats safe to assume that they never think about what happened to the animals that the fur was taken off of. More than 50 million animals are killed in the fur trade every single year and they are killed in a variety of inhumane ways such as gassing and electrocution (Born Free). Millions more are kept in places called fur where they are held until they can be killed for their fur (Born Free). People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is a nonprofit organization determined to fight any kind of animal cruelty and mistreatment of animals in any way it can. Their aim is to expose all of the cruelty that big organizations and corporations do to animals in order for these corporations to end their cruel treatment of animals. PETA works towards all raising awareness to the animal cruelty that does happen around the world through campaigns against corporations/ organizations and ads to the public. Martin 2 Image 1 is a clear example of one of the ads that PETA uses to connect to the public about the animal cruelty that the clothing industry commits. This image is strategically made to look like that so people that wear wool coats and those that do not understand that behind every wool coat is an animal that died so humans could wear its fur on their coat. The first thing that really catches the viewers eye is the dead sheep that the man is holding in his arm to represent the sheep that gave its life so people could wear its wool. This picture appeals to pathos because the dead sheep gave up its life so people could enjoy their wool coat and dead animals make people feel bad. The next thing that catches the eyes is the text that is right under the dead sheep that reads the rest of your wool which is indicating to all of the people that wear wool coats that a part of the wool coat was forgotten when the animal that gave away its coat died. The caption on the picture appeals to logos because it is appealing to the reason of all of the people that are reading and are questioning if killing animals for their coats is wrong. At the bottom of the picture it says Weinhofen of I Killed the Prom Queen for and this statement adds ethos because he is a well known Australian guitarist, from the band I Killed the Prom Queen. It states his name as being Jona Weinhofen at the bottom of the page underneath him holding the sheep along with the name of the organization sponsoring the advertisement. This image is trying to appeal more to the emotional side of the viewer by showing them a dead sheep that has been killed just for its wool coat. This image may be intended for a more mature audience. The background color of image 1 is all black and black can be associated with power, elegance, and formality. On the negative side, it can be associated with evil, death, and (Color Theory). The image is most likely trying to appeal to more of the death aspect of the color because it is displaying a dead sheep as the main aspect of the image. The Martin 3 words in the picture are in a gray color so it can pop out against the background and so it can be noticeable to the viewers of the image. However, the organizations name, which is PETA, is in bright red and this could be because in some situations the color red is associated with importance (Color Theory). Image 2 is an example of an ad that PETA would use to try to get more people to back them by using a famous person and their rescued dog in an advertisement. The audience that is being targeted by this advertisement is more of the younger generation who want to help stop animal cruelty because they are more likely to know who Waka Flocka Flame is. This ad is meant to remind people that no one can become too famous or too popular to do your part in stopping animal cruelty even if it is just adopting a pet from a kill shelter. The first thing that the viewer sees is the picture of Waka Flocka holding his dog and this appeal to pathos is because everyone loves a cute dog. The title of the image says Cowards Abuse and just underneath the title t is a caption that says cats and dogs, people are often the biggest These two quotes speak to logos because they both appeal to the reason of the viewer and make the viewer think about how people can be the biggest bullies to cats along with dogs. The appeal to creditability or ethos is in the fact that it says the organizations name, PETA, and the name of the person holding the dog, Waka Flocka Flame, towards the bottom of the page. This image has a strong appeal to logos, pathos, and ethos because of the image of the cute dog and all of the things that the viewer is forced to think about while reading the text. In image 2, the background color is white and is often associated with purity, cleanliness, and (Color Theory). Just as image 1, the words in image 2 are a gray color so they can pop out against the background of the image except for name and the border of Martin 4 the words dogs and cats, people are often the biggest These things are probably red because red is often associated with importance and these two things are important (Color Theory). In total both of the images represent the effort that PETA is putting forth to put an end to any and all animal cruelty. These images use two different types of ways to convey the message but overall they reach the same effect. Image 1 uses a darker tone by using a picture of a dead sheep to put things into perspective and image 2 takes a more emotional course with a friendly picture of a dog. Also each of these images is targets a different kind of audience with image 1 targeting a older, more mature crowd and image 2 may target a younger demographic. Both of these images are pretty convincing and make people feel like they should get up and do something about the cruelty of animals in the world. With these kinds of graphics and advertisements, the goal is to make the public aware of the cruelty that animals face around the world and that with the help it can be put to an end. The hope of this organization is to encourage the younger and upcoming generation to put a stop to these acts of cruelty against animals. These advertisements want humans to be the voice for creatures that do not have. Word Count: 1,285 Martin 5 Work Citied Lucy-mae Beers For Daily Mail Australia. Furious at Anti-Cruelty Ad Showing Man Holding up a Blood-Drenched Lamb with the Slogan the Rest of Your Wool Daily Mail Online, Associated Newspapers, 20 Apr. 2015, www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3047244/Farmers-furious-PETA-ad-shows- man-holding-blood-drenched-lamb-slogan-s-rest-wool-coat.html. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Flocka Flame: Be Their Protector, Not Their PETA, www.peta.org/features/waka-flocka-flame-cowards-abuse-animals/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Wool PETA, www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-clothing/wool- industry/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. www.ocfl.net/portals/0/library/animals-pets/docs/animalcrueltynationalstatistics. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing Smashing Magazine, 17 Dec. 2016, www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/01/color-theory-for-designers-part-1-the- meaning-of-color/. Accessed 12 Mar. 2017. The Ten Fast Facts about Fur, www.bornfreeusa.org/facts.php?p=452&more=1. Accessed 12 Mar. 2017. Martin 6 Martin 7