Keller 1 Justin Keller Smith Composition 1101 5 March 2017 Within the past two decades, the argument as to whether violent video games leads to increased aggression in adolescent players has essentially remained unchanged. From the turn of the century until 2011, research experiments mainly focused on determining if there was a correlation between playing violent video games and elevated levels of violence. The findings supported increased aggression a short-while after playing violent video games. However, from 2011 on, a shift in focus developed regarding the study of violent video games and aggression. The premise of a definitive correlation was accepted and researchers started considering additional factors that tie into the raised levels of anger in youth players. Over the past twenty years, the argument as to whether violent video games cause a brief spike in aggression has remained unchanged. The major change in focus amidst experiments and research revolves around other possible influences on adolescent aggression as well as the effects violent video games have on morals and decision-making. However, each side of the conversation can agree that elevated levels of aggression tend to be an immediate, but temporary, effect of playing violent video games. Before 2011, the focus of researchers was determining if there was a causal link between elevated levels of aggression after playing violent video games. Endless studies were designed to test this hypothesis and they all yielded related results. The findings were alike in that they each were able to distinguish that playing violent video games led to increased levels of aggression. Keller 2 growing body of research is linking violent video game play to aggressive cognitions, attitudes, and was the headline of one study (Gentile, Walsh, Linder, & Lynch, 2004). The general hypothesis in question was whether exposure to video game violence would be positively correlated with trait hostility. Hostility was significantly correlated with the measures of violent content incorporated in the study. Because of this, the hypothesis was clearly confirmed. Years later, more researchers dove into the experimental field and sought out similar answers about violence and video game play. studies routinely show that participants who play a violent game are more aggressive immediately following game (Bartholow & Sestir, 2010). These similar findings support those of the study done by Gentile and his co-researchers in 2004. However, the 2010 findings did go one step further and identify the elevated violence as only a temporary outcome by saying, decrease in aggressive outcomes [after violent due primarily to short-term increases in accessibility of aggression-related constructs in memory and probably do not reflect activation of aggression-related goal (Bartholow & Sestir, 2010). Until 2011, researchers prioritized their inquiry on discovering whether there was a definitive relationship between playing violent video games and increased violence. A little over a decade into the century, a shift in focus occurred among studies regarding violent video games and increased levels of aggression. Researchers acknowledged the cause and effect relationship and began focusing their investigations on each aspect of the relationship additional causes of youth aggression and more in-depth effects of violent video games. In 2016, a study was conducted that attempted to pinpoint just what causes increased aggression among adolescents. While video games were a large contributor to the list, the several other influences made them seem almost negligible. Other factors include but are not limited to parental Keller 3 attachment, youth disclosure, parental enforcement, household yelling and violence, domestic abuse, and age appropriate questions about poverty such as receiving free or reduced-price lunches at school. The results from this study concluded that violent video games are not the only factor involved in adolescent aggression and stated, of home environment, relationship with parents, and demographics all were stronger predictors of violent behavior than video game (DeCamp & Ferguson, 2017). Along with other causes, studies started to place more focus on effects other than, but still under the umbrella of, increased aggression. For instance, factors like what caused the heightened aggression after playing violent video games surfaced. Obviously, the video game is what caused it but why? This is what Christopher Engelhardt and his team hypothesized in 2011 during their study of neural desensitization being a potential reason for increased aggression. In this study participants played a violent or nonviolent video game, viewed violent and nonviolent photos while their brain activity was measured, and then gave an imaginary opponent unpleasant noise blasts. Participants lacking in prior familiarity with video game violence who played a violent (relative to a nonviolent) game showed a reduction in the P3 component of the event-related brain potential (ERP) to violent images (indicating physiological desensitization), and this brain response mediated the effect of video game content on subsequent aggressive behavior. These data provide the first experimental evidence linking violence desensitization with increased aggression, and show that a neural marker of this process can at least partially account for the causal link between violent game exposure and aggression. In conclusion, the discussion regarding video games and increased violence has remained unchanged over the previous two decades. Both sides of the conversation can agree that elevated levels of aggression tends to be an immediate, but temporary, effect of playing video games. Keller 4 At first, researchers simply wanted to uncover the truth about violent video games and if they had a positive correlation with adolescent aggression. As time went on, so did findings about the link between the two; and eventually researchers sought to dive deeper into the extensive causes and effects of video games and the consequences that comes with playing them. Keller 5 Works Cited: DeCamp, W. & Ferguson, C.J. The Impact of Degree of Exposure to Violent Video Games Family Background, and Other Factors on Youth Violence. J Youth Adolescence (2017) 46: 388. doi:10.1007/s10964- 016-0561-8 Engelhardt, C. R., Bartholow, B. D., Kerr, G. T., & Bushman, B. J. (2011). This is your brain on violent video games: Neural desensitization to violence predicts increased aggression following violent video game exposure. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology,47(5), 1033-1036. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.jesp.2011.03.027 Gentile, D. A., Lynch, P. J., Linder, J. R., & Walsh, D. A. (2004). The effects of violent video game habits on adolescent hostility, aggressive behaviors, and school performance. Journal of Adolescence ,27(1), 5-22. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.adolescence.2003.10.002 Bartholow, B. D., & Sestir, M. A. (2010). Violent and nonviolent video games produce opposing effects on aggressive and prosocial outcomes. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology,46(6), 934-942. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.jesp.2010.06.005