Aloraier 1 Nawaf Fahad T. Aloraier Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 13 March 2017 Appeals in Ads: Guns in America According to CNN there are approximately 270 million guns owned by Americans today which makes one of the highest owning gun countries in the world if not the first. The owning rate in the United States is visually high and is and growing fast. In the United States owning a gun is legal to everyone. It all started when the pilgrims sailed to America fleeing from the brutality they have suffered from the places or lands they have lived in. People arrived and found that they are not welcomed by the Indians, so they protected themselves by using guns. From there the guns became a part in every American home. Years later colonies have been established and from that a country has risen with a constitution granting the right for every civilian to carry a gun. The NRA an association that has been to protect the second amendment. The NRA shows their support for guns by releasing images that show the ethos, logos, and Kairos both two images show what the group represent. The NRA an association that has been founded in 1871 by two high ranked officers Col. William C. Church and Gen. George Wingate, with a mission statement of protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, especially with reference to the inalienable right of the individual American citizen guaranteed by such Constitution to acquire, possess, collect, exhibit, transport, carry, transfer ownership of, and enjoy the right to use (Chilson par. 2) pleading to protect the second amendment and make the people of the country benefit from their right. Since then the popularity grew and many people has joined. Aloraier 2 According to the text-book Rhetoric Really Matters, Ethos, are more considered when the writer is building trust with their audience. In this image the ethos is when showing an authority figure which is the 35 th President of the United States John F. Kennedy. Although the ethos are not clear here we can notice that the president is in the oval office where many important nation matters has been announced. When showing the most powerful person in the country holding a gun and not seeming worried it sends a thought that the individual is assuring his social power in his life. Pathos, also are not clear, but we can understand that it is resting or lying on the logos. Logos, they represent the thoughts and the how the logic is represented. The organization is pushing for guns and to show that they are not dangerous since the president is holding one. Also, in this image the logic is the proof of holding or owning a gun is legal and permeated. Kairos, it is the act of promoting an image in a particular time. The image shows the sense of people wanting to be safer by showing that they could own a gun, and since it is legal more people will consider it. The second image is of President Jefferson one member of the founding fathers of this country. The ethos in this image is enormous where the guns of a founding father has been shown in the image. Jefferson was an advocate for guns and has passed a bill to educate the young on how to handle weapons. The logos in this image is to make the people understand that the country has an amendment just for guns and to remind them that it is legal to own one. Kairos is when the image first saw light was at a time where the pro-gun advocates were starting to Aloraier 3 lose their fight against the anti-guns activists, but when seen the image triggered the patriot feeling in many American souls. The image effeteness is that it was fair mined where no bias opinions was shown. Another thing is that the image was vivid, the President was assonated by a gun and still they showed him holding one. Many more reasons are represented, such that Kennedy was democrat although the party in not in favor of guns. Also, the American flag in the image and that the picture was taken in the oval office in the white house shows that the first family a role model for many of the people of the country also use guns. The image also shows why the president should only have one but the people no. It also shows the NRA makes the idea of guns with guards in schools will make it safer for the kids. With the picture taken in the white house and with the flag on the side the feeling of patriotism kicks in a strong feeling that makes viewers agree with their message. In the mission statement the protection of the amendment is shown when the president, the American flag, gun, and the white house are all in one picture. The NRA makes the idea of seized weapons by the government seem troubling and extreme. In image two, the image of President Jefferson, also shows that the people in authority own and can use guns, so why should it just be in the hands of the powerful? The trustworthiness of a founding father and knowing that he used to own guns in his house and in the white house is used. The value of someone who helped set the constitution and allowing the opportunity of the ability of buying or opening a business relating to weapons. The reasons behind this message is to that it has been ok and will still be ok and legal to own, buy, or sell any approved type of gun. The time of the image was one of the major factors that lead more people to purchase them. These currently relevant ads effectively use pathos to appeal to families of America and ethos to establish their credibility. Using the children and how their safety will be easier if they knew the right way of using and Aloraier 4 handling a gun will affect how the family disapproval will change into to an approval. The fact that Jefferson used to own a gun is a strong logo example. In all, the images released from the NRA show how they use the ethos, logos, and the Kairos in their posters to show how they are trying to affect the eyes of the publics. The existing of both gun control and the pro-gun activists may happen. The image of John F. Kennedy is one of the powerful posters released by the NRA in an effort to make the people more ok or more pro-gun. The image combined all the pieces of which are the president, the gun, the American flag, and the white house where it all represent an entire country in just one signal image. As for the second image, the image of Jefferson represented and sends a powerful message in how a founding father that helped write the constitution of the country has owned guns and had even put them in the white house. Aloraier 5 Work Cited Chilson, Morgan. Association for Gun Rights vs. NRA: How Do They Newsmax. 12 October 2014, http://www.newsmax.com/FastFeatures/national- association-for-gun-rights-nra-differ/2014/10/12/id/600067/ . Accessed 29 January 2017. Schreier, Philip. #1, and image NRA American Rifleman. 16 February 2016. https://www.americanrifleman.org/articles/2016/2/15/the-guns-of-us-presidents/ Accessed 15 February 2017. Simon, Mallory and Sanchez, Ray. gun violence: The story in charts and CNN.com, http://www.cnn.com/2015/12/04/us/gun-violence-graphics/. Accessed 10 March 2017