Newcomb !1 Celeste Newcomb Erika Staiger ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Gender Inequality A transgender person refers to a group of whose gender identity differs from the sex the doctor marked on their birth (Transgender). Transgender bathroom rights have started quite the controversy amongst businesses and states around the country and the question still rings true: Should transgender people be allowed to use whichever bathroom they feel comfortable using? The Texas Association Against Sexual Assault (TAASA) believes that forcing a transgender woman to use a restroom would lead to just as much of a risk for sexual assault if not more than allowing transgender people to use the restroom they feel accept- ed in (Gender). In the initiatives the and Up, Speak the TAASA spreads the message of the harmful effects of gender stereotypes and long term effects of sexual assault. They wanted the viewers of these videos to recognize that gender inequality still exists and we need to do more as a society to end it by creating advertisements on their YouTube account and through the use of rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Pathos is the way that a video evokes emotion and the first video created by the TAASA achieves this by showing a woman in a field telling the story of how she was raped in the same place she is shown in. She goes on to explain that she has gained comfort in knowing that she Newcomb !2 can speak out against sexual assault and advocate for victims of sexual assault to come together to derive strength from each other. months ago I was raped and shot in this field. I would give anything for that not to have happened but it has effected my reality. The first step in becoming a survivor is to talk about (TAASAspeakupspeakout). The video was recorded in the same place as her assault to make the viewers feel uneasy and emotional. difficult to think that someone could go through something like that and return to the same place that would cause someone so much emotional trauma. The use of this setting then leads to a very emotional feeling from the viewer. The second video also provides a very effective use of pathos. The text surrounding the heads of various different characters shows how gender stereotypes effect people. At the beginning of the advertisement, each person is filled with doubt and have negative words and phrases surrounding them while being put down by another person. Seeing people having to conform to the societal ideas of gender and obviously being negatively affected by it is extremely emotional for the viewer. No one should have to change who they are to please society and it is disheartening to see it happen in front of the eyes. In addition, ethos is the credibility of information in videos (YourDictionary). In both advertisements, the organization includes their website and phone number, adding to the credibility of the videos. Although this might not seem like an incredible way of proving legitimacy, it allows the viewer of the videos to research further about the organization. The second video gives a specific link to causes of gender stereotyping on the TAASA website. Also, advertisements from organizations that have a website usually automatically seem more credible to most people, and the fact that their site is affiliated makes the viewer know that the organization is non-profit (About). The presence of ethos within these videos allows the viewer Newcomb !3 to trust TAASA and also to further find out more information about what they do for the community. Furthermore, logos is the logic of information of a video (YourDictionary) and Up, Speak implements this appeal into their advertisements. Without logos, their message would not appear as legitimate or worthy of listening time. The first ad is short but incredibly strong with the amount of emotion and strength it portrays. The whole advertisement is shot in muted, dark colors with emphasis on the woman speaking. It until the end of the commercial that we see the name of the organization along with their website and phone number. This could refer to the fact that sexual violence is an extremely serious threat to everyone and should never be taken lightly. The second commercial, the is just as logical. It provides the phrase tries to put us in a box. By challenging gender stereotypes, we can break (TAASA). This phrase is easy to be understood by anyone that watches the commercial because the word bubbles around each of the characters were metaphorical boundaries that society puts us in. The characters being able to break through their boxes and be who they are meant to be despite the judgments of others causes the audience to contemplate their life and if they have ever felt that they had been put in a stereotypical at any time in their life. Both videos are very powerful in their own ways and are able to effectively show their ideas. It is pretty common to hear about transgender suicides or discrimination that happen across the world. In a survey taken of over 7,000 transgender people conducted by the National Center for Transgender Equality and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, 41 percent of transgender Newcomb !4 people in the United States have attempted to commit suicide due to gender stereotyping (Moskowitz). If given the initiative, one could hear about incidents like this all the time. This is just one of the reasons why the TAASA created the and Up, Speak Out. This topic is also very pertinent to a common societal conversation meaning that it is putting the rhetorical appeal of kairos to use. With a current outcry for LGBTQ rights and support, the production of these advertisements stands to tell the test of time. Although they released recently, their message still rings true. Gender stereotypes tear people apart and force them into a shell they necessarily born to fit into. The creation of these two videos, although they were created years ago, still provide a pertinent message that can be understood at any time period. In the initiatives the and Up, Speak the TAASA spreads the message of the harmful effects of gender stereotypes and long-term effects of sexual assault. They further advocated for gender equality and to end sexual assault by creating advertisements on their YouTube account and through the use of rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. When people put each other into stereotypical of how they should act or dress, they are forcing them into the mold of the person they feel comfortable with them being. When victims of sexual assault remain silent, the justice for them is never reached and their stories are never given light. Discrimination and violence lead to deadly consequences. Simply standing up against assault or stereotyping when you see it could end up saving life. If people stand up for one another when they need it most they could end suicide as being the number one cause of death for LGBTQ people (Speak). the and Up, Speak advocates for the ending of sexual assault and gender stereotyping everywhere. Doing so will Newcomb !5 contribute to the ending of rape, cyber bullying, and suicide rate everywhere. By producing advertisements that utilize the rhetorical appeals logos, ethos, pathos, and the and Up, Speak is able to effectively show their viewers that standing idle in the face of injustice needs to stop. (Word Count: 1263) Newcomb !6 Works City About  Http://taasa.org. N.p., 28 Sept. 2016. Web. Mar. 2017. <http://taasa.org/about/ >. Gender Diversity in the Sexual Assault Movement Katrina  Http://taasa.org. N.p., 19 May 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Moskowitz, Clara. High Suicide Risk, Prejudice Plague Transgender  Live Science. Purch, 19 Nov. 2010. Web. SPEAK: Suicide Prevention Education Awareness for  SPEAK: Suicide Prevention Education Awareness for Kids. N.p., n.d. Web. Mar. 2017. <http:// www.speakforthem.org/facts.html>. TAASAspeakupspeakout. Speak Up, Speak Out  YouTube. YouTube, 03 Apr. 2015. Web. Mar. 2017. TAASA - Break The Box. TAASA - Break The Box. Texas Association Against Sexual Assault, 1 Mar. 2013. Web. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HJHgqzAtYN8>. Transgender  GLAAD. N.p., 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. YourDictionary. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and  YourDictionary. N.p., 21 June 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.