Rataj 1 Richard Rataj Professor Erika Staiger English 1102 21 February 2017 Peace in Nature Greenpeace is a multinational organization that aims to help protect the environment at all costs. They never stop fighting for a greener, healthier world for our oceans, forests, food, climate, and matter what forces stand in our USA) as seen on the official Greenpeace website. Education of the public on these issues stands as the most effective way of helping people to realize the problems and take part in helping to solve them. Greenpeace produces ads to help get their ideas out into the world, and bring the information to everyone across the world. Greenpeace looks to human intervention in policy and action to prevent environmental destruction in all issues present, ranging from curbing climate change to stopping animal abuse. The advertisements address need to address the overexploitation of fishing resources and help the viewer become more aware of the impending nature of a rising sea level. Previous human action has lead to a significant impact on the environment, and now, as a global community, must address the former wrongdoings and fix what has been destroyed. Greenpeace employs logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos in some extent in order to elicit an empathetic response from the viewer, encouraging them to take a stance and become more aware in the environmental protection community. The use of logos helps a viewer to follow an idea and the causes and effects of that idea. In the first advertisements referring to overfishing, within a text written, easy to follow logical statements appear, stating we create a network of marine reserves, our seas will soon be Rataj 2 emptied of The use of an statement is seen, which creates a logical hypothesis, that without any further research into the topic seems highly plausible, and the viewer is much more likely to adopt this opinion as their own. The statement creates a valid reasoning, which then may be adopted by the viewer, and give their support to Greenpeace. However, looking into this further, a logical fallacy exists in which if one thing happens, then another more extreme consequence will occur, referred to as a slippery slope. The if-then statement assumes that if marine reserves are not created, then life in the ocean will disappear. It takes an absolute position and offers no room for any other conditions to occur, going to an extreme. No specific data or information is provided to ruther back up this statement. The second picture, referencing sea level rises, uses a less direct form of logos, and does not contain a clear if-then statement. However it presents a causal relationship in which species loss their habitat as sea level increases. This is an easy to follow concept, and the use of logical reasoning through the statement allows the viewer to form a basic idea of what the issue is that Greenpeace is advocating about. The viewer is presented with one simple idea about an issue, and given the ability to follow a cause and effect relationship. This is effective for Greenpeace and the advertisement as it presents their stance in an easy to follow and easy to understand manner that does not use any extraneous information or reach to extremes to present an idea. The use of pathos in both images creates an emotional response in the viewer. In the first image, the emptiness of the ocean helps convey an uneasy feeling and see what the potential destruction that can occur. However, the serene and calm nature of the floor seen in the picture being used leads to reader to gain appreciation for the oceans. Julia Doyle, is a leader in the study of media and its role in the stances on climate change at the University of Brighton, and has discussed role in advocacy through advertising. The advertisements are Rataj 3 to document environmental destruction and to convey the visual beauty of nature at (Doyle 131) and elicit emotions in the viewer to gain support for Greenpeace. This then creates a feeling of wanting to prevent the potential destruction from occurring. Furthermore, the placement of the fish behind the text leads to an assumption that the fish are hiding from the viewer, and gain protection behind Greenpeace. This puts the viewer in a position as an actor in the issue, leading to a forced position to choose a side. The viewer is either with Greenpeace in protecting the fish, or against nature and acting as one who leads to the destruction of the environment. The uneasy feeling created in the first image further translates to the second image, where the emptiness of above the bird agains creates a feeling that all has been lost. The lack of details in the upper half of the picture gives a feeling of unknowing and a lack of detail makes the viewer feel as if there is uncertainty in the world in which they live in. In the text at the bottom, the use of logos that was stated before helps the reader understand the problem, however after the statement, the words are found, which utilizes pathos to bring the viewer into the problem. At this point the viewer is now affected by the problem, and Greenpeace helps to enforce the idea that the viewer is at risk just as much as the bird underwater is. Greenpeace elicits emotions in the reader to feel as if the issues presented have a direct affect on the viewer, and that the viewer has a direct affecting on causing or preventing these issues from taking further hold. By calling upon the view to take action, the use of kairos is seen in both advertisements acts as a way to encourage the viewer to become a part of the solution quickly. In the first image, the use of the word when referring to the potential for the destruction of life in the ocean creates the feeling in the viewer that action must be taken as soon as possible before the ultimate Rataj 4 destruction of the marine life occurs. The viewer has an obligation to take a part in the solution if they are to not be a cause to the elimination of marine life. This is more so seen in the second image, as the text claims that action must be taken it is too Given that the viewer is now aware of the issue, they must take a stance in it if they are to save the human species and any other species that may be affected by rising sea level. With this, all capital letters, the larger font size, and the use of an exclamation point in the phrase GLOBAL elicits a feeling of urgency and alertness in the viewer, helping them to feel that they need to stop global warming, as it seems to be a large matter. The fact that Greenpeace, a well known multinational organization, puts out these advertisements give the issues credibility and seem to be more credible, and appeals to ethos. By producing and claiming support for the advertisements, the issues presented in them seem to must be important if a leader in environmental support cares so deeply about them. Greenpeace has impacts in all levels of society. Stafford, a professor in marketing at Utah State University discusses the role of how organizations gain credibility through their social status. Greenpeace acts as environmental NGO with established influential relationship with other social institutions [which extraordinary leverage to advance the enviropreneurial (Stafford 125). This means that due to the range of influence and interconnectedness that Greenpeace has to credible social institutions such as governments and scientific research credibility is gained regarding environmental impacts. This allows the audience to see problems addressed by Greenpeace as higher in importance and status, and compound on all other rhetorical devices mentioned to help create a feeling that the issues do matter and are important to all. Rataj 5 Effectively, the rhetorical devices Greenpeace utilized in the advertisements they produce allow them to convey their stance on the issues the have a credible say in and encourage the reader to understand the issues and support what the stance is. By using logos, pathos, and kairos in the images and the text within those images, Greenpeace creates the feeling of a pressing issue that the viewer has an effect in preventing or encouraging as well as putting the viewer as a victim of the issues. This is effective due to the their way to elicit emotion in the viewer, and allow the viewer to understand the issues, as well as the fact that Greenpeace is a large multinational corporation known to be effective in preventing issues that make a difference in the world. Works Cited Doyle, Julie. Picturing the Clima(c)tic: Greenpeace and the Representational Politics of Climate Change  Image Politics of Climate Change 16.2 (2007): 129-50. Taylor & Francis Online. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Rataj 6 Greenpeace. Advertisement. Ads of the World, Ads of the World, 27 Mar. 2007, Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Greenpeace. Advertisement. Advertolog, Advertolog, Dec. 2007, www.advertolog.com/greenpeace/print-outdoor/greenpeace-seabird-11007655/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Greenpeace  Greenpeace USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. Stafford, Edwin R., Michael Jay Polonsky, and Cathy L. Hartman. Environmental NGO- business collaboration and strategic bridging: a case analysis of the Greenpeace-Foron  Business Strategy and the Environment 9.2 (2000): 122-35. ProQuest. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Rataj 7