Prive 1 Kayla Prive Professor Spencer ENC 1102 18 March 2017 Visual Analysis: Images on on Standardized Testing Education has played an important part in shaping society and the people that are apart of it. As the use of standardized testing has became much more prevalent through out the United States, the controversy of whether or not standardized testing harms or helps education in America has became imperative. One particular group, The National Center for Fair & Open Testing (FairTest) quality education and equal opportunity by promoting fair, open, valid and educationally beneficial evaluations of students, teachers and schools. FairTest also works to end the misuses and flaws of testing practices that impede those goals (About us, Paragraph The primary goal of FairTest, and the American education system overall is to make sure that young students prosper and become well informed in order to play the role as successful contributors to society in the future. From the two images that FairTest have published, it can be concluded that standardized testing is not the way to success. In both of the images, the rhetorical appeals pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos are present in order to convey their message and goal, which is that standardized testing is not serving any purpose to students across the nation. In order to appeal to fellow parents, students, and educators, FairTest has published two images to promote their idea that Common Core tests are unnecessary and measures can be taken in order to put an end to it all. One rhetorical appeal present in Prive 2 both images is that of pathos, the appeal of emotion. In image one, the audience can feel the negative connotation of common core testing, due to the red lettering and stop sign. This is image is giving off the vibe that more testing is harming students and teachers in the long run. At the top of the image, there is a tidal wave that represents testing, higher and the island that the wave is about to destroy represents All in all, if more testing is pushed upon students, then the quality education will completely diminish, which is a harsh representation but gets the point across to the audience. In Image two, there are adults protesting with large signs that contain bold lettering that read This image makes the audience feel that they should be out there doing something along with these people in the image, in order to children from high stakes testing. The bright lighting in the middle of this photo gives off a sense of hope, and that changes are on the way in order to stop common core. FairTest aims to get its viewers to protest against high stakes testing and to make a difference when it comes to testing in schools across America. Another rhetorical appeal that FairTest embeds in their images is Kairos. Kairos refers to the timeliness of these images. It can be concluded that action must be taken place now in order to get the desired results. Image one has a stop sign, and claims that less testing, no high stakes, and better assessments are needed. Although this image does not explicitly say when, it can be implied that this issue is urgent and needs to be addressed right away. The people must do all they can in order to resolve this problem. Image two also makes use of the word and mentions that parents can opt their children out of standardized testing with the new Alaskan Law that was passed. The new law the authority of a parent and allows the parent to object to and withdraw Prive 3 the child from a standards-based assessment or test required by the (Tenth Amendment, Paragraph 2). With this image, parents are encouraged to withdraw their child from participating in state mandated testing, a powerful movement that pushes against Common Core. In Image One, FairTest does not directly place any specific logistics or facts, though it is safe to assume that logic is being used. Many reasons are given in order to emphasize the fact that more testing is not the equivalent to when it comes to the education system. For instance, because of standardized testing, continued harm is a consequence of test misuses. As a result, dropouts as well as unfair school and teacher ratings, begin to significantly increase. Image two does not seem to have any logos present, however ethos is. Ethos refers to the credibility of the persuader. In the left hand corner, the Tenth Amendment Center is cited. The Tenth Amendment Center is the leading source for constitutional education and nullification activism, a very trustworthy source. They work to stand for the people and make sure the original meaning of the constitution is still enforced. So with this small logo at the bottom of image two, the audience can feel a sense of ease because it is obviously an image that has been approved by a legitimate group. In conclusion, FairTest is trying to persuade people of America that high stakes testing must be put to an end in order for students to prosper. Because of high stakes testing, students are forced to deal with a tremendous amount of stress. Teachers must also do whatever it takes in order to receive a high rating, so that they do not lose their job. This abundance of testing does certainly does not make students smarter, and the bar does not make the students jump (Image one), it just sets up Prive 4 students and teachers for disappointment in the end. Parents must speak up in order to stop this testing chaos, so they are given the option to their child from common core testing. Pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos are somehow incorporated in these images in the slightest of ways in order to persuade the American people to take a stand. Prive 5 Image One Image Two Prive 6 Works Cited Now in Effect: New Alaska Law Taking First Step Against Common  Tenth Amendment Center Blog. N.p., 24 Oct. 2016. Web. About  About FairTest FairTest. N.p., n.d. Web.