Martinez 1 Lorena Martinez Emil Smith ENC 1101 February 20, 2017 Outline I. Public Perception of Exposing Children to Second-Hand Smoke A. (2003) Christopher Article on the Perception of Exposing Children to Second-Hand Smoke 1. Provides baseline of public knowledge to compare to changing opinions. II. Smoke-Free Policies and How They Have Affected Children. A. (2000-2010) Zubair Research on Effects of Smoke-Free Polices and Exposure Levels in Children. 2. Introduces the benefits smoke-free polices have caused, providing scientific evidence for why children should be limited to exposure. III. Thoughts from Health Professionals Regarding Legislation A. (2015) Mary Forgarty Newspaper on the Ban of Smoking in Cars with Children. 3. Provides legislation which can be further analyzed as public demand for child safety. Can be used cross-culturally. IV. Perspective of the Modern Society and the Concern for Prevention A. (2017) Sophia Research on China and Comparison on U.S. 4. Concerns itself on preventing child deaths. Can be used cross-culturally. Martinez 2 Intro: Effects of Second-Hand Smoke in Children The effects of second hand smoke have just recently sparked the attention of the public. Around a decade ago, second hand smoke was dismissed by many, and little evidence was done regarding its effects. The more research that was conducted on first-hand users, the greater the amount of knowledge society had on the harmful effects of cigarette smoke. With people aware of these harmful effects, questions arose regarding exposure to cigarette smoke. These questions motivated more research to be done on children and second-hand effect on them. Correlations began to be discovered between children suffering from respiratory problems and the amount of smoke exposure they had. These studies sparked motivation for social and political change, and society began to become serious about second-hand smoke and its effects on young children. Exploring how the acceptance of second-hand effects on children has changed over the past decade can help the public become more knowledgeable of its harms and prevent the future generations from suffering the same effects. Martinez 3 Works Cited Chan, Sophia, and Tai Hing Lam. Preventing Exposure To Second-Hand  Seminars In Oncology Nursing 19.(2003): 284-290. ScienceDirect. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Fogarty, Mary. U.K. Bans Smoking In Cars With  Oncology Times 37.19 (2015): 28. Supplemental Index. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Kabir, Zubair, et al. Effect of Smoke-Free Home and Workplace Policies on Second-Hand Smoke Exposure Levels in Children: An Evidence  Pediatric Health, no. 4, 2010, p. 391. Roberts, Christopher, Grace Wagler, and Michele M. Carr. Article: Environmental Tobacco Smoke: Public Perception Of Risks Of Exposing Children To Second- And Third-Hand Tobacco  Journal Of Pediatric Health Care 31.(2017): e7-e13. ScienceDirect. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.