Osorio 1 Nicolas Osorio Composition II Dorinda Davis February 27, 2017 Head in the Game: Should College Athletes Be Paid Like Professional Athletes? By definition, professional athletes are individuals paid to entertain and perform to the best of their abilities in a certain sport and student-athletes are participants in a competitive program that an educational institution offers. Nonetheless, Student athletes balance the life of a full-time athlete and a full-time student. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is the athletic institution that organizes and provides the monetary resources for all the athletic collegiate tournaments. Athletic programs like football, basketball, baseball and soccer have become more rigorous and time consuming. Due to these circumstances many have begun to wonder if student athletes should be compensated for dedicating their daily lives to their sport. During the past decade the NCAA has been debating the differences and similarities between professional and student athletes. Through publicity and different images, the NCAA provides their perspective towards this issue to society. These images incorporate logos, ethos and pathos to deliver a message the NCAA wants the audience to receive. Throughout the past decade the National Collegiate Association has transmitted their ideas through different images, debating if student-athletes should earn an annual salary. They base their ideas portrayed in these images on their legislation. The NCAA provides the audience with the benefits student athletes have and describe their college experience by displaying their expected daily life in these images. Osorio 2 These images transmit different elements in order for the audience to perceive credibility and truthful information from the propaganda. In image #1 the NCAA portrays three students in class, blurring the basketball with the logo of the NCAA and having all the students pay attention to the instructor, delivering a message of academic integrity and The NCAA bylaw #1 is promote and develop educational leadership, physical fitness, athletics (NCAA). Image one clearly exemplifies the NCAA policy of having students focus on school rather than the sport they are part of. The NCAA prioritizes education over athletics, which leads to student athletes acquiring an education by earning a degree. On image #2 one of the teams, member of the association is celebrating the win of a championship of the NCAA. The NCAA championships are structured to opportunity for equity in competition to assure that individual student-athletes and institutions will not be prevented unfairly from achieving the benefits inherent in participation in intercollegiate (NCAA). This trophy serves as an official artifact that is awarded to represent one of the benefits mentioned. Therefore, these images demonstrate facts that support why student athletes should not acquire annual monetary resources, since they are satisfied with what they are given. The association uses ethos in these images to appeal the audience in different ways, providing the viewers with their criteria and perspective towards the rules of the NCAA. Different feelings appeal to the audience through these images helping the stakeholder evoke an idea that will describe the perspective. The National Collegiate Athletic Association expresses their sympathy through Image #1 by granting the student-athletes the choice of academics and athletics. The principle of student-athlete well-being in the legislation of the NCAA describes how athletics programs shall be conducted in a manner designed to protect and enhance the physical and educational well-being of (NCAA). The Osorio 3 legislation proves the granted choice given to student athletes that influences their educational experience in the institution. The NCAA prioritizes the student well-being providing them with the chance to have both an education and a collegiate athletic experience. On the other hand, Image #2, displays a successful student-athlete program. A visual message of satisfaction and happiness from the student athletes is provided to the audience by holding the trophy high. The NCAA legislation reports the student athlete involvement as responsibility of each member institution to involve student-athletes in matters that affect their (NCAA). By earning the title of winners, these student athletes feel pleased with their work and are rewarded by the NCAA. Their satisfaction is also displayed in image #2 with the color blue that surrounds the image. The color often associated with depth and stability. It symbolizes trust, loyalty, wisdom, confidence, intelligence, faith, truth, and (Color Wheel Pro). The confidence the student- athletes have in each other, gives the audience a sense of unity. Additionally, the positive influence of the NCAA on student-athletes provides evident support to the perspective of the NCAA against student- athletes earning an annual salary. For this reasoning, their perspective towards the discussed debate on student athletes earning an annual salary is affected. Through pathos the NCAA helps the audience perceive the emotional appeal the association tries to deliver to their student-athletes. In addition, these images supply information that aids the audience on being aware of different points the NCAA includes in their propaganda. In Image #1 the logo of the NCAA is prominent and provides a visual for the audience, recognizing a student athlete in the classroom. Also, image #1 displays a professor teaching a class pointing at the information written on the board. The audience is able to recognize the perspective towards the debate by providing the viewers with the idea of student athletes attending to class instead of missing class due to their practices. The attendance to class represents the explicit idea of the member institution providing Osorio 4 the (NCAA) student-athletes are promised. This image represents the benefits the student-athletes are provided with. The portrayed ideals support the perspective against student athletes acquiring an annual salary for their work on their athletic program. Finally, the NCAA uses logos to deliver their rules by displaying the life of a student athlete in image #1. In conclusion the National Collegiate Athletic Association successfully uses different ways to advertise their legislation and their principles. The principles expressed by ethos, logos, and pathos in images #1 and #2 are those principles that the NCAA hold in high esteem and are the reasons why it is unacceptable for the NCAA to provide their student athletes with an annual salary. The association will follow their legislation and will keep promoting educational integrity and collegiate athletic participation in their propaganda. Student-athletes are provided with several tools to experience a fulfilling college experience. Nonetheless, student-athletes also represent their ideas in different forms of publicity using different rhetorical appeals and will be an ongoing the debate for the next years. Osorio 5 Image #1 NCAA. The Value of College Sports. Digital image. NCAA. NCAA, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Osorio 6 Image #2 NCAA. Play Division I Sports. Digital image. Play Division I Sports. NCAA, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Osorio 7 Work Cited NCAA. Legislative Services Database -  Legislative Services Database - LSDBi. NCAA, 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. Graphic Springs, 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Angeli, Elizabeth, Mark Pepper, and Allen Brizee. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL. Purdue, n.d. Web. 13 Mar. 2017.