Mark Boward ENC-1102 Seth Spencer 19 March 2017 Fur-real though enough with fur clothing Since the beginning of time people have used animal fur as a means of keeping themselves warm through winter, out of necessity. Although now since the creation of clothing from shaven sheep and silk worms the debate of whether or not using animal fur is right as the animals have to be killed in order for their furs to be used by people. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals or PETA for short believes that are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other para.1). purpose is to protect and establish animal rights abroad. Although intended message through the use of these images is specific to stopping the use of animal furs as clothing. PETA intends to use the rhetorical appeals of pathos, logos and ethos to really emphasize their main points supporting their purpose within these images in doing so they hope to really capture the attention and to change things for the better. Both of these images have to do with stopping the use of animal furs as clothing and both of them use pathos, logos and ethos to emphasis this. Image one uses pathos through the use a pug that looks almost heart broken in a way. Through the use of this pug in this image the audience is exposed to an influx of emotions because no rational human being would want to see this picture and continue to wear animal clothing when they know they could be endangering this Boward 2 cute little life. Where image one uses a subtler approach to emotions image two hits the audience directly in the face with a picture of a dog that was skinned for its fur. According to the Nazarene Way of Essenic Studies, of thousands of dog and cat skins are traded in Europe each year (with an estimated 2 million killed in China to meet the demand), but many are bought unknowingly by consumers since the products made from dog and cat fur are often mislabeled and do not accurately indicate their Nazarene This image makes the audience feel guilty for wearing animal fur and almost sick to their stomachs knowing how those furs were obtained. This image is presented as if the people wearing fur coats were caught red handed and are being disciplined accordingly since the dog is being held up like mother would hold something that they found unexpectedly in their room. Another rhetorical approach that both of these images use is ethos or appeal to authority or credibility. Image one uses ethos by using an actor from the popular television show ER which can reach people that watch this television show and those that are inspired or who glorify this actor. He serves as a sort of authority where basically the image is saying if he approve of using animals fur as clothing why should you the audience support such things. Image one also provides logo in the in the image which serves as credibility in itself because PETA is a huge animal rights organization. Both image one and image two have similar approaches to authority but the only difference really is that image two uses a different actor/actress. Image two also uses the PETA logo as an authoritative figure although image two uses this logo or acronym more than once in this image. Where the first time they basically say that this actress supports our cause and so should you and the other basically just gives authority to the image as a whole due to standing popularity as the largest non-profit animal rights organization globally. Boward 3 The last rhetorical approach relevant in both of these images is logos or the logical approach. Image one uses logos by stating you wear your dog, please wear any (Image one). This quote makes the audience think logically about wearing fur products because obviously they wear their own dog(s) as clothing. Therefore, it is logical to assume that they wear other animals because of the correlation between their dog and animals in general. Most people do not know this but truth is that much of the leather sold comes from animals killed primarily for their (Geer, Abigail para.4). And this killing of animals for their skins has to stop which is the message PETA is attempting to get across in both of these images. In image two logos is used in correlation with pathos by saying is the rest of your fur and providing an image of a skinned dog. This type of use of logos makes people feel ashamed to wear fur coats and through guilt this image hopes to get the audience to begin supporting PETA in their efforts to stop animal slaughter for the sole purpose of using their hides as clothing. Completing a visual analysis of these images it is easy to see that there are many factors at play here. Image one targets people that watch ER and dog lovers in general as their audience. The message that this image tries to get across basically says if you skin your own dog for a fur coat why would you allow someone else to skin other animals for their fur. Image one also has a unique approach to color by using only browns and light tans this image looks gloomy and depressed which goes well with the sad pug and really gets the audience feeling the intended pathos of this image. As for design it is easy to see that the creator of this image purposefully made both the dog and the actor look straight into your soul in the sense that they really show no emotion other than disappointment and the text in this image is bright white to emphasis the importance of the message they are trying to get across. Boward 4 Both of these images have an interesting visual analysis although image two uses a different approach to get its point across. The intended audience of image two is anyone that follows this actress/vocalist in her endeavors meaning anyone that has been touched by her presence in one way or another also this image targets people that do not want to harm animals but really think twice about what is actually happening behind the scenes. In terms of image message, it is more toward making the audience feel guilty for wearing fur cloths because even though the text in this image only says is the rest of your fur 2) through the use of logos and pathos the audience feels a sense of guilt when looking at this image. The message here is saying if fur coats are a necessity then here take the dead animal body with you because this is what is happening every time you buy a new fur coat. The texts use of color by highlighting fur coat in red further emphasis what actually happens to obtain such a coat which is the murdering innocent animals. Also by providing the image with a white background serves to focus the attention on the skinned dog and the disappointed actress holding the dog up above the ground. For years PETA has effectively provided people with evidence and reasons as to how animals too have rights and how those rights need to be recognized. In conclusion both of these images use a variety of rhetorical appeals and visual elements to get the main message across to stop killing animals to use their hides for fur coats and fur clothing. Where image one and image two take different approaches to accomplish this goal of getting their message across both images have the same end result at the end of the day which is to gain support in order to stop the wearing of animal furs. Boward 5 Image One Image Two Boward 6 Works Cited Geer,Abigail. The Shocking Truth About Leather: No, Not a Meat Care2. 25 Sept. 2013.Web.26 Feb. 2017. www.care2.com/causes/the-shocking-truth-about- leatherno-its-not-a-meat-byproduct.html People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. for the Ethical Treatment of PETA. 26 Feb. 2017. www.peta.org PETA(image two). is 27 Jan. 2014. Photograph.PETA.26 Feb. 2017. PETA. www.peta.org PETA(image one). you wear your dog wear any 15 May. 2015. Photograph. PETA. 26 Feb. 2017.PETA. www.peta.org The Nazarene Way of Essenic Studies. The Wearing of Animal The Nazarene Way of Essenic Studies.26 Feb. 2017. www.thenazareneway.com/vegetarian/leather.htm Boward 7