Nauert 1 Mark Nauert Composition 1 Emil Smith 5 March 2017 Concussions become a Heated Topic in the NFL The National Football League was formed in 1920 and since then has become been the most popular sports league in the United States. The league has the highest attendance rate of any other league in the world, and continues to become more and more wealthy. Players make millions of dollars playing and teams create huge fan bases across the world. Everything surrounding the NFL sounds positive until people began to take a closer look at what can result from the sport. Concussions have long been a part of the sport, but nobody ever talked about whether or not the league was doing all they could to keep players more safe. For years the game never changed, but eventually people began to do studies on the game. Discussions about the long term effects and overall risks of having a career in the NFL have become more heated over the last 10 years due to public backlash regarding safety. In 2007, a report came out disputing the NFL on concussions. The University of Connecticut conducted a survey from over 2,000 retired NFL players. From that study, a correlation between depression and concussions were found. New information was coming out that showed players who had concussions during their career, in some cases, would later experience depression. Before this, there had not been a lot of discussion on the risks of playing football. Players began to think of their life after football. IN a lot of cases, players plan to raise a family during and after football. After sustaining a concussion, it opens eyes on what Nauert 2 could happen to them in the future. This would only mark the beginning of numerous amount of reports that would come out talking about the dangers of a concussion. Later in 2010 an article came out that discussed prescription troubles in the NFL. Many players were found through a study to have been misusing pain medication. Opioid addiction was a major subject in the article as this seemed to be a common addiction among players. For some, they got this medicine from misdiagnoses. This information is linked to the issue of concussions as players were receiving this medication due to concussions. The article took a different side to talk about that others thought about before. Not only are there the risks directly from a concussion, but there are also dangers that come indirectly. Misuse of opioids can lead to physical and mental impairment, or even death. This was uncomforting news to fans, players, and the league. Recently, a very interesting article came out that questioned whether Pro football could remain the most popular sport in the United States. The article dives into tv ratings and youth participation to see how football is being affected by all the new knowledge coming out about the effects of concussions. The tv ratings for the NFL are still extremely strong. In fact, last fall some of the most watch television shows are NFL football games. However, the NFL could take a loss soon because people are becoming more and more aware of the effects, and many want to see their loved ones go through that. Youth participation has lowered, and soccer is really taking off in the United States. Many parents feel they should keep their kids away from football, especially at a young age. The article even has some statistics to go with it. It states that Boston School of Medicine found that 59 of 62 players tested positive for CTE, a disease associated with memory loss, confusion, and visual impairment. Even with a low amount of players being in the study, only 3 did not test positive. That is an overwhelming amount. Nauert 3 Finally, in 2016 the NFL introduced new rules to try and help with the spike in concussions. The public had voiced their opinions for tears and the NFL finally decided to respond. Along with the concussion protocol they put in place, came penalties if a team did not properly follow procedure. Before this, teams had been violating the protocol with absolutely no penalty. The article states that in the league will be fined thousands of dollars or even lose draft picks if they do not take a player out of a game after a In conclusion, over the last 10 years it is clear that the discussion about the dangers of concussions has become more prominent. The NFL responded with change, but people still want more change to occur. Players are starting to retire early, and shorter careers are becoming the norm. If the league wants to keep their stars from retiring early, it is important to be active in trying to find ways to reduce concussions. The public will continue to push the league to do so.