Behn 1 Dominic Behn Mr. Spencer ENC. 1102 19 March 2017 The Power of an Image Ghandi once said, eye for an eye will make the whole world Is it really justice to do the same to someone in which they are about to be punished for? The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP) takes that same position. They are an organization striving to abolish the death penalty nationwide through planning, campaign development, and training The two images shown were produced and published by the NCADP to further emphasize their message of why the death penalty is not the humane form of capital punishment, and why it needs to be abolished. By using the rhetorical devices ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, these images are able to create that message with the overall purpose to gain additional followers and abolish the death penalty as a whole. Ethos is a method of trust and credibility that an image or text uses to strengthen their persuasiveness towards their audience about a topic. According to the textbook Rhetoric Really Matters, the way the author presents their character and knowledge, as well as how the author connects with the audience, demonstrates Rhetorical 365). At first glance one can see that the strongest rhetorical appeal in image one is ethos. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is one of the most trustworthy and credible people in American history, and he is at the very center of the image. Immediately anybody who looks at the image is interested and knows that whatever the quote says is not only important, but extremely credible. Behn 2 The image displays a picture of him which draws the audience in at first glance, but it also has direct quote from him which enhances the influence of the image a great deal. The ethos stop with MLK. The NCADP is a very well established and well known organization that has its own credibility appeal in the image by just inserting their logo. Anyone with knowledge of the NCADP will feel a sense of trust by just the sight of their logo. The NCADP carried their own sense of ethos into image two by inserting their logo once again. In image two the NCADP did not develop ethos by inserting a reliable public figure, but did so in another manner. Behind the text in image two there is a picture of a jail cell, which is security system from those facing death penalty charges in this case. These people are very dangerous, and being locked up protects Americans from any further harm that they could inflict. Seeing that jail cell gives a strong feeling of comfort and trust that the NCADP strategically inserted to further develop the ethos in their image. As a whole, both images present a convincing feeling of trust and credibility that creates a sturdy, and useful connection with the audience. Pathos is an appeal to emotions as many people know, but it is also one of the strongest appeals to an audience in the advertising world. According to Jami Oetting, responses to ads are more influential on a intent to buy than the content of an Par.2). The two images shown are not necessarily asking their audience to buy anything, but they are sort of asking people to into the state of mind to abolish the death penalty. Therefore, the pathos in these images could be their most important rhetorical appeal. When looking at image one there is almost an immediate feeling of disappointment from seeing face. Why would the NCADP want their audience to feel like they have disappointed him? This image is intended for those who are still supporting and Behn 3 carrying out the death sentence. They want their audience to feel as if they have disappointed one of the most caring and loving people in American history. By doing this, the NCADP hits a part of the heart that makes the audience question if the death penalty is the right thing to do. After seeing his face, the audience turn their heads towards the quote, but most specifically the highlighted part of the quote, punishment is against the highest expression of The NCADP purposely highlighted this part of the quote to show the audience that one of the biggest supporters of love, MLK, believes that the death penalty is essentially the opposite of love. The wave of emotions that the audience has been hit with at this point gives the NCADP an immense load of persuasiveness against the death penalty, which is exactly what the pathos was implemented for. Right off the bat image two states, Society Toward More Humane Notice that every word was capitalized to give the audience an even bigger punch in the face. Immediately there is a feeling, as if all these years the justice system has been inhumane. As a society, Americans wants to feel as if they are always doing the most just thing, and in turn, doing the most right and humane form of justice. The statement completely contradicts that state of mind, and gives the audience a feeling of realization and loss of being. Not only that, but there is a completely humane and civil form of justice right behind the image! Inserting the jail cell into the image was done to justify the statement made and enhance the pathos appeal towards the audience. In the end both images make the audience feel awful for supporting the death sentence, and make them want to assist in abolishing it as soon as possible. Logical appeal is otherwise considered as the rhetorical appeal, logos. The following two images have a whole lot of it, but one can argue that there is still some involvement. In image one, a direct quote from MLK is stated, and even though it is a matter of opinion, it is a Behn 4 fact that MLK directly stated it. Using that quote enhanced the influence of the image, because of how powerful it was and the fact that MLK said it himself. In image two it is all about what is not included in the image. The statement is saying that the justice system is inhumane, which can be considered a fact when looking at statistics about the death penalty. In fact, Kourosh Zakeri stated that, last 1,379 executions in the U.S., 144 of the people sent to death row have been proved After reading that statement many would say that the death penalty is very inhumane. Therefore, if the statement in image two caused the audience to research the topic, they would find an infinite amount of statistics that would immediately change their mind about supporting the death sentence. Overall there a surplus of logos involved in the two images, but there was enough to make an impact on the audience. Kairos is an appeal that most people do not recognize, but it is in fact a very important one that most often speeds the buying/taking an initiative process up immensely. Both images do not directly state any forms of kairos, but that does not mean that there is none there. The kairos in these images in an underlying statement. Essentially they are both saying, you join the NCADP and fight against the death penalty now, then more and more people will be executed by your The audience is meant to understand this, and the NCADP feels it is unnecessary to state it, because they know people will constantly think about it. It is meant to hasten the process of the audience joining the NCADP and making a difference against the death penalty, and it does a great job of doing so. The NCADP delivers the message that the death penalty is an inhumane form of justice with no sense of love whatsoever. Delivering that message directed the death penalty supporting audience to the purpose; join the NCADP and assist in abolishing the death penalty in America Behn 5 as a whole. Ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos was used in these images to help deliver that purpose, but color scheme was also used to support it. The NCADP used yellow, and white as the only colors in both images. According to Gregory Ciotti yellow in advertising is meant to deliver clarity, and to the audience, and white delivers Emotion In the end the NCADP shows optimism that the death penalty will eventually be abolished, and they truly just want a balance in the justice system. All of these words can come from just two images, and that is the true impact of an image. Behn 6 Works Cited Ciotti, Gregory. The Psychology of Color in Marketing and  Help Scout Blog. N.p., 17 May 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Color Emotion Guide Gandhi, Mahatma. Mahatma Gandhi  BrainyQuote. Xplore, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/quotes/m/mahatmagan107039.html>. NCADP. About  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.ncadp.org/>. Oetting, Jami. Emotional Advertising: How Brands Use Feelings to Get People to  HubSpot. N.p., 9 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/emotions-in-advertising- examples#sm.0003tqid818lzf8zpb0202wt2i2nv>. Royce, Katherine. Rhetoric (really) Matters. 2016 ed. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Advanced Argumentation. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters>. Zakeri, Kourosh. Death penalty proves to be an inhumane act of moral  The Daily Cougar. N.p., 16 June 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Behn 7 <http://thedailycougar.com/2014/06/09/death-penalty-proves-inhuman-act-moral- justice/>.