Trisha ! 1 Trisha Trisha Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Protection of Abused Animals Animals have been abused by humans for various purposes be it testing chemicals or food, clothes etc. Many people think that this is completely normal as it happens on a regular and large scale (Cavalieri). What people incline to forget is the pain and suffering that animals go through when they are taken to the slaughterhouses to get slaughtered for needs. Since these animals cannot speak, people never realise what pain they go through (Scully). PETA, an American Animal Rights Organisation which is established in Virginia and is headed by Ingrid Newkirk, takes care of all the animals that have suffered or abused by humans and have been through a lot of pain. PETA has a motto to stop the use of animals for all the purposes because they believe are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any (PETA). PETA wants to stop the use of animals, for any purposes and works towards raising awareness to end this problem with the help of campaigns and advertisements. Image 1 is a strong example of how PETA works to save animals and how animals are being tortured by humans for various purposes. This image has a specific target audience which Trisha ! 2 is wealthy people, because fur is a luxury and wealthy people buy it a lot more than any other class because it is very expensive. People who are familiar with Kate Ford, would also stop buying fur because they follow Kate Ford. This image is mostly in red and white. Red is a sign that shows danger and draws attention (Chapman). To appeal to ethos, PETA has used the actress, Kate Ford, they have done this so that having a celebrity in the advertisement appeals to credibility. The left-hand corner has the name and website in white with a red background which highlights the information part and also appeals to ethos. To appeal to pathos, the emotion (pathos) in this picture is hurt, because hurting the animals is not right, sad because the rabbit is going to die and shocked because people are shocked at the act of mankind. To further appeal, the expression on the actresses face is a question asking everyone, which is, you really want to hurt or kill this innocent The actress is showing her concern and protecting the rabbit by the way holding it. The image is also saying, and other animals are often beaten and skinned alive for their To appeal to logos, the image has a small text written in white and in a larger font, which says, telling him just a bit of fur where the word is in bold. This sentence is saying how people lie to the animal and the actress is saying how the rabbit knows not a fur trim but his death. provoking everyone by saying how wrong people can be with these animals and how people should stop all this. The logic behind this is that provoking the audience will make them realise their mistake and asking them or showing them the mirror of truth will help them realise their mistake. The sentence that says in white and bold all is appealing to Kairos which is saying that people need to stop using fur so that rabbits and other animals who are killed for fur, be able to Trisha ! 3 live their lives in a better manner. This sentence is also explaining that time is running out and if wealthy people do not stop using fur then these animals will die soon. The colors used in image 1 are trying to bring attention and address the main issue that animal killing should stop. The color red symbolises danger and anger (Chapman). The image is mainly composed of red and white in order attract the audience towards the problem and to show the main message that animals have to be protected. There are only two colors used in the image but are trying to explain a lot of things, which have been mentioned in the previous paragraph. This image and its colors are also trying to show everyone as to right and what should everyone do. In the second image, the target audience is a bit in contrast as it shows the elephants in the background and says that circuses should be banned, which means it is targeting families who go to circuses, but then also Olivia Munn, who is uncovered which is not very family friendly. Because of this contrast in the image, it is difficult to find the target audience. This image is showing how animals are free in their natural habitat. This image is showing how elephants are used for entertainment and how they should actually be in their natural habitat which is grasslands and jungles. This image is in brown, yellow, and blue. The brown color is showing earthiness and nature (Chapman). showing how animals like elephants are happy in their own habitat and this is trying to draw the attention towards it. The actress and model Olivia Munn is being used as ethos, because having a known person, in the advertisements who people can trust makes the advertisement more credible and it is an appeal to ethos. The left-hand corner has the name and website which is PETA in brown and Trisha ! 4 golden-yellow which also appeals to ethos (credibility). To appeal to pathos, the emotion of this picture is sadness as these animals are not getting their freedom and are stuck in circuses. This image is also portraying nature, which means free, and clearly, animals in the circus are not free. The actress with no clothes is showing freedom as displaying how good it feels to be free. Elephants are free in their natural habitat which is grasslands. This appeals to pathos as the tan color of the image is soothing and peaceful, which is also the color of the skin of the actress. It is showing how she is happy in her own skin. To appeal to logos, the image is trying to portray freedom in every aspect possible. However, the elephants that are contained in the circuses are beaten and mistreated and are not provided with any freedom in their life. To further appeal to logos, the image and the actress have tried to show what freedom means to people or animals. The highlighted sentence shows the will of nature which says, nature intended, let elephants be Hence, the image also wants the elephants to be free. To appeal to Kairos, the sentence highlighted in brown, which is in bold and all capitals is saying, the as the image wants people to stop using circus and let the animals be free and have their own freedom. The darker color of the text is showing that time is running out and animals need to be saved from circuses before that. The colors used in image 2 are mainly brown, golden-yellow and blue which are very soothing and earthly colors (Chapman). The tan color is showing how the skin of the actress is bare and she is happy with freedom she has gotten from her clothes while is similar to the freedom that the animals are asking for from circuses. The brown color also shows the natural habitat of animals, which is grasslands and elephants are happy there rather than in closed and Trisha ! 5 contained circus cages. This image is showing that animals need freedom and we need to stop using animals for every purpose. Overall, both images convey the focus on not using animals for anything, be it chemical testing, food or clothes. Both the images are showing two different aspects of animal life, one which is the use of animals for their fur and the other which is the use of animals for entertainment. They both contain a large variation of visual and rhetorical appeals which are very effective on audience because it makes the audience ponder upon whether they are doing the right thing or not. PETA has tried their best to influence people with such images and is wanting them to take the right decisions by stopping the use of animals for any purpose. The expectation of this organisation is that eventually people will realise their mistakes and will be able to correct them so that these abused animals lead a better life. Word count:1414 Trisha ! 6 Works Cited Cavalieri, Paola, and Peter Singer. The Death of the Animal: A Dialogue. New York: Columbia University Press, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 09 Oct. 2016. Web. 09 March 2017. Donate Bing  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Scully, Matthew. A case of compassion: one act of mercy invites us to reflect on the suffering of  National Review 2016: 22. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Trisha ! 7 ! Image 1 Trisha ! 8 ! Image 2