Davis 1 Lakirah Davis Professor Seth Spencer ENC1102 19 March 2017 The marketing influences on the Prison Industry the last two decades the private prison industry has exploded, growing 784 percent at the federal level, and helping the United States to achieve the highest incarceration rate in the (Gold, Para 1). One might wonder just how or why if America is supposed to be of The The for Profit: Do the Social and Political Problems Have a Legal journal by Rachel Christine Bailie Antonuccio states factors contributing to the increase in the prison population included: a number of legislative enactments toughening drug and weapon penalties; enactments encouraging mandatory minimum sentencing; preventive detention; reduced use of parole; and increased penalties for habitual (Antonuccio, pg 580) The National Private Prison divestment campaign aims to explain just how these prison facilities are obtaining more citizens, through the creations of laws, to get more money for the business that invest within such private prison corporations. Using multiple rhetorical appeals such as pathos, logos, ethos and kairos, both images chosen from NPPDC have made a call to action for not only citizens but higher up institutions and businesses to stop investing in the private prison corporations and invest more into society itself. Ones is always subconsciously gaining information through the use of advertisements on TV, Radio, Magazines and the Internet. In image number one the National Private Prison Davis 2 Divestment Campaign effectively uses Pathos, Ethos, and Kairos to inform its audience on the topic of investing in private prisons. Pathos refers to emotional appeal. In image number one, the little boy sitting outside the prison holding a butterfly definitely is aiming to play on the emotions of audience that is very family oriented, the audience with children, cousins, grandchildren that still have to grow up in the 21 st century and even citizens that have a soft spot in their hearts for children as a whole. Not many people will wish to see their loved ones especially at such a young age waiting outside of a prison facility. Ethos refers to ones credibility. In image number one the NPPDC displays their own website and number that the organization can be reached by for readers to find out more information on the topic of divesting from private prison corporations. This gives the audience a source of knowledge, and also more of an explanation as to why they should trust the NPPDC. Kairos refers to the opportune moment. In image number one the NPPDC says, the prison stock! Invest in Basically creating a since of urgency to stop investing in the prison industry as if humanity is failing because business and corporations are still investing in these private prison corporations. Its all about timing, the longer higher up institutions, businesses and corporations wait to stop investing in the prison industry, the worse off humanity will be. While each image has its own specific objective, the general purpose for both images is to inform and persuade society to stop investing into the prison industry. Most advertisements consist of bringing awareness to a certain topic, issue or product. In image number two The National Private Prison Divestment Campaign uses logos, ethos and kairos to inform its audience on the topic of investing in private prisons. Logos refers to using reason and logic to persuade an audience through the use of statistics and facts. In image number Davis 3 two the NPPDC displays logos in the sign that one of the audience members in the angry crowd is holding. The sign states California in prison spending #48 in This give the receiving audience knowledge on how in just one state alone the US invest more money into the prison system than they do in the educational system yet Americans are always saying that education comes first when preaching to the younger generation. In image number two Ethos is displayed through the advertisement listing a website as a source to find out more information on what U.S dollars are really being used for and how it effect society as whole. In image number two the NCCDP displays kairos through the use of words on the advertisement such as Not in our the Number of People in All the words written on the advertisement give a since of urgency as if the quicker businesses, institutions and corporations stop investing so much money into the prison industry then the communities will be able to benefit from funding being actually put back into the communities educational system, housing, healthcare and jobs. The more people that become aware of the creation of the private prison divestment campaign and informed on the issue at hand, the greater the chances will be to completely eliminate or lower the funding for these private prison corporations, which should cause the rate of incarceration to be slowed down. Before these companies put out their ads, they usually use some type of visual analysis to first see how the audience will be receptive to the information and how it will affect the business or organization. The article to Do a Visual Analysis (A Five-Step states visual analysis requires you to think about what the artifact is, what its role in society is, and the impact is has had or probably will have on bold, Para 1). Visual analysis usually requires the examination of the design principles displayed in the ad. In image number one The Davis 4 National Private Prison Divestment Campaign utilizes the colors yellow symbolizing clarity and optimism, orange symbolizing confidence and a deep shade of red with red normally symbolizing being bold or standing out. These colors all tie into the audience being able to gain a better trust in the organization and also wanting to find out more information on the issue at hand. The words at the top of image number one are written in bold lettering to capture the attention of the audience especially since the background is dark and the lettering in light, the lettering is able to standout from the background. Since most people read from left to right that is most likely why the words are evenly placed throughout the add. With the little boy holding the butterfly being a lighter color he also stands out from the background making the audience naturally gravitate towards looking at the image of the boy. In image number two The National Private Prison Divestment Campaign utilizes the colors red symbolizing being bold and standing out , grey symbolizing solidarity , black symbolizing power and strength and white symbolizing purity and safety . Certain words are written in certain colors to give that word more attention. The faces of the people in the audience look upset and frustrated by the issue of investing in private prison but not investing in the community these people in the audience all help the audiences gain a better sense of how the issue is really impacting the community. With the lettering being written in different colors against contrasting backgrounds it allows for the messages as a whole to stand out and capture the attention. Everything in both image number one and two is geared towards one main goal of divesting from private prisons corporations and investing back into humanity. The National Private Prison Divestment Campaign uses all forms of advertisement to get out information on the issue of business, institutions and others investing in private prison corporations. The main goal of each advertisement is to make call to action for not only citizens Davis 5 but higher up institutions and businesses to stop investing in the private prison corporations and invest more into society itself. NPPDC gives out their contact information for the audience to find out more information on the topic which give the more trust in the organization as a whole. Through the use of rhetorical appeals and visual analysis the NPPDC is able to effectively target certain audiences and to display more information on the campaign as a whole. Davis 6 Works Cited Antonuccio, Rachel Christine Bailie. Prisons for Profit: Do the Social and Political Problems Have a Legal  (3008): 573-93. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. CIOTTI, GREGORY. The Psychology of Color in Marketing and  N.p., 17 May 2016. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. Gold, Hannah K. 5 Links Between Higher Education and the Prison  Rolling Stone . N.p., 18 June 2014. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. New bold, Curtis. How to Do a Visual Analysis (A Five-Step  N.p., 12 Jan. 2015. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. SCHREINER , MARK. USF Nixes Student Divestment  N.p., 29 May 2014. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. Davis 7 Image #1 Davis 8 Image #2