Mygrant 1 Miranda Mygrant Emil Smith ENC11001.015 March 5 th 2017 Gun Control Conversation Over Time The topic of gun control is very controversial and has been discussed by many scholars throughout the past decade. Gary Kleck reported in Gun Control Reduce Violent that the United States has a much higher percentage of people who privately own guns than any other industrialized nation and this has led many people to believe that guns are responsible for the increased homicide rates. The crimes that are being committed with firearms usually tend to be murders, robberies and theft. Also, guns sometimes accidentally end up in the hands of a child or minor which may result in shootings that were not intentional but have a deadly cost. In an attempt to eliminate these crimes and accidents, the U.S throughout the past few decades has added and revised laws regarding these weapons in order to make the nation safer as a whole. Scholars before 2010 discussed the general fear and misconception of guns and how restricting them to law abiding citizens may prohibit people to protect themselves in emergency. In 2012, an incident occurred in the state of Florida involving the shooting of a young teenager Treyvon Martin that turned thousands of heads causing the discussion about gun control to be re- looked at and evaluated. However, scholars since then have still been able to provide evidence in their research that supports the conclusion that restricting guns does not overall increase safety. Since the early the conversation over gun control has consistently focused on the effects of the laws and the impact on citizen safety. Mygrant 2 In the early scholars such as Stephanie Hunter, John Lott, Judge Amy Karan and Helen Stampalia discussed the general misconceptions Americans had on guns and the benefits of the laws permitting citizens to carry concealed weapons. Stephanie Hunter for example, began her discussion in 2000 with her article titled More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime And Gun-Control  by reviewing John studies. John Lott first emphasized the way guns are wrongly portrayed in the entertainment world and American media. According to Lott, the media publicizes tragic, yet rare, gun related incidents that are guaranteed to rouse sympathy and (Hunter 294) He wanted Americans to open their minds and see that guns are not only used by criminals for harm and by supporting the concealed weapons law, it could actually help save lives. He further supported his claim that laws save by conducting a survey among inmates in ten state correctional facilities. (Hunter 297) Lott found that fifty-six percent of the inmates surveyed admitted would not attack a potential victim they knew was armed. (Hunter 295) He refers to this finding as the deterrence effect and claimed are motivated by self-preservation and can be deterred from committing violent crimes if they fear their potential victims have a concealed (Hunter 295) In comparison to the article in 2000, Helen Stampalia and Judge Amy Karen discussed that every lawful citizen should have the right to possess weapons, but those rights should be taken away from those who have committed criminal acts in their article Domestic Violence And Firearms: A Deadly Combination The Juxtaposition Of Federal And Florida . Karen and Stampalia explained the federal law which convicted felons from possessing a firearm or (Karen and Stampalia 79) They explained that it is not beneficial to restrict firearms from law-abiding citizens because they would not have their full constitutional right to bear arms in the case of an emergency. The discussion of gun control prior Mygrant 3 to 2010 revolved around the idea that Americans had the wrong impression on firearms and how allowing citizens to carry concealed weapons will increase the safety of citizens overall. During the year 2012, the conversation over gun control laws drastically increased and took a slight shift when young teenager Treyvon Martin was shot and killed in the state of Florida by a man claiming defense using the new Florida Stand Your Ground law. This incident caused scholars to re-evaluate the laws in place and question how a grown man was allowed to walk away free after murdering an innocent teenager. Lydia Zbrzeznj reported in her 2012 article Controversial Gun Policy: Liberally Permitting Citizens To Arm Themselves And Broadly Recognizing The Right To Act In , that the Florida Stand Your Ground law was originally made with the intent to ensure that everyone has their equal rights when faced with a life or death situation. The Stand Your Ground law was a huge change when it was first put into place because it took away the duty to retreat, eliminated the burden to prove that they were in danger and criminal as well as civil immunity is provided for cases that are justified with self-defense. Zbrzenj noted that a person claims self-defense, he or she is stating that killing the aggressor was the right thing to (Zbrzeznj 231) This now proved to be problematic according to Zbrzenj because people would be more likely to shoot and claim self-defense. According to A Call For Change: A Contextual-Configurative Analysis Of Stand Your   by Elizabeth Megale in 2014, theory is exactly what happened in the Treyvon Martin case. Treyvon Martin was walking home one night in his neighborhood, when he was approached by a community watchman George Zimmerman. After Zimmerman caused a slight altercation with the young un-armed teenage boy, Zimmerman pulled out his gun, shooting and killing Treyvon Martin. According to the article, many people never questioned the laws until this case occurred. Megale wishes to expose the imbalance of Mygrant 4 power and conflict in values represented by Your by using case as an example that not everyone is fairly protected by this gun law. (Megale 1054) Zimmerman was arrested and pleaded not guilty in the court of law which allowed him to walk away freely, causing many to take a second look at gun control laws. Although Zbrzenj and Megale both discussed the drawbacks of the Stand Your Ground law, they also both acknowledged that the topic is very controversial. Zbrzenj noted for example that lenient policy in granting gun permits acknowledges the reality of the violence facing Floridians in their everyday (Zbrzeznj 231) Therefore this ties into the ongoing conversation that restricting guns from everyone necessarily increase safety, the people like Zimmerman in possession of the firearms who are the problem. When looking at the experiments and research collected overtime in the year 2000 compared to 2016, they come down to the same conclusion that gun-control does not reduce crime therefore does not increase citizen safety. John Lott conducted surveys on inmates in correctional state facilities questioning them if they would be likely to attack a victim who could be potentially armed. He conducted this survey in order to get an idea if the laws allowing concealed weapons could actually prove to be more beneficial than restricting guns. The responses to the surveys showed that fifty-six percent of inmates not attack a potential victim if they were armed. Lott also discusses how states like Arizona, Florida, Oregon and Pennsylvania show correlation between more gun permits being issued and less crimes occurring. In comparison, Gary Kleck conducted an experiment and reported in Gun Control Reduce Violent 2016, that his fails to support the hypothesis that gun control laws reduce violent (Kleck et. al. 507). Kleck collected multiple amounts of statistics from around the U.S during different time periods and watched to see if the data had Mygrant 5 any correlation between gun restricting laws and homicide or assault cases. He pointed out that unlike the research done prior to 2000, he made sure to include outside factors such as mental states, criminal history and incidents that have occurred that would cause an effect on the data. Both Lott and Kleck took different approaches researching gun control effects but despite the sixteen-year difference between the two studies, they both came down to the same conclusion which shows that the discussion over the topic has not drastically changed over time. Gun-control has been a topic of controversy throughout the past few decades and scholars overall have remained discussing the effects of the laws on citizens and how restricting guns does not mean increasing safety. Cases such as the 2012 Treyvon Martin murder help bring new insight and review of the laws made to protect citizens, but also bring critique and show the downfalls where the law is not always perfect. Megale for example believed that the Florida Stand Your Ground law represented an of power and conflict in (Megale 1054) while the main intent of the law was to provide everyone with protection in the case someone needed to use violence for self-defense. Despite the time difference throughout the past years, the conversation has opened up many views and allowed them to see that correlation of guns and crimes, does not always mean causation. Word Count: 1522 Mygrant 6 Works Cited Kleck, Gary, Tomislav Kovandzic, and Jon Bellos. Gun Control Reduce Violent Criminal Justice Review, vol.41, no. 4, 2016, pp. 488-513, Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Zbrzeznj, Lydia. Controversial Gun Policy: Liberally Permitting Citizens To Arm Themselves And Broadly Recognizing The Right To Act In  Florida Coastal Law Review 2 (2012): 231. InfoTrac LegalTrac. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Hunter, Stephanie. More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime And Gun-Control  Harvard Journal On Legislation 37.2 (2000): 293. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Karan, Judge Amy, and Helen Stampalia. Domestic Violence And Firearms: A Deadly Combination The Juxtaposition Of Federal And Florida  Florida Bar Journal 79.9 (2005): 79. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Megale, Elizabeth. A Call For Change: A Contextual-Configurative Analysis Of Stand Your   University Of Miami Law Review 68.4 (2014): 1051. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 18 Feb. 2017.