Wang 1 Jialin Wang Kristen Rouisse: ENC 1102 0/31/2017 Action on Smoking and Health In childhood, many people are subject to environments which encourage harmful activities and behaviors. One example of such harmful activity is smoking; it causes strong addiction. Some individuals start smoking as a leisure activity while others are influenced by their peers. Smoking has disastrous effects on health. It may cause many diseases including liver cirrhosis as well as lead to lethal outcomes. Smoking is a very harmful and dangerous addiction, and individuals should stop engaging in this behavior. Consequently, people should stop smoking due to the astonishing numbers: one billion preventable tobacco-related deaths predicted to happen in this century and all the avoidable deaths in the last century. ASH (Action on Smoking and Health) is an organization that seeks to end or reduce tobacco-related deaths within the population globally. It communicates the urge to stop smoking and shows the effects that smoking has on lives. how your stakeholder uses images/advertisements to further their overall message/goals. ASH (Action on Smoking and health) is a non-governmental organization with the aim to inform people about the negative effects of smoking. From their mission, which states that they seek to be the main body that advocates for the control, force of law, and communication of the negative impacts of tobacco, it is clear that this organization seeks to restrain the spread of tobacco use (ASH.org). Their vision is to put an end to tobacco-related deaths, illnesses, and damage (White p. 3). To accomplish their mission and vision, ASH seeks to use public Wang 2 awareness as their main tool. Through sharing ideas about the dangers among the public, lawmakers, and other stakeholders, they seek to control the tobacco industry through sensible legislations both locally and globally. Cooperating with various stakeholders, ASH ensures that the public awareness is addressed in a coherent manner, which is significant in preventing lethal outcomes related to smoking (Topol & Califf p. 113). However, the organization should not be regarded as being anti-smoking. It is an organization that is anti-tobacco in the first place. ASH, therefore, wants to ensure that tobacco is controlled by the U.S. and international institutions appropriately, taking into account the ethical side of the issue. Tobacco smoking is gaining popularity throughout the globe. While the U.S. is experiencing the lower rates of tobacco smoking, the developing countries start feeling the negative effects of tobacco smoking. The tobacco industry in the U.S. continues getting wealthier as it direct the efforts towards these countries where they have a wide consumer base that smokes tobacco, thus developing addiction, damaging health, and eventually dying because of this habit (Marshall p. 115). The more the tobacco industry benefits from the sales in developing countries, the more they influence to political campaigns (Samples p. 195). Additionally, filing lawsuits against the government and running advertisements even after years of public education concerning this issue in the U.S has not solved the problem. Therefore, the tobacco industry continues to benefit from the developing nations where consumer awareness on the effects of smoking tobacco still low. ASH is at the forefront of taking action against tobacco. It continues to work with stakeholders both in the U.S. and globally (ASH.org). One of the ways to deal with this issue is advocating and promoting public policy through informing the people and legislators involved about reasons why the use of tobacco needs to be controlled. Additionally, it provides legal Wang 3 assistance in cases where individuals cannot advocate for themselves. The organization also creates and distributes research publications on the best practices to initiate tobacco control (ASH.org). Lastly, Ash builds alliances and networks to engage professionals who are the most qualified to deal with specific topics about tobacco and health. The two pictures presented by ASH outline what the organization is raising awareness on. Four rhetorical strategies are used to communicate the message to the affected individuals. The first picture depicts the message that the world has experienced half a century of avoidable deaths. To be able to convince the readers about the negative effects of smoking tobacco, the first rhetorical strategy used by ASH is logos. In this picture, scientific data is used; introducing the message that for a half century it was possible to prevent all those unnecessary lethalities. From the picture, the reader understands that if tobacco were controlled, then these deaths would have been avoided. This scientific data convinces the reader that smoking tobacco is, therefore, a global problem and is a problem that needs to be dealt with. Pathos is also used in the picture; the words elicit sympathy and compassion. The careful selection of words allows people to feel that smoking is a problem and action needs to be taken. Logos in this picture is expressed by the fact that people are dying from smoking, and it is the reason to start acting. What it means is that if people were more careful about smoking, then the number of deaths today would be reduced drastically. Logos is used to convince the Americans that this issue is global and it should be regulated adequately. Lastly, the picture presents Kairos by expressing the message at the opportune moment: at the beginning of the century. After many researches conducted on the effects of smoking tobacco on the health of individuals, the information presented in the picture is even more convincing. Apart from these strategies, the graphics of the picture represents the urgency needed in dealing with the problem. The Earth is presented with a Wang 4 cigarette below enveloping the globe with the smoke. It shows how tobacco is affecting the world. Therefore, the picture can be used to educate people to desist from smoking tobacco. The next picture also includes the strategies used to relay the messages to the public. The author uses logos by presenting statistical data: if people do not stop smoking tobacco, then a billion deaths are predicted to occur. It, therefore, presents the consequences of continuing smoking tobacco. As for Pathos, the picture depicts a black woman smoking with a baby sitting beside her. It appeals to the emotions of the reader by showing how smoking is affecting families and children in particular. ASH also uses Logos in the picture in the form of the words tobacco-related It states that the astonishing number of deaths can be prevented with the right measures put in place. Lastly, by showing that one billion deaths are a future issue, and it will only be experienced if people do not change their ways, Kairos is introduced, is the right moment to start acting as it is not late. The image presents the sad truth of how families are being affected by tobacco smoking. In the picture, a mother is seen smoking with her naked child sitting beside her. It shows that most people being affected by tobacco smoking are low-income families. In conclusion, tobacco smoking is one of the harmful behaviors popular among people; behaviors that have a negative impact on health. To sensitize people to the need to control their tobacco smoking habits, ASH promotes public education on tobacco The organization uses illustrations to appeal to the public effectively. It tries to control the amount of tobacco consumed by people through public awareness, collaboration with lawmakers to develop policies aimed at controlling tobacco, and by collaborating with other stakeholders with the same aims and motives. Although much of public awareness has been elicited, there is still a lot that needs to be done. Therefore, more institutions should join the fight against tobacco smoking. Wang 5 Works Cited ASH. Action on Smoking and Health, ash.org/about/. Accessed 20 February 2017. Marshall, Thomas. Public Opinion, Public Policy, and Smoking: The Transformation of American Attitudes and Cigarette Use, 1890-2016. Lexington Books, 2016. Samples, John. The Fallacy of Campaign Finance Reform. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2008. Topol, Eric, and Califf Robert. Textbook of Cardiovascular Medicine. Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2007. White, Richard. Smoke Screens: The Truth About Tobacco. Lulu, 2009. Wang 6 Appendix Picture 1. Retrieved from http://ash.org/avoidabledeath/ Picture 2. Retrieved from http://ash.org/why-i-fight/