Santos !1 Jordan Santos Spencer ENC 1102 19 March 2017 The Effects of Anesthesia on the Human Body The images selected hear are greatly intertwined and connected to the views of the stakeholder on the position of this topic. The view the stakeholder has on this topic is how anesthesia and it effects on cognitive brain function including the entire human body could increase in the years to come. These images are trying to make the population be aware of this problem and also shed light to people who are completely in the dark about this topic. Topics about the medical field usually do not cause much craze or acquire much attention even though they are relatively important. Most of these topics are overlooked and people continue to think its just another rare side effect that is unlikely to get. Thats the common situation about these things but these images bring great depth and bring startling questions to the public about a very important part in most procedures. Thats is why it is important to clarify this topic and bring sensible information to the public that no experience in the medical field would require you to understand. Using the rhetorical devices of ethos, pathos, and logos, these images seek to make the viewer understand how important it is to understand the many effects anesthesia may have on the human body. To proceed, both images affect the audience by engulfing the audience with pathos. The images both bring alarming questions to the audience. This is alarming because what was stated Santos !2 in one of my sources images bring awareness to the topic by the question of uncertainty that experts even know what the true affects anesthesia has on the human (Lee et al 58). This question in image one can be very terrifying and bring doubt in the mind if ever you were to have side effects could the professionals even know how to help you. That is an alarming question to have when there is a lot of trust in doctors to properly take care of their patients in all situations. In image two the question that arises is how going under can bring damage two cognitive brain function. That also can be very terrifying since your brain is a valuable organ. Parents do not want to see their children have brain damage from going under on anesthesia or any person that has a loved going into surgery have side affects as well. This messages hit many people even if you have no loved ones. This can acquire to even worrying about yourself when you are going into surgery. Furthermore, to touch on the ethos of these images they both come from very credible sources that are constantly being peer reviewed and constantly being updated with new and improved information. This provides clarity to the audience that the information in the image is accurate and proven that there is a sense if uncertainty and the stability of anesthesia and how it affects cognitive brain function and also the human body. Ethos and pathos go hand in hand in the sense that emotion is intensified since you know the information is accurate and is not just a quick scare or a preposterous topic that was completely made up. Also with pathos if the image is believable the audience immediately looks for credibility about the image. Image one is provided by Alila Medical Media which is a very known medical website that bring information constantly to the public and even in the medical world. It is run by very credible doctors that have experience with the topics. Image two is provided by Medical Daily where academic journals Santos !3 can be found and media is usually provided with these journals. This is also peer reviewed and is a scholarly source. To continue, visual analysis of the images is also very detrimental to the audience in how the images give the information to the audience and what point of view they take from it. In image 1 there is an image of of a brain and a structure in the brain that connects all the lobes of sections of the brain together. This shows anesthesia could effect any part of the brain and in all could affect all of it even if one part is being affected. The image of the brain also shows how complex the brain can be and it is hard to distinguish which part is exactly being affected. Also the tone of Image 1 with its wording is very direct and ask a questions that could be thought about in several different ways. In image 2 there is a vey different tone and just offers a clear and understandable fact about how anesthesia can cause damage to brain function. There is no image with the wording to go a long with it just a simple fact that informs the viewer. With this image that is enough to get the point across and stimulate the viewers mind to ponder abut this topic and not much more is needed to make that statement. The two images provide different strategies about the same topic and provoke different ideas fro each of there viewers. With that it is all relevant to the topic and are similar in there message to get across to the viewers. Lastly, to touch upon the logic of the images that completely provide a situation to the mind where constant thinking about different scenarios on how this could affect you personally. The images could possibly provide a new way of thinking on how people look at the medical field in general and anesthesia specifically(Kong et al 260). It could be a starting point to a whole new situation and could be connected to many common effects or illnesses many people suffer from all over the world. This could change how people completely think about situations on how stop Santos !4 some illnesses. The question could arise that the solution to reoccurrence of cancer or other major medical situations could be something that was in front of our faces and such a big part in helping people as well. Will the risk be worth the price many people could pay just to have the chance for a better life since there is no other solution to make procedure possible. These are all questions and logic that must be answered when more people become aware of this topic and effects from anesthesia continue to increase. To conclude, images are very important to all topic they bring light and attention to many thing people know about. Like in this situation where the stakeholder wants to shed light on how anesthesia could potentially have fatal side effects and decrease many patients quality of life after going under anesthesia. The images provide almost all of the elements well including pathos, logos, and ethos. The images provided were very successful when viewed and understood. They provided hard questions that need to be answered because the safety of the people is very important to the stakeholder. Image 1 Santos !5 Image 2 Santos !6 Work Cited Fei-Juan Kong, MD, Lei-Lei Ma, MD, Hong-Hai Zhang, PhD, and Jia-Qiang Zhou, 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist GTS-21 mitigates isoflurane-induced cognitive impairment in aged of Surgical web. Rele Ologunde, Daqing inhalational anesthetics cause cognitive Anaesthesiologica web. Sellbrant , M. Brattwall , P. , M. Warren-Stomberg , S. Forsberg , J.G. Jakobsson. and analgesics; neurocognitive effects, organ protection and cancer reoccurrence an Journal of 41-46 web. UnCheol Lee a, George A. Mashour b, Seunghwan Kim c,*, Gyu-Jeong Noh d, Byung-Moon Choi induction reduces the capacity for neural information integration: Implications for the mechanism of consciousness and general and cognition journal web.