Reyes 1 Steven Reyes Professor Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 2 March, 2017 The United States uses drones in war to conduct surveillance and precision air strikes. It is not uncommon for these air strikes to miss its intended target. As a result, there is an abundance of civilian casualties. The Human Rights Watch is an organization that works tirelessly to expose injustices worldwide. One of its strategies to achieve this mission is the use of media or visual rhetoric. The two images connect to present the injustices that the Human Rights Watch tries to expose. The Human Rights Watch uses multiple tactics to achieve its argument. In the past, Human Rights Watch has cooperated with other organizations to write joint letters to President Obama. These letters urged the president to be more transparent with drone operations that resulted in civilian casualties. In one joint letter, Human Rights Watch reported four strikes that inadvertently killed civilians. The reports described the events in detail to create an uncomfortable image for the reader. This is an effective way to present the arguments point but images are much more effective in this type of argument. People interpret images differently from reading words. Human Rights Watch uses this strategy very well in the two images presented in the following paragraphs. Image A was taken in Yemen shortly after a drone strike. The first thing that catches the attention of the viewer is the mass destruction. One can only see debris and remains of homes. There are children in the image staring at the damage. Their faces are in a state of shock; unable to react to the disaster that they are witnessing. The children are also humbly dressed. Almost Reyes 2 40% of Yemen lives in poverty. These living standards already make life difficult for families. The drone strikes do not make the situation better for the families because it strips them of their basic needs. Since October 2016, least 4,125 civilians had been killed and 6,711 The image supports this statistic by the angle of which the photo was taken. Its wide perspective shows the extent of the damage of the bombs. The debris takes up more than half of the image. Although there is no sign of physical harm to a civilian, the emotional damage is just as bad. According to Human Rights Watch, this image represents one of apparently unlawful Saudi- led coalition The United States is directly involved with this because it sold 20 billion worth of weapons to Saudi Arabia. Without this weapon support, countries like Saudi Arabia would not be able to conduct these destructive actions. The second image is small dark room that is partially destroyed. There are personal items all over the floor. The color scheme of the image is very neutral. There are not many colors that can possibly make the room feel welcoming. It seems that there was a drone strike in the community because of the smoky sky. The smoke, as seen through the windows of the bedroom is rising above the distant homes. There are people in this picture which gives the room an eerie feeling. It feels deserted and hostile. This picture is also taken during the day and shows how random drone attacks can be for civilians. It can occur at any time without warning. The mattress less bed frames and broken glass windows make the environment unsafe for anyone to sleep in. These two images overlap in many elements to be effective towards a viewer. It is hard to view those images because they cry for help. Although there is no written text on the pictures, there is a plea for help by those civilians effected daily by drones. To make matters worse, countries do no take accountability for their actions. According to Sarah Leah Whiston, a Middle East director at Human Rights Watch, of the forces in conflict seem to fear Reyes 3 being held to account for violating the laws of This creates a complex problem worldwide because countries do not fear for the repercussions of their actions. Fortunately, the Human Rights Watch is persistent and continues to post images and reports on these strikes. The media is a very powerful tool and can sway the influence of the public into a topic like this. These kinds of images are shown on TV and the internet which can draw the attention of civilians to become more informed about the effort against war drones. If the Human Rights Watch can successfully do this, then it will force the government to regulate its involvement with drones and even intervene with drones in other countries. Visual images are an important way to present an argument because it makes the viewer feel the situation. It forces the viewer to step into the shoes of the victims. This empathy is a powerful tool to gain support for the Human Rights Watch mission to expose injustices worldwide.