Bunyon 1 Robert Bunyon Instructor Basil ENC 1102 12 March 2017 The Funding of Planned Parenthood Planned parenthood and whether funding should be allocated to these facilities is a great topic of controversy today. Organizations such as NARAL America believe that funds should be supplied to these planned parenthood clinics and that what planned parenthood stands for and the services they provide are just and necessary in society. NARAL advocates for reproductive rights and combats attacks from conservative lawmakers who want to outlaw abortion and cut federal funding to planned parenthood facilities. In order to gain support from the people and grow into a larger, more prominent organization, NARAL attempts to recruit people to their cause by suggestive advertisements. The NARAL website home page uses advertisements in the form of pictures and interactive images to try and persuade people to join the fight and to educate them on the laws in the United States. Two specific advertisements that used the rhetorical appeals to ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos were posted to home page. I believe that these images used the rhetorical appeals effectively in order to draw interest onto the presented topic, especially using pathos to evoke emotion in the person.The rhetorical appeals were used in order to get the onlooker involved, or at least create a lasting impact on them. Being the largest provider of abortions in the United States, planned parenthood facilities do not go over well with too many supporters. In 2008, planned parenthood facilities Bunyon 2 accounted for over one fourth of all abortions in the United States (Calculations). Planned parenthood though, also provides many services to women who seek help with reproductive care, access to contraceptives, screening for and even cancer. Lately, these institutions have come under fire from the conservative politicians and lawmakers, and especially from the recently elected president, Donald Trump. According to certain accounts, Donald Trump wants to ban abortion completely with the exception of cases involving rape, incest, and when the life is in danger (NARAL). Since Trump, a republican, is now president, this is the best chance for republican lawmakers to push through a bill that will cut the funding of federal tax dollars to planned parenthood facilities (Republicans). Since these attacks have begun, young supporters of the movement have been coming out of the woodworks, attempting to help and fend off these attacks like never before, gaining around 1.5 million supports in just a year or two (Laguens). The objective of NARAL is essentially to fight off these attacks from lawmakers and to advocate for reproductive rights. NARAL has a great amount of information on its website about potential ways to join the fight against policies aimed at reproductive rights and various other things, but also shows what must happen in order for change to occur. NARAL uses visual advertisements on their homepage in order to get people to look further into the topic of the funding of planned parenthood and abortion policies. To begin with, the first image uses the rhetorical appeal pathos to effectively hook the audience at a glance. It strategically places a woman and a small girl at the forefront of the photo who are both holding signs, hoping to make a difference in something they believe in. In the background of the photo is a large crowd of protesters who are fighting for the same thing that the two women on the front were protesting. These qualities of the advertisement show that the Bunyon 3 cause is just and that it is a cause worth fighting for, seeing as a great amount of people are willing to go out and protest. Emotionally, when seeing the group of women protesting, one would feel sympathy for them and if they believe in the casue they may even look for ways to help. The image also uses words to generate a feeling of curiosity by stating the question of do we A sign stands out in the background that says giving the impression that whatever is opposing them may cause a divide among the people of our country. A subtle aspect of the image that also applies to pathos is the color scheme. The background color is blue, representing the democratic party and the views that the party holds on the reproductive rights of women. The colors purple and pink are worn by the woman and child in the front of the picture represent women because of the feminine ties these colors have and also that fact that the NARAL logo is purple. Moving onto the second image, it also uses appeals to pathos using words and color to create an effective advertisement. Beginning with the written words, the photo contains the statement a single U.S. state guarantees full access to This may or may not shock the reader, depending on their views on the topic. The organization wants this statement to shock people and pose interest on the topic because once you were to click on the image on the website, it redirects you to a page explaining each stance on abortion rights. Next to the words is a map of the United States. This map has every state colored in either red or shades of blue, signifying each outlook on abortion. States colored in red are explained as states that are and ones in blue are leaned more toward accessible abortion rights. The states with different shades of blue is represented as states who allow for limited access to abortions. These facts create a slight sense of anger almost, especially when concerning women because one of the Bunyon 4 largest arguments against banning abortions is the body my statement which is hard to combat at times. Using the color red to depict states that have restricted abortion access makes them almost seem like the bad guys, and the blue is seen as the good guys. Overall the appeals to pathos in both images are effective at evoking feelings within the person looking at them, which draws an interest to their cause. The next appeal that is prominent in both of these pictures is logos, the appeal to logic. Each of these pictures have an appeal to logos, such as the curiosity created by the question in the first image. This creation of curiosity may cause the audience to search for ways to resist the political attacks, and also attempt to learn why this debate is so widespread and important. The second image shows the map of the U.S. and gives the statement which calls out to the reader to see what the readers own states laws and regulations are on the topic of abortion. The logical appeals inform the viewer on how strict abortion regulations are, and ways that they can resist and show support for the cause. The appeals to logos in each image give the viewer something to really think about, and may even make them question their own personal beliefs on the topic. The appeals to logos are effectively used in the both images, but it is primarily used in the second image over the first. Lastly, the two other appeals, ethos and kairos are used, but only slightly in the two images. The first image shows an appeal to ethos by the NARAL logo in the bottom left corner, and the crowd of people protesting for the cause shows that it is a credible movement backed by many activists. A subtle cue for eths in the first image is also the color of the background, indirectly projecting the views of the democratic party. The logo shows where the image was created and for what purpose. Both of the images are displayed on the homepage of the NARAL, Bunyon 5 which is associated with the credibility also. The appeal to timeliness, kairos, is not obviously used in either of the images, but with some analysis of them, they each serve almost as a call to action, hinting that things are not progressing enough and that they need all the support that they can get. Even though the appeals to ethos and kairos used as effectively as pathos and logos, they are still present in the images and can still be identified if someone were to analyse them hard enough. In each of the images, rhetorical appeals are used in order to get the viewer to develop an interest in and hopefully act on the issue that is presented, which is the reproductive rights of women and access to abortion. The rhetorical appeal pathos is the main appeal used in both of the photos, by trying to attempt to stir up the emotions of the people. The other rhetorical appeal used effectively is the appeal to logos, by giving the facts of the laws and regulations of the United States in the second image, and the appeal of curiosity in the first. The other two appeals are not very prominent in either image, but they can easily be spotted while analyzing each of the photos. Using these rhetorical appeals is an effective way of involving many people with only a single glance. NARAL hopes to draw people to their cause using these rhetorical appeals effectively to ultimately gain full access to abortion throughout the U.S. and improve the reproductive rights of women in the near future. Work Cited Calculations, Political. The Providers of Abortion in the  Townhall. N.p., 18 Jan. 2012. Web. . Bunyon 6 Laguens, Dawn. Planned Parenthood and the Next Generation of Feminist  Feminist Studies, vol. 39, no. 1, 2013, p. 187+. Literature Resource Center, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA334 380764&it=r&asid=ff4ea4a7d07307daee6f9c6bf5e0980b. NARAL America. NARAL  http://www.naral.org, NARAL America. N.p., 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Republicans Prepare Efforts To Defund Planned  All Things Considered, 6 Jan. 2017. Literature Resource Center, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA476 904232&it=r&asid=b31a383ffa8511f5dcf01bc713f48b6e. Bunyon 7