Dhanashree 1 Dhanashree Rawalgaonkar Ms. Erika Staiger English Composition-II 14 th March 2017 Organic Consumers Association against Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are hybrids produced by mixing DNA or genetic material of two or more species artificially with the use of biotechnology. People criticize genetically modified food because of health and safety concerns. Thus many organizations and industries are promoting organic farming and a ban on GMOs through visuals that use different rhetorical appeals. Organic Consumers Association (OCA) is a nonprofit organization that supports organic farming, fair trade in the agro industry and environmental sustainability. OCA has been protesting against companies like Monsanto who are at the forefront in genetically modifying organisms in the agro industry. OCA portrays a mother lovingly kissing her baby and specifies that toxic chemicals were found in milk. A humorous video released by OCA describes how genetically modified seeds will spread in the environment. These genetically modified organisms will end up in every level of the food chain and will be passed on to the future generations causing harm to people as well as the coming generations. The organization has been protesting against Monsanto by questioning the safety and environmental sustainability of their products; as a result, consumers have become skeptical about the safety and sustainability of products. Therefore, consumers are choosing organic food over genetically modified food. Organic Consumers Association (OCA) supports organic farming and opposes GMOs through visuals like videos and images with the use rhetorical appeals like pathos, logos and kairos to encourage people to act against Monsanto. Dhanashree 2 The video and the image uses elements of pathos to elicit emotions like empathy and guilt in the audiences. The image states that toxic chemicals were found in milk. Motherhood being a highly sensitive topic for everyone, the image of the mother kissing her baby evokes emotions of love and affection in the audiences. According to Academy of Breastfeeding Medicine, a multispecialty physician organization, milk is beneficial to the mother and the child; it benefits the child by providing species specific nutrients, immunological protection, psychological and cognitive development as well as the mother with post-delivery recovery, problems after menopause, psychological stability and hormonal balance (Queenan 6). By specifying how chemical pesticides are polluting something so natural and vital to the mother and the baby, OCA tries to evoke emotions of empathy. By the same token, the video concludes by stating that genetic engineering will turn us into human GMOs eventually. According to the video, GMOs will spread in the environment, in every level of the food chain, and will be passed on to the future generations. children are young adults as well as the future of the world, and ensuring their wellbeing is the responsibility. People are very hopeful about their future and children; people do not want to harm their upcoming generations because of their negligence towards safety and sustainability. This evokes a feeling of guilt in the audiences since they will be responsible for the damage caused by GMOs in the upcoming generations. As a result of videos and images that use different rhetorical appeals, people view products with skepticism. People are choosing products derived from conventional farming methods over the new technology of genetic engineering. The image and the video use elements of logos by backing up their claims about the ill effects of genetically modified food with logical explanations in order to urge people to act Dhanashree 3 against GMOs. The image specifies that according to a study, toxins can accumulate in the human body. This can be an example of logos since it portrays that the information is logical because it is studied and experimented on. Journal of Integrative Agriculture (JIA) is a peer reviewed and multidisciplinary international journal funded by the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences. According to a research article Testing Methods for Food Contaminants and from JIA, toxins found in genetically modified organisms for pest resistance are noxious to human cells and health (Chiou et al. 2251). Furthermore, the video explains how these toxins in genetically modified organisms can spread in all stages of ecosystems through food chains. The video explains how an old man grew genetically modified food, and the seeds spread everywhere through pollination. The farm animals on his farm ate this genetically modified food and were not organic anymore. The food produce and the dairy products from his farm ended up in the grocery store but were not labeled as genetically modified; therefore, these GMOs were consumed by the consumers unknowingly. The video describes a logical chain of events to convey how genetically modified food ended up everywhere through a food chain and now would affect everyone. OCA uses elements of logos to rationally explain how GMOs can spread everywhere in the environment and negatively impact everyone. Consequently, people are transitioning to organic farming and organic products. OCA encourages people to act against Monsanto through visuals that use elements of kairos by summoning people to act as soon as possible. The image conveys how chemicals were found in milk which would be consumed by the baby. The image alerts people about this by saying breaking news. The image implicitly summons the audiences that if people take an action against genetically modified food and chemical pesticides as soon as possible, children will intake these toxins which can accumulate in the cells Dhanashree 4 causing disastrous injury to them. The video concludes by saying that someday soon we will all become human GMOs. This diction (and someday soon) used in the video suggests people that before this happens, consumers should act against genetically modified organisms. The sooner people act against GMOs, the sooner they can stop the spread of GMOs in the environment through food chains. Although not explicit, these are elements of kairos which encourage people to act on the issue as soon as possible. As a result, farmers are trying to transform themselves into organic farmers as soon as possible, and people are choosing organic food products over genetically modified food. The Organic Consumers Association puts light on the ill effects of chemical pesticides and genetically modified organisms by using rhetorical appeals like kairos, logos and pathos in graphics such as videos and images. According to Organic Association, genetically modified food poses health and environmental hazards to not only our generation but also future generations. Genetically modifying genes and introducing new unknown genes into the ecosystem can disrupt the balance in nature and lead to dire consequences in the future. Genetically modified food and chemical pesticide should be used cautiously for the wellbeing of people and the environment. Dhanashree 5 Works Cited Chiou, Jiachi, et al. REVIEW: Rapid Testing Methods for Food Contaminants and  Journal of Integrative Agriculture, vol. 14, 01 Nov. 2015, pp. 2243-2264. EBSCOhost, doi: 10.1016/S2095-3119(15)61119-4. Millions Against  Millions Against Monsanto. N.P., n.d. Web. <https://www.organicconsumers.org/campaigns/millions-against-monsanto>. Accessed 14 Mar. 2017. Queenan, John T. Academy of Breastfeeding Medicine Lecture 2010: Breastfeeding: An  Breastfeeding Medicine, no. 1, 2011, p. 7. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib .usf.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.252385443&site=eds- live. Lilywhitehawk. Glyphosate Found in  Total Health Resonance. N.p., 08 Dec. 2014. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. <http://totalhealthresonance.com/roundups-glyphosate-found-mothers-milk/>. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iAeBpoKfnPU Dhanashree 6