Jenkins 1 Skye Jenkins Sarah Basil ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Rhetorical Appeals Through GMO Advertisement Rhetorical appeals are used in our everyday lives from what we see on social media to what we see walking around campus, these appeals are everywhere. Even organizations like the Non-GMO Project, an organization aimed at providing people with information about non-GMO choices, use the four rhetorical appeals in their advertisements and social media posts. This organization makes it easier for people who live a non-GMO life to find their foods in a quick manor when at the grocery store as they created a specific label for foods without GMOs. Through two different photos posted on the official Non-GMO Project Twitter page, the organization uses the rhetorical appeals of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. These rhetorical appeals help the Non-GMO project achieve their goal of informing people on GMOs and foods that are GMOs and foods that are not. Both images provided show appeals to pathos, the appeal to emotions, in two completely different ways. Specifically, in the nacho image, orange is used. The image is an advertisement for the super bowl in which the organization was trying to get you to want these nachos that they are discussing, which is why orange is so dominant in this image. Warm colors, orange, red and yellow, are used to create hunger. If ever looked at the logo and wondered why it is red and yellow, this is why. This has been proven through different methods of scientific research and is stated in an article titled or Color (The Psychology of Jenkins 2 The author, Walter Graff, states that know through many scientific tests that red causes us to feel You look at it immediately become hungry for the non-GMO nachos that are pictured just because of the colors presented. In the second image, of the cereal, there are very happy, smiling animals on both boxes. The use of happy, more natural non-cartoon looking animals, makes kids think that eating this cereal will also make them happy, forcing their parents to buy this particular cereal. kind of like the domino effect, also known as the ripple effect. If these animals are happy, and I eat the cereal of the box they are on, I will also be happy. This domino effect makes the parents want to buy the cereal for their children so they will be happy as well. Both images make great appeals to pathos which really make the images relate to the audience on a more personal level, as pathos is appeal to emotions. The appeal to ethos is also visible in both images, being the appeal to credibility. As you can see in both images, they have a small logo with a butterfly on it which states Project This logo is the official Non-GMO Project logo which they put on all non- GMO foods who they have partnered with. This logo is what anyone who wants to eat non-GMO looks for when they go to the grocery store, it makes it very easy for them to find the food that they choose to eat through this logo. This logo also makes these images credible by showing that the actual organization put them out as their advertisements. Another appeal to ethos is that both images were directly posted on the pages verified twitter site, making them legitimate images and very credible. The two photographs also both appeal to logos, or logic. In the advertisement for the super bowl, or the nacho image, there are a lot of words that describe how eating non-GMO is the right way. The text on the images tells you what GMO means and uses football terms to engage in what they are and what foods are mostly GMOs. They use the football terms because Jenkins 3 that is what people were thinking about and that was all the rage at the time. Also, their audience is probably not football lovers so using those terms will get football fans to read more about this ad. It is proven that people like things that are like them, or things they like. Studies have shown this specifically through relationships. In one very short article, titled Exposure this theory is described. The author describes how feel a preference for people or things simply because they are (Fournier). The mere exposure effect proves that people who are unfamiliar with GMOs, but familiar with football, would be attracted to and want to read this ad. The text on the image also tries to persuade you into eating non-GMO because the organization sees it as the right way. The Non-GMO Project mission statement says that has a right to know what is in their food and deserves access to non-GMO Through this advertisement, the organization is just simply trying to inform us about what is actually in GMOs through the use of a nacho ad for the super bowl. They not only include a recipe for them, but also facts about GMOs so that the viewer will know exactly what they are referring to. There is also a slight appeal to logos in the image with the happy animals on it. An appeal to logos can persuade someone to do something, in this case, the image is trying to persuade you into looking for the butterfly on foods like the one in the photo. This image could also be trying to persuade children into eating this non-GMO, probably very expensive, cereal. Parents will do a lot to put a smile on their face, even if that includes buying into persuasion of costly cereal brands. Although they are different, both images appeal to logos are very clear. Finally, both of the photographs appeal to Kairos, or timeliness. The nacho image appeals to Kairos because of when it was posted on the organizations Twitter page. This advertisement is clearly for the super bowl, it has all the terms like and and they tweeted it Jenkins 4 out just hours before the super bowl aired on television. This was sort of a way of saying the super bowl is on in a few hours, make these but besides just doing that, they used it as a ploy to get people to read about how GMOs are bad and that this recipe uses non-GMOs so people should therefore make these particular nachos. On the other hand, the smiling animal image uses Kairos in a completely different way. This image simply urges you to be happy the second you look at it because the animals on the cereal boxes are also very happy. Not only does it urge you to be happy, but it also is urging you to look for the butterfly, which is the Non-GMO Project logo, on boxes when you go to the grocery store. As discussed, the Non-GMO Project is a non-profit organization who aims to make people aware of what GMOs actually are. This organization is also responsible for the labeling of non-GMOs. If you are ever in a store and see the little label with a butterfly that states GMO Project that food brand paired up with this non-profit to make that happen. Not only has the Non-GMO Project made people aware of GMOs through their outreach in the community, but they have also made it easier for people who eat non-GMO to find their food in the grocery store with this label. Through images posted on their social media pages, they have used four rhetorical appeals to get people to want to eat non-GMO. The use of pathos, ethos, logos and Kairos has made it easy for the organization to show people what GMOs really are. Jenkins 5 Works Cited Color  Color Psychology. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Fournier, Gillian. Mere Exposure  Encyclopedia of Psychology. PsychCentral, 17 July 2016. Web. 11 Mar. 2017.  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Jenkins 6