Solanke 1 Emmanuel Solanke Composition II Erika Staiger 2/26/2017 Rhetoric In our society, drunk driving is an issue with the youth, deaths and accidents that leave permanent injuries are results of this issue. There have been many organizations and people who advocate against drunk driving and one stakeholder that holds this opinion is known as Mothers Against Drunk Driving also known as MADD. This stakeholder believes that allowing youth access to alcohol could results in more drunk driving incidents. MADD uses rhetorical appeals in images to get their point using Pathos, Logos, Ethos, and Kairos as much as possible and convey their point that the youth drink and drive. One major rhetorical appeal MADD utilizes in their advertisement is Pathos. Pathos is an appeal using different types of media to get an emotion out of others, and pathos in image give viewers a sad emotion. The first image depicts a girl wearing a graduation gown but her head is through a window, the flowers and diploma she was holding is on the ground and is bleeding from her head. Just describing this picture to someone could give them the feeling of curiosity, MADD gives viewers of this image the emotion of sadness and fear. MADD is advertising about what could happen to people if the drinking age is lowered and more people who are young will get their hands-on alcohol and more deaths could occur. At the bottom, there is a tagline saying make it a grad to which is usually a good thing to say, but in a scenario like this, death is the last thing people would want to remember when it comes to Solanke 2 graduation. This image is also a realistic wake-up call, there are people who die before they graduate due to alcohol and MADD is trying to make sure people are aware of this. Logos is the appeal to logic, MADD uses this appeal to bring logic into their argument, helping their cause. This is where the second images strength lies. Compared to the first image, the second image have an image, it all just text. The image goes and says that every day, twenty-eight people die due to drunk driving, it then asks users if they know how much that would add up to at the end of the year, and lastly the ad goes on telling readers to be a With an ad focused on logic, it gives readers a feeling that the person or organization that delivered the ad knows what they are talking about, and this is what MADD wants. Even just words alone can impact readers, to some, it could seem more professional and look neater. Ethos is an appeal to authority, and MADD utilizes their branding and name to their advantage due to the work and acknowledgement they gathered up. In both images, at the bottom, MADD puts their logo at the bottom. MADD has been involved in many ways to get their view of keeping younger people away from alcohol, they cried in front of judges, state legislative, live television, they even got President Ronald Regan to back legislation that would benefit their cause (Hoover). From the to present day, MADD has work on and built up their credibility from all the work that the organization has built towards, helping towards new legislation that prevents drunk driving deaths, telling their stories about the deaths for their own children who have been in drunk driving incidents, and meeting figures who create laws that can affect millions. The last rhetorical appeal is Kairos, their use of urgency can urge students and beginner drivers not to drink and drive. This appeal is seen more in the second image, which is the image Solanke 3 with just text in it. The first part where Kairos is seen is where it states that every day, 28 people die. This gives readers an urgency that everyday multiple deaths related to alcohol and drunk driving, which can create a sense of reality and can cause fear in readers, it could also give readers the realization that it could happen to them next. Towards the end of the image they ask the readers if they know how many deaths the 26 a day adds up to annually, and this urgency but this does deal with time and connects to the first Kairos portion. The last portion of Kairos comes from the very end where it tells the readers to think before too late, which create a sense of urgency so that they become just another statistic relating to drunk driving. use of Kairos helps their point and like stated multiple times, creates urgency for people viewing the advertisements. In conclusion, using Pathos, Logos, Ethos, and Kairos, MADD can argue their point very effectively using these rhetorical appeals. Pathos with its use of emotions, ethos and the use of authority, logos and the use of logic, and Kairos and its use of urgency helps MADD argue their point in different angles. overall statement is to not drink and drive, it can and will lead to disastrous consequences and with the four rhetorical appeals, MADD argues this point. Solanke 4 Works cited Hoover, Eric. MADD, the Legal Drinking Age Is Not Up for The Chronicle of Higher Education, vol. 55, no. 11. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Advertisement. MADD.Org, May 2006. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Advertisement. MADD.Org, 2014. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. MADD.org Solanke 5