AlShukaili1 Mohammed Al-Shukaili Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1101 26 February 2017 Air Pollution Effects it states in the Problem with Fossil article pollution is the addition of any harmful substances to the atmosphere, which causes the damaging to the environment, human health and the quality of (Pye, Jone 43).That clearly represents the severe risk of air pollution to the environment and humanity at the same time. Many international organizations have been established to eliminate or reduce the causes of air pollution. One of these organizations is Greenpeace. Greenpeace is a organization which seeks for making the planet purer and a suitable place to live in. Greenpeace was established in 1971 in Vancouver, Canada and it concentrates on clarifying the causes of some global issues, for example, air contamination and climate change (Greenpeace,2). Greenpeace always suggests using clean sources of energy for example solar, the wind and nuclear power as the first energy source, instead of using fossil fuel. The reason is that the burning of fossil fuel causes air consider as a leading cause of global warming. Greenpeace believes that the using of fossil fuel should be reduced; therefore, they deliver their message using two pictures of visual rhetoric that represent the problem of air pollution around the first image shows a group of people is raising many banners that have different statements written on it. In addition, there are some individuals wearing masks to express their suffering from air pollution. Moreover, there is a big poster has the name of the organization AlShukaili2 written on it to show the support of the organization to these people. According to the organization website, the message that people try to deliver is to stop using fossil fuel power and start using green power (Greenpeace web). The organization goal from this picture is to alarm the governments and the competent authorities about the air pollution problem .As the organization states on their website that their focus on attracting the world government attention in order to make them think seriously about the big threat of air pollution and global warming. Greenpeace wants them to come to grips with the problem and to know the future costs of using fossil fuel weather in endangering the health of people or destructing ecosystem. For this reason, the government should look for an alternative source such as nuclear, the wind and solar power which could the green power the first image, the organization used one of the most famous and efficient appeals called pathos. Pathos is an element which is used to agitate people feelings (Mclntyre, 19) According to Lee, Pathos an emotional response from a reader by appealing to empathy, fear, humor, or some other ( Lee, 20) .The appeal to emotion is clearly used by showing some people wearing masks, when actually breathing is one of the human rights. Therefore, when the audience especially officials individuals and jurists see this image, for sure they will have some responses. That will create pressure on the government in a way or another. In addition, the use of young people is an effective method to get attention. The reason is that young people are the engine of the societies, so world governments should make sure that young people are satisfied. In fact, the big poster that people are holding, in the first picture, plays a primary role in the image and has a significant impact on people emotion. According to Color Wheel Pro website, is the color of sunshine. associated with joy and Therefore, the message is clear, that people lose their joy when the air is AlShukaili3 contaminated. All in all, the organization uses an effective method that helps them deliver their message correctly in the first second image has two different and opposite sides. The First side is showing the pure, shiny and green life, where the other side is showing the dark and gray life, in another word In the bright side, it represents the planet without air contamination where it is an appropriate place for organisms to live in. At the same time, on the left side, it represents the planet with air contamination and inappropriate place to live in. The image shows that the tree the clean side is full of leaves, but deciduous plants in the contaminated side. The Greenpeace message is obvious. They express how the threat of air pollution in the environment is the same as it is in people health. From the image, you can see the amazing way of illustrating the environment. They represent the bad environment as the unhealthy man where the healthy man represents the clean environment. Greenpeace was very creative in this picture. They make the audiences open their imagination in order to understand the message.The organization gives the audience two choices whether they want to continue in polluting the environment or stop, with showing the impact of the uses pathos as the main rhetorical appeal. They use the color perfectly to play on emotions. According to Color Wheel website is associated with death, evil, and However, the right side is green which considered a color of happiness and prosperity as mentioned previously, which make the audience feel safe. On the other hand, the dead tree plays a useful role in sending the feeling of fear and horror to the audience. On the other side, there is a rainbow drawn on the bright side, which sends the feeling of happiness and AlShukaili4 in all, the organization present the impact of using fossil fuel in the environment and lives in two pictures. They discuss the threat of air pollution to the environment and how air pollution could turn the liveable environment to unlivable. The message of the first image delivered by showing a protest where the second image was delivered by comparing unhealthy environment with unhealthy one. The organization focuses on the appeal of emotion which worked perfectly in the two figures. Greenpeace is working hard to Caution people about the danger of air pollution which is the goal of the AlShukaili5 Work Cited Color Wheel Pro See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. GraphicSprings,2002.Web. 22 Feb 2017. are humansresponsible for global Environmental Defense Fund. Web. 22 Feb 2017. Joan, Pye. The Problemwith Fossil Fuel Putting The Aase For Nuclear Energy in The . 23 Feb 2017. Megan Mclntyre, KendraGayle and Lena. Display Etext. N. B. Web. 23 Feb 2017. Riverdale, NJ.Greenpeace. Million Annual Deaths From Air Pollution by 2050 Reports Web. 23 Feb 2017. AlShukaili6 AlShukaili7