Al Maamari 1 Mohammed Almaamari Professor Collins ENC 1102 26 September 2017 Free-smoke Campus Policies Smoking has remained an extreme threat to public health. Moreover, smoking has many types like cigars and smokeless tobacco, using these types causes various health issues and diseases. 22% of United States adults who are between 18 to 24 are current smokers (Seo 1). For instance, it has been detected that the rates of secondhand smoking, which is smoking from others cigars, and passive smoking, which is breathing others tobacco smoke, over United States citizens have raised. Therefore, many organizations have been established in order to stand against the danger of smoking. The American Lung Association is a voluntary health organization that was founded in 1904 by contributions from individual donors, foundations, and government (American Lung Association). The main purpose of this organization is to save lives by improving and ensuring the health knowledge to the public through the programs that are held by this organization. According to the American Lung Association main website, the association focuses on five vital goals: defeat lung cancer, improve breathing air, reduce the burden of lung diseases on individuals and their families, eliminate the diseases caused by tobacco and related products and finally they try to accelerate and enhance the effectiveness of their efforts. This association has spent much effort over years to educate Al Maamari 2 people about the danger of smoking and published many posters, however, two posters have been published in order to clarify that smoking is a real danger and they targeted all of the society layers through the information reflected the main goal of the association. As mentioned previously, the American Lung Association was founded in the beginning of the 20 th century. This organization aims to eliminate smoking and reduce the number of smokers around the United States. Moreover, this association tries to prevent the lung cancer through improving health knowledge through research, education, and advocacy. This organization worked for more than 50 years in order to develop effective methods and weapons to fight the increasing rates of diseases caused by smoking. They launched campaigns such as Christmas Seals campaign in order to declare the war against smoking (University of Virginia). The association considers itself as guardian to breathe. In addition, the association launched another movement, which is Lung Force that targets and unites women nationwide to stand against the dangers caused by smoking. Also, the American Lung Association works and spends much effort to protect the air for polluting since everyone has the right to breathe clean air. The American Lung Association offers many different programs, movements, and campaigns that let anyone share his own story and learn from other in order for everyone to benefit. The American Lung Association published the first image in 1983 titled as as an elephant on your This image has targeted every smoker in the world. Through this poster, they showed that smoking is an elephant on a chest like a heavy load. Since using pathos is important since it reflects emotions, in this figure, they included an image of a large elephant stands on a chest of a smoker in a scary way and this is how the Al Maamari 3 poster appeals to pathos since it makes the person feel bad about this situation. Moreover, this figure appeals to logos through the information provided in the image. In order to encourage smokers to quit, they included that more than 35 million Americans have quit smoking and therefore they have removed a heavy load from their lives. In terms of honesty and appealing to ethos, they included the logo of the association. In this figure, there is no timeliness, so there is no appealing to kairos in this figure. In terms of fallacies, the first figure has come into some fallacies. First, the goal is to convince smokers to quit. However, the advertisement did not include any evidence or fact that smoking is harmful. They did not say why! So this might be considered an appeal to Pity since the advertisement made smoking look like a heavy load on a life and persuading through emotions without evidence to prove that. Moreover, they chose the fact of that more than 35 million Americans quit smoking so, they have judged that smoking is harmful as a result of this fact. This might be considered an aspect of Post Hoc fallacy since they brought the fact of smoking is a heavy load in life as a result of that 35 million people quit which is not logic. The American Lung Association has published another poster in series of posters that educate people about how harmful is smoking. This advertisement has intended to target a wide and important layer of the society, which are women. Women are an important part of any society so, it is extremely important to educate women and ensure their knowledge about smoking. They included an image of a number of females in order to specify the intended audience of this advertisement. In terms of logic appeals, the image appealed to pathos through the slogans mentioned like we can help save and lung cancer in Moreover, the advertisement appealed Al Maamari 4 to ethos through the two logos that were included. The first logo is the association main logo and the other is a logo of a program founded by the association called Lung Force in order to fight lung cancer and also they included the website of the program. Also, the image appealed logos since it was mentioned that lung cancer is the #1 cancer killer of women. In terms of kairos or timeliness, they used it to invite women to participate in the Lung Force program through the phrase that says: THE The second advertisement also had some fallacies. In this advertisement, they tried to persuade the audience with threat because they included a fact that lung cancer is the number one killer of women and this might be considered an appeal to force. Moreover, they proposed a supposed truth that lung cancer is the number one killer of women because there is no other killer detected. So, this might be considered arguing from ignorance. Also, the advertisement assumes that if women smoke, they will eventually die and this might be a type of slippery slope fallacy. Moreover, they used statements like we fight lung as speak to emotions which might be considered an appeal to pity. In conclusion, advertising and marketing is a very important step for any organization and individual to achieve an intended goal. The American Lung Association is an old organization that stood against smoking for many years. This organization has established many programs in order to ensure the health knowledge of people like Lung Force program. They intended each layer in the society such as men and women because everyone in the society is an important part of it. Therefore, in order for this association to achieve this goal, they had to choose an effective way to acknowledge people. One of these ways was publishing posters. Two posters were selected in this paper to be Al Maamari 5 analyzed since they have different audience but the same goal, which is having a free smoke world. Al Maamari 6 Al Maamari 7 Works Cited Department of facilities managements. Tobacco  University of South Florida. Department of facilities managements, 04 Jan. 2016. Web. <http://www.usf.edu/administrative- services/environmental-health- safety/tobacco-free/faqs.aspx>. Introduction to the American Lung Association and the Fight against  University of Virginia (2007): n. pag. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://exhibits.hsl.virginia.edu/alav/>. Lung  American Lung Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.lung.org/>. Seo, Dong, Jonathan Macy, Mohammed Torabi, and Susan Middlestdt. The effect of a smoke- free campus policy on college smoking behaviors and  Science Direct 53.4-5 (2011): 347-52. USF. Web.