Watkis 1 Phillip Watkis English 1 Comp Emil Smith 5 March 2017 Change of Rugby and Football Overtime There has been a lot of changes in sports over the past decade because almost every team are getting more competitive because of the new technology and tools that each team has to improve their players. Many professional athletes have been getting bigger in body size and also getting faster as well, for example, Houston defensive end J.J Watt gained weight so he could have the size advantage over his opponents. NFL (National Football league) for instance, the games are getting way more competitive and sometimes it is hard to predict which team would finish the game with a win. Another sport that also changed over the past decade, due to intensity and competitiveness is professional Rugby. With these changes and evolution in American Football and Rugby affected many areas in each sport and three of the main areas are the psychological effects, concussions results, and physical injuries. The psychological effect that the sport have on the players is one the main challenges a player faces in American Football and Rugby. The article, Body Talk: Male Athletes Reflect on Sports, Injury and , which was published in 1994 talked about how the physical restraints and agony of American Football affected the masculinity. These restraints and agonies affected these players psychologically because players tend to play through injuries because they are intimated by their teammates and their coaches. Over the past decade, much Watkis 1 really change in this situation because it was mentioned in the article, The Nature of Player Burnout in Rugby: Key Characteristics and  which was published in 2006. The article talks about a  a feeling the rugby players go through where they feel tired and fatigued because of the high demands they receive from their coaches and teammates just like what the players go through in the NFL. These challenges that the players go through places a mental discomfort in their minds about their masculinity because in both time periods the players are still concerned about their play time if the injury is actually serious. Something that really changed over the past decade is the concussion results in American football and Rugby. Over the past few years, they have added new rules and regulations in both sports to protect the players so concussions results would decrease. The title of the article that showed the concussion results in the 2000-2010 era is An index predictive of cognitive outcome in retired professional American Football players with a history of sports . This articled showed that 5-10 percent of American Football players have a yearly risk of concussion not only that but 6.5 Percent of those that have concussion ends up playing through their concussion in the same season. Compared to the concussion explained in the article Concussions and Head injuries in English Community Rugby Match , which was published in 2017 showed that concussion back in the day for Football is way less compared to the concussion in rugby today. Concussion results are not the only factor that these organizations worry about but also overall injuries as well. In contact sports like American football and rugby players tend to get injured more than any other players from any other sports would. In the article, Contact Events in the Rugby Union and their Propensity to Cause , which was published in 2007 Watkis 1 talk about how serious some rugby injuries could be and also gave percentages of the different injuries. The article mentioned that 70 percent of collision in Rugby results in an injury and during scrums (the restart of a play after a minor violation) 60 percent of players get injured. Over time the injury rates as declined in rugby and American Football mentioned in the article, Injuries in American Collegiate Club Rugby: A Prospective . This article showed that over time more players started joining the Rugby league due to the injury rate declining was 350 percent. The second article also showed that that the injury rates in American Football are even way lower than what is reported in the Rugby Union compared to what the rate was back in 2007. As demonstrated in the discussion of Concussions results, physical injuries and psychological effect in American Football and Rugby, all of the articles showed what changed and what stayed the same over the past decade. The psychological effect stayed the same for both sports over the years, because the masculinity is still being put to the test. The only two things that changed over the past decade was the injury and concussion results. The main changed was the injury results in American Football compared to Rugby. One of the articles mentioned that Rugby is physical in nature so therefore the injury rates would always stay high. (word count 807) Watkis 1 Work Cited Willigenburg, Nienke W., et al. Comparison of Injuries in American Collegiate Football And Club Rugby: A Prospective Cohort  The American Journal Of Sports Medicine 3 (2016): 753. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Kevin Young, Philip White, and William McTeer. Body Talk: Male Athletes Reflect On Sport, Injury, And  Sociology Of Sport Journal 11.2 (1994): 175-194. Education Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Cresswell, Scott, and Robert Eklund. The Nature Of Player Burnout In Rugby: Key Characteristics And  Journal Of Applied Sport Psychology 18.3 (2006): 219. Publisher Provided Full-Text Searching File. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Roberts, Simon P., et al. Concussions And Head Injuries In English Community Rugby Union Match  American Journal Of Sports Medicine 45.2 (2017): 480-487. CINAHL. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Fuller, Colin W., et al. Contact Events in Rugby Union and Their Propensity to Cause  British Journal of Sports Medicine, no. 12, 2007, p. 862. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.172621385&site=eds-live Wright, Mathew J., et al. An Index Predictive of Cognitive Outcome in Retired Professional American Football Players with a History of Sports  Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology, no. 5, 2016, p. 561. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/13803395.2016.1139057.