Staggers 1 Alexandria Staggers Emil Smith ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Success What does it mean to be successful? Is it simply waking up in the morning, or making six figures on your salary? Just focusing on academics, success is very easy to define. It can be determined by a single letter grade or number out of one hundred on a standardized test. But there are more ways to look at overall success in schools, music and extracurricular activities involving music, playing a role as well. Teachers and businesses are starting to recognize the value of the arts everywhere. With the vast amount of research being done, findings suggest that music offers a unique way for students to grow intellectually, socially, and emotionally. Research also notices that high quality programs promote better test scores. Some studies even argue that even without those benefits, music helps children grow into creative problem solving adults with much needed 21st century skills. Music education and academic success has been looked at in a number of different ways changing perception over the past decade, with the focal point of research going from quantitative to qualitative data. In the early researchers took a direct approach music education in correlation to test scores. In this article of Relationships between Participation in School Music Programs of Differing Quality and Standardized Test the title says it all. Written in 2006 it exhibits insight into the beginning stages of research in the field. Within the text it looks at specific age groups and academic achievement with a statistic scientific approach. They have a Staggers 2 sample size of 3,630 middle school students, and a sample size of 1,119 elementary students. They focus on 3-4th grade in the elementary group and 8-9th grade in the middle school group. Some factors that they take into account in their experiment are instructional quality as well as the initial end goal, test scores and level of participation. They found that the elementary group of students data showed higher english and mathematics scores than the kids who were in lower quality music programs. On the other hand they found that level of instruction was not a differential factor in test scores for the middle schoolers, however it was better than no music classes at all. Later on research starts to question its original methods and look at different angles. The rise of other areas of academics besides test scores begins. Researchers start to look at things like grades, reading, and comprehension. They do this by using mixed methods to collect data. It was said multiple methods is a valuable approach that does not merely duplicate data but also offers complementary insights and understandings that may be difficult to access through reliance on a single method of data One example of this comes from John Vitale in 2011. In his article he studies perceptions and perspectives of four groups of people. With a sample size of 100; 25 elementary school teachers, 25 elementary students, 25 parents, and 25 non-music teachers. The methods he used were surveys and focus groups. He asked all participants to respond to ten statements based on a five point likert scale, then selected four people from each group and had intimate discussions on each statement. He found that all the groups except music teachers thought music had a positive effect on performance in math and science. All of the groups were in favor of funding music education for its benefits in math and science. Only music teachers had an extensive knowledge of music. All groups believed music Staggers 3 has a positive effect on cognitive skills and all groups except students saw value in music to society and education. He not only received numerical data based on the answers of the survey questions but he got opinions from the people. Just five years later in 2016 studies are using a whole new idea, skills and not scores. Heather Nicole Winter said when IQ is constant, music lessons are still connected to academic achievement, simply put, children who take music lessons are good In her article she discusses how studies in relation to test results are giving mixed results. Some being well-founded, and some being exaggerations. She informs her audience that just quantitative data of test scores lack causation. Many reasons could be behind those grades and the big picture is more important. Denese Odegaard highlight this theory in saying and the other arts foster in our students the characteristics employers want to see in the people they This article discusses the factors and specific skills directly related to participation in school music education programs. She lists these under four main 21st century skills. These are Creativity, Communication, Collaboration, and Critical Thinking. Just a few examples from each category in order are variations and improvisation, interacting using nonverbal communication, each person being responsible for their own part and putting it together, and using previously learned tools in later projects. Nearly twenty years ago research was mainly focused on difference in test scores. In time they found that this was not the best way to analyze improvement because there were too many outliers and so many other methods to try. Currently people are starting to look at success in a broader light. As schools fight to keep music programs they need more evidence to give. Staggers 4 Researchers today are more interested in qualitative data rather than quantitative as they were before. Staggers 5 Work Cited Johnson, Christopher M., and Jenny E. Memmott. of Relationships between Participation in School Music Programs of Differing Quality and Standardized Test of Research in Music Education , vol. 54, no. 4, 2006, pp. Vitale, John L. Makes You Smarter: A New Paradigm for Music Education? Perceptions and Perspectives from Four Groups of Elementary Education Journal of Education / Revue Canadienne De , vol. 34, no. 3, 2011, pp. Odegaard, Denese. Music Education Is Key To Success In School And  Educators Journal 103.2 (2016): 6-7. Search Premier . Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Winter, Heather Nicole. The Link Between Music Lesson And Iq In  Music Teacher 66.2 (2016): 14-18. Search Premier . Web. 24 Jan. 2017.