Sturm 1 Harrison Sturm Professor Staiger ENC 1102.005 14 March 2017 The Goal of NASA: Exploring Mars From Sputnik to the International Space Station (ISS), humanity has reached towards the stars in attempts to understand the universe. One of the forerunners in this effort is the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, better known by the simplified term NASA. A pioneer organization in exploring space, NASA has done what was considered for centuries impossible: placing man on the Moon, building a fully functioning space station in orbit around Earth, sending probes to investigate foreign worlds, build the Hubble Telescope, and countless other milestones of scientific progress. However, one of the biggest goals since the beginning of the turn of the century that has yet to be accomplished is perhaps the most fantasized and ridiculed challenges in human history, having mankind walk on Mars. Despite being seen as a waste of time and resources due to increasing delays, NASA still pushes heavily for a manned study on Mars. Humanity has the potential to reach Mars, as is shown in the pictures below from the NASA website. These pictures show the willingness of the human spirit by using rhetoric appeals to convey the message that a long road is worth traveling to reach great destinations. The first picture shows the current phase of human space exploration which focuses on low Earth orbit and development of new technologies. The second picture presents a mix of current plans of sending robotic probes to Mars and near future goals of sending manned missions once enough data and technology has been amassed. Sturm 2 NASA has proven man can reach neighboring celestial bodies, whether it be having man walk there himself or by having robotic rovers help us indirectly explore the solar system. The plans of sending a research team to Mars have been in place since the early but the technology has only just been developed. Kairos is used in the second picture to emphasize when NASA is planning to send manned mission to Mars. While a manned mission to Mars seems laughable to the general public due to long delays in action, NASA has several plans ready to get to the red planet. According to an article on the NASA website by Jim Wilson are challenges to pioneering, Mars but we know they are solvable. We are well on our way to getting there, landing there, and living (Wilson 3). The long wait, despite making the idea seem more implausible with each passing year, is part of the process in which by the it is very possible to send and establish a self sustaining colony to Mars. Kairos reinforces this by stating planned dates on when manned missions will occur and what the goals are in the second picture. NASA proved that the waiting was necessary to send man to the Moon which in turn amazed the world once accomplished and it is very likely NASA will do the same in the near future. To reinforce the statements on how the long delays on exploring Mars are helping to improve the success of the endeavour, NASA has listed several documents and reports on how to get there. The most prominent plan is to use a multi staged mission that will require precise timing and technique. The rhetoric appeal of pathos reinforces this in the second picture which states how close humanity actually is to reaching Mars. As stated by Mike Well on Space.com, is taking a multistep approach to its ultimate goal of putting boats on (Well 1). These steps are not easy and just like first attempts to explore space they are theoretical and dangerous. For example, it is suggested to use an asteroid as a means of travel, Sturm 3 something that would have been considered impossible only a decade or two in the past. The first human explorers on Mars are also likely to be sent on a one way mission or a prolonged stay on the surface of the red planet. A colony on Mars would have to be self sufficient and able to adapt to any situation regardless of what materials available while having almost no chance for relief efforts. These goals would be impossible at worst and unlikely at best if man launched rockets straight towards Mars without the experience of careful scientific studying in Earth orbit for the past few years. Thanks to previous missions and delays, NASA has gained valuable data that could give explorers a safe trip to Mars which may result in future experiments for the next push into space. Pathos keeps these hopes alive by informing the public on the smaller but critical success that drive space exploration forward. However, NASA is not the only agency that has eyes on Mars and knows that the goal may require the help of others. Space agencies from other countries and even private companies are all competing to reach the next milestone in human space exploration. This competitiveness does not force these groups into a new however. The ISS is proof that combined efforts can achieve greatness and that the era of working alone is coming to a close. Ethos is used in the first picture to show how several companies and agencies have their interests in space. NASA realizes that it is impractical to work alone using specifically rockets and machines designed, built, and are limited to only NASA. It is impossible to operate alone any longer if any significant gains are to be made but the same goes for other groups as well. Instead, Nature writer Alexandra Witze states that agency asked five companies for information about what sorts of Mars orbiters they might be able to build, and how quickly and cheaply that could be (Witze 2). A mutual agreement and partnership allows better results in less time with Sturm 4 fewer costs which is exactly what is needed for an efficient mission to Mars to occur. The partnership may seem disheartening to some, especially the prideful, but mankind has proven that working together is better than working alone and NASA is can work with other organizations to discover the universe. Ethos is used to show just how close humanity is to reaching Mars, inspiring and reminding the public on the long process to reach another celestial body and is reinforced in the first picture which states that humanity is in the last stages of the commercial development phase of spacial exploration. As for a final reason for why humanity should continue to expand into space is the improvement of the economy. The rhetoric device of logos is subtly implied in both pictures as to what a future in space exploration could entail. Earth is a small place to be restrained to in the terms of business. Space however has nearly infinite possibilities ranging from large deposits of rare resources that can be exploited with few environmental impacts to researching new technologies. The Twenty First Century has proven what is science fiction today can become science fact tomorrow if enough effort is put into the idea. Mars would be a new world to develop and study, open new markets and learn about, a new home for the overpopulated and a stepping stone further into the Solar System. Writer Ahmed K. Noor voices that a manned mission to Mars may lead to commercialization of extraterrestrial (Noor 3). Expanding into space would be a risky and expensive venture for several commercial businesses, but also a profitable one if successful. Earth has been the main focus for all businesses interests, Mars and by extension space might be the next as logos implies. Rhetoric appeals in both pictures help reinforce the idea of exploring of Mars. While the idea may seem like a waste of time and resources, NASA has proven in the past that delays can Sturm 5 lead to success if used properly. Mars holds discoveries that could change the fields of science, a treasure chest of knowledge but only one that can be found if humanity can reach it. NASA holds the potential of getting humanity onto our nearest planetary neighbor and uncovering these secrets even if that potential is years in advance. To reach Mars would not only be a scientific victory for NASA or a select few, it would instead be a scientific victory for humanity. NASA may take years to get there, but a steady supply of research, funding, and a great deal of patience can bring the daring few to a new horizon. Sturm 6 Work Cited Noor, Ahmed K., et al. A Step Closer to  Mechanical Engineering, vol. 128, no. 11, Nov. 2006, pp. 24-30. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ac i&AN=501335045&site=eds-live. Wilson, Jim. to Mars , NASA, 16 Sept. 2016, www.nasa.gov/content/journey-to-mars-overview. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Witze, Alexandra. Rethinks Approach to Mars , Nature, 6 Oct. 2016, www.nature.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/news/nasa-rethinks-approach-to-mars-exploration-1 .20758. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Writer, Mike Wall Space.com Senior. to Mars: Here Are All of the Red Planet Plans in the , Space.com, 12 Oct. 2016, www.space.com/34365-mars-missions-by-nasa-spacex-and-more.html. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Sturm 7