Roger Pan Seth Spencer ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Rights and Fair Treatment In all reality, we all have worked a job(s) or soon will in the future. We all hope it will be a place where we are happy to work at since many consider an occupation as a second home. However, those that are not as fortunate have several groups with supportive members to stand up with them so their voices will be heard. One of the several worker activist groups include the Jobs with Justice organization. The group Jobs with Justice is a global worker activist organization that deeply supports equal and humane treatment of all workers different fields of work. With over one hundred thousand members, Jobs with Justice stays on the production lines by attending protests, rallies, and multiple movements across different areas. According to Jobs with Justice history page, they founded the group in 1987 and have winning campaigns that build power for working people; advancing a sustainable and powerful network of grassroots coalitions; supporting the growth and leadership of local leaders and (Jobs with Justice History) On top of that, this group has helped strengthen rights and their respectful working environments. Jobs with Justice uses certain images to grab attention. The use of Pathos, Logos, and Ethics within the two images derived from the Jobs with Justice social media page are used to grab the attention about the treatment and rights of all workers. Jobs with Justice and many organizations like it follow a code of fair treatment toward all workers. Especially the ones with the most pressure and high replacement rate similar like those in factories and/or minimum wage workers. Workers like them treated properly to what they deserve. Instead, they are treated by the amount of good they produce and how much profit Pan 2 that could be sustained by each individual member. One of several most well won victories that was received by this worker activist group was with Smithfield pork company in North Carolina. According to Jobs with Justice website, after a fourteen-year campaign, 5,500 low wage workers were allowed to gain rights to join union at Smithfield and had a say of what was on their mind. First of the rhetorical appeals in the flowing images is ethos. Ethos in definition is the ability to convince someone with credibility. Image one although have any written name of the stakeholder at hand, it is displayed by Jobs with Justice on one of its main advertising age on social media. As an organization that sincerely wants the best for in all scenarios, the image stating it to is like calling it to holds a lot of credibility since the meaning of the phrase is what this particular group is striving for to uncover and fix. The image alone without the words shows a man swimming in a body of water and he seems perfectly fine. However, with the addition of the caption, it is now clear to the reader that he (the swimmer) is actually having trouble swimming and in comparison, is similar to certain occupations that companies state that they have the right to work when in reality the workers have no rights. Image two is directly representing Jobs with Justice. The image shows nothing more than the name of the organization in the top left corner and then an image of a group of workers over a brightly colored background depicting the several different ethnic backgrounds in different fields of work. It shows the credibility of the organization and what it truly stands for. The picture shows many types of workers the organization supports with all the workers posed in a heroic stance. The middle character in the image is a construction worker with a hammer which seems to be showing the unified power of all the workers against intolerance from companies with Jobs with Justice backing up all the people. Pan 3 The second use of rhetorical appeal is pathos. Pathos in definition is the appeal to emotions. In image one, the image grabs the attention of the perfectly fine swimmer, however, with the caption it seems to sear deep inside the head of the reader. The fact that what seems real and what is actual reality seems to unfold and become clear. That even though many people whose working these jobs have the potential possibility of having work issues may not express it until obvious. Any reader will the chance to ponder, many people do I meet every day that seems to be doing perfectly fine at their occupations but really are Image two seems to grab the emotions of audiences the most. The image shows five different workers: the protester/drifter, the medical worker, the construction worker, the waiter, and the janitor. All of these workers cover a respective field of jobs in general and all audience types can relate. The background color of the image is multi colored to represent different backgrounds of people. It comes to show that Jobs with Justice not only supports those that have low income jobs but those with incomes all across the line. The third rhetorical appeal is logos. Logos is the appeal to logic and reason. Image one again states the fact that not everything is what it seems and people should look closely to workers of jobs that may seem to have trouble with a certain company. The idea that an iceberg is only twenty percent above water and eighty percent under said a lot about this image as well. Actions speak louder than words, so speaking up would help make all the difference in the world. Jobs with Justice is an organization built from the ground up by workers and those that support fair rights of workers; and it stop growing. Getting fair treatment and what workers deserve is what this organization aims for. Pan 4 Image two shows a group of diverse workers coming together as one for the same cause. These workers come together to fight for what is right. The background color on the poster represent the different ethnic backgrounds there are in the workforce. However, even with this mix, every individual worker should have the equal and fair rights as the man next to him. No matter what occupation one holds, everyone is the same. Equal and fair treatment because the goal is the same. The goal of coming to work happy and being able to support family. Jobs with Justice stands for getting all of this to its supporters and those they support. The two images show a great amount of pathos, ethos, and logos to display their thought on the matter. Jobs with Justice wants the audience to understand how it feels like to be one of those workers that feel like they are treated fairly and to how all the workers can join under one unified goal. The goal that they will have to do what is right and what needs to be done. Pan 5 Work Cited Jobs with Justice  Jobs with Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.  Jobs with Justice Facebook. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Retail Workers Bill of  Retailworkers.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017.