Strange 1 Mikaela Strange Seth Spencer ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Logos, Ethos and Pathos in Americans for Safe Access Americans for Safe Access is an organization dedicated to the safe and legal usage of medical marijuana for the purposes of therapy, medicine and research. The dedication to patients suffering from diseases such as cancer, disease and even PTSD has not been without critique and their efforts to spread awareness on the use of medical marijuana been without difficulty. Americans for Safe Access has created many images used to inform and persuade the public that medical marijuana is a safe and beneficial medicine for certain diseases. One image made by Americans for Safe Access presents a professional football player standing in a stadium and a message about the use of medical marijuana to cure chronic pain. A second image from Americans for Safe Access presents the image of a soldier in uniform sitting on the ground of a cemetery with his head in his hands. The images use modes of persuasion such as pathos, ethos and logos to present the idea that the use of medical marijuana will help those who are dealing with mental illnesses and chronic pain. Through these rhetoric elements the images are able to influence the audience that the use of medical marijuana can benefit everyday people. By targeting both audiences, Americans for Safe Access is able to make the use of medical marijuana applicable to everyone. Strange 2 Strange 3 Pathos is a mode or persuasion that uses emotion to convince the audience to have a certain emotional response to an issue or picture. In image one the football player is standing in a stadium with a tough look on his face. However, the message on the image states that in 10 retired players suffer from pain on a daily The tough persona of the football player with the message that professional athletes suffer from pain allows the audience to see that even people as strong as professional athletes get chronic pain which thus makes the image more relatable to the audience. Also, the organization uses the image of football in order to invoke an emotional response from the audience. America is known for their love for football and therefore, by using the image of football, a greater audience can be reached because those who enjoy football will be more attracted to the picture. Image two also displays a great amount of pathos as it presents the image of a soldier in uniform sitting in a cemetery with his head in his hands. The image of a soldier in uniform immediately presents the idea of honor and dedication to the United States, however the cemetery and defeated body language presents the idea that the soldier is struggling mentally. Pathos allows the audience to feel sympathy for the soldier as those who are in the armed forces are more often perceived as honorable and courageous individuals. This creates the want to help service members who may be suffering from PTSD and makes the audience rethink the use of medical marijuana as it may help those who are suffering from mental diseases such as depression and PTSD. Ethos can also be displayed in both images. Ethos is a mode of persuasion that appeals to ethics and uses credibility and character to reach an audience. Image one displays ethos by using Strange 4 the credibility of a professional football player to reach an audience that may be apprehensive towards the use of medical marijuana. By presenting the idea that medical marijuana helps professional athletes defeat chronic pain, an audience is more likely to think its use is credible. This strategy can be seen in image two as well. Again, the image of a soldier conveys the idea of honor and dependability which makes the idea of the use of medical marijuana to treat mental disorders more credible. Audiences will tend to believe that using medical marijuana is also dependable if someone such as a serviceman uses marijuana. Along with pathos and ethos, logos can be found in both of the images. Logos is the mode of persuasion that appeals to logic. Logos most often refers to the use of statistics and facts present within a picture or work of writing. In image one the picture states million Americans suffer from chronic and that in 10 retired players suffer from pain on a daily Hard facts such as this grip the attention to the problem at hand making them think of possible solutions available to fix it. In the case of these pictures that solution is medical marijuana. In image two it states that is a 5% reduction in suicide rates in medical marijuana These statistics allow the audience to see the benefits of using medical marijuana for those who suffer from mental diseases like PTSD or depression. Although pathos is an appeal to the emotions, certain statistics or wording of statistics can reach an audience on an emotional level. Image two states veterans a day commit which immediately stands out to the audience on an emotional level. Because of the positive connotation behind veterans the statistics behind their suicide rates can also appeal to emotions as well. Image statistics on the veterans a day commit also displays Kairos. Kairos is the mode of persuasion that appeals to a sense of urgency and timeliness. By explaining that 22 veterans are committing suicide everyday a sense of urgency develops in order Strange 5 to help prevent the deaths. The audience of the image is more likely to consider the use of medical marijuana because of the sense of urgency present. The image also states that could save the life of 1 hero everyday, it be worth which again presents a sense of urgency as it pushes the audience to want to save one person every day. Kairos can not only appeal to a sense of urgency and timeliness, but it also appeals to history. Image one uses Kairos to reach its audience through a historical appeal. Football has long been known as favorite sport and therefore appeals to the American audience. Football, as opposed to baseball or basketball, is more relatable to the audience as more people watch the sport. Therefore more people are inclined to think about using medical marijuana to cure their chronic pain because it is more relatable to them. When analyzing an image, logos, pathos and ethos the only elements that appeal to an audience. The color theory is a theory that involves the idea that colors can affect the way people feel about certain images. For example, in image one blue is a prominent color and according to the color theory blue represents strength and dependability. By making the football jersey blue and the stadium blue, the audience is more likely to feel as though the use of medical marijuana is dependable and will make them stronger. The color theory can also be used in the second image as it is predominately green making one feel peaceful and creating an emphasis on health. Although the circumstances of the soldier in the image are not peaceful, the solider is searching for peace and through the statistics of the 5% reduction in suicide rates in states that allow the use of medical marijuana; the audience could perceive the soldier as eventually finding peace. Strange 6 The goal of both images is to persuade an audience to consider the use of medical marijuana in circumstances that involve the betterment of health. Americans for Safe Access uses pathos, logos, ethos, and Kairos in order to reach an audiences emotion, logic, morals and sense of urgency. The color theory is also used to invoke feelings of dependability, strength, peace and health within the two images shown. Through these techniques Americans for Safe Access is able to reach audiences who would otherwise be hesitant about using medical marijuana or advocating for the legalization of medical marijuana. However, by presenting statistics and using pathos to create an emotional response one might reconsider the idea of Americans for Safe goal to ensure the safe and legal access of medical marijuana for the purposes of therapy, medicine, and research. Strange 7 Work Cited: Americans for Safe Access August 11, 2014, 2017 NORML February 24, and Paul Armentano February 24, 2017. Medical Marijuana Advocates Run Ads In USA Today NFL  The Daily Chronic. N.p., 12 Aug. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rovell, Darren. NFL Most Popular for 30th Year in  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 26 Jan. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Veterans for Safe Access and Compassionate Care Supports Equal Access  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.