Sanson 1 Jacqueline Sanson Erika Staiger Composition II 26 February 2017 PETA Advertisements In the debate for how market animals should be treated, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals also known as PETA, is firmly against the use of any animal for market. They are an animal rights group that campaigns against many practices the organization finds immoral including circuses, fur clothing, and animal abuse. To get their point across to a larger audience it is important that they create advertisements that use several types of appeals. In the following two images one depicts a celebrity labeled like meat would be and the second shows a young boy smoking. PETA has used ethos, pathos, and logos to persuade the general public to become vegetarian by using these two images. In the first photo Pamela Anderson is being used to appeal to ethos. PETA has many advertisements that use well known celebrities in their campaigns. Celebrities are often looked up to by people who admire them and PETA uses this to their advantage by using celebrities, like Pamela Anderson, to encourage other people to be like the celebrities in their campaigns. The celebrities in advertisements promote better treatment of animals and therefore encourage others to do the same. Along with the influence that Pamela Anderson has in pop culture she is also being sexualized in this photo. This gives of the idea that vegetarianism is a sexually appealing diet. The advertisement with Pamela Anderson along with other celebrity advertisements made by PETA often harms their message more than they help. Megan Fletcher of Bridgewater Sanson 2 State University states, when it comes to animal rights Pamela Anderson is not a credible source. She is an actress, which outside this advertisement has little ties to animal rights. Although she does not add credibility when it comes to animal rights topics, she is used as a tactic. The use of reveling clothing makes Pamela Anderson sexualized making vegetarianism seem like a sexually appealing diet (Fletcher 47). Many of advertisements use this tactic of sexualized women to get their point across. In a study conducted by Bongiorno, Bain, and Haslam from the Australian Research Council, it was determined that advertisements by PETA, which included this tactic, often created negative attitudes in the audience. The researchers stated that sum, our findings indicate that organizations promoting ethical causes should be especially concerned with communicating their message ethically, specifically in ways that do not dehumanize Therefore, although PETA often uses this tactic to produce social change, it is ineffective as shown by this study. The first image shown also uses pathos to promote vegetarianism and aims to evoke empathy towards animals. They do this by marking different parts of a human with the parts and names used in different meats. By doing this, the viewer is challenged to see animals as equal to humans. Fletcher discusses that, tend to feel the most obligations towards those whom they share substance with. It is important for PETA to expand who humans share substance with in order for there to be a deeper moral obligation and thus a human and animal collective The advice given by Fletcher is put into practice in this advertisement because of the use of labeling to show the similarities of humans and non-human animals. Another use of pathos in this advertisement is the use of a This gives the viewer a sense that it is their moral obligation to not consume animals because consuming them would mean they were heartless. Sanson 3 The second advertisement with the young boy also elicits pathos. In this photo instead of empathy, the use of shock is conveyed in the idea of letting a young child smoke. The negative effects of smoking are well known and therefore parents would not let their children use it. PETA then compares smoking to eating meat by saying that both increase cancer and the risk of heart disease. In this campaign PETA has opted out of making animal care a moral obligation and has instead made the action seem harmful to the individual viewing this advertisement. This approach could be to widen their appeal to viewers trying not to confront moral issues caused by consuming animals (Fletcher 37). As stated by Fletcher to do this must stigmatize eating Overall the use of pathos was seen to be the most effective form of appeal in PETA advertisements in a study done by Fletcher. In the study, material that made the viewers uncomfortable about potential animal suffering had the strongest effect because the individual wanted to change what was making them uncomfortable (Fletcher 32). Another appeal used in the second image is logos. This is done by stating that eating meat is just as bad as smoking because both increase heart disease and cancer. This is effective because people want to stay healthy so this information deters people from eating meat if it is negatively affecting their health. The logos in this particular advertisement does not add much to the message as it has no numbers to back up its claim. Also, the claim is not backed by the Journal of Internal Medicine which states, consumption contributes several important nutrients to the diet, for example essential amino acids, vitamins (including B12) and minerals (including iron and Therefore, there is health benefits to consuming meat that are not portrayed in this advertisement. PETA does not have any evidence for their claim in this advertisement which can be misleading to the audience who may be unaware of health risks and Sanson 4 benefits that meat consumption has. That being said logos is not often used in PETA campaigns as much of their material relies on pathos like mistreated animals and sex appeal. In conclusion, PETA uses a variety of rhetorical appeals to cause social changes. In the specific photos discussed in this paper logos, ethos and pathos are used. Pathos proves to be the most effective, this is because people often feel guilt toward the suffering of animals (Fletcher 32). To elicit these feelings of guilt Peta often pushes the idea that animals are just like us and therefore humans have moral obligations towards them just like they would have towards other humans. On the other hand, the use of ethos often adds little to message. The celebrities that they use in their campaigns often have little to do with animal right and therefore do not give any credibility to the advertisement. Although logos is not often used by PETA it could be beneficial to them by adding credibility to their advertisements. Lastly, use of sexualized women and other sexual content has not helped their cause and also damages their credibility. It only raises the question of ethicality when it comes towards women and detracts from the seriousness of animals rights (Fletcher 36). Sanson 5 Sanson 6 Work Cited Bongiorno, Renata, Paul Bain, and Nick Haslam. When Sex Sell: Using Sexualized Images of Women Reduces Support for Ethical  When Sex Sell: Using Sexualized Images of Women Reduces Support for Ethical Campaigns. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0083311>. Fletcher, Megan. Virtual Commons - Bridgewater State  Virtual Commons. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Peta. Advertisement. The Frisky, www.thefrisky.com/2015-01-28/peta-made-me-do-it-the-7- types-of-sexist-peta-ads-that-turned-me-to-meat/. Accessed 23 Feb. 2017. Peta. Advertisement. Vocativ, http://www.vocativ.com/culture/science/petas-outrageously- dishonest-ad-campaigns/ Accessed 23 Feb. 2017. What PETA REALLY Stands  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/features/peta-really-stands/>. Wolk, A. Potential Health Hazards of Eating Red  Journal of Internal Medicine, no. 2, 2017, p. 106. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/joim.12543.