Wilcox 1 Mitchell Wilcox Erika Staiger ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Greenpeace Greenpeace is a non-profit organization that works to protect and conserve the environment. A growing issue in the global environment is the increasing amounts of carbon dioxide emissions and the affects that result from them. This CO2 issue is something that Greenpeace is trying to bring to light, and in turn reduce to improve overall air quality. The two images presented are a call to action to make an effort to reduce CO2 emissions. In the first image, a giant, fictional, metaphorical, CO2 gas cloud looms over a city to try to incite that a monster has been created. In the second image, an old vehicle discharges a large CO2 gas cloud near a protester standing by supporting the reduction of CO2 emissions. In both images, Ethos, Logos, Pathos and Kairos are used to convey the harsh truth, specifically through cars, of the growing CO2 emission problem. In the first image, an enormous, animated CO2 gas cloud is standing over a large city. Right next to the city is a large, multiple lane highway. In bold letters, on the top of the image it is saying to pursue politicians to car CO2 and have created a This could be considered a call to action for people wanting to contribute to this cause. The rhetorical appeal of Kairos is present in this advertisement because Kairos refers to timeliness and reaching out to politicians is suggested to be an opportune time. This image is trying to send a message of fear, through the use of this hypothetical CO2 gas monster. This can directly relate to the rhetorical appeal of pathos. The fear of this and the possibility of it getting Wilcox 2 worse could possibly cater to the emotions of someone. The image is giving people a suggestion to reach out politicians to help reduce CO2 emissions specifically from cars. The last rhetorical appeal used in this image is logos. This advertisement is trying to logic about the CO2 emission problem and that something needs to be done. Also in the image there is a man standing up, dressed in a work suit, against the monster. Next to the man there is a meter for current signatures and the target goal for signatures needed so politicians can vote on cleaner cars. One way to reduce the emissions of CO2 from cars is the of size of gasoline engine (downsizing), appears to be a promising way to improve engine efficiency and is subject to extensive Downsizing of Gasoline Engine (P. Leduc). Although the downsizing of gas combustion engines would positively affect the carbon dioxide problem, downsizing will not be enough to bring the entire gasoline fleet to the requested CO2 and that significant progress will have to be made terms of gasoline engine specific fuel consumption, especially for bigger In the second image, you see what is an old car spewing out an unnecessarily large CO2 gas cloud out of its exhaust pipe into the air. This image relates to all four main rhetorical appeals. Next to the car is a protester holding two flags that say This could be considered to be a call to action, because in this staged photo, there is a bumper sticker on the back of the car that says the climate killer No This directly relates to Kairos, similarly to the first image, because this is a growing problem and Greenpeace is trying to encourage people that something must be done. One could consider that this message is logical because no one would want to breath this toxic air in so this would exemplify Logos. This photo is photo directly from Greenpeace, and the official Greenpeace logo can be found in the right corner of this image. This would refer to Ethos because it is a credible image. According to Greenpeace, in Wilcox 3 some rare instances, based on location, CO2 concentrations actually help ecosystems support more plant and animal (Trowbridge). With this being said, excess CO2 in cites or high populated area is not something Greenpeace supports. The Scientific American Journal describes the year of 2012 to be carbon dioxide output (Morello). This alarming statistic means that the amount of CO2 levels continue to rise to date and CO2 emissions are still on track to meet or exceed the most extreme emissions scenarios outlined by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in its 2007 (Morello). Lastly, this image uses scare tactics through the harshness of the CO2 cloud, and through the words on the bumper stickers to relate to the rhetorical appeal of Pathos. In the images selected, a call to action is being made to support the reduction of CO2 emissions. In tandem, the images have to do with the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions of cars and could suggest that alternative changes need to be made to cars or the consideration of the type of cars used to do something about the emission problem. Greenpeace being an environmental protection organization wants to see the reduction of high CO2 levels to improve overall air quality. In both images, Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos are used to convey the harsh truth, specifically through cars, of the growing CO2 problem. Wilcox 4 Works Cited Leduc, P., B. Dubar, A. Ranini, and G. Monnier. Downsizing of Gasoline Engine: An Efficient Way to Reduce CO2  Oil & Gas Science and Technology. EDP Sciences, 01 Dec. 2006. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Morello, Lauren, and ClimateWire. Global CO2 Emissions from Fossil-Fuel Burning Rise into High-Risk  Scientific American. N.p., 03 Dec. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Trowbridge, Jamie. Carbon Dioxide Is Green, Smoking Is Good for You & Soda Strengthens Tooth  Greenpeace USA. N.p., 05 July 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Wilcox 5