Daya 1 Joshua Daya Ms. Collins ENC 1002 25 February 2017 Visually Changing People on The Death Penalty As the states, a picture is worth a thousand words. This is true for any advertisement, piece of art, etc. in society. For the death penalty, advertisements and cartoons can sway public opinion to become for or against the death penalty. The stakeholder organization Amnesty International can do just that with their own advertisements and cartoons displayed for the public eye to see everywhere. Amnesty International strives for the protection of human rights in terms of violating the right to life. This is shown via their multiple advertisements on the death penalty and their view on the death penalty is displayed through these advertisements. The stakeholder organization bases their actions on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as many other standards when it comes to the fight for international rights. On their website, they state that they work to unite from all over the world to fight for human rights using their signature (Amnesty International, 2017). These tactics include: research, action, and advocacy. Amnesty International hopes to assure that they can help those who are struggling with their right to life. Now presented below are two images made by Amnesty International that clearly show a strong opposition to the death penalty and any action that involves the violation of basic human rights. Both images display the four rhetorical appeals of pathos, Kairos, ethos, and logos. The use of these four rhetorical appeals in the two images successfully aid in the goal of convincing public opinion to go against the death penalty. Daya 2 Both images have a set goal in mind, to make the public feel against the death penalty. However, they can achieve this goal in different ways. Both images have a different theme and they utilize the rhetorical appeal of ethos. In the first image, a young version of an authoritative figure is presented. This image that the public sees can remind people that in the this young man will become one of the greatest figures in the fight against the death penalty. According to Jessica McKee, ethos has the author attempt persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Ethos, 27). This kind of stature on the impactful figure gives authority and leverage to the advertisement and Amnesty International to emotionally impact the audience to do something about the issue of the death penalty. The second image uses ethos by showing the actions of the image. The people on the left demonstrate authority by forcing the other person to hang himself. This can symbolize oppression and violence which can cause people to have an emotional response to this image. A logical fallacy can be found in the written text of the first image. Amnesty International is caught using Hasty Generalizations by stating the Big Human Rights Defenders Used to Be Little (Amnesty International, 2017). According to the Purdue OWL website, the logical fallacy hasty generalization can be defined as conclusion based on insufficient or biased (Weber, 2013). There is no evidence whatsoever to back up that all the notorious figures in human rights started from very little. There been exceptions to this hasty generalization. However, since there is a relatable young figure that most people know turned out to be an iconic figure in history, the public will overlook those exceptions. This move turned out to be quite effective for Amnesty International. The rhetorical appeal of pathos is also shown in these two images from Amnesty International. According to Kendra Gayle Lee, pathos is to draw in the audience and help Daya 3 them connect with the (Pathos, 37). In the first image, the young boy has a facial expression that can show the audience that he knows what he is saying and that there is a sense of seriousness about him. There is a quality of confidence shown and it seems as if he can give conviction to whatever he says. This can cause the audience to take him seriously. Similar to the ethos reaction, the audience is expected to get a sense of reassurance that the iconic figure will give them hope and the desire to join in the cause against the death penalty. In the second image, fear is the emotion that is conjured up due to the rope and the man holding a gun by his waist. This fearful sensation can motivate the audience to join the organization Amnesty International or any other organization in the fight against the use of the death penalty. For the rhetorical appeal of logos, the first image rely on it as much as the other three rhetorical appeals. For the second image, a big element of logic/reason can be found on the bottom. Emily Lane defines logos as appeal to (Logos, 32). There are statistics that can make the message of the image a lot more logical on the death penalty. The bottom text states, countries have wiped out the death penalty. Only 58 are left to (Amnesty International). This new information can make the audience to help and join Amnesty International in their mission to eradicate the death penalty in the entire world. However, this turns out to be another logical fallacy that Amnesty International uses. This image utilizes the appeal to anonymous authority. Which can be defined in the text Rhetoric Really Matters as appeals to nonspecific (Logical Fallacies, 55). Referencing the bottom text of the second image, there is not any hard evidence backing up the claim. It also seems as if this claim was made via an anonymous study that just happened to have these specific statistics to back up their cause in opposing the death penalty. This logical fallacy proves to be effective for Amnesty Daya 4 International in that the overwhelming statistics can give the audience the assurance that this is 100% accurate and will lead to an emotional response of joining the cause. The fourth rhetorical appeal used by Amnesty International in the two images below is Kairos. Both of their advertisements reference a current crisis (the death penalty) which continues to cause controversy worldwide. Kairos is defined as appeal to timeliness or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Kairos, 41). Amnesty International wishes to end the death penalty controversy as soon as possible. The first image shows that urgency in that they write on the bottom of the image to part in (Amnesty International). They want to show that there are creative ways that the audience can help them while placing deadlines for that contest. The second advertisement shows Kairos in their bottom text following the statistical study of death penalty countries. It states, us at (Amnesty International). The key urgency phrase of forces the issue to be alarming in the eyes which can cause the audience to join Amnesty causes as soon as possible. Amnesty use of these two images below as well as their several other advertisements have shown an effective argument against the death penalty. The two images highlight the elements of facial expressions on a massive public figure to guns wielded by oppressors which lead to viewers joining the cause of Amnesty International. Amnesty International utilizes the four rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos to make a convincing argument for the opposition of the death penalty. The two logical fallacies of hasty generalization and appeal to anonymous authority proved to be effective tools in convincing those that only look at the advertisements at face value rather than analyzing the advertisements Daya 5 on a closer scale. Amnesty International uses all of these elements in order to produce effective and emotionally compelling advertisements to all audiences that look at them. Daya 6 Works Cited Lane, McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA:Xan Edu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, And Jessica McKee. Appeals to Authority and Ed. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text. McIntyre. Megan, Kate Pantelides, Kate, and Jessica McKee. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-46. E-text. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 36-40. E-text. Amnesty International, 2017. http://www.amnestyusa.org/about-us/our-mission Accessed 25 February 2017. Weber, Ryan. OWL Purdue, 11 March 2013, https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/659/03/ Accessed 25 February 2017. Daya 7 Daya 8 https://www.dandad.org/en/d-ad-amnesty-international-death-death-penalty-social-good/