Bazan 1 Valeria Bazan Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102- 035 12 March 2017 Brady Strategic Efforts to Make America Safe Gun control continues to be a primary issue in the United States. Pro Gun Control organizations such as the Brady Campaign keep pushing for stricter background checks and the banning of many assault-style weapons in the common market. The Brady Campaign has put together statistics stating that 17,000 (17,360) American children and teens are shot in murders, assaults, suicides and suicide attempts, unintentional shootings, or by police  and that of guns are sold every year in questions (Brady Campaign). The Brady Campaign has already over 2.4 million prohibited purchases since 2004 and has called this only their beginning (Brady to keep making everyone reconsider the dangers of guns, the Brady Campaign has now made it their specific goal to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (Brady Campaign). Thus, the Brady Campaign is raising awareness of the gun control issue through the emotional and logical appeals found throughout their campaign advertisements. The Brady Campaign plans to reach their goal by raising awareness on the issue in order to a new social norm concerning the dangers of (Brady Campaign). They have put their focus in a lot of their advertisements to strategically send their message across to a wide range of audiences. In image 1, the Brady campaign tried to create an intense emotional Bazan 2 connection with the audience by making them feel scared and more aware of the gun violence situation (in terms of assault clips) in order to persuade people to call Congress and voice their opinion on the issue. This was done by making the shooting target a little girl. Through this method the image showed pathos, a rhetorical appeal to emotion, which targeted parents specifically. The image also shows several amounts of bullets around the child target. Through the use of this detail, the campaign was able to make the audience question who else could have been a target or victim of those missed bullets. Image 1 does not fail to give off a sense of kairos, or timeliness. The Brady Campaign is known for their national effort of changing the laws and this ad is a perfect example of that as they are pushing people to call to raise gun control awareness. However, it is important to mention that the emotional appeal and urgent message from the Brady Campaign would not be so effective without them having established ethos, the rhetorical appeal to ethics, through specific insertions in the image. The inclusion of their name in red letters, for by the Brady Campaign to prevent gun is the key feature of the campaign establishing their credibility. By naming their campaign, one is easily able to search it up and quickly find out with who they are therefore making them a reliable source. Another way they portrayed themselves as a credible source is through the insertion of one of their main goals, prevent gun Writing the message specifically in red letters also gave off a greater sense of importance (Chapman). However, it is important to mention that image one is not so strong with their logical appeal, logos. The Brady Campaign managed to supply a new method of attacking the gun issue by focusing on in image 1. However, this might have not been the greatest tactic. There are a lot of gun terms that are generally seen as interchangeable to the public. However, if trying to Bazan 3 avoid an issue such as de California State Senator, who got ridiculed after making inaccurate statements, it would have been better to not use the word as an attacking approach to the issue Assault clips and ammunition magazines are two different terms that are often mistaken as one another. In image 1, a clipart of a gun is shown at the bottom. The type of gun however, looks like it uses ammunition not clips which is the main focus of the ad. This can rise confusion amongst a very detail-oriented audience and thus the logic of the ad can be argued creating a rhetorical fallacy in their ad. In comparison to the weak rhetorical appeal of logos in their first image, the Brady Campaign has tried sending their message across through ads that a logical focus. The purpose of image 2 is to inform the audience on certain statistics of gun control in order to persuade them into following the patterns of others who are concerned with the issue which in this case is calling congress. The campaign is also advertising their specific background check system that congress should be using according to As mentioned above, the Brady advertising skills in image 2 is prominent to a logical appeal and aimed to the general population but especially those who like to partake in their community. In image 2, logos is portrayed through the statistic (the percentages) and the easy to understand clip arts concerning gun control which is the main focus of the ad. The ad wants the audience to there are a lot of loose ends when it comes to background checks hence a supporter of a stricter one (specifically the Brady Background check), should be calling in to make it a national demand. The statistics not only allow the audience to reason but it also hits home and raises concerns. In terms of kairos, the audience is persuaded to act because fear is enticed from the percentages, specifically the statistic of million guns being sold every year without background (Brady Bazan 4 Campaign). In image 2, the colors red, white, and blue remain patriotic interconnecting with the Brady logo which by itself is a very smart move because it shows that the Brady Campaign is all about making America safe. Image 2 also contains a sense of urgency similar to image 1. The ad wants people to call in so that congress will the which has become one of their most well known slogans. This of course refers to the of Brady background checks on all gun The big, bold letters used in the ad also add on to kairos. Finally, the credibility in image 2 is established through the same key features that were in image 1 too, the Brady logo and their mission statement of preventing gun violence. Preventing gun violence remains a long lasting challenge for the pro gun control advocates. The Brady Campaign remains strong in their stance and has been able to strategically raise awareness and reach out to people through their skillful advertisements. They vary their ads with a main emotional focus as seen in image 1 but also through logical appeals such as statistics seen in image 2. Both images overall contained the same message which was for people to rise against gun violence through means of participation. A lot of calls to congress and voiced opinions, persuaded by the advertisements, will eventually, according to the Brady Campaign, shake the level of concern on gun control. This will aid the Brady national effort to realize their goal of cutting down gun deaths in half. Bazan 5 Work Cited Campaign to Prevent Gun *Brady Campaign,* Accessed 25 Feb. 2017 Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Breaking Down an Image. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Howerton, Jason. Anti-Gun Senator Is Being Mocked Relentlessly After He Warned of Magazine in Embarrassing  TheBlaze, 21 Jan. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Bazan, V. (2016). Medium to Gun Unpublished manuscript, University of South Florida. Bazan 6 Image 1 Bazan 7 Image 2