Christopher Becker Instructor: Ms. Kristen Collins Enc1102 :: Project 2 Rhetorical Boogaloo feb 26, 2017 Rhetoric in Advertising: Electronic Freedom Foundation The Electronic Frontier Foundation or EFF is a group that is dedicated to providing multi pronged efforts towards advancing the rights of electronics users. This is done by battling unjust legislation in court cases as well as public education and outreach. The organization has a very deep relationship with the tech community holding a yearly talk at a computer security conference known as defcon called Year in Digital Civil in which they discuss relevant information and court cases they may be working on in a public forum. Through the EFFs broad interests they are able to gather support from numerous cultural backgrounds through making appeals to the interests of those groups. Two major aspects of the EFFs programs are geared towards defending against unwarranted search and seizure of your data; as well as defending consumer and manufacturer rights against things like patent trolls who use outdated patents to sue people. One such recent case the EFF fought against patent trolls was a case where podcasters were being sued on the basis that their platform violated a vague patent about media dissemination (Nazer). During this the EFF decided to reach out to podcaster and comedian Marc Maron and participate in his podcast which has had many star guests such as former president Barack Obama (Maron). During the podcast episode they discussed patent trolls and afterwards made a post on their website featuring figure 1, an endorsement of the EFF by marc maron. Figure one appeals to credibility through having someone, Marc Maron in this case, speak about the efforts of the EFF in helping podcasters such as himself. By having the beneficiary speak on behalf of the benefactor a strong sense ethos is created in the mind of the viewer. This trust develops because the receiver of a service is endorsing it. Anyone who knows Marc Maron knows he is a very personable honest guy, no doubt due in part to his +15 years as a recovering alcoholic. This level of open connection between Maron and his audience serves to bolster the integrity and weight of his arguments, which in this case is in favor of the EFF who is helping him keep his right to podcast without having to pay a fine to the inventor of a defunct technology claimed to be a forerunner to podcasting. Emotional tones in the image develop again through the character of Mister Maron. Being very honest and open about his past with his viewers about personal subjects such as his bipolar dad or his substance use issues in the past make Maron a guy who at the very least can be viewed as honest. With that trust through emotional connection, Marons profession that the EFF is helping him can be seen as utilizing an audiences sympathy and relatable experiences to garner support. Reasoning is Employed through having a podcaster discuss the benefits of the EFFs pro podcasting legal action. In order for a claim that someone is helping someone else to have any validity one might think it prudent to go to the beneficiary to inquire as to the level of support one is getting and wether it is satisfactory. Consider for a second the inverse of this situation to fully grasp the concept. If an organization were to claim they were helping but were really spending only pennies on the dollar to help would you ever know if you only asked that company and not those benefiting? The same holds true in the first image in that Maron is endorsing those who are helping him. Timeliness develops in the first image through the back story of Maron and other podcasters legal predicament at the time of the ad. A patent troll was claiming that a piece of technology they had thought up (but never actually made) was integral to how podcasting works and as a result Maron and others had to pay a fine. The EFF of course decided to represent Maron et. al. in fighting any legal action that could commence. As a result Maron participated in figure one in order to garner support for the EFF. More recently the EFF has begun rhetorically battling president trumps authorization of the searches of mobile devices of people arriving from some countries(Cope). In an effort to gather information and understand how trumps administration is implementing their rather draconian measures the EFF released figure 2 on their front page as well as a variation in an article using the title of the text. The article detailed how to report what happened at the border crossing. Elements of ethos come through in the image due primarily to the text of the image. The accusatory nature of the text as well as the offering of platform in which to hear out claims of these alleged injustices is meant to influence the perception of the EFF and the trump administrations policies. The desired outcome of this ad being to gain the trust of the reader to confide in them their experience crossing the border. The emotional impact this ad is meant to have is to make the viewer become enlightened about an occurring process at americas borders, as well as encourage those who have been victimized to feel comfortable coming to the EFF and telling them their story. This encouragement is meant to provide a sense of security in the reader in that even if their rights are violated they are able to have a voice. An appeal to reason is made in their ad for their program By the EFF stating what the subject is and they they wish to hear the story of those who have to deal with the issue. The implementation being that the viewer realizes the EFF is willing to listen. In the article the EFF published about figure 2 specific guidelines are mentioned as well as the nature of the searches. By enticing the reader to engage with the EFF they are then able to explain the full breadth of the subject. Both images serve to benefit the EFF and its many projects, however in different manners. Figure ones Benefit comes through public support and monetary support, By using a well known comedian the EFF scored some brownie points among a podcasters audience that is very diverse and not always tech savvy. This outreach is particularly effective because it exposes the EFF to people who may have never heard of them while making those who have heard of them perhaps like them more because their affiliation with a public figure. The second image benefits the EFF in an earlier stage in the organizations process. Figure two benefits the EFF by reaching out for stories by which to move forward a project to combat expansion of surveillance. as such the secondary image represents an earlier stage in the process or defending rights than figure one which is an ex post facto image. //clean this up Works cited: Nazer, Daniel. Marc Maron Launches Special WTF Podcast and EFF Fundraiser: Help Marc Help  Electronic Frontier Foundation. N.p., 06 June 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cope, Sophia, and Danny Invasive Digital Border Searches: Tell EFF Your  Electronic Frontier Foundation. N.p., 03 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Maron, Marc. President  Blog post. WTF with Marc Maron Podcast. N.p., 22 June 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.