Safin 1 Syed Azfar Safin Student(FRESHMAN) ENC COMPOSITION 1 Instructor: Sarah Roth 7 th March 2017 Rise of human unemployment due to robotic labor The statement above is basically about the fact that how human employment is being turned down by replacing it by robotic labor. As the world ages, people start having different perspectives as to how the world is going to be after robot labor takes over. Different authors have different talks on how the robot labor symbolizes in our industries. The authors from the past sources talks about how we value robots and how they have a play in the society. The authors talks about how we as humans are more superior than robots and that how we should be valued more than robots. They talk about how robots are merely programmed artificial intelligent machines. The values on robots should be less is what they stated. Its that the authors want to realize as to how the world would change if replaced by robots. The author Martin believes that there be a major change in employment even though robots are hired. The authors from the recent sources named as Paul and Habib looks at the world as it is. It is that they believe that robots have values in human lives in ways we imagine. It is that robots can be used to save human lives and its essential for them to play roles in certain work fields. Robots should be used to upgrade and economical advancement and that it would speed the process of industrial modernization more faster than ever. 1)First major component : Robotic Efficiency Robots ready to replace human  Bangkok Post (Thailand) 03 Dec. 2012: NewsBank. Web. 7 Oct. 2016. Safin 2 It is said that how the possibilities of robots increase to replace human labor. Companies are starting to find easier ways to produce products in cheaper ways. The only way they can accomplish this is by hiring robot task forces. The author said this would not only reduce the time needed for production but also be reduce prices in the long run. Labor task forces are to have raises and bonuses over year. Robots can just be fed cheap machine oil and still be there running doing their only program commanding job without an argument. The author thinks that even though humans can work wisely but in the field of efficiency they were to outrace the humans by far. It is that they can produce goods and products in numbers we cant imagine. Moreover, robots can decrease manufacturing cost way more than humans. Such master craftsmanship favors the company and therefore companies want to purchase such machinery. The authors wants to put on the table that robots are to replace humans without any question. Ford, Martin. Rise Of The Robot : Technology And The Threat Of A Jobless Future. New York: Basic Books, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 26 Sept. 2010. In the source stated above, the author Martin talks about how robots positively out beats human labor force. Its related to my topic by the fact that robots have a greater efficiency in getting a lot of jobs done at once. The possible profit out of this would be it saves countless hours of work. Robots could be the only reason as to bringing down jobs for humans. Robots are being programmed in patterns we could have never imagined. The programmed patterns are so well booted that it makes the job being done too perfect which is humanly impossible due to certain errors in the skills. These flaws are not to be accepted in this time of the world where everything is running smoothly at their fastest rate. Time be fought with and so robots are the ultimate perfection to human satisfaction in bringing up an economy. The author Martin argues about that as the robots are being built to their designed task it would mean the annihilation of human jobs avaibility. In the future there be place for human labor and that only robot jobs are available. The author Martin would partly agree with the news paper article above as to how the world would soon be ready to be replaced by robot labor. The author would also agree to the part that the time is coming for robots to replace humans; but he would question the fact that would it actually mean the end of human jobs. The author would evaluate the fact that as to why in Safin 3 presence of robotic technology there be any space for human jobs. The answer is they are invincible in certain ways. 2)Second major component: Technological Advancement Cockshott, Paul, and Karen Renaud. Issues And Opinions: Humans, Robots And  Technology In Society 45.(2016): 19-28. Science Direct. Web . 16 Sept. 2016. The author Paul explains us the moral values of robots in our world. Robots have almost touched our world by their very existence. From an early time artificial intelligence was the most top research based topic among scientists. They were fascinated by the fact that robots can be used for certain purposes in the society or industrial sectors. Robots played a huge part in science fiction in the early times. The world advanced so much with in a glimpse of an eye that we are bound to believe that the era of technological revolution is here. Once a thing was just a writing on a piece of paper and now an actual working material. People are bound to see that where the world is leading towards and what would be the outcome of this advancement. As we get to think of it, even a person with base intelligence would be shivered as to how the world progresses with technology. We can put our trust on intelligence and science with it. Science got us further into the open than religion did a millennium from now. The author Paul would strongly agree to the fact the humans nowadays value human lives than robotic lives. A robot can be re-generated and manufactured using technology. But there is no force on Earth that can bring back a human life with even the most advanced machinery. The author would say that robots can be loved and they as well have different values in human lives. A human can be grateful to a robot because under the influence of doing a task his master asked it to do. Therefore, there may be the simplest of affection being fed to these artificial intelligence beings. From the authors point of view from past sources, the author Paul form this article would not look at robots as simple electrical machinery. Rather he would look at it as a a life with purpose to do great in this world. Safin 4 Habib, Maki H., and Y. Baudoin. Using Robots In Hazardous Environments : Landmine Detection, De-Mining And Other Applications. Cambridge, UK: Woodhead Publishing, 2011. Discovery eBooks. Web. 27 Sept. 2016 The author Habib talks about the fact that the world advanced faster than we expected it to be. The advancement was so drastic that we humans tend to amaze ourselves by our own work. The world came to such a point is that human lives are valued way more than ever. That is why certain sectors in engineering planned to create robots which would take part in tasks not possible for humans. The world aged as we know it, and advanced with time as well. Robots are programmed in ways to work in harsh environments. These mechanical bots makes our job way too much faster and we appreciate it. We are advancing and we are not stopping now. The author Habib look at robots as a familiar being to their own. Rather he supports the fact that robots should be used to do tasks for humans. It is that he values human lives way more than anything. Therefore, he talks about how much important it is that robots can take over jobs that cost human lives. The author Habib agree to the author Matin as to how he values robots comparing to the same affection for humans. Author Habib would go in straight up strong argument with the author Martin and reason him as to why he would support robots in being as much as intelligent as humans and that to care less. Safin 5 Works Cited Robots ready to replace human  Bangkok Post (Thailand) 03 Dec. 2012: NewsBank. Web. 7 Oct. 2016. Ford, Martin. Rise Of The Robots : Technology And The Threat Of A Jobless Future. New York: Basic Books, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 26 Sept. 2010. Cockshott, Paul, and Karen Renaud. Issues And Opinions: Humans, Robots And  Technology In Society 45.(2016): 19-28. Science Direct. Web . 16 Sept. 2016. Habib, Maki H., and Y. Baudoin. Using Robots In Hazardous Environments : Landmine Detection, De-Mining And Other Applications. Cambridge, UK: Woodhead Publishing, 2011. Discovery eBooks. Web. 27 Sept. 2016.