Harrington !1 Haven Harrington Instructor Kristen Collins ENC1102 12 March 2017 Cruelty is a Fashion Statement We Can Live Without Everyday people decide what to wear, what matches, and and From going to work, school, or special events, clothes are an integral of every day life. However, there is an issue when it comes to the use animal fur and skin for clothing and fashion. A stakeholder known as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is a non-profit organization that was founded in 1980 by Alex Pacheco and Ingrid Ward Newkirk. They began the organization to protect and defend the rights of animals. The main mission today is to put a stop to all animal cruelty by focusing on four main areas: factory farms, clothing trade, laboratories, and the entertainment industry. PETA has made a potent statement that reads, are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, or use for (PETA). For PETA, it is obvious that using animals for personal gain is violating their rights and will only hinder society in the long run. They defend this idea by creating advertisements for the public that utilize rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to engage and educate the public on the cruelty animals are put through to have their fur used as a fashion statement. Ethos is an appeal to ethics, and it is a means of convincing someone of the character or credibility of the persuader. In PETAs advertisements the organization incorporates the companies logo in both of the pictures, which adds that it is a credible image. The images also Harrington !2 provides both of the actresses names featured in the picture, which allows the audience to further verify the credibility of the image. By having both the organizations logos and the actresses names visible, it allows the audience to trust that the images come from a credible trustworthy source. In addition, the actresses mentioned in both advertisements Nicole Williams and Wendy Williams are two widely known and recognized actresses which can further lead the audience to conclude that the source is legitimate. By having ethos noticeable and present within these images, the viewers can concede that the organization can be trusted, and if necessary the viewers can look further into the credibility through the actresses who were featured in the pictures. In the two advertisements produced by PETA pathos is very prominent, which is an appeal to emotion, and is a way of convincing an audience of an argument by creating an emotional response. In the first image the actress Nicole Williams seems to be in pain while having her skin pulled off her back in a very harsh and cruel way. The text seen right above the actresses head is used in a literal sense that leather is a The picture illustrates a scenario of discomfort and would make most people feel horrified by the image of human skin being ripped away from ones body. In image two the emotion felt when looking at the advertisement has in your face and drastic as the first one. In this image the actress Wendy Williams is laying naked, paired with the text stating that she would rather go naked than wear clothing made from the skin of animals. The feeling the viewer receives is a sense of liberation and independence that one is making a statement by not wearing clothes that are made out of Harrington !3 animals. By the actress posing naked she is bluntly telling the audience she would rather be completely naked than wear clothes that violate the rights of animals. Logos is an appeal to logic, and is a way of persuading an audience by reason. In the two advertisements created by PETA this appeal is seen and recognized by the viewer. Without the writing displayed in each image there would be no point behind the organizations argument, and the viewer would be left confused staring at a picture of skin being pulled off of someone, and a woman laying down naked. In the first image the text is a play on words saying is a rip- the word is seen in red bold letters which could refer to the blood seen dripping down the back while her skin is literally getting ripped away from her body. The color red in the image could also be guiding the viewer to think about the cruelty and pain the process is when removing skin from an animal. In the second image, the logos seen is just as logical and straight to the point when providing the phrase rather go naked than wear The audience can immediately infer that going naked is more appropriate than wearing fur or leather as fashion in todays society. Without logos present in these images the organization be able to convey and persuade the viewer to recognize their cause and why they fight for the rights of animals. Clothes are seen and worn everyday, they are relevant to the fashion industry, and anyone who likes to keep up to date with the newest trends. It is common to hear and talk about fashion, we hear about celebrities presenting the latest new clothes on the red carpet, the famously known New York fashion show and just everyday commercials and billboards that captivate your attention with the hottest new look. With the constant and growing clothing industry fur and Harrington !4 leather have been in much higher demand, apparel produced from animals has gone from being functional to being (Gee n.p.). With the growing industry, PETA has stepped in to make a difference has also held many protests outside of fur/leather retailers as well as fashion shows. As expected with PETA, the protests usually feature many naked protesters adorned in (Gee n.p.). Through the persistent media coverage and ads PETA has spread awareness to the public and clothing retailers about the harm and cruelty done to animals whose fur we use to create pieces of clothing. When going on PETAs website you notice that right at the top of the page the words to are seen, by this phrase we can see that the rhetorical appeal of kairos is being applied, since PETA is known as being a non-profit organization they ask the public for any donations possible to help them in continuing to stop the suffering and dying of animals. In closing, the harm placed onto animals is cruel and unnecessary. It is an issue that needs to be taken more seriously. With the fashion industry growing and the demand of leather and fur becoming more and more popular, the public needs to be made more aware than ever about the torture and short lives animals have when they are used solely just for their fur and skin. It is imperative to not just have the public aware but to educate them about the processes that take place to attain the fur and skin of the animals. Animals have rights, and taking these rights away by depriving another animal of his or her freedom and life, especially when there are so many animal-free alternatives available to (Animal equality n.p.) is inhumane. Organizations like PETA work to stand up for animals and give them a voice when no one else does. By producing advertisements that capture the publics eye and applying rhetorical appeals like ethos, Harrington !5 pathos, logos, and kairos people are becoming more aware and educated the cruelty that takes place in the fashion and clothing industries and are prompted to join the fight to end animal cruelty. Harrington !6 Harrington !7 Harrington !8 Works Cited Animal Cruelty in the Fashion  Fashion With a Heart - CSR & Sustainability. N.p., 26 Sept. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Accessed 23 February 2017.  Animal Equality. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.animalequality.net/clothing>. Accessed 23 February 2017. All About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/learn- about-peta/>. Accessed 21 February 2017.