Savannah Tardonia Professor Collins ENC1102 26 February 17 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Today, as a country, there is a strong divide among the nation. It has formed by the fault of those who do not pay taxes verse and is against those who do. That issue then translates to an issue of those who are not paying any taxes receiving government funded programs. According to Forbes.com in October of 2015, now figure it is 45.3 percent, nearly 5 percentage points higher than our 2013 estimate of 40.4 when concluding how many American households will not be paying federal income tax the coming year. How is our nation supposed to efficiently function when half of our country is not paying their taxes. The two photos I have selected are representative of my stakeholders, Americans for Tax Reform, also known as ATR. This organization stands for lower, more simple, and straightforward taxes. Their stake in my topic stems from tax payer dollars, that they are being paid, and how they are being applied to the use of welfare programs. The purpose of my first picture is to promote ATR and to sign their pledge to oppose any and all tax increases. It has the addition of House of Representative hopeful Calvin campaign add to show citizen that by choosing him as their candidate he will abide by his pledge to the ATR and to the people. This verified pledge has the endorsement and support of other American Citizens their congressional members and citizens that are willing stick to their statements of what they believe in. My second purpose is to remind the public to pay their monthly income tax and to keep them accountable. The large fist pointing at the viewer is meant to almost call each person out as they view the image. Both pictures heavily carry levels of ethos, due to their high levels of credibility. In picture one, it shows that the congressional member pictured signed the pledge and that is supportive of this organization. If a congressional member is using the pledge as a strong backbone of his campaign, a view must take into account how supported this pledge in by other lawmakers. The advertisement utilizes the Ad Hominem argument to demonstrate how he signed the pledge and that maybe his opponent done just that as a way to protect his rights and tax dollars. It also shows his website, social media, district, etc. to establish his credibility and personal brand. In picture two, the boldness of the hand pointing at the individual makes it directed at the reader. The credibility of the billboard is increased with the addition of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) logo. By showing the logo on the billboard, it increases a level of intensity that would not be there if it was to be another logo. The duty to account for the taxes is self-evident in this. In Picture one, the creator of the advertisement develops his pathos to strike the viewer that by the congressman signing this pledge it should allow an individual to want to vote for him. By him signing the pledge, it keeps him continually accountable to the public for his actions. If the congressman were to be elected, this would also emerge him into a pool of other congressman who have done the same. Therefore, the group would be able to work as a whole to achieve that goal. The picture in front of the lighthouse represents his pride for his district. To the people of Mr. district, sure the lighthouse is a strong symbol and iconic part of their area. By inculcating that into the ad it reminds viewers that the reason he would be in D.C., as a representative, would be for their district. On the other hand, Picture fist reminds me of an want Uncle Sam poster and contributes to how each citizen is responsible for helping take care of and contributing to the nation as a whole. This image of the pointed fist can be used as a mechanism to encourage and possibly instill some fear towards those who are not accountable with paying their monthly income taxes. That concept right there is why the taxes were created to begin with in order for our country to effectively be established as a democratic and capitalistic society. Through the use of picture one the use of logos is represented in the fact that if you support ATR and their pledge, therefore one should have no issue support the congressman and his campaign. Logically, the advertiser wants a viewer to look at the campaign add, see the lighthouse, see the support toward the ATR, the pledge, and the variety of social media outlets and want an individual to be convinced that he will be held accountable in office by this pledge and that he will be there to strongly represent his district. These simple qualities just described can be just enough for someone to vote for him if one of their main for voting is based upon no tax increases. In picture two, logos is represented by the finger pointing at the observer in a way that almost calls them out. Yet, also the changing of the word color on the word Income Tax forces it to stand out among the red font that has already captured the reader. The use of the two different fonts forces your mind to read and differentiate among the two and while doing the reader is forced to make a decision to answer the question you paid your income tax this Both of these images are surrounded among a certain timeliness use of implantation. The Kairos is relevant in picture one since it is contributing to the advertisement of his campaign and political platform while running for office. In picture two, the Kairos is shown through the use of the word monthly and that your income taxes are not just paid once a year. Each image for the sake of this topic needs to have that intended focus. Therefore, it foreces the viewer to look at it on their own timescale in order to push them to act, whether they go about that by voting for the congressman or by making sure one pays their taxes by the proper time each month. In conclusion, the use of visual aids can manipulate how an individual feel about a topic. There are so many different details that play a role in the overall goal of each image. Through the two images I selected, they both appeared very different but at the same time portrayed the same goal of wanting low taxes for the American public with the basis that the American public does pay their taxes. With more citizens paying their taxes, that alone would be able to lower them and allow one to decrease the necessity of government welfare programs only to transcend into a decrease of poverty levels. When discussing this topic, it can be argued that the genetic fallacy was put to use and that not paying taxes and taking excessive advantage of welfare programs is a genetic reoccurrence. Picture 1: Picture 2: ldQR-0Ex Work Cited Beltway, Business In the. New Estimates Of How Many Households Pay No Federal Income  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 06 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.