Project 2 Peter Bertran Professor Luce COM 1101 18 February 2017 Tourism in the Dominican Republic Tourism has been the main source of income for the Dominican Republic since many years ago. Its attractions and activities have opened the doors for tourists to come all over the world and visit the island. This paper focuses on the changes in different areas of the country from studies realized from year 2000 to contemporary time. It intends to explain all the research made on the factors that have changed the ways tourism, and other aspects of it, have had and how they have shaped the country. This paper will be targeting increased in tourism in the Dominican Republic, foreign direct investment, cruise ship ports arrivals, and free zones. Tourism in the Dominican Republic has increased from years 2000 to 2009. Departures and arrivals have drastically increased through this segment of time. Tourism has also helped economy and its revenue to the country due to its immense quantity of tourists visiting every year. One of the most interesting things that this article provides are the statistics that tell you which part of the globe tourists are making the most impact from. Overall, tourism since 2000 has immensely changed due to the new technologies and modern structures that have been taking place in the country, making it easier and more comfortable for the tourists to lodge. Foreign Direct investment has increased from years 2000 to 2011.This policy has contributed to the country in ways such as real estate, telecom, trade, tourism, and the mining sector. All these channels have helped the country develop, and have kept bringing tourists from all over the world to meet the island and keep making a positive impact on it. This article provides us with exclusive statistics and researches that focus on the factors that have caused these changes in the island. With the increase of foreign direct investment the Dominican Republic can partner with international companies and even make the tourist feel like he is home because they will see all these business or restaurants that are the ones they deal with on a daily basis. Cruise ship ports arrivals have significantly increased in the last two years. Just this year in 2016, the Dominican Republic has recorded a rise in cruise passengers, with more than 580,000 cruise arrivals. According to data and statistics released by the Ministry of Tourism, numbers have increased by 67.5 percent compared to the same time period in 2015. Moreover, the contribution of the new port Amber Cove, opened last year and developed by Carnival Cruise Line, has helped the increase in arrivals with 305,800 more passengers (Ridley, Republic Records Huge Increase in Cruise Passengers in With the help of this new port, the availability of space and quantity of tourists that can come to the island increases and makes the rates go up yearly. From now on, I think that the visits from tourists that arrive in cruise ships will be higher each time. Free zones have allowed for more business to rise due to its tax-free benefits. The Dominican Republic National Free Zones Council stated that between January through December 2004, 116 businesses were approved for new operations in different free zones located in the island. Overall, a total of 18,492 new jobs have emerged from this process. Moreover, if you look at the percentages of the different business in the free zones we can see that 33% are textiles, 15% are, and 7% are telecommunications and marketing (Ascot Advisory Services, Republic Free Logically, as the number of tourists keeps increasing I believe that jobs at free zones will keep increasing so that the country can keep up with the quantity of tourists and provide for them as well. Works Cited: Ascot Advisory Services. Free Zone Information Dominican Republic Free Zones Export Import Government  Free Zone Information Dominican Republic Free Zones Export Import Government Requirements. N.p., 2005. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Barrera, Baruch, and Penelope Gjurcilova. THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC TOURISM CLUSTER(n.d.): n. pag. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Ridley, Anna. Dominican Republic Records Huge Increase in Cruise Passengers in The Holiday Place. N.p., 8 Nov. 2016. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Tourism in the Dominican  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, 24 Feb. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.