Fuller 1 Delaney Fuller Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 8 March 2017 Centers for Disease Control and View On Smoking The detrimental effects of smoking tobacco products have been proven countless times, yet millions of people in the United States are still continuing this habit. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or the CDC, worldwide tobacco use causes over six million deaths annually with over 480,000 of these deaths occurring in the United States alone (Centers). The CDC is a federal agency that promotes and educates the citizens of the United States about various sectors of health and aims to improve overall public health. By presenting the citizens of the United States with facts, methods, and advice about ceasing the use of tobacco products, the CDC aims to lower the large number of deaths and diseases caused by smoking each year. Through the establishment of a well-trusted and respected agency and the creation of advertisements that strategically invoke both fear and disgust in the viewers, the CDC successfully proves to the public how truly dangerous tobacco usage is.. Image 1 depicts a man with a thick, dark scar running from his lower neck down to his mid abdomen. The appeal to pathos in this image, or an appeal to emotions, is found through the horror and repugnance that the viewer feels when seeing the scar on the man (Hoffman.) People who casually smoke do not necessarily consider the danger of smoking each time they light a cigarette. Advertisements like this one keep the image of a man who suffered the ultimate Fuller 2 consequence in the back of minds that could potentially scare them into quitting this habit permanently to improve their health. The scar evokes both pathos and logos, or logic, in the viewer because not only does the scar make the viewer fear the repercussions of smoking, it helps them comprehend that health problems other than respiratory illnesses come hand in hand with this habit as well (Hoffman.) The phrase YOUR HEART A FAVOR. QUIT that is written in large white font and capitalized for emphasis is another appeal to logos. Most people who smoke understand that they are most likely doing some level of damage to their lungs, but do not understand the severity of this action or that smoking can cause other health issues not related to the respiratory system such as diabetes, heart disease, and even erectile dysfunction in males (Centers). This image appeals to ethos by showcasing the logo in the bottom right hand corner along with a hot line phone number specifically pertaining to smoking. Founded in 1946, the CDC is a globally known and well trusted agency that only aims to improve public health for every person. The CDC works with individual states to encourage prevention and promotion methods across a plethora of health issues and conducts research to support the advice they offer (Centers). Keeping these ideals in mind, the viewer can believe the information being presented to them knowing their well being is in mind, regardless of who they are. The hot line number displayed at the bottom of the screen appeals ends in the words which appeals to kairos, or an appeal to time (Hoffman.) By capitalizing this phrase, the CDC is emphasizing how time is in the essence with smoking and any amount of tobacco exposure is too much. The first thing that catches the eye of viewer is the long red scar running down the abdomen. Red, a warm color, is associated with the word or when a person Fuller 3 unconsciously connects the color with either a red traffic light or a stop sign (Chapman). Just as a person instinctively stops at a red traffic light, the scar serves as an alternate symbol urging the viewer to stop smoking immediately. By making the clothes on the man simple and the background of the room neutral, the emphasis is being placed on the red scar itself. This advertisement is directed to a large audience, ranging from children to older adults. The color choice of this image was chosen as a warning to viewers who regularly smoke or even a person who wants to simply try it. The blatant reality depicted in this image invokes fear in all viewers and successfully demonstrates the dangers of tobacco use. Image 2 shows a man shaving around a literal hole, or stoma, in the center of his neck. This image appeals to pathos, or emotions, by showing a real life smoker who suffers from throat cancer, which lead to the stoma in his neck that helps him breathe better (Hoffman). The message careful not to cut your is intended to add sarcasm to this very grim advertisement by depicting the image of a man shaving around a hole as an everyday activity. This advertisement appeals to logos, or logic, by showing a picture of and including the information about age 50, diagnosed with throat cancer at age (Hoffman). The inclusion of this factual information makes the faraway idea of contracting a serious disease from smoking seem more realistic and emphasizes that these repercussions can happen to anyone. By including the phrase tip from a former at the top center of this page, the image appeals to logos again by reminding the viewer that this was a real man whose bad habit led to throat cancer. The appeal to ethos, or credibility, is included in this advertisement through the blue logo and the hotline number for those looking to quit smoking displayed on the bottom Fuller 4 (Hoffman). The CDC deals with numerous other areas of public health outside smoking such as injuries, infectious diseases, or environmental health threats. Most people have heard of the CDC before or have been assisted by this agency, so by recognizing this name on this advertisement, they know they are being presented with factual information. This image appeals to kairos, or time, twice throughout the advertisement with the phrase can cause immediate and again with the hotline that ends in , calling the viewer to quit the second they view the advertisement (Hoffman). When the viewer first looks at this image, their attention is immediately drawn to the gaping black hole in the neck. The color black is typically associated with negativity and death. The man in this image is suffering from throat cancer, which can lead to death. This image successfully conveys the message that smoking is a dangerous habit that causes immediate damage to a smoker. Agencies such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention call attention to important issues such as the dangers of using tobacco products and create advertisements that successfully grab the attention while not misinforming them. Both of these advertisements successfully portray the message that any form of tobacco usage can have serious consequences. The CDC logo is clearly visible on both of these images, so the information presented on them is clearly not exaggerated or computer generated. One in every five deaths in the United States is either caused by smoking or secondhand smoke exposure each year, and more than 16 million Americans are living with a disease caused by smoking (Centers). Many diseases not connected to the lungs do not come in the mind when thinking about the consequences of smoking. These advertisements represent two alternate diseases caused from smoking and emphasize that the right time to quit is immediately. Fuller 5 Works Cited Centers for Disease Control and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 21 Feb. 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Fuller 6 Image 1: Fuller 7 Image 2: