Jacobs 1 Parker Jacobs Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 Feb 2017 Gun Legislation in America The Brady Campaign is a non-profit organization that has been trying to end gun violence in America since 1974. The Brady Campaign was named after Jim Brady, who is permanently disabled due to the Ronald Regan assassination. The Brady Campaign used to be called the National Counsel to Control Handguns. It was later renamed after Jim Brady. Sarah Brady has been the leader of the Brady Campaign since the mid 80s. She retired in 2012. Dan Gross has taken over as the president of the campaign. Both the images came from The Brady Campaign. They hold tons of different rhetoric appeals that are hidden deep in the picture, but they unlock the meaning of the image. The Brady Campaign has participated in various protests over the years. The most recent one happened during the 2016 elections when Brady Campaign activists around America acted by to district (Brady Campaign, 2016). Image 1 shows a gun filled with a bunch of harsh words and bad things that happen with guns. Image 2 states facts about how many more gun violence deaths there are in America every year compared to other countries. Both photos show a huge sense of rhetoric appeals. The Brady mission is to safer background checks and cut the number of gun violence deaths in America in half by (Brady Campaign/Homepage, 2016). Thus, the Brandy Campaign uses advertisements (Images) to bring awareness to the issue and get firearms out of the hands of the mentally ill. Jacobs 2 This furthers the Brady mission of providing the American people with safer background checks. The images below are hidden with many rhetoric appeals, everything from Kairos to Logos. Rhetoric appeals are the basic needs in any writing or picture that measure its validity. There are four rhetoric appeals: the first one is ethos, which is an appeal to credibility or mortality. Ethos is needed because it makes whatever the image or writing is more believable. Without ethos, writing be anything because there be truth behind what people are saying. The Brady Campaign only uses ethos when they cite their own information. Ethos is shown on the image 1 because it is a known fact that a mentally ill person should not possess a deathly weapon like a gun. shown in image 2 when The Brady Campaign shows their logo because they are citing their own research on gun violence deaths around the world in various countries. Ethos shows up more in the picture on the right due to the fact that they are citing information. Pathos is a rhetoric appeal to emotions. The Brady Campaign loves to play with feelings; the only way they will get people to act. Most of The Brady images show pathos of sadness because its talking about death and make Americans want to take action. Image 1 displays pathos by making people not only Americans feel not only sad but also cautious to the fact there are mentally sick people out there at could own weapons. Pathos is shown in image 2. It makes Americans sad when The Brady Campaign cites their research and shows how much more substantial gun deaths there is in America then other various countries. The right image shows more pathos then the left image because The Brady Campaign is citing their information so it makes it more credible. Jacobs 3 Another rhetoric appeal is Logos which is an appeal to logic and reason. Logos and ethos are very similar because they both based on credibility. It gets different with Logos when you get into reasoning because that has nothing to do with credibility. The Brady Campaign uses Logos in their images when they are citing facts. Logos is shown in image 1 because it is logical to keep guns out of sick hands. Logo is shown in image 2 with the fact reasoning that this is a real issue and The Brady Campaign wants Americas to act now. Logos are spread out evenly between the two photos although the left one is more on the logical side when the right photo shows more of the reasoning side. The last, but not least, rhetoric appeal is Kairos, which is an appeal to timeliness. The Brady Campaign uses Kairos a lot due to the fact they want to act against gun violence and help pass better gun legislations. Kairos is there so people act now and gave them a sense of urgency to act. The goal is to get people to act on issues now. Kairos is shown in image 1 by showing the words shaped into gun. The words shows people that mentally ill people could possess guns and the time to act on safer background checks is now. Image 2 shows Kairos by all the deaths by gun violence from various countries and then showing the amount of gun violence deaths in America. By this, they are saying the time to act on better gun legislation is now. They also continue to write on the bottom of the image saying to make a difference? Join This is a great example of Kairos because they are making the people want to join by making a difference. Many advertisements such as the ones The Brady Campaign has put out are tailored for a target audience. Stakeholders set their images up for their target audience; who they want to react to the ad. The target audience is the people the stakeholders are targeting to act/buy their product. Jacobs 4 In the first image the target audience is all Americans, not only is it in English but it shows the ongoing issue of gun violent within the United States of America. In the second image the target audience is the same (all Americans) due to the fact that it shows how many gun deaths there are from violence in America than other various countries around the world. Both images hold powerful statement but image 2 makes Americans not only sad but want to act. The color theory is applied to various ads let out by various stakeholders. The color theory is the belief that different color evokes different emotions. In image 1 the background is a dark purple reflects a dark time, like what would happen if the gun were to stay in the hands of these mentally ill people. Thailand, purple is the color of mourning for (Chapman, 2010). In America we mourn with black but it is shown that other cultures use these powerful colors for dark times. In image 2 there is no color theory because the background is tan and the whole ad is just statistics. It does evoke patriotism though, because of the American flags. The two pictures above relate with The Brady mission statement. They also show a great sense on how to use rhetoric appeals properly. The Brady Campaign to stop the gun coalition in America is working with various legislators and congressmen to cut the number of deaths by gun violence in America in half by 2020. The Brady Campaign will also continue to work on different kinds of background checks to make sure they get in the hands of mentally ill Americans. The Brady Campaign stop until they know they have made a difference on the American people. Jacobs 5 1) Image 1 2) Image 2 Jacobs 6 Works cited www.bradycampaign.org Cooper, Alexander C. Fully Loaded: An Alternative View Of The Gun Control  Albany Government Law Review 8.(2015): 337. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rostron, Allen1. A New State Ice Age For Gun  Harvard Law & Policy Review 10.2 (2016): 327-360. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017.