Elsner 1 Dylan Elsner Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 February 20 2017 Advertisements Tesla Motors is the leading developer of several, groundbreaking technologies. Their main product is the fully electric car. The company was created to build without (Tesla). Several different models are available, with different features to suit different needs. Self-driving systems is the second big product that this company offers; each Model S is equipped with the Autopilot system. When it comes to marketing their products, Tesla focuses more on the gasoline free vehicles. This to say that they advertise their Autopilot system, rather, they use graphics or billboards to do so. Elon Musk, Tesla CEO, tends to use vehicle conventions and social media to advertise the self-driving systems. The company was brought under scrutiny after many groups claimed that they embellished what the Autopilot system was actually capable of a possible explanation for the lack of ads. Despite the silence on their autopilot, Tesla has commissioned several ad campaigns for their electric engines that effectively highlights both the company and their products. With their vehicles requiring no gasoline to operate, Tesla created a set of advertisements focusing on old, rundown gas pumps. Text on the advertisement reads archeologists will find this and scratch their clear that the advertisement in alluding to electric cars being the future, thus removing the need for gas stations. The ad is humorous, which appeals to pathos, as there is no reason for an archeologist to not know what a gas pump is. Despite being Elsner 2 rather silly, the image does a good job of illustrating the main goal of Tesla Motors: fully electric consumer vehicles. The concept that electric cars will bring about the end of gasoline may appeal to the sense of logos. The run-down gas station elicits a feeling of time passing, which causes the viewer to feel the so to speak; effectively appealing to kairos in the viewer. The customer will see the advertisement and perhaps feel as though the way of life that they have become accustomed to is beginning to disappear, and the only way to create a similar feeling in their life is to purchase a Tesla vehicle so that they continue to live in comfort. Even more feelings of timeliness are brought forth from the text beside the logo: has This saying implies that the current generation of vehicles is going extinct, much like the dated gas station in the image. The logo also effectively adds credibility to the ad, which appeals to ethos.Tesla Motors has no issue with calling their products the cars of the future, the ad does a good job of illustrating not only their belief of what the future will be like, but also that their cars have no need for gasoline. The picture is void of all color, certainly to cause the picture to appear dated and even lifeless. The only color in the advertisement is below the picture, where a bright red Tesla sits next to the Tesla Motors logo. Using red creates a clear contrast between the colorless image and what is being advertised as the future of cars. Using the color red was a calculated decision, as red is with (Chapman). Facing the viewer is the driver-side door. The creator of the ad could have made a more inviting image by having the door of the car be open, as if to say and drive Although the car could be more inviting, having the driver side door facing the viewer is still a good choice, it makes the potential customer feel more in control of the car. If the car was presenting the door, the viewer would not have the sense of ownership or control of the vehicle. The artist who made the ad also decided to use a sport styled Elsner 3 car as opposed to a consumer-friendly design. The average consumer is not interested in purchasing a sports car, and the designer could have made a better selection in which model they showed off with this image. Furthermore, consumers who are interested in purchasing a sports car are unlikely to care about fuel efficiency. There were other ads that had the same design and theme as the one shown, and not every ad from this set featured a sports car. Showing a sports car is only a flaw when observing this ad in a vacuum, as the rest of the ads in this series reached out to a demographic of consumers more likely to purchase a vehicle. Not all of ads focus on the electric aspect of their cars, they have released advertisements that are comparable to ads by other vehicle companies. In this ad, there is a man driving a black Tesla Model S in a neighborhood area. Blur was added to the right side of the image to create the illusion of movement. The ad does not particularly represent any of the rhetorical appeals very strongly. An argument could be made for the representation of ethos through the logo on the grill, but the ad is very weak in that regard. The driver being in a neighborhood area could also be an appeal to pathos, and the viewer may feel more comfortable due to the location. The text for the 21 st could be considered an appeal to Kairos. However, the advertisement lacks an appeal to logos. An interesting choice is the color of the car. By choosing black, the car blends into the background and focus is shifted to the trees behind it. Although this ad is a better statement on how Tesla is a more modern company than its competitors, it do a great job of actually highlighting the product. The entirety of the ad was created with a minimalistic approach. The ad features a background that is with lighter (Cao), the ad employs the of HD (Cao), and the ad the emphasis on (Cao). The content in this case being the sleek design of the Tesla Model S; the ad only shows the design of the vehicle and Elsner 4 although it references its performance, it offers nothing to back up the statement. It lacks a logo, beyond the emblem on the grill, and has no indication whatsoever on Tesla as a company. Unless the consumer had prior knowledge about Model S, the viewer of this ad would be lost. Tesla Motors has had successful ad campaigns, the ads focusing on their electric engines have managed to expand their consumer base. Making more affordable options, and advertising those options effectively, is the next step the company should take in order to truly become the leader in motor vehicles. As the world moves toward renewable resources over gas and oil, Tesla has a unique opportunity to become the most prominent electric vehicle producer. Tesla may become a household brand if they can successfully capitalize on transition to renewable energies. The advertisements released by the company are of varying effectiveness, but all of the ads represent both the company, and its products. Elsner 5 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. About  Tesla. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cao, Jerry. Minimalism in Web design: past and  The Next Web. N.p., 03 June 2015. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Elsner 6