Patel !1 Jeet Patel Mrs. Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Should College Athletes Be Paid? The NCAA is a non profit organization that looks over the college athletes and the universities as an whole. The NCAA has requirements for what an eligible student athletes is, and the rules the student athletes and the universities have to follow are made by the NCAA. One of the rule that is on the NCAA bylaws is that, college athletes are NOT allowed any special treatment(Money, house, cars, etc..) for whatever reason (NCAA). However the NCAA makes billions of dollars and distributes it to all of the universities; some say thats not fair because big time schools use that money under the table to get the best players and its not fair to small school due to the fact that the big schools get big time players then more revenue would be made from tickets sales and this will cause a positive correlation to the increases in a fan base because most small schools do not get crowds out for their sports teams unlike the big schools who make mot of their money from fan support, more fan support equals an increase in revenue and gets the participants to want to win more. The NCAA wants the level of play to be equal We had about a $600,000 swing in  Poppe said. We went from a loss of about $200,000 [in to a profit of about $400,000 [last We gave more kids the opportunity to play in the tournament and gave more fans a chance to see them (Youngblood). This is a quote from one of the committee members in the NCAA, as he said that there has been an increased in revenue because they allowed small teams to participate with he big schools and this has created a higher fan Patel !2 base. So with the two images the NCAA is portraying an message that tells the viewers that this is how we get our money but also shows shows the rates of the athletes who make it to college and one big guess most people can make is that there is a lot of money being made but not many college athletes actually make it to the pros. In order for the NCAA to help their student athletes make it to the pros and for small schools to be put on the same platform as big schools the NCAA need to revamp their bylaws so that college sports can be fair and that those student athletes who do not have an chance at pros can get money to further their education. In the first picture by the NCAA it shows where the NCAA gets all of the money from. Ethos is the appeal of credibility and we see that in the writing that the numbers are from the 2014-2015 year and its tells the viewers how the NCAA gets all the money. The key things about ethos is the credibility and its shown on the top right of the picture where it says NCAA, with that being said it tells the viewers that this is how the NCAA get their money and show the viewers where they spent it on and viewers believe what is being said because the NCAA is the authority figure in college sports and if they present something to the public and they have their name on it then viewers will believe it. Pathos is the appeal to our emotions, in this picture it is show that there are 3 different ways the NCAA makes money and this affects the viewers because they see that there is a lot of money being moved around and non of that money goes to the student athletes but it goes to universities to make more money. Logos is an a appeal to logic in way to show the viewers the numbers in picture one that show the revenue made the NCAA from broadcasting, small streams and tickets sales make up all of the money that NCAA make but give back to the universities and which means that if a school makes it to a championship game then they have an higher revenue and thats not fair to small schools because the big schools do extra things with Patel !3 the money that they get from tournament games which small schools make because there is an lack of talent which will ultimately result in the small schools to get nothing and therefore there is no way for them to get extra revenue and no revenue means they cannot compete with big division 1 schools. Kairos is the timeliness and in the first picture is the year the data was gathered which was 2014-2015 and the numbers we see are from big time broadcast networks, small streamers and ticket sales and during this time the NCAA made the biggest revenue increase in total resulted in a nearly $80.5 million surplus for the year almost $20 million more than the surplus the NCAA had in 2013 and the fourth consecutive year in which the annual surplus has exceeded $60 . The use of kairos in this picture is important because it goes to show that revenue is increasing because of the fan base and the level of competition is growing and its the perfect time for the NCAA to help the schools that struggle with money as an coach from an school stated People needed to open their eyes to the big  said Anderson. If they start spreading the wealth a little bit, give people a chance to advance in the NCAA tournament, why have a he want the NCAA to help them by somehow distributing the money they get from year to yaer so that their sports programs do not shut down. The second image is a picture from the NCAA showing the college to pro rate. Ethos is presented in this by the NCAA being the source and them saying that this this is the rate at which college athletes go to the pros shows us that the rate is really low. As for pathos, the viewer of the table would see that lees than 10 percent of athletes make it to the pros and that is crazy because it goes to show that the other 90 percent either drops out or cant make it to the graduate school. Logos is also presented in this blog by showing ups the use of numbers and that basically Patel !4 knowledge from the NCAA to the viewers. The NCAA shows that not many student athletes make it to the pros and the viewers believe it because they are stats taken by the NCAA and so the viewers believe it. Kairos is used in the second picture to show that its not the right time to to play college sports because you either go pros or have to stay in school, this is not fair to most students athletes because they spend more time and effort on education while they play sports just hoping to make it to the pros but with this picture it shows that at this time the student athlete is better off just staying school but they cannot further their studies if after 4 years their scholarship is gone and now they in the pros and just are stuck with a degree and no money for them to further educate themselves. As most people know that during this present time professional businesses are looking for more qualified people and an college athlete with an bather degree just does not cut it these days. Both of theses pictures goes to show that athletes should be paid, because the NCAA seems to give a lot of money the big schools because there is an higher fan base there but they see that the small schools suffer from this. Small schools have the facilities like big schools do and therefore big time players go there. Another big reason is that big schools also pay athletes undertake table and get caught. So this is unfair to small schools and thats why the college to pro transition is really bad. If athletes were to be paid then they would have a chance to go to graduate school so they can get better jobs, so basically they can have a career after sports. (Complex) Patel !5 (Image/ Figure 1) (Image/Figure 2) Patel !6 Work Cited Estimated Probability of Competing in Professional  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 02 May 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Berkowitz, Steve. NCAA Nearly Topped $1 Billion in Revenue in  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 11 Mar. 2015. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Maurice Peebles Deputy Editor Complex Sports. Twitter. IG. 7 Common Sense Reasons Why College Athletes Should Be Paid (According to Jay  Complex. N.p., 03 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Youngblood, Kent. Northern Teams Get Fair Shake; NCAA Baseball Regionals Have Been Predominantly Awarded to Southern Schools. Now, Northern Teams Such as Minnesota Are Getting in on the  Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN), 2000. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?d irect=true&db=edsggo&AN=edsgcl.62413493&site=eds-live..