Johanning 1 Gregory Johanning Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 21 February 2017 The Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Effort towards Ending Child Abuse Corporal punishment has been a hot button issue for many organizations for some time now. Not only in America, but many nations globally are seeking out acts of child abuse and looking to come up with moral solutions to end corporal punishment of children. For example, in 2011 a poll was taken in Australia asking parents if they had ever hit their child. Shockingly, 85% of the people who took part in the poll admitted to striking their child (The Nature and Extent of Corporal Punishment). This percentage is incredibly large to the point that heads are beginning to turn and look for ways to dramatically lower this number. The United States has also fallen victim to the statistic of being one of the countries with the highest rate of losing children due to abuse and neglect (Child Abuse Statistics). In sight of all of this, the Global Initiative To End All Corporal Punishment of Children has been involved in a massive campaign to reverse these numbers. This organization has sparked interest and gained support from a number of other benefactors such as The Association for the Prevention of Torture, Child Rights Connect, and Child Helpline International (Global Initiative). Their overall goal is for the complete prohibition of corporal punishment of children worldwide and to promote protection for the overall well-being of every child and sustainability of their human rights. The images that this organization has created lash out against those who commit the act of corporal punishment of children and call for an end to the abuse. In addition to gaining support from Johanning 2 other world renowned organizations who are advocating the same goals, this group has made effective ad campaigns that have swayed the emotions of many people by bringing awareness to the continued fight to end corporal punishment of children. The first image that this organization showcases makes it apparent that they want to get the audience interested in the campaign they are advocating for. This image has an interactive aspect where those who are interested and want to learn more about the movement to ban all corporal punishment of children can look at questions and answers that other people have asked. The first feature that the audience is drawn to in this image is the word which is in a red font. The organization immediately wants the audience to understand the message they are trying to get everyone to soak in. The word is directly below that making it almost inevitable that what the audience will look at following the word This phrase is appealing to logos or a logical statement that the audience can understand. It envelops a sense of urgency to those who see this image that hitting children needs to stop immediately which is called kairos (Hoffman, et al, 23-26). The logo for this organization is represented in the lower right hand portion of the image proving to the audience that this picture is appealing to ethos or credibility (Hoffman, et al, 20-22). This image also makes an attempt at appealing to the emotion of the audience or pathos by showing the characters above the word holding hands (Hoffman, et al, 22-23). This makes the audience feel sympathetic towards children or could also illicit an emotion of disgust against those in the world who are committing the act of corporal punishment on children. There are a very diverse collection of colors used in the first image. This image presents the viewer with warm colors such as red, yellow, and even a bit of orange and also the cool colors of blue and a very dark purple. The color red or more specifically, warm colors, are Johanning 3 meant to instill passion and love in those who witness it (Chapman). In this image, the point of the word being red is to get the reader or audience fired up about the issue of hitting children and should make them want to go join the cause and put an end to corporal punishment. The cool colors in this photo help contradict the warm colors by giving the audience a calming and relaxing feeling (Chapman). The predominant cool color in the image is blue which is commonly associated to the feeling of sadness (Chapman). This is a necessary color for this image because the picture must appeal to the sensitive side of the audience in order for them to care about the topic that is being presented in the image. By doing this, the organization has now started to spread awareness on corporal punishment of children. In the second image the audience that is being targeted are those who can help or have an impact on ending corporal punishment of children, particularly those have businesses or large corporations. The presence of the children in the photo warm the hearts of those who are witnessing the image. The fact that these children appear to be young and that the idea is that children of this age are being abused creates a powerful message. The immediate emotion or pathos that the audience should feel when looking at this image is sympathy towards the children that are featured (Hoffman, et al, 22-23). Motivation to participate in the fight to end child abuse is a goal for this picture which is important in spreading awareness. At the very top of this image is the name of the organization that is sponsoring and leading this movement which provides the audience with credibility or ethos (Hoffman, et al, 20-22). The logic of this image or logos comes from the phrase legalized violence against children (Hoffman, et al, 23-25). This shows the audience the message that this organization wants to convey in a manner that is not misleading. At the very bottom of the image there is a statement saying the 10 th anniversary of the UN Secretary Study on Violence against which indicates Johanning 4 a sense of timeliness or kairos with this movement (Hoffman, et al, 25-26). Letting people know that this fight to end corporal punishment of children has had a tenure of at least ten years now makes them feel like time for them to get involved. This second image does not have any warm colors represented in it. Only the cool colors of blue, dark blue, and purple are present which immediately give the audience a soothing and relaxing feeling about the situation being addressed (Chapman). This is important for how this organization should want to spread awareness because it sets a serious mood for talking about corporal punishment of children so the audience can understand what is going on to its full extent. The color purple as seen in the boys shirts and on the bottom of the page is an indication that the organization presenting this photo wants the audience to feel a sense of mournfulness towards these children (Chapman). Just like in image one, this picture does a great job of sympathizing with the audience and getting them to get more interested in this issue. Both of these images have effective qualities of them that help convey the message of a call for prohibition of corporal punishment of children. The use of the lighter, cooler colors provides the audience with the appropriate feelings on the issue with presenting each picture in a relaxing way but simultaneously invoking sadness and sympathy. However these images have downsides in the ways they appeal to the audience. In both of the images there a lot of interaction with the illustrations present. Specifically each picture does not tell an in-depth story that is vivid or easy to infer. The audience has to do a lot of inferring on their own on what they take away from each image. In order to create effective images that will motivate people to get involved in any kind of movement, their emotions must be stirred to compel them to do so. These images would seem to illicit mixed feelings in the audience that would cloud their judgment on an issue that should not cause confusion. Johanning 5 Both images do an outstanding job of presenting what the stakeholder aims to convey to the audience. They both present a characteristic that appeals to each rhetorical appeal and use colors in an effective manner so that the audience does not feel the wrong emotions about corporal punishment of children. These images stir the feelings of sympathy towards the children who are being abused and anger towards those who are beating these children. This was the goal of The Global Initiative to End Corporal Punishment of Children, to motivate people of all ages to get involved with the movement they are advocating to completely abolish abuse on children. These ads are able to spark a revolution within the people who are not already involved in this movement by eliciting an urge to get involved and look for a solution to end the abuse of children worldwide. Word Choice: 1494 Johanning 6 Works Cited Welcome to the Global Initiative - Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of  Welcome to the Global Initiative - Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Children. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Nature and Extent of Corporal Punishment: Prevalence and Attitudinal Research in the  PsycEXTRA Dataset (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Child Abuse  Childhelp. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really-Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric And Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Johanning 7 Image 1 Johanning 8 Image 2