Xu 1 Cong Xu Professor ENC 1102 25 th February 2017 Save Food in America The amount of food waste has only increase in the United States. According to Bloomberg, America has waste $160billion in food and according to a national survey half of the citizens are unaware of such phenomena. 80% felt guilty when food is being throw away, but 51% said it was nearly impossible to reduce household food waste while 42% just bother about such matter. These data has certainly alerted organizations being active in creating more awareness and educating Americans in slowly reducing their food waste as food waste is a lost in money, resources and is a result of unethical behavior. Thus, NRDC (Natural Resources Defense Council) and Ad Council has launched a campaign which had images along with captions, and data about the food waste Americans contribute. These texts contain strong Ethos, Pathos, and Logos which are all rhetorical appeals that shows statistical data of food waste in relation to water waste. SAVETHEFOOD is a campaign that aims to stop this catastrophic event of food waste by informing the public of the importance of saving food and showing them the numbers of an average household food waste. There are tips shared on the website of several alternatives in reducing food waste such as methods to store food and cooking it with left over ingredients. Both the images selected has very simple designs which consist of a white background with black fronts, and the only thing that is in colored would be the food. This is designed to Xu 2 captures attention on the food that is wasted, in the lower right corner of both images there are logos of both NRDC and Ad Council. Ad Council is established in November 1941, and their mission goal is to make a difference in public issues by stimulating action through communication programs. As for NRDC, they work to safeguard Earth and has over 2 million members which includes expertise along with 500 scientist, lawyer and policy advocates across the globe to ensure rights; air, water, and the wild. Nonetheless, NRDC has councils that are related to public and resource issues, which are expertise at food waste. Hence, Ethos is being presented by the combination of both logos on the image symbolizes credibility as both are well established company with lots of experience team members is enough for the public eyes to believe the content is well verified and true. Pathos is appealing to emotional side and this can be seen with the caption one egg wastes 55 gallons of in big, bold and black fonts. Immediately, this would at first shock viewers and eventually they will feel guilty as it only takes 1 egg for that much water to be wasted. According to Mayo Clinic, an average human should consume 9 cups of water a day which is equivalent to 2.2 liters which is only 0.58 gallons while just a single egg is about 55 gallons. The Atlantic has stated that an average American only consumes 2.5 cups of water which is barely half but they waste so much water just in throwing their food away. There are people in this world that as fortunate with no access to clean water hence an egg which is being thrown away could provide clean water for 25 families with a family household of 4 people which is about 94 individuals. Additionally, the only contrast with the photo is the side tray and an egg with a pink font labeled IF triggering an emotion impact as well. An egg is being used in this infographic because egg is a staple food choice for every breakfast hence reinforcing a related product in an choice and the word Xu 3 choice of is used instead of because everyone wants to strive for the best; buying the best and using the best. It uses sort of like a pink colored because it stands out from the white egg and this will capture attention and make them feel tranquility soothes an individual in a way as compared to the color red. And according to colour affect soothes an individual rather than stimulates. This could be carefully used by the organization for the purpose of alerting an audience with the data but soothing an individual at the same time; giving hope that change can still be possible and never too late. According to SAVETHEFOOD, American Wastes 290 pounds of food a showing a logical view as 290 is a lot (1) . Not a lot of people are aware of their contribution in food wastage merely because in developed countries people are just too busy to care. Although the photo elaborate but according to Say No To Food Waste, between 40%-50% of food being thrown is at a value of $165billion which equates of Us military budget. And a 20% reduction will be enough to feed 25 million Americans. Logically speaking there is a need to stop food waste not only for the economy but the entire world in general; resource, water and the surrounding. Because growing food that is never consumed emits about 10% of has emissions and it is the developed countries that have such issues due to the higher standard of living compared to developing countries. Although the image is slightly similar to the first one, the only colored image this time is a loaf of bread and again the caption if if applied here. A loaf of bread is being used to symbolize an could be possibly because Americans throw the first and last piece of the loaf of bread and only eats the center pieces and reasons is because it is very dry or ratty. But those part are edible and imagine 319 million people living in America throwing those parts away which could feed the whole Caribbean and more. Xu 4 The phenomenon of food waste in America is still very much prevalent. Vast quantities of fresh produce grown in America which does not pass a certain standard as Americans has a of according to The Guardian is being left in the field to rot or fed to livestock . Americans ought to know there is no perfection in growing crops unless they are being injected with medication which will be bad for health or grown with which is another controversial public topic. People should learn to eat what they purchase or purchase what they are able to consume and not buy more to only throw it away at the end of its life spam. Ethos and Logos are clearly demonstrated in the two infographic by SAVETHEFOOD making audience feel bad and come to their senses about changing their food wastage habits. SAVETHEFOOD has more infographics and information that are easily digest in persuading and educating people of the harms of wasting food via strong emotional, credible and logical elements. Nonetheless, the website do share tips on using left over ingredients to make a fresh meal. This organization is doing what it can to its ability in educating the public but it is also up to the public to take action as it is never too late to make this world a better place for the future generation. Xu 5 Work Cited  Say No To Food Waste. Wordpress, 22 Nov. 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Goldenberg, Suzanne. Half of all US food produce is thrown away, new research  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 13 July 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Hamblin, James. How Much Water Do People  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 12 Mar. 2013. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Mayo Clinic. How much should you drink every  Mayo Clinic. N.p., 25 Sept. 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Psychological Properties Of  Colour Affects. N.p., 2008. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Ramkumar, Amrith. America Wastes $160 Billion in Food Every Year But Is Too Busy to  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 22 July 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. SAVETHEFOOD. Reducing Food  AdCouncil. 2016Ad Council, 20 Apr. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.