Gedeon Zema Nancy Carr ENC 1101 - 013 05 March 2017 The human being is a complex specimen. He tends to react more to abrupt changes than to a gradually changing situation regardless of how quickly the change happens. After years of refusing to acknowledge the existence of climate change, nor the correlation between the global temperature rise to carbon dioxide emission, the reality has settled in. And globally as a planet we view world issues differently, especially energy related. The seriousness of the conversation is on its peak level. To the point that the position the nations of the world decide to align themselves with, might break or save the planet. The energy debate over the risks carried by a continuity in fossil fuels and the economical viability of renewable sources has been going on since a direct connection from fossil fuels to climate change was made in the 90s. Across the years, the limitations of fossil fuels have been minimized and the efficiency of renewable sources have greatly increased due mainly to technological advance. New information and data, that available before has been brought to the table. This has stirred a change in perspectives around the globe in some people. The data available suggest that the conversation has reached a critical stage, where our actions and decisions will define the future of all species on earth. Before the crisis we find ourselves meddled in today, There was an era where energy demands as high. Everything happened manually and naturally. Woods, wind, animal labor, etc were our main sources of energy for direct applications as warming up, transportation , etc. Population growth meant an automatic way of doing things and reduce manual human labor. Arguments during pre-industrialization made then-existing sources of energy a liability for the future the world envisaged for itself. Industrial revolution running at full force, needed a symbol for the course of events to follow in the human evolution where a full scale of steaming machines will guarantee faster and better service for all. Fossil fuels spearheaded by coal personified that era. They made a big impact in the weapon, textile, transportation industries, etc. They offered something the other sources of energy Coal was inexpensive, abundant and efficient 98% electrical efficient (Droege, 2002, 87). Fossil fuels were perfect to sustain the growing world power demands of that generation. In the early 90s, various theories about the environmental impact of fossil fuels emerged. Fossil fuels were now seen as degrading to the environment and the health of the planet. The dark clouds of smoke in the air were in fact carbon dioxide and they destroyed our ozone layer. In 1997, the UN held the Kyoto Framework, which was basis for a reduction of 5% in carbon dioxide emission in the world CO2 primary emitters (Droege, 2002, 88). The framework stated an increase in renewable energy as a source in the world power generation mix to meet the requirements. The framework failed to be effective. According to Droege (2002), most urban cities were built for fossil fuels that place them at a disadvantage. Therefore, transforming it renewables involved extra costs that nations willing to pay (p. 88). The beginning of the twenty-first century brought with it a sense of recognition on the seriousness of the issue. The world and its inhabitants were more aware of climate change and the role fossil fuels played on it. According to Holmes (2004), than 80% of human-made CO2 emissions are due to the burning of fossil (p. 40). The world population were growing exponentially and for the first time in centuries, sustainability was a major discourse in world governments. However, they focused solely on the ecological and environmental aspect of sustainability. A growth in population meant a decrease in food supply and an increase in pollution. A growth in population suggests an increase in energy demands, then resulting in an increase in CO2 pollution. The future of the human race and world species was endangered. People - including nations argued that a deficit in fossil fuels environmental aspects cannot subdue its great economical value. Without trimming fossil fuel usage, the world welcomed renewable energy sources but on a small scale. Holmes (2004) supports this statement when she stated current Industry-drafted energy bill is not surprisingly laden with fossil fuel and nuclear subsidies that turn the path of unsustainability into an even deeper (p. 40). then she added that the government offers incentives and rewards for using renewable energy sources and provides the opportunity to choose to switch to a greener energy (p. 42, 45). The late 2000s, the great recession period, saw a dive in the world economy and with it the release of CO2 in the air. People could just not afford to spend on carbon-emitting products. Afterwards, oil prices skyrocketed and this was due to primary to a depletion in resources. During the early 2010s until today, the world has often been reminded of how limited are the amount of fossil fuels in regions of the world. The world population grows as a power function while oil resources increase linearly. The issue of sustainability has been raised once more and this time it encloses both the depletion of fossil fuels and their environmental impacts. According to Covert (2016), the current energy debate can be seen as an economic discourse that is mainly influenced by market forces a Supply Demand Theory (p. 119). Current arguments that a depletion in resources will force a switch to renewables referred to as Supply Theory - is incorrect (Covert, 2016, p. 119). Technological advances have made it possible to explore fossil reserves we before (Covert, 2016, p. 121). Covert (2016) also refuted the Demand Theory that the same technological progress has made renewable sources more cost competitive and because of their environmental edge there will be a higher demand of them (p. 126-128). Today, the discourse on energy sources do not only exist in class forums. Countries around the world have taken an active role on the energy debate. They consult each other on global matters that include energy. Recently, in Paris the world nations signed an agreement on climate change. According to Hall (2016), it is a non enforcing agreement on countries to reduce their carbon emission. It cleverly does not impose the source of energy to be used but implies a RES approach to meet the suggested numbers (p. 179) The energy debate is a conversation in a parlor. It has started way before and is not going to end anytime soon. Over the years, our arguments have not only been based on facts but our morals and values as well. However, we have reached a crucial point. The conversation has never been this serious. At stake is the blue planet Earth. The question now is : which future do we want? References Covert, T., Greenstone, M., & Knittel, C. R. (2016). Will We Ever Stop Using Fossil Journal Of Economic Perspectives, 30(1), 117-138. doi:10.1257/jep.30.1.117 Droege, P. (2002). Renewable Energy and the City: Urban Life in an Age of Fossil Fuel Depletion and Climate Change. Bulletin Of Science, Technology & Society, 22(2), 87-99. Hall, J. E. (2016). Paris agreement on climate change: A diplomatic triumph--how can it succeed?. New Global Studies, (2), 175. doi:10.1515/ngs-2016-0012 Holmes, J. (2004). Renewable energy: the road less traveled. Church & Society, 94(4), 39-47.