Rieder 1 Ty Rieder Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102.035 12 March 2017 Strategic Ads Advertisements have been utilized by companies large or small over the years in hopes that their product or service will resonate with the general public. Whether these promotions are genuine or purposely misleading, businesses like Monsanto still rely on advertising to make their business look as attractive as possible. Monsanto is a corporation that produces genetically engineered seeds and actively contributes to the production of GMOs. To convey the message that Monsanto is dutiful company who supports agriculture and farmer alike, they employ rhetorical appeals. These rhetorical appeals include logos (appeal to logic), ethos (appeal to credibility), pathos (appeal to emotion), and kairos (appeal to timeliness); a basic staple of any good advertisement ). Although Monsanto conducts business worldwide (which is part of their marketing), they have a tendency to associate themselves heavily with Americans. Whether this is authentic or a simple marketing ploy, their promotion of the agriculture community is reflected in their advertisments. To first understand why Monsanto tries to appeal and equate themselves with the agricultural community, it is important to know that they deal with GMOs. According to Aarts, writer of the peer reviewed Traceability of Genetically Modified Organisms, a GMO is defined as a organism that has had its genetic content altered in a non-natural way. The genetic modification is usually carried out by the insertion of genetic elements carrying the desired trait into the genome of the organism to be  (Aarts p.2). By using this method, scientists are able to genetically alter the DNA of organisms (primarily plant seeds) so that way they hold Rieder 2 more favorable genetic traits, such as being more resilient to pests, droughts, and harsh weather. This is exactly what companies like Monsanto are doing for a living, altering plant species by genetically modifying the seeds of these plants. Monsanto claims in the memoir that they are a sustainable agricultural company who manufacture genetically engineered seeds to farmers while also licensing their seed and trait technologies to other companies ). While the main focus is seeds, Monsanto also manufactures herbicides. In general, the Monsanto conducts business with the agricultural sector of the economy, and their advertisements clearly reflect that. Monsanto has a desire to appeal to American patriotism, which is displayed in the first picture. The goal of the first advertisement, labeled Image 1, is to show the supportive nature Monsanto has towards farmers. The present a narrative that farmers are important to the company as well as the US economy. To do this, they smartly utilize the four rhetorical appeals. Monsanto presents an appeal to logos in the first advertisement utilizing economic statistics. The description in the advertisement says that In fact, agriculture helps feed our economy with nearly $100 billion in , showing the logic of supporting such a massive and important part of the American economy. It would be simple to question or discredit the facts shown in the advertisement if not for the . This piece of information proves that the picture is reliable because shows the website where the information is sourced. Although the advertisement does not explicitly say that it is presented by Monsanto, Farmers is community outreach program that is made and sponsored by Monsanto ). The emotional aspect of the picture can be shown by the statement Farmers Grow . This declaration conveys a sense of pride and appreciation for farmers, to display benevolence when Rieder 3 it comes to supporting farmers. All of the statements in the advertisement are in present tense, so it can be inferred that it Monsanto is trying to appeal to the present. With this, the company is saying that farmer our helping us now, and so we are supported them now. The entire picture is tinted brown, which gives the image a more vintage and rustic look to it. This is most likely intentional, to make Monsanto appear not as a major corporation, but as local company on par with the everyday farmer. To emphasize this, the man standing in the advertisement is wearing an outfit typically worn by farmers. This is a smart marketing tactic because the this advertisement is most likely directed towards the working class of America and farmers alike. If more local farmers are convinced by the ads message, then they will be more inclined to buy the genetically modified seeds produced by Monsanto. As mentioned before, not only does Monsanto manage business in the United States, but also in other parts of the world. For the most part, however, their marketing seems to focus more on low income or impoverished regions of the world. For example, the ad portrayed in Image  is trying to show that their genetically modified seeds are good for harsh areas that cannot normally grow plants. The advertisement highlights the brown, barren wasteland by the blue sky and the blue shirt. The stark contrast of the background and foreground blend very well together, and it even makes the viewer notice to the desert-like features first. In a somewhat unique fashion, the logos is presented not through statistics or numbers, but through basic critical thinking. The logic this ad presents is the fact that these barren crops are not good and their seeds will alleviate that the harsh conditions that these plants are normally exposed to. Instead of only relying on depiction of their sponsored website, the credibility for this ad is shown by the Monsanto logo on the bottom to show it has their seal of approval. Even Rieder 4 though the icon appeals to ethos already, the picture also includes the name of their website which contains all of the source material Monsanto provides for their claims. With the image of the live crops over the dead ones, and the caption saying imagine better crops helping farm families live better  invokes sympathy from an audience. If anything, one could argue that the appeal to pathos is the most prominent rhetorical device in the ad. While pathos and kairos are separate rhetorical devices, they are almost intertwined in Image 2. The ad shows that the crops were once abundant in the past but are now barren. It also says that with their product it has a chance of being restored in the future. Not only does this effectively invoke a sense of sympathy, but also a feeling of hope for the farmer. This makes sense considering the target audience is most likely farmers from lower income areas of the world, similar to the one depicted in the advertisement. Not only does the image reach out to groups like this, but it can also be extended to a general audience. If the public views Monsanto as an altruistic company with nothing but good intentions, then they might be more inclined to trust them. Whether or not one believes ads are genuinely reflect the true intentions when it come to their business, there is no denying that the marketing team knows how to run a effective ad campaign. By utilizing the four rhetorical appeals: logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos, Monsanto has shown that their company supports American farmer and other agricultural communities from around the world. Word Count: 1211 Rieder 5 Image 1 Rieder 6 Image 2 Rieder 7 Work Cited Aarts, Henk J.M., et al. Traceability of genetically modified  Expert Review of Molecular Diagnostics, vol. 2, no. 1, 2002, p. 69+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?  Farmers. Monsanto, 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  A Sustainable Agriculture Company. Monsanto, 2002. Web. Jan. 2017. Rhetoric &  Michigan Academician, vol. 41, no. 2, 2013, p. 233+. Literature Resource Center, go.galegroup.com/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.