Jorge Villarreal Instructor Carr Composition I 5 March 2017 Cloud Computing Security At the end of the last century, traditional computing infrastructure consumed large amounts of electricity, had expensive electronic parts and did not have many functionalities. Over the years, technology has grown exponentially and it has made possible the vast production of smaller computers and multiple devices, which eventually replaced old room-size computers. Nowadays, multiple electronic devices are released to the market reaching a large number of customers and each day huge amounts of data are produced by these devices. The storing of applications, pictures and games have increased the demand of data from users causing traditional computing infrastructure become more fragile and harder to manage. Also, it does not allow users to access data anywhere at any time. Cloud computing arises as a solution that offers on demand computing power, storage and application as a service (Singh, Jeong, & Park, 2016). Cloud computing supports fast access to applications and reduce the cost of infrastructure. Therefore, the importance of cloud computing is increasing, becoming a huge market and receiving much attention from the academic and industrial communities. However, most of these services are provided in public clouds and as a consequence, it is a target of possible security violations. Security in cloud computing is a crucial concern in these days because valuable information of people and companies is at risk, and the rapid development of technologies have made possible the existence of new security issues and threats. This situation has led to changes in the conversation of cloud computing security regarding new issues and the importance of creative arising solutions. One of the major security concerns of cloud computing since its emergence is data security. In traditional computing this was not an issue because data was stored locally and there were not online repositories. Aldossary and Allen (2016) stated that in cloud computing there are many security challenges regarding data which includes data loss, data breaches, malicious insiders and insecure interfaces. Data loss includes possibilities of losing data due to malicious attack, server crashes or unintentional deletion by the provider without having backups, and data breaches are related with the exposure of the information of users because multi-tenancy customers using different applications could share the database and if any corruption event happens, then it is going to affect others sharing the same database (Aldossary & Allen, 2016). On the other hand, malicious insiders and insecure interfaces basically consist of corruption of data caused by people who are authorized to manage the data and the incapacity of the security mechanism to provide a stable connection between the cloud service provider and the client (Aldossary & Allen, 2016). This threats described along with the rapid proliferation of data from companies and users, makes data storage one of the most important components of cloud computing. As stated by Singh et al., (2016), integrity is the most critical element in information system to protect data from unauthorized modification, deletion or altering (p. 207). The security issues arise when the parameters are not well defined or the virtual machines, in which the servers are hosted, are incorrectly configured. Comparing the two sources, it is possible to notice they both agree with the relevance of the information that is stored in cloud servers. In the first source, Aldossary & Allen (2016) focus specifically in the data field and uses more technical terms to explain the reader how threats are implemented by third party users most commonly known as hackers, and the other source Singh et al., (2016) describes data concerns in a more general way along with other issues included in the cloud environment. Over the years new technologies have arisen and many issues have appeared, but the commitment to preserve the integrity of the information has always been taken into consideration. Many studies have been concluded to discover the issues of cloud computing security in order to find a solution for them. Many technologies and techniques have been proposed in order to address multiple data security threats. The topic of security is a very active research area and innovative mechanisms have been suggested. The main idea of security solutions is to keep the data safe from corruption and keep its integrity. Wang and Yan (2010) proposed cloud computing security based on private face recognition. The method has three parts: user part provides face images; cloud initialization part has a face subspace and templates database and cloud private matching identification part contains the core algorithm of the method, which compares two encrypted numbers under specific conditions (Wang & Yang, 2010). This solution proves the advantage of the rapid technology development because ten years ago is was almost impossible to even consider using face recognition to secure online services, which did not even exist yet. Also, solutions are applied in different fields. Danilatou & Ioannidis (2010) proposed an architecture based on cryptographic credentials which enables biomedical data owners to easily hand out access to physicians, researchers and patients. Biomedical research relies on having access to vast amounts of sensitive information. Therefore, strong security policies and mechanism are required to preserve biomedical information stored in cloud servers. Singh et al., (2016) suggest 3-tier security: application level, cloud-service middle level, and infrastructure level. Also, different encryption techniques are proposed to protect data seen by the cloud service provider while it is shared among many users (Aldossary & Allen, 2016). Since the data and computation are outsourced to a remote server, the data integrity should be maintained and checked constantly in order to prove that data and computation are intact. It is clear that the discussion of solutions for security issues in the cloud environment has evolved from 10 years ago to present. New techniques and mechanisms have been proposed and many of them are based on previous solutions. This proves the importance of cloud computing security conversation because authors are able to check what has been said and what has been done in order to create new solutions with the recent technologies. For instance, the face algorithm recognition suggested by Wang & Yang (2010) was not feasible 7 years ago when it was proposed because technology at that moment was not adequate. But now, technology has grown rapidly and authors could use face recognition along other techniques to address different security issues. Finally, by having relevant information about the different security issues and respective solutions, it is possible for users to take action and contribute to enhance the cloud environment. Many of the modern threats occur due to misuse of services by users. For this reason, users must be aware of the security concerns. BIBLIOGRAPHIC REFERENCES Aldossary, S., & Allen, W. (2016). Data security, privacy, availability and integrity in Cloud computing: Issues and current solutions. International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 7(4), 485-498. Danilatou, V., & Ioannidis, S. (2010). Security and privacy architectures for biomedical cloud computing. Proceedings of the 10 th IEEE International Conference on Information Technology and Applications in Biomedicine, 1-4. Singh, S., Jeong, Y., & Park, J. (2016). A survey on cloud computing security: Issues, threats, and solutions. Journal of Network & Computer Applications, 75, 200-222. Wang, C., & Yan, H. (2010). Study of cloud computing security based on private face recognition. 2010 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Software Engineering, 1-5.