Alnajdi 1 Sayed Alnajdi Ms. Collins ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 The Misguidance of Poverty Poverty and hunger, a worldwide problem that almost one seventh of inhabitance are facing. The deliberation concerning poverty about whom to blame for the suffering of people with no food or safety in the poor countries has taken so much time, and yet not a single solution to the problem. In 2015, the National Administrative Department of Statistics reported that 28% of the population in Colombia was living below the poverty line, of which about 8% in (FXB International 1). This is a one example of a poor country out of thousand other countries who are facing the same situation, or maybe worse. FBX International Ending Poverty, Restoring Dignity, an international organization that seeks to help and provide all the humanitarian needs, such as food, protection, housing, health and education. mission is to provide people living in extreme poverty with the tools and support they need to become self- (FXB International 1). FXB International was established in 1989, and now is present in thirteen countries around the globe and with a team of five hundred staff. According to FXB International data that they have helped more than seventeen million people including adults and children out of poverty. Poverty has become a serious problem in the world today, which is why FXB International obtains several methods including advertisements to convince the world that there are people who in need for your guidance. This paper will advocate to analyze two advertisement pictures from FXB International that comprise strong messages towards the audience and what Rhetorical Appeals and fallacies that are used. Alnajdi 2 FXB International is known for the strong appeals that they include in advertisements such as ethos, pathos, logos and Kairos. The first image is a picture of receipt and a shopping bag, and on the receipt is a picture of a child that is spoon fed. tiny fraction of your express could feed a hungry is written on the picture with a small slogan that says per day is all it The ethos in the image is represented by the FXB logo that says Ending Poverty, Restoring Dignity. This emphasizes that FXB International has the appeal to help end poverty, and through their logo they are telling the world that yes we want to end poverty and give people dignity. Furthermore, the logo on the picture also tells the audience the information on the advertisement is authenticated by an organization. Emotions play a major role in reaction, which is why pathos is possibly the upmost important in this advertisement. The picture of the child getting fed by another person that is located on a receipt from a fashion store tells the audience that while enjoying spending your money in a fashion store, other people are in need for the money to eat. Likewise, the colors in the advertisement are extremely important because they represent an important idea. In general, the color red represents happiness and grace, but also may mean danger and anger. Therefore, in the picture pathos is represented through the receipt, the kid and the color of the shopping bag. Logos is expressed through the quote in the picture tiny of your expenses could feed a hungry This expression is designed as an appeal with the picture to tell the audience that through some of your help could lead to a satisfaction. The logos quote is directly linked to the picture and may help evoke feelings toward the audience. Alnajdi 3 Kairos is represented in the advertisement through the slogan per day is all it The Kairos in the picture may convince the audience to donate since the amount tells them that this is all it takes to help someone overcome their poverty. Logical fallacies also play a major role in deciding whether the audience are convicted or not. Hominem Fallacy is represented in the advertisement because in such way the ad is attacking the rich people by showing them while enjoying your time shopping others are in need of your money to buy food. Appeal to pity is another logical fallacy because they are trying to persuade the audience through emotion rhetorical appeals. Genetic fallacy, someone may donate just because they like the advertisement, and others may not because of Hominem fallacy. As for the second advertisement, is a picture of a child sitting inside a box and next to it another box. On the advertisement is states children do not have to tidy up their The ethos represented in the advertisement is extremely attractive for those who care about humanity. This advertisement has a special feature that it does not ask the audience to donate. It presented the idea that children today have their own room to tidy up, others live in the streets which is why they have to tidy their room because they own one. Therefore, ethos is convincing the audience to help the poor without asking to donate. As for pathos, the advertisement is telling the world that there are children out there living with no houses while your children own a room that they have to tidy up, while the poor because they live off the streets. The visual words evoke a certain feeling relating to the picture, which is the urgency to help the poor in order to guarantee their safety. Alnajdi 4 Logos is shown through the quote in the picture by indirectly comparing poor children who live in the streets and children who live safely in their houses. Otherwise, there is no message based on facts or statistics. There is no direct indication of Kairos in the advertisement. However, the emotional appeals that the picture has is enough to convince a person to donate and help end poverty. Genetic fallacy is the main fallacy expressed in the picture. A person may judge the child skin color on the advertisement based on where he come from. Other fallacies such as weak analogy because they are comparing children based on the place they live in. Both advertisements share the same goal with different perspectives and ideas of rhetorical appeals and logical fallacies. FXB international aims to help poor people overcome the poverty. They have done a great job using the ads to convince people to donate through different ideas and methods. However, one key thing is that FXB needs to more on the media for people to know who they are, for limited number of people know about the organization even though FXB had done excellent accomplishments helping poor people. Finally, poverty is a worldwide problem that is impossible it can be solved constantly. Global effects are also limiting recourses such as water. Therefore, the world needs to act now before the problem grows till it reaches the state were nothing can be done. Alnajdi 5 Works cited FXB Center for Health & Human Rights Harvard  FXB Center for Health & Human Rights Harvard University. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Causes of  Global Issues. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. FXB in  FXB English. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Alnajdi 6 https://fxb.org/our-programs/