Arroyave page 1 Ivan Arroyave Sarah Roth February 25, 2017 Steroids A substance that will turn you into superhero, unbeatable, the biggest, the fastest, the strongest! Steroids. Many say the drugs are dangerous and when used can affect the development of a young body and can have a negative impact on the health. Others argue that if taken properly with post cycle treatments, the side effects can be minimal. The discussion of whether steroids are dangerous, and should be legalized changed much over the years. The argument that steroid usage has increased in the last 10 years can be made, but a fore seeable future where steroids are accepted in society seems far fetch as sport committees have continued to toughen testing procedures as well as suspensions and fines for violations. Most users promote its safeness with no evidence that steroid usage can have essential long term effect to proves them wrong, while the medical field and sport organizations are still convinced of its harmfulness and continue to advocate against it. Are Steroids as bad as we have been taught to believe? Or is it just our lack of understanding of what they truly do and the effect that they have on our bodies, that society has instead label it as dangerous just because. Anabolic steroids allow your body to hold in more nitrogen which is vital to the production of protein and are essential for muscle growth and recovery time after a workout for athletes. But not the only reason they are used, for medical patients with inflammatory conditions anywhere in the body including the kidneys or even brain tumors and many other Arroyave page 2 illnesses with brain tumor patients, steroids reduce the buildup of fluids around the tumor which can ultimately impede on vital organ functions. The American Brain Tumor Association, funded in 1973 and the only non-profit organization in the United States focused on supporting brain tumor patients and brain tumor research reported patients reporting fevers, stomach pains, weight gain, mood swings as well heart arrhythmias, hypertension, liver damage and cancer. While other studies report, these can all be prevented if taken properly. Many users such as Mike Murphy Safe or and Rich Piana from 5% Nutrition, speak out on this issue, and agree that if proper research is conducted by the user on the specific steroid and post cycle treatment prior to taking the drug, the chances of serious negative side effects are extremely low. not forget Arnold Schwaneger and Franco Columbo, two of the most prominent bodybuilders in the 1960s and are still in perfect health conditions even at their old ages. The argument that steroid usage has increased in the last 10 years can be made. We live in a day an age where close to half the population of males are gym rats and everyone wants to look like Mark Wahlberg did in his 20s. Jacked and swole. Dr. Harrison Pope M.D Harvard Medical School Specialist, refers to this community as in an article Published by Health, one of the leading subscription companies in the fitness industry around the world. the This culture that use to only be a part of underground gyms in the and are now becoming mainstream concepts. In a 2016 survey conducted by Bone Talk Science behind Performance Enhancing it was reported over 20 million people have admitted to using Performance Enhancement Drugs such as Steroids. This has led to the list of banned substances by sport committees to keep getting longer as chemist continue to find ways Arroyave page 3 to reorganize the molecules in steroids so that users can pass drug test. To Sport Organizations to fighting back by stricting testing policies and harsher suspensions and fines for those caught using. But can we see a future where steroids are regularly used by athletes? Shaun Assael states he believes so in the Big Think The Future of  But time will be the judge of that, as movements similar to that as the one kick started by the Nemours Foundation, dedicated to providing families with information on the development of children, advocate about the dangerousness of steroids use and continue to play a role in how society perceives steroids. The discussion of whether steroids are dangerous, and should be legalized changed much over the years. The two main arguments relatively have stayed the same. One being that steroids can have significantly negative side effects on a health and should continue to be illegal and have no place in society. And the opposing view being that if taken properly no such negative side effects will occur. Both sides of the aisle have stayed true to their views and have not reached much compromise. But there has been some small change in two aspects. The number of people who have reported using steroids have increased over the years, and to battle this trend, sport committees have rolled out tougher testing policies and suspension and violations for those caught using. So, is it possible to see a future in where steroids are accepted in society and in sports? Only time will tell. Arroyave page 4  American Brain Tumor Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Murphy Mike Murphy, Mike. Steroids: Safe or  Bodybuilding.com. N.p., 01 Mar. 2003. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Dowshen, Steven.  Kids Health. The Nemours Foundation, Oct. 2013. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. McDougall, Christopher. Steroid Use: Know the  Health. N.p., 7 Dec. 2007. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.