Mancuso 1 Sophia Mancuso Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 12 March 2017 The Fight Against Animal Abuse Every 60 seconds, an animal is abused (ASPCA). Animal abuse is a subject that touches just about every human heart. Most people are aware of abuse that goes on in neighborhoods, towns, countries, and in the world but are unsure how to help or spot it. The level of abuse varies and the level of combat against this abuse varies as well. Animal abuse just physical abuse of a pet, the neglect of an animal, the overbreeding of animals, animal hoarding, and forcing animals to fight. These are only a few of the many instances of abuse and sadly people are unaware of these forms of torture and neglect that take place every day. Moreover, stray animals and kenneled animals are at very high numbers. 2.7 million animals are euthanized yearly in animal shelters because of overpopulation of strays (ASPCA). The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) is an organization that works to improve the lives of animals through promoting adoption to keep animals out of shelters and increasing laws that protect animals right and prevent animal abuse. One of their most popular ads is a TV commercial known to bring tears to any viewer, showing pictures of neglected animals to sad music while asking for a simple donation to help. The point is to evoke a large amount of emotion and they do it very well. Through visual advertisements, the ASPCA draws their audience in with the use of rhetorical appeals in hopes they will join their cause and help end animal cruelty. Mancuso 2 Image 1 is an image you would find posted on large billboards or sprawled across a wall in a busy city. It has a striking yellow-orange colored background that catches the eye and three images that stand out. Warm colors like this usually are chosen to show passion for something, which that something that is unclear until the viewer looks at the three emphasized images shown as the focal point (Chapman, 2016). These colors are also come off as friendly and inviting, basically calling the viewer to look closer, only to find the more gruesome images. The three stand-out images are all unrelated and are meant to confuse the viewer at first. There is no reason for a brick, a bag, and a puppy to be related until the viewer thinks about it and pieces it together. Viewers are then hit with an overwhelming feeling of sadness and disgust when they themselves conjure up the image advertisers are leaving them to create. This is great example of pathos. Pathos is an appeal to emotion and is a common tactic in ads trying to get an audience to do something out of sheer emotion created by the ad (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). The ad is set up in a way so that it catches the attention of the viewer with its use of bright, warm, and inviting colors as well as implementing a design that involves the viewers mind and getting them to think. Then, the viewer is drawn to the words below the images. you can imagine, seen is written below in bold red letters popping out at the viewer, asking them to imagine what terrible things could be done with the brick, bag, and the puppy. This is an example of logos. Logos is the appeal to logic, which is to further prove a point trying to be made (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). They claim to have seen it all, which helps convince the viewer they are aware of the many gruesome things happening to animals. They are clearly knowledgeable about the subject which is also an appeal to ethos. Ethos is an appeal to ethics (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). Below that reads year, the ASPCA Mancuso 3 handled over 65,000 cruelty complaints, 4,000 in New York They include this statistic to further back up their claim of animal abuse and support their fight against it as well as appealing to logos and ethos. The sheer number of complaints they have dealt with shows that they are not only knowledgeable but experienced, which makes them a credible organization. The statistic is followed with a website and in the lower left corner is their logo. These are also forms of ethos. The fact that there is a logo, a credible organization behind the ad, convinces a viewer that it is something they can trust. The same with the website, even if the audience is skeptical, they can visit the site. They reference to the website in hopes that the viewer could help prevent more cases like this, which could be a form of Kairos, an appeal to timeliness (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). This reference to the site also is great way to get people to join their cause, which in the end, is what the ad is set out to do. Image 2 is an ad that is found in a magazine or pamphlet. The overall layout of the ad is to have the reader interacting with it by pulling back the tab to get the whole message, which is a way of catching a attention. The background is bright white which allows any colors in the foreground to stand out and become the focal point of the ad (Chapman, 2016). Before the reader pulls the interactive tab back, there is a dog with a shot pointed at its neck with the statistic dogs are euthanized below it. The reader then realizes that this shot is a shot meant to kill the dog, causing the reader to feel sad. This would be again, an appeal to emotion, or pathos. The statistic below it would be an appeal to logos. The reader then can pull the tab back, peeling away the shot and revealing a red collar around the neck and the shot is gone. The phrase and their website is then shown on the opposing side of the tab. The phrase is an example of Kairos, appeal to timeliness and the website is an appeal to ethics, ethos. Removing the tab and turning the shot into a collar gives the reader Mancuso 4 a sense of responsibility in a way. They could do the same thing and save a dog from being euthanized by adopting, which is another form of pathos. This ad is great way to inform a reader about kennels and their overpopulation leading to animals being euthanized and to make them feel the need to adopt an animal, which one of the ASPCAs missions as an organization. Both images do a great job of involving the audience into the ad. In doing so, they give the reader a sense of responsibility of what is happening, since they now know about it. Though Image 1 lacks an obvious appeal to timeliness, the fact that all those crimes happened within a span would clearly have the audience thinking it could happen at any time, and they should act. Image 2 lacks any real color scheme to their ad. However, this lack keeps the audience focus on the problem rather than the ad itself. Though the images are drastically different, they both take on the task which is to convince an audience to join their cause. Word Count: 1222 Mancuso 5 Works Cited A Closer Look at Dog  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.aspca.org/animal-cruelty/dog-fighting/closer-look-dog-fighting>. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/01/color-theory-for-designers-part-1-the meaning-of-color/>. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric really matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Mancuso 6 Image 1 Mancuso 7 Image 2 Mancuso 8