Yang 1 Weidong Yang Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 February 26,2017 Animal testing protection law and right Animal testing has become a very sensitive topic in the human society. According to a research, every year have million animals are used in the animal testing, it includes dog, cat, bird, rabbits and some primates. Government and some research organization use animal testing for find some new medians that can bring some benefit for human. Most of testing animal are locked in a dark cage, and waiting death and loneliness. They get same right as human, instead only they can do is stay in the cage and waiting next testing until death. They are living under the pressure, bad environment, terrible testing and some effects cause some animal violence and bats. In the today society, some animals have gone extinct, such as Hartebeest, people catch them for some organs and some economic value, human begin to pay attention of the animal right and law. People have to do some effective measure and advertise for improve animal right, because animal and human have the same feeling, and emotion, such as dog always be loyal to master. And I find a two stakeholders both are promote people to protect animal testing. The First stakeholder I choice is People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is a protect animal organization. PETA post some videos in the twitter, Facebook and some community software for remind human that animal is very important, do not kill and test them. Animals are friend, they have same body and emotion activity as human. The second stakeholder I choice is National Anti-Vivisection Society (NAVS) is against animal testing organization. NAVS post Yang 2 some policy and published some articles to people for remained people to protect animal. NAVS advocates to make their voices heard regarding legislation, regulations and policies. The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals can be abbreviated to PETA, it is an organization for protect animal. The main purpose of the PETA is to use alternatives for animals testing research, and they want to find new ways to replace animals as non-animal methods, reduce the animal experiment. (WIKIPEDIA). For the image of the PETA, it wants to remind to audiences and people that animal is friend, test them, because it is very pitiful. This image wants to accomplish that animal is our friend, test your friend even it is mouse. And kill one kind of animal will destroy food cycle. People have to pay attention. In the opposite, if people use animal to testing some product it will lead to slow down of the development of society. The PETA research problem avoiding animals testing and get some benefit from test, at the same time advocate people protect animal. By a researcher of PETA, it complete new problem that is the paradigm shift in toxicology. They vision is to move away from current animal testing to the cell test. the paradigm shift in toxicology is to use organotypic cell models. It can less animal testing. One day, if people use animal testing, it will save Yang 3 much life and keep balance of the food chain. In the other way, this image wants to tell people test on my friend. Just image, if human and animal change roles each other, every day someone have to testing in your body, it is very terrible. The mouse looks like a person act for reflect people and animal are similar, and marker use black world describe test on your friend, some animal is not harmful and they love human. In the other way, if people always use kind of animal to do the animal testing will lead to the destruction of the food chain. So it reminds human that animal is our friend, test on their body. National Anti-Vivisection Society can be abbreviated to ANVS, that main gold is to against animal testing for the commercial, education, research and some sciences purpose. Vivisection Society post some policy and published some articles to people for protect animal. NAVS advocates to make their voices heard regarding legislation, regulations and policies. Because they think human evolution is also come from animals, people have not right to decide the life or death for anyone. For the image, it reminds people may advance science without harming animals, and they want people to anti-vivisection society, because vivisection is very merciless behavior for animal. And this dog is very cute, but people any vivisection him. This Yang 4 dog is very pitiful for people; people should love animal. The purpose of image wants to people accomplish a legislative alert for protect. The act is take Action Thursday that asks for support of animal abuser registry bills across the country. The maker use maker to describe legislative alert is very important. In the other people, the image wants to tell to they are friend, because dog can protect his master and dog always stay and love human. In some news, we can see dog and some animal protect people from dangerous events. In the conclusion, both organization want to remind people that we should protect animal, and refuse animal testing and Vivisection. Because it will make a lot of bad effect for the human society. ANVS want to refuse animal testing through government help, law and some policy. It is very useful, because people have to respect and observe it. PETA want to refuse animal testing through community society, news and people. Because most of people are like animal, human and animal have equal right. Works Cite Kooijman, Marlous, et al. Case Of Animal  Technological Forecasting & Social Change (2017): ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017 Day, Nancy. Animal Experimentation: Cruelty or Science? Hillside, N.J., U.S.A.: Enslow, 1994. PETA. Animals Used For  Peta.org. PETA, 2012. Web. 12 Sept. 2012. . Vanessa Soria. Using Role Play To Debate Animal  Journal Of Biological Education (Routledge) 49.3 (2015): 309-321. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.