Lutz 1 Tyler Lutz Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Free College Education The best way to grab the average attention and convince them with an idea is often with advertisements. One can turn on the television or read social media and they will see all sorts of advertisements from many corporations and organizations. One such organization, Free College Now, has a mission statement as follows, believe economy requires the country to make higher education affordable for everyone if we are going to have a workforce with the skills needed for us to compete in the global College education has been paid for in the past years by every citizen of the United States. Some argue that college education should be free because it is a right not a privilege. The way they get their point across is by convincing the nation to donate and help support their organization. Therefore, Free College Now utilizes advertisements to convince the average citizen that college education should be free (Who we are). The first image comes from the Free College Now website. This image is one of the primary advertisements for this company. The image has big letters and a bright color red to emphasize the message being portrayed. When talking about typography, the letters are in big font so it is easier for the average viewer to read and stands out from a distance. When viewing the image there is not much of a sign of pathos. Pathos is an appeal to emotion (University of Louisville). The average viewer of this ad will not experience much emotion. The only thing the average viewer may feel is simplicity. By seeing the ad they get the message clearly by looking for just a second. The next thing that people will see in this ad is the website title on the bottom Lutz 2 of the picture. This can be viewed as the organization trying to show their credibility. This is an example of ethos (University of Louisville). By showing their website title in the bottom of the ad, it gives the average viewer confirmation that this advertisement is real and not fake. The organizations goal is to prove that their point is accurate. When looking at the ad, one can clearly read and understand the point being stated by the ad having big white letters in the middle. By being able to easily read and understand the ad, the viewer can be persuaded and understand the reasoning of the ad clearly. This can be an example of logos. Logos is an appeal of logic (University of Louisville). The organization is making it easy to understand their point so people will get involved with ease. The last rhetorical appeal is kairos. Kairos refers to the timeliness of an argument (University of Louisville). There is not much information on the ad that give the average viewer a sense of timeliness. Thus, the main two rhetorical appeals that stand out in this ad are ethos and logos (Who we are). The second image comes from the Free College Now organization. The image is not from their formal website but is supported and funded by the organization. When viewing the image, one will see Bernie Sanders on the cover. When talking about typography, the image has big letters at the top of the ad and smaller letters at the bottom. This is effective because the average viewer will see the first part of the ad and want to read or view more. The organization include their website title as credibility like in image 1, instead they use a picture of Bernie Sanders. This can be viewed as ethos because the organization is using political figure Bernie Sanders as their credibility. The average viewer can feel a sense of agreement or motivation when they see a political figure like Bernie Sanders supporting their organization. When they feel this sense of agreement or motivation it can be seen as an example of pathos. This technique is very effective for gaining Sanders supporters and many democrats as well. When viewing the Lutz 3 ad, the average viewer will see Bernie Sanders and then read what is in quotations. The message that is in quotations, should be a right not a is one of the basic arguments of this organization on free college education. By presenting this quote from Bernie Sanders and their organization, it can be viewed as an example of logos. People will read the quote and understand the point that the ad is trying to portray. This is effective also because it saves the viewer time from having to look up information about the organization. Instead they get their point in one ad. The last thing the ad is trying to portray to the average viewer is a sense of timeliness. Kairos is being used in this ad by having Sanders being a known politician and his recent involvement in the past Presidential election. This shows a sense of timeliness because of Sanders being known this past year (Guardsman). When viewing an advertisement, color can help catch the eye and get a point across. In both of the images color makes the ad stick out to the viewer. In image one the viewer can see that there is a red background color. This color of background represents immediate action. When one views the ad, they will look at the image and realize that it sticks out at them. This is what the intended goal is to be. They want their ad to stick out in front of other ads and they accomplish this by using the red background color. The red color also goes well with the white lettering. It allows the white lettering to stick out at the viewer to act as an easy attention grabber. In image two there is a light green colored background in the ad. By using this color, they can make Bernie Sanders and the quote by him the center of attention for the ad. This will make the message the organization is trying to portray to the average viewer stand out. This light green color also represents a calming feel. When the viewer the ad, unlike with red where the message is supposed to stick out in the face of the viewer, they will feel a sense of calmness and an inspiration to help out (Basic Color Theory). Lutz 4 Images one and two both focus mainly on getting the idea across that college education should be free. They also argue that education is a right and not a privilege. Both images are very easy to understand at first glance and allow the viewer to understand the message the organization wants them to hear. The four concepts of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos are used in both pictures to help portray their message to the viewer. The concept that seems to be used the most effectively in both images is ethos. Both images accurately show their credibility and seem agreeable to most viewers. The concept that was the least effective was kairos because it was hard to view both images and feel a strong sense of timeliness. Both images have a stated message that can lead to a solid resolution in the future. Therefore, both images prove to be great advertisements to support the Free College Now organizations and their agreement to have free college education. Word Count: 1225 Lutz 5 Work Cited Color Basic Color Theory. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Mar. 2017. <https://www.colormatters.com/color-and-design/basic-color-theory> Guardsman, The. Is Getting a College Education a Right or a  The Guardsman. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <http://theguardsman.com/is-getting-a-college-education-a- right-or-a-privilege/> Ethos, Pathos, University of Louisville. Web. 8 Oct. 2016. <https://louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/handouts-and-resources/handouts- 1/logos-ethos-pathos-kairos> Who We  Campaign for Free College Tuition. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <http://www.freecollegenow.org/> Lutz 6 Image 1: Image 2: