Hendel 1 Rachel Hendel Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 7 March 2017 Dignity in Dying Assisted dying allows each person to control their death if they decide that their suffering is unbearable. The campaign for Dignity in Dying is a United Kingdom based organization that believes assisted suicide should be legalized. They personally believe that in the United Kingdom, people given six months or less to live, should be given the opportunity to control their death. It is not considered suicide because these people will inevitably pass away. Therefore, they should be able to decide the timing and manner of their death. The Dignity in Dying organization stresses that the patient be able to make the final decision, not having any doctors or physicians have any control to ensure that they are not supporting a law that allows for any individual to take away life. This law that they are attempting to pass also takes in the consideration of healthcare professionals by allowing for those who do not want to support assisted suicide to be able to choose to not be involved. It will also come with a waiting period, so the patient has time to reflect upon their decision. Not only that, but it will allow them to die at home, if they please (Dignity in Dying). This organization works towards raising awareness for their in progress law regarding euthanasia through the use of campaign ads. Image 1 shows a man in a hospital bed being accompanied by both government and healthcare officials. The Campaign for Dignity in Dying logo at the bottom left hand corner acts as ethos, better known as when the author attempts to persuade the audience of something by demonstrating their own credibility, or even evoking that of others (Rhetoric Matters). By Hendel 2 incorporating their logo, it lets the audience know that this advertisement is the works of an established euthanasian organization. The targeted audience can be those who have any say in the legalization of euthanasia, perhaps those who can vote on the matter or are direct government or healthcare officials. The pathos, or better known as the appeal to emotion (Rhetoric Really Matters), is demonstrated through the dialogue. The man who is clearly awfully ill is holding a sign that indicates he would like to have the right to choose whether he stays alive or dies. The sign that the government and healthcare officials are holding indicates that they should have the right to choose what the patient does. This appeals to pathos in that it makes the audience realize how ridiculous it is to allow for others to determine how a person should live, especially when they are not the ones that are in pain. Not only that, but it makes the audience feel sympathetic towards the patient, due to the fact that they are miserable and are not able to make the final decision regarding their life. While this advertisement does not include any statistics or facts, it still does incorporate logos, or better known as the appeal to logic (Rhetoric Really Matters). Logos is shown through the dialogue between the patient and the government and healthcare officials. As previously stated, the conversation basically states that the officials should have control over the lives. This is clearly extremely illogical, considering the fact that no one should have any control over anyone lives, but only their own. Kairos, or the appeal to timeliness (Rhetoric Really Matters), is shown through the timeliness of the life. In this image, a man is shown in a hospital bed, indicating that he is not well. Kairos is represented through the idea that he is fighting for the right to decide how much longer his life will last. Whether he continues to live miserably for the six months that he is expected to live, or choose to take part in assisted suicide and die sooner than later. Hendel 3 The colors in this advertisement that grab the attention are the gray and neutral colors. The gray of the bedding, walls, and clothing of the government officials give the image a depressing, moody and mournful feel to it (Color Theory). This contributes to the advertisement in that the entire idea of someone being in the hospital due to their fatal conditions is depressing. The fact that this person is fighting to have the right to choose how they end their life adds to the mournful and moody effect of the ad. With there being mainly neutral colors in the image, it allows for the pink and blue logo of the campaign for Dignity in Dying to stick out to the audience more, allowing them to realize who is responsible for it. Image 2 shows a newspaper obituary of a man who was terminally ill. The targeted audience can be those who have any say in the legalization of euthanasia, perhaps those who can vote on the matter or are direct government or healthcare officials. The appeal of ethos is not very present in this advertisement. The logo of the Campaign for Dignity in Dying is not present in this advertisement, but the exact shades of pink and blue used by the organization is incorporated into the ad. The pathos is developed through the newspaper headline, which reads: could have died at home with his wife and family beside This appeals to the emotion of the audience in that it makes them feel sad and perhaps pity towards the man discussed in the newspaper article. Pathos is also represented in this advertisement through the line was discovered dead at the bottom of the stairs after he had attempted to end his This makes the audience feel rather guilty about assisted dying not being legal, considering the fact that if it were legal, it would not result in people throwing themselves down the stairs. People are so miserable that they are willing to painfully end their lives. Logos is represented through the caption below the newspaper article incorporated by Dignity for Dying. The caption reads: a change in the law on assisted dying no more people will die, but fewer people will By Hendel 4 incorporating this caption it aids the audience in realizing that despite whether or not assisted dying becomes legal, these people will pass away within the next six months anyways. By making assisted dying legal, it allows for people to end their lives when and how it is best suited for them. Therefore, the same amount of people are dying, and less people are unnecessarily suffering through their illness. Kairos is represented in this advertisement through the timeliness of the life discussed in the article. Rather than spending the last few months of his life attempting to relax, the man in the advertisement spent those months figuring out how he can take control of his death. With all that stress, he ended up trying to kill himself by throwing himself down the stairs because he could not receive the treatment of assisted suicide. This represents Kairos in that it shows how assisted dying is time sensitive, even when the patient is expected to die within the next six months because how their remaining time is spent is important to their quality of life. The colors in this advertisement consists of light gray and black. The light gray of the newspaper gives the image a subdued, or rather depressing feeling. The bold black of the headline of the paper gives the image a feeling of mourning and death, while being formal at the same time (Color Theory). These colors contribute to the effectiveness of the image in that it gives the audience the opportunity to sympathize towards the man who was not given the chance to utilize assisted suicide. Not only that, but makes them realize that euthanasia is an important, formal topic that should be taken seriously. Overall, both of these images convey focus on the reasons as to why assisted dying should be legalized. Their campaign advertisements represent how a patient should be able to make their own decisions when it comes to how their life ends and how no other individual Hendel 5 should have control over such thing. The advertisements effectively convey the message that assisted dying should be legalized and raises awareness of the topic of assisted suicide. Word Count: 1377 Hendel 6 Image 1 Image 2 Hendel 7 Works Cited Account, Dignity In DyingVerified. Media Tweets by Dignity in Dying  Twitter. Twitter, 08 Mar. 2017. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 9 Mar. 2017. Dignity in submission to the Health and Care Policy  Socialist Health Association. N.p., 12 Feb. 2017. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Join the  Dignity in Dying. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017.