Cohen,1 Zachary Cohen Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 10 March 2017 Rhetorical Appeals of Animal Testing PETA is an organization that was founded in March of 1980 and fights for the equality of animals around the world. In both of their advertisements, PETA conveys a powerful message about animal abuse. Although both of these images show completely different things, they both have the same central idea behind them. What PETA strives for is protecting the rights of animals. Their motto, which basically sums up their goals, is are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, or use for (Kruse 2017). In two advertisements, they successfully convey a powerful message similar to their motto with the use of rhetorical appeals. The use of logos, pathos, ethos and kairos all assist in composing a strong message behind these pictures. In the first image, it shows a woman holding a dead, skinned animal that says is the rest of your fur What this is saying is that the animal she is holding was killed in order for somebody to wear a fur coat, and the rest of the coat is the dead animal. This image contains the four elements of rhetorical appeal in order to capture the attention of viewers as well as to create emotion and a sense of urgency towards what they are seeing. In the image, the creator is using ethos by placing logo in the bottom right corner in order to gain credibility. Without the creator incorporating a reputable organizations logo into the advertisement, the viewers Cohen,2 be certain whether or not the information the picture contains is credible. As for pathos, the picture inside of the advertisement is designed to make the viewer feel sorrow for the animal and see animal abuse from a new perspective. In the image, a woman is holding a skinned animal covered in blood by its legs. In this scenario, the blood represents the color red which is a very emotional color which typically demonstrates danger and pain (Color Wheel Pro). The use of the bright red color brings more emotion to the viewer by showing the amount of pain the animal went through while being skinned alive. The creator incorporated the quote the rest of your fur in order to show logos. This is a very powerful quote, which was implemented to make the viewer think about what they are seeing. When they see the quote in large text and the words in bright red, it draws their attention to the advertisement and makes them think about the truth behind animal abuse. The combination of these three rhetorical appeals are designed to make the viewer want to act quickly and help to end animal abuse (kairos). The colors of the image, the quote and the credibility shown all are intended to create intense emotion and make the viewer want to act now. In the second advertisement, it takes a much different approach in conveying the message about animal abuse. The creator of this image used ethos by placing logo in the bottom of the advertisement. Like previously stated, incorporating a logo in an advertisement shows credibility to the viewer. The approach that this image took regarding pathos was one that people could relate to. In the advertisement, it contains a picture of a woman with her body parts all labeled. What this is showing is that animals and humans have the same body parts and that animals feel the same amount of pain that humans do. The approach in using a human in the image allows people to relate to themselves and understand the intensity of pain that animals are Cohen,3 put through when killed. This provides a new outlook on animal abuse because people are forced to compare themselves to animals when they are reminded that we have the same body parts. For logos, the quote animals have the same is used to force the viewers to realize that humans have the same body parts as animals. Doing so makes the viewer understand the pain that the animals go through and feel sympathetic for them. The image and rhetorical appeals used in the advertisement all contribute kairos which makes the viewer feel a sense of urgency to make a change. To some, advertisements may seem odd, but they stated that they care what they have to do, they will do anything to get the message about animal abuse out to everyone. On their website, it says aim is to stop animal suffering, and we use every available opportunity to reach people with our messages. Our gimmicks may sometimes seem silly, but they are vital if we are to reach the masses and initiate discussion, debate, questioning of the status and, of course, action. The current situation is critical for billions of animals, and our goal is to make the public aware of the if it means wearing a funny costume, engaging in a public stunt, or taking our clothes (Kruse 2017). This quote states that PETA will do anything they can in order for people to become more aware about animal abuse. In many of their advertisements, they frequently take a goofy or graphic approach in order to gain more attention from viewers. Instead of using a plain, boring advertisement, PETA takes a different approach by using more eye-catching images such as the one of the woman who is nearly naked and the other woman holding the dead animal. These two images easily catch the attention from viewers and convey a stronger meaning because of the images. Their website also says, Cohen,4 makes a point of offering something for all the most conservative to the most radical and from the most refined to the most this approach has proved very (Kruse 2017). What this is saying is that PETA uses many different approaches in their advertisements to reach out to all different types of people. They have ads that target more conservative people all the way as well as ads that target more radical people. They stated that this has given them success because they are able to reach out to all different types of audiences through these advertisements (Regan 179-189). These two images share a very similar, yet different approach to conveying their opinion in regard to animal abuse. In image one, it contains the color red a lot which is intended to show fear and pain that the animal went through. Without incorporating the color red, it have provided the same intensity of emotion and also would not catch the attention of as many people. In the second image, instead of using vibrant, emotional colors, the creator used an image of a woman to show that humans have the same body parts as animals. This allows the viewer to see animal abuse from a realistic perspective and understand the amount of pain that they are put through. Both of the images use the four rhetorical appeals in order to create emotion and a sense of understanding and urgency towards the viewer. They both contain a meaningful message behind them and allow you to see animal abuse in a new manner. PETA strives to make people more informed of animal abuse and to end all forms of animal cruelty around the world. Through powerful images and the use of rhetorical appeals, their advertisements are designed to make people more aware of animal cruelty and create a Cohen,5 sense of urgency to end it. The images from PETA successfully demonstrate the four rhetorical appeals; ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Through color, image choice, and the use of ethos to convince the audience of the credibility, PETA successfully created powerful advertisements to capture the attention of their audience and make them feel intense emotion towards what they are seeing in the images. All of these elements that are contained in the advertisement force the audience to want to make immediate action towards ending animal abuse. Cohen,6 Works Cited Animal Rights Uncompromised:  Web. 26 Feb. Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Wheel Pro: Color Web. 9 Mar. 017. Corwin R. Gender, views of nature, and support for animal  & Animals 7.3 (1999): 179-198. Galvin, Shelley L., and Harold A. Herzog Jr. Ethical ideology, animal rights activism, and attitudes toward the treatment of  & Behavior (1992): 141-149. Regan, Tom. The case for animal  in Animal Welfare Science Springer Netherlands, 1987. 179-189. User, Super. Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and  - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and Web. 8 Mar. 2017. Cohen,7