Blichasz 1 Joanie Blichasz Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Dignity in Dying The legalization of assisted suicide has been argued over for years. Today of the public support the choice of assisted dying for terminally ill Dignity in Dying is a UK organization that campaigns for terminally ill, mentally competent adults to have the right, legally, to die on their own terms Dignity in Dying uses cartoon images and video stills to spread the word that they want change when it comes to assisted suicide. Since this organization is based in the UK, not many people will see these images in the United States, therefore, they contain different components that are easy enough to analyze in order for people to know what they are campaigning for. Through the use of rhetorical appeals and color schemes, Dignity in Dying has created images that show their campaign to change the law against assisted suicides. Image 1 is a cartoon depicting an old man lying in a hospital bed surrounded by a doctor, a priest and a politician. The Dignity in Dying logo that appears in the bottom left hand corner establishes ethos, or an appeal to credibility Ethos, Pathos, Usually, images are looked at left to right, top to bottom, therefore, the placement of the logo shows that the logo was the last thing that they wanted someone to look at in the image. The logical appeal, or logos, can be found in the text presented in the image Ethos, Pathos, The text is the Blichasz 2 first thing you would see. The elderly man in the hospital bed is holding a sign that says to while the man who looks like a politician is saying what about our right to choose what you This is the logic in the image because it focuses on the message, to campaign for people to have a right to choose when it comes to their death. However, it also shows the other side of assisted suicide, whether other people should decide for you. Kairos refer to timeliness and is evoked in the cartoon because of the hospital Ethos, Pathos, Usually when people think of a hospital they think of death, the end of their time on Earth. The pathos, or emotion, that Image 1 depicts is that of anger Ethos, Pathos, One would feel angry looking at this image because there are three strangers presuming to know what is best for a person when they know nothing about him. Someone could also feel depressed when looking at his image because not only of the hospital scene that is shown but because of the old man, it could remind them of someone they lost whether it be their own grandfather or someone else. It is a common fact cartoons are suppose to be funny. Since the first image is a cartoon then people would believe that it would be funny. However, the first image is the complete opposite of trying to be funny, it is actually depressing. Dignity in Dying would want this to occur because they want you to think that be laughing when in reality you become sad when you realize what they are trying to show you. Color is also used to set the tone. The color gray is a neutral color and can be considered depressing and mourning, which fits the general theme that the cartoon is trying to evoke when it comes to the hospital (Chapman). Although there that many colors present in the first image the colors that are represented suit the image to display the point that the cartoon is trying to get across. For example, the priest on the right-hand side of the image is wearing a brown suit and brown is supposed to evoke a of however in the image the priest has an Blichasz 3 unhappy look on his face so it is the opposite of what brown is supposed to mean. However, this does fit the cartoon because it shows the opposition to the point of the image. The color white is depicted with the doctor in the image. White can be with the health care which fits the image perfectly because the health care industry does have a problem with assisted suicides, therefore, the color white further shows the opposition to assisted suicides (Chapman). The politician is wearing a suit that is gray and a ribbon that encompasses the colors blue, red, and yellow. The color gray is considered depressing which goes with the overall theme of the image. However, the ribbon colors reflect something completely different. Blue represents responsibility and this color is one the ribbon because as a politician he feels that he has a duty towards the public, therefore, he has a duty to stop this old man from killing himself (Chapman). The red on his ribbon represents anger which goes with the emotion that the image is presenting, he is angry because someone would dare to question him, even though he has a higher authority (Chapman). Yellow represents cowardice, and in the image, he is a coward because he has other people standing behind him and he is bullying a frail, sickly, old person (Chapman). The only thing wrong with this image is that it shows too much of the opposing side rather than their own, therefore, it could confuse people. Image 2 depicts Sir Patrick Stewart, a celebrity, and text that says FIX OUR BROKEN This image is a still from a video. The logos in this image is placed directly in the center of the image. The two logos, Dignity in logo and Crowd logo, both establish ethos If you look left from right, top to bottom then Dignity in logo is the first thing that they want you to see when one looks at this image. However, they could have placed in the top right hand corner and made it a bit bigger to show its significance. Another reason that one could find this credible is because of Sir Patrick Stewart; they would think that if a celebrity Blichasz 4 is depicted then of course it should be credible. Also, Sir Patrick Stewart seems trustworthy based on the characters that he has played in films, which are always main roles as good, strong, honest leaders. The logo that is found in the second image is the text FIX OUR BROKEN with a website found underneath the text which takes you to the website where the video is found. This is logical because they are campaigning to fix the law that they believe is broken because one is not allowed to assist in suicides. The use of the website is even more logical because that gives one access to see why they are doing what they do as well as they are being able to decide if they want to support them. Kairos is depicted through the picture of Sir Patrick Stewart because of his age. Since he is old and still aging time is passing him by. The only colors that are depicted are pink and white. The entire image is in pink except for the text and the logos, and they did this because pink symbolizes caring, compassion, and love Color Meaning The Color Even Dignity in logo has pink in it which shows that they want people to know that they care about the people that they are trying to help and that they have compassion to those who are dying and want to end their life by their own rules. The white reflects the health care industry and how they are the ones who are in the opposing position to Dignity in Dying. The pathos that Image 2 depicts is that of trustworthy, thinking that because there is a celebrity in the image that you could trust them. The background is of out of focus protesters because they want you to focus on the celebrity endorsement but still want you to know that many other people support this cause. At first glance both images seem simple enough to understand, however, as one dissects each image, they both present complex ideas in order for the message to be appropriately displayed. Emotions and logic were the most displayed rhetorical appeals between both images, although the use of credibility and timeliness did help establish major points regarding each Blichasz 5 image. Both images not only showed Dignity in side but as well as helping to persuade people to support their cause. Word Count: 1429 Blichasz 6 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing Smashing Magazine, 17 Dec. 2016, www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/01/color-theory-for-designers-part-1-the-meaning-of- color/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. the Dignity in Dying, www.dignityindying.org.uk/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Logos, Ethos, Pathos, Kairos. University of Louisville, louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students- 1/handouts-and-resources/handouts-1/logos-ethos-pathos-kairos. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Dignity in Dying, www.dignityindying.org.uk/assisted-dying/our-position/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Color Meaning The Color Color-Meanings.com, 26 Nov. 2013, www.color- meanings.com/pink-color-meaning-the-color-pink/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Dignity in Dying, www.dignityindying.org.uk/assisted-dying/public-opinion/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Blichasz 7 Image 1 Image 2