Gilman 1 Abby Gilman Ms. Collins ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Imagine a world without meat. Not just meat, but go a little bit farther. Imagine a world without eggs, fish, milk, cheese, and any other animal-related foods. Imagine sitting at a fancy restaurant and only being able to order from less than half of the menu. It is fair to say that almost everyone can name a few people that they know that are either vegans or vegetarians. Veganism and vegetarianism are both something that are becoming very popular in modern, everyday society. A stakeholder known as PETA, for the Ethical Treatment of is an organization that is a widely known advocate for veganism and vegetarianism. PETA is a non-profit organization that concentrates its attention on fighting for animal rights and the mistreatment of animals all around the world. Their mission statement declares that, operates under the simple principle that animals are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, or use for entertainment. PETA educates policymakers and the public about animal abuse and promotes kind treatment of This company strongly believes that something like eating a steak, or anything that involves putting an animal in way, is a form of animal abuse. This organization has a big reputation when it comes to campaigning and advertising. main goal is to protect and defend animal rights and through the use of advertisements, they attempt to promote their goals and appeal to the audience. Throughout these campaigns they incorporate logos, ethos, kairos and pathos which assists in conveying their messages and cautioning people about the dangers of eating meat. Gilman 2 Logos is the appeal to logic or reason. Someone who is appealing to logos is trying to convince their audience using facts, statistics, historical analogies, as well as other things related to logical reasoning. In image one, logos are portrayed by the organization incorporating the fact that, are less prone to heart disease, cancer and PETA is trying to appeal to the audience by giving a statistic to show them that becoming a vegan or vegetarian is better and healthier than eating meat. They use this as an advertising tactic to enforce the company ideals of being against all form of animal abuse. There is no real appeal to logos in the second image. They have any form of background history or statistic to help back up their claims. Without this, goals are less persuadable due to the fact that there is no evidence that veganism or vegetarianism is better. Leaving out statistics and facts makes their ideas just opinions and less credible, which will lead to less people supporting them. Ethos is the appeal to ethics or morality. This method means to convince an audience of the credibility or character. This appeal is one that is seen very often, especially on the television advertisements. Both images presented use ethos to help portray message. In image one, the stakeholder uses the character of a nurse to help appeal to its credibility and trustworthiness. When referring to anything medical, it is only natural that people would believe the opinions of a nurse because they seem to be a reliable source. Nurses and doctors have gone to medical school and have learned about human health which means they have the most knowledge regarding this subject. By incorporating this image of a nurse, PETA is exhibiting credibility for their beliefs. Image two also incorporates the appeal to ethos. PETA uses a famous celebrity, Angela Simmons, to help appeal to the audience and gain their trust. By using someone of higher appeal, Gilman 3 like a celebrity, this organization is trying to show that because Angela Simmons believes eating meat is wrong, so should you. Also, they have her holding an apple with the words Meat is a in big, bold letters. She is representing from the Christian bible. Through this, PETA is portraying Angela Simmons not only as a celebrity, but appealing to the religious community. With the idea that meat is a and having someone act as Eve, they are trying to convince religious people to believe what they do, by using a higher power or character that is prominent in their religious community. Kairos refers to the timeliness of an argument and is the appeal to urgency. PETA exhibits this rhetorical appeal within both of their advertisements. In image one, PETA has the words HEART in big, bold and red letters. With these words being very large and at the center of the image, they exemplify the need to act quickly. Also, the color red has a bigger meaning then just to look nice and go with the color scheme. color red is a highly visible color that is able to focus attention quickly and get people to make quick (Bourn). This is an underlying meaning to the color red and most people do not realize that when they see the color red, it makes them want to act more quickly. For example, when a person sees a fire truck coming their way, it draws their attention and they focus on it due to the fact that the big red truck and lights means something is occurring. With all of these facts in mind, PETA uses the color red and the big letters to appeal to their audience and show a form of urgency. They want the viewer to immediately stop eating meat and go vegan/vegetarian. Image two also uses kairos as an appeal to urgency. In big letters are the words, Meat is a Sin. Go PETA uses less kairos in this image compared to image one but it is still a factor to their persuasion tactics. By stating, in a very large front and having it be in the center of the images, it immediately grabs the attention because it Gilman 4 is most like the first thing you see. By telling the audience to go and do something, they are showing a command and normally when someone is being told to do something, it is meant to be done immediately. Probably one of the most well-know and widely used rhetorical appeals is pathos. Pathos is the appeal to emotion. One can see this tactic used in almost every advertisement. Both of these images utilize the pathos appeal. Image one appeals to two types of emotions which are sexual appeal and by scaring the audience. Not only does PETA incorporate the character of a nurse in this advertisement, but they have this nurse dressed in a fairly outfit. They are trying to use sexual appeal and sexuality in a whole to appeal to a wider audience. By the woman having a low-cut shirt on, this organization is attempting to draw in viewers that will find this type of persuasion appealing. This image also appeals to the emotion of fear. By mentioning in their advertisement that, are less prone to heart this stakeholder is trying to make people who do eat meat fearful for their health. PETA is trying to persuade people that eat meat to convert to veganism due to the fact that it has some correlation with heart disease. With the thought of putting their health in way in mind, the viewers are more likely to convert to veganism because they fearful that they could die or end up in the hospital. Image two also contributes the use of pathos through the appeal to the emotion of fear. PETA states in this advertisement that, Meat is a This is a very outrageous and scary statement to throw out into the open. By PETA stating that someone that eats meat is a in a wrong-doer, it makes people, at religious people, believe that because they eat meat, they are more likely to go to hell. This is main goal when appealing to this emotion. They believe that by scaring the viewers into thinking they are almost committing a crime by eating meat, it is more likely they will convert to veganism/vegetarianism. Gilman 5 Animal abuse is a topic that is not taken lightly in society and what constitutes something as animal abuse is becoming even more detailed. Something as simple as eating meat is considered to be animal abuse by people who are vegans and vegetarians. With that being said, PETA, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, is fighting for the rights and mistreatment of all animals. Through this advertisements, this organization is trying to bring awareness to the severity of animal abuse and how people should cut out meat from their diets, in order to let these animals, live freely. By using techniques such as logos, ethos, kairos and pathos, PETA is able to appeal to their audience and convince them to believe in their goals and ideas. Gilman 6 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Bourn, Jennifer. Meaning of the Color  Bourn Creative. N.p., 03 June 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gilman 7 #1 #2