Freed- Williams 1 Sarah Freed- Williams Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Pro- Choice or No Choice Analise is a fifteen-year old girl. She is a sophomore cheerleader at Collins High School. Analise is also a straight A student, who has dreams of one day attending the University of South Florida. A few months ago, Analise accidentally became pregnant when the condom broke during intercourse with her boyfriend. She was terrified of disappointing her parents, so she decided to of the pregnancy without any outside help. The young teen was found dead a few days later after a failed attempt at a self-induced abortion. While Analise is not a real person, her story represents a large population of women across America who are misinformed and uneducated on the subject of abortion. However, with the help of programs, like The Pro- Choice Education Project, society is given the opportunity to end the negative stigmatism surrounding abortion. Since 2009, the Pro- Choice Education Project (PEP) has been dedicated to educating young people about reproductive health across America. The mission is to and inform organizations, young women, transgender, and gender non-conforming young people, ages 16-25, especially those whose voices are not heard in spaces where sexual and reproductive health and rights are (The Pro-Choice). PEP has long been involved in a project to protect rights to abortion and to warn young women about the risks involved with eliminating the option to have an abortion. The program has been successful in Freed- Williams 2 voicing their message through powerful advertisements. The use of visual rhetoric and different rhetorical appeals strengthens the effectiveness of the advertisement and forces society to analyze its position on abortion. Image one presents the audience with a shocking statistic by stating that, percent of anti-abortion leaders are men. One hundred percent of them will never be important to note that the text is large and written in bright white font in front of a black background. Also note that the sentences are short enough to be read within five seconds. The text was purposefully placed this way, so that anybody that glances at the advertisement will more than likely read what it says before looking away. The organization is successfully attempting to grab the attention through an appeal to logic.. This technique of appealing to logic through quantitative or qualitative data is called logos (Hoffman). After reading the text, the audience will take a look at the advertisement as a whole. They might notice that the anti-abortion leaders standing in the back are all white men dressed in suits. It is logical to assume that these men represent the current America congress. In 2015, the Washington Post published an article explaining the demographic among congress. The author, Philip Bump, reported that eighty percent of congress is white and eighty percent are males (Bump). The advertisement is inferring that the people who make the laws on abortion are those who will never have to endure an unwanted pregnancy. The organization also placed frowning facial expressions on the men and chose a dark color scheme to make it clear that the message is serious. All of these details appeal to the emotion in some way. The dark scheme may cause one to feel sadness for the women who have lost the right to their own body. Others may notice the frowning faces and feel anger towards male anti-abortion leaders and congress for taking away this right away, without experiencing pregnancy for themselves. It is obvious that Freed- Williams 3 the advertisement successfully uses pathos (appeal to emotion) to present the powerful message that PEP stands behind. Image two is all black and white, except for the text that is highlighted in red. Although the text sticks out, it is not the first thing the audience notices. The sentence is broken up into three different parts with a small picture separating each line of text. Because of this, the eye is first drawn to the pictures. The organization does a great job at grabbing the attention by placing fun antiques from the with a wire hanger. The contrasting objects create a curiosity in the audience to go on to read the text to see how the hanger relates to the other two objects. However, the designer of this advertisement creatively highlighted the text in red, so regardless of how you look at the advertisement the words will not be missed. Visually, the advertisement is effective in presenting the main message, but it also shows great use of rhetorical appeals. The second image uses Kairos to appeal to timeliness. Most advertisements use Kairos by clearly asking the audience to act now. However, this advertisement uses Kairos differently by asking the audience to reflect upon mistakes the United States has made in the past and work to be sure that they repeated again in the future. When it comes to abortion, some states have stricter laws than others. This is similar to America in the Guttmacher Institute published an article called, from Before Roe: Will Past be a Author, Rachel Benson Gold, claims that the CDC estimates that in 1972, 130,000 women obtained illegal or self- induced abortions and thirty-nine of them died in the process (Benson). The PEP organization is asking the audience to act now before history repeats itself and these numbers skyrocket again. Another appeal that the advertisement is using is pathos. The advertisement wants the audience to feel sympathy for the women who feel as though self-induced abortions are their only option. Freed- Williams 4 Like image one, the advertisement here could spark many different emotions among people, depending upon how it is interpreted. One may feel sympathy for women who feel the hanger is their last option. Others may understand the advertisement through a dark comedic approach. Either way, the advertisement does a spectacular job at effectively using pathos to appeal to the audience. Finally, through studying the website and analyzation of the images, it is clear that the advertisements seek to aim for a young adult target audience, approximately ages sixteen through twenty-five. Furthermore, both of the images contain ethos; an appeal to credibility. Both advertisements use ethos effectively by stating the name of the organization, the website, and also their motto, pro-choice or no An advertisement is more credible this way by giving its source of information. When an organization does this, the audience now has a chance to research the project and its claims. In both images, the name of the organization is small and placed at the bottom of the advertisement. It is smart to place the name at the bottom, so the audience get distracted from the main message of the advertisement. However, one way the appeal could have been more effective would be to enlarge the name Choice Public Education a little bit, so it is more visible. It can be very interesting to analyze the effectiveness of an advertisement through rhetorical appeal. Both images are powerful in the message they present. The Pro- Choice Public Education Project did a fantastic job at effectively incorporating rhetorical appeal, as well as visual rhetoric, into their advertisements. It is clear what the organization stands for and what it is trying to inform the audience of. It is advertising like this that can draw certain issues to attention and spark a change. PEP and their advertising are working to protect rights across America and potentially save lives. Freed- Williams 5 Works Cited Benson Gold, Rachel. Lessons from Before Roe: Will Past Be  Guttmacher Institute. Guttmacher InstituteR, 06 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. Bump, Philip. The New Congress Is 80 Percent White, 80 Percent Male and 92 Percent  The Washington Post. WP Company, 05 Jan. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text The Pro-Choice Public Education Project : What We  Protect Choice. The Pro-Choice Education Project, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Freed- Williams 6 IMAGE 1 Freed- Williams 7 IMAGE 2 (Its pro-choice or no choice. The Pro- Choice Public Education Project.)