Gonzalez 1 Madison Gonzalez Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Final Exit Efforts to Persuade the Average Citizen Assisted suicide has become a recent phenomenon, becoming more and more prevalent in society, especially in the United States as Washington, and Montana have legalized the practice of physician assisted suicide, and in 2013, Vermont declared that suicide with prescribed medications was a legal (healthresearchfunding.org). Due to the growing attention and speculation revolving around this matter, organizations have been formed. The Final Exit Network is a national, non-profit corporation, as well as a member of the World Federation of Right-to-Die Societies that advocates for the ultimate human right: the right to die (finalexitnetwork.org). It is their belief that a person should be able to end their life without the judgement or scrutiny from their family, peers, or medical professionals. They want to ensure that all citizens that fall into their criteria are educated on assisted suicide and are aware of their options if it comes down to that. This network does not promote suicide in any way, but they do want people who are enduring painful and lengthy medical issues to know their options. Final Exit Network utilizes straightforward billboards and advertisements that invoke rhetorical appeals to educate the masses about their cause and assisted suicide in general. The billboard presented by Final Exit Network is plain and unremarkable at first sight, but with further analyzation its true meaning is quite impressive. The thought put behind the piece from the organization is clearly seen and highly respectable because a common person most likely would not understand nor appreciate their efforts. The word choice on the billboard is Gonzalez 2 simple but effective, supporting Final Exit thoughts on assisted suicide by stating, Life My Death My This diction such as and especially the emphasis of persuades the viewer by playing on their emotions, which is a rhetorical appeal named pathos (Hoffman and Wiggs). The biggest and most surprising technique used to pull people in in this case is the use of color. Usually yellow is used to symbolize energy, happiness, or brightness, but in this instance it is used to demonstrate sickness. The most popular example of this connotation of the color yellow is shown in the novel, Yellow Yellow symbolizes a breaking point and the severity of illness in this novel, setting the groundwork and background for the use of its symbolism in such advertisements as this billboard (color-wheel-pro.com). The placement of this advertisement, which could be on the side of roads or busy highways, aids in the overall effectiveness of the billboard as well. As people drive by they will observe and attempt to comprehend the feelings that come along with seeing the words and colors on the billboard. Ethos is also used to compel viewers to support their ideas by including their official website. This addition gives the audience a piece of mind when deciding whether or not to side with Final Exit Network or not because they can refer to the website and do their own research if compelled to. The combination of these appeals and the use of color definitely aid in persuading many people to side with this organization due to the play on their emotions and their subconscious feelings toward certain colors. Image 2 has a lot more going on than the first image, making these two ploys from Final Exit Network at coaxing their viewers to join their fight in assisted suicide extremely varied. This advertisement produced by the organization extraordinarily possesses all four rhetorical appeals. The presence of pathos is the most recognizable through the large image as well as word choice. The picture contains an older man strapped up to multiple machines and a woman staring Gonzalez 3 down at him with worry and sadness written all over her face. This paired with wording such as and sway the viewer to approve of assisted suicide because it is the choice. Logos is apparent in this ad due to the diction concerning the information given to people about important legal issues, including will and health care These facts are essential to persuade most people because they do not want to approve of something that does not logically make sense. Along with the first image, ethos is also utilized in this case. Instead of the official website being used, the ending statement of the advertisement is join Final Exit This conclusion of the advertisement ensures people that they should trust the information presented because the organization is included. Along with these three main appeals, Kairos, an appeal to timeliness, is also fully and exquisitely applied in the bolded sentence that states, with us now, so we can be with you The emphasis put on this imperative sentence pushes the viewer even more to join the side of approval for assisted suicide. The amalgamation of these rhetorical appeals aids tremendously in the overall effectiveness of this advertisement. Both of these images presented by Final Exit Network aid in the persuasion of the approval of assisted suicide, but in completely different ways. The first image uses a plain design, a complex symbolism of color, and a few rhetorical appeals to draw the audience in. This combination, although simple, is very effective because of the way it makes the viewer feel and the placement of the billboard by busy roads and highways. On the other hand, the second image is much more detailed and full of information. The diction as well as the picture presented contains pathos, ethos, logos, and even kairos. This advertisement is not simple at all, and it has a lot of different techniques being utilized to persuade people that see it to approve of assisted suicide. Even though the hidden symbolism in the first image can be appreciated and enjoyed Gonzalez 4 immensely, the second image is an overall better advertisement for Final Exit Network because all four of the rhetorical appeals were used in complete harmony. It appeals to all sorts of audiences and uses words and an emotional picture to prove its point. It is rare to see all four rhetorical appeals coinciding smoothly and effectively. Overall, the second image is constructed beautifully to coax people into joining the fight to accept assisted suicide. Even though one image is more effective than the other, both the advertisement and the billboard achieve the goal set by Final Exit Network: to raise awareness and consciousness of assisted suicide. It is possible that some viewers still may not support or even tolerate assisted suicide after seeing these advertisements because this is such a controversial topic and most opinions are formed early on in a life. This does not mean defeat of Final Exit goal, though. No matter what side is chosen on whether or not it is morally acceptable to end a life before death, the topic is still getting discussed amongst viewers; that is definitely considered a success because, surprisingly, many people still are not aware of the controversy that surrounds assisted suicide. These advertisements raise awareness of this growing issue and force viewers to feel certain emotions through the use of the rhetorical appeals: pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. This surge of emotion that is put on by Final Exit Network truly embodies what an advertisement is supposed to accomplish. Word Count: 1217 Gonzalez 5 Works Cited Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Dying With Dignity Physician Aided Death Assisted Suicide  Dying With Dignity Physician Aided Death Assisted Suicide States. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Wpadmin. Surprising Physician Assisted Suicide HRFnd. N.p., 03 Apr. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Gonzalez 6 Image 1 Image 2 Gonzalez 7