Henshaw 1 Tamara Henshaw ENC 1102 Angelica Aranda 01 March 2017 The Message Within the Image A picture is worth a thousand words. In the Stop Bullying organization they use pictures to get the word out about what they want to do about bullying. Their mission is to make people more aware about what bullying and cyberbullying is, who is at risk, how to prevent bullying and how to someone can get help or to speak up about it. The organization gives you that explain what bullying and cyberbullying is. Bullying is unwanted, aggressive behavior among school aged children that involves a real or perceived power imbalance. The behavior is repeated, or has the potential to be repeated, over time. Bullying). Cyberbullying bullying that takes place using electronic (Stop Bullying). The stakeholder also gives insight on why bullying would start and who all is at risk, as well as, giving parents a list of warning signs to look out for to protect their children. It also talks about how to prevent bullying by talking about bullying or getting involved in your community. If bullying is going on lets not be just a bystander, lets speak up and help or talk to someone to get that person help. This stakeholder is also working with the Department of Education, Health Resources and Administration and Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. In the two images that will be talked about, there is one thing they have in common, to stop bullying. These images use pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos to grab the attention on people everywhere to help stop bullying. Henshaw 2 Pathos is rhetorical appeal to draw the audience to feeling by emotion to connect to the argument (Hoffman Wiggs 35). Image one shows two people smiling and says Know Not to show that someone always understands what you are going through. This makes people feel a sense of belonging and comfort to know that they are never alone and they can always come and talk to someone who understands. The sense of belonging gives the feel of getting someone who is bullied to not be afraid to speak up because there are people that are going through the same thing that understand and are there to help. In image two, the boy who looks as if he is thinking about something awful he has done says you ever take back the pain you caused someone This picture shows a teen who looks as if he regrets something he has done or wishes he could take it back, making you feel a sense of pain. This image makes a person think about the pain that they could give someone by something they may say and to know they can never take it back afterwards. Even though both images grab the emotions of two different audiences they are working to stop the same thing. Another rhetorical appeal that the images both use is ethos, or a method of persuasion to create credibility (Hoffman Wiggs 25). In image one it shows that having someone by your side you can conquer anything. Not only are you going through being bullied someone else is too and coming out and talking about it will help you to overcome being bullied and not think about hurting yourself. Image two shows that whatever you say to someone to hurt their feelings you can not take that back and that is bullying. You will regret the decision after and you take it back. Credibility is always important. Logos the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of Henshaw 3 evidence and reasons (Hoffman Wiggs Both these images show this rhetoric appeal by showing that bullying needs to stop. These images look to grab the attention of both the bullied and the bullier. Image one shows the reasoning that when you have someone you can talk to it helps a lot. To know you are not alone in that situation you feel a lot better. For image two the reasoning behind that image is that once you send or say something hurtful to someone you can never take those words back. If you hurt someone to the point that they hurt themselves that is your fault and you can not take that back. Pushing someone to the point where they take their own life is something you can not take back, so all together stop bullying. At the end of the day you will regret the decision you have made. Kairos is another type of rhetorical appeal that appeals to timeliness or the right time to say, perform, or do something. These two images use this appeal to stop bullying today, and with the young teens of today. If we are able to reach these young teens and stop bullying maybe it will come to a stop all together. These images push to speak out when being bullied or to not say or send that mean message or you will regret it. When people see these images today they will think twice about bullying someone or even speak up about being bullied. It is never too late and that is what these images are trying to say. These images try to grab the audience in many ways. Either by emotion, reason, credibility or timeliness. These images relate to the mission of the stakeholder because they are showing the audience what Stop Bullying wants to do, stop bullies. By using the rhetorical appeals you are saying a thousand things just in one image. The images literally are saying a thousand words. Henshaw 4 Work Cited