Atkins 1 Michael Atkins Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 25 February 2017 NRA and the Rhetorical Appeal Being one of the most influential political lobbying groups, the National Rifle Association (NRA) plays a major role in securing gun rights and other rights protected within the 2 nd Amendment. With their motto being Right of the People to Keep and Bear Arms Shall Not Be the NRA not only looks to politicians, but to the American people as well. On top of lobbying to persuade politicians to vote and sway in support of the political agenda, the NRA also sees advertisements as a great way to inform the American citizens and potentially get voters to the booths in support of their cause. Although the most obvious and most common theme found in the advertisements is the feeling of defenselessness, the advertisements released to the public have a unique ability to effectively implement all four elements of the rhetorical appeal and aim to change the opinion of the American people while inspiring voters to vote to protect 2 nd Amendment rights. One of the most popular and well-known organizations against gun control in America is the National Rifle Association. According to the NRA, the organization started by seeking to form a location to practice marksmanship and support shooting sports, however, is now recognized today as a major political force and as foremost defender of Second Amendment (NRA). The NRA is one of the most influential lobbying groups in the United States, spending over $3 million annually, allowing for the organization to persuade Atkins 2 government officials to vote on laws which favor less restrictive gun control (Morse). The NRA executive vice president has vocally called for changes regarding particular gun laws, stating only thing that stops a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a (Overby). The NRA promotes the idea of properly carrying and shooting a weapon while protecting oneself from being a victim. Although the organization fights for gun rights and wishes to see a greater, less restrictive gun presence in the United States, the NRA is also a large proponent of gun safety and education. The first image deals with the most recent Presidential election. From first glimpse in the center of the page, the advertisement reads let Hillary leave you (NRA). Being a primarily a conservative, republican organization, the NRA seeks to establish a dislike for Hillary Clinton by simply stating that she would remove guns from the American public, which is strictly against their agenda. This quote on the advertisement is an attempt to use Logos as the creator of the advertisement wants the attention to be on the message of voting against Clinton as well as an appeal to reason as it is attempting to persuade the audience that Clinton is anti-gun. The second rhetorical appeal that is distinctly seen in the first advertisement would be Ethos. In this advertisement, the NRA establishes itself as a credible organization by displaying their logo in a large and visually appealing location. As one looks at the picture from left to right, the logo is placed in a location to be seen as soon as one is done reading the quote. Also, in the logo itself one can see the year the organization was founded which further establishes itself due to the fact the NRA has been around since 1871. After further analysis, one may realize that an home had been broken into with room to speculate about a murder scene due to the fact the rights of gun ownership have been taken away. To implement the rhetorical appeal of pathos, the advertisement makes an attempt to instill fear into the viewer; that this Atkins 3 could happen to their home, their family or their own life/lives. This ad allows for one to speculate what happened at the crime scene displayed and for imagination to run wild, hopefully in favor of the viewpoint that guns are vital for defending one selves and property. Although the first advertisement attemps to implement kairos within, the attempt seems to fall short. One may feel the need to act now and either vote to keep gun rights or to go out and purchase protection for one selves or property, however this advertisement does not explicitly show an immediate call to action. Nor does this picture target a specific audience. One way the NRA could have improved on this advertisement would have been to display an opportunity help stop the potential removal of guns by Hillary Clinton by making this an advertisement supporting a political campaign. This would have helped appeal to supporters of that campaign or to immediately convince individuals to vote for that nominee. The second advertisement also makes an immediate attempt to play with the fears. The first section to come into play is the quote law abiding American should be forced to face evil with empty (NRA). Not only is this portraying the message the NRA is trying to promote by using logos, but is also using the quote to establish pathos within the advertisement. In this very simplistic advertisement, the choice of words such as and create a great sense of emotion in the viewer. Simply stating, to establish fear, the quote portrays the feeling of a good guy facing evil without any means of defense, which would ultimately lead to dismay. Similar to the first advertisement, the NRA is able to establish ethos by showcasing its logo within the advertisement with a URL to a website to read more and sign up to support the cause which the NRA is trying to promote. Finally, the advertisement establishes kairos by including a man into the advertisement. This could be seen as an attempt to Atkins 4 draw in not only young men, but also African-American men who are more apt to support a more liberal organization rather than a more conservative organization, such as the NRA. Although, the rhetorical appeal of logos is present within the advertisement, there is a lack of internal consistency within. From the quote one can see the message however, the rest of the advertisement lacks this message. There is nothing within this advertisement that showcases the idea of being defenseless which is opposite to the first advertisement that was analyzed. In order to adjust this, the advertisement could have been reworked to include a situation where the same man in the picture was left defenseless in the face of an which the quote claims. In regards to color, both images contain very dark or warm hues. In the first image the dark colors, mostly black is used negatively. This dark blue, black color is used to portray the evil that came from this crime scene and also as an attempt to make the viewer feel as if there was some of mysterious crime, such as a murder that happened at this location (Chapman). In the second image, a very warm and dark blue is used as a background for the man and the quote. This blue is used to establish credibility in the quote. By using this color, it helps establish that the man, as well as the NRA are both reliable sources when speaking about the matter of guns (Chapman). Also, the color attempts to portray the NRA as a powerful organization. Colors can be used to sway the emotions of the view and both images capitalize on the emotions of the viewer by selectively choosing these colors. Being one of the most powerful political lobbying groups in the United States, the NRA has the ability to greatly sway the outcome of particular bills. This power is also used to not only attempt to sway politicians, but to connect with the American people. In an attempt to target a fear of being defenseless, the NRA had the ability to create two uniquely different advertisements that share a common goal. Both advertisements capitalize on the four elements of Atkins 5 the rhetorical appeal. Although, both advertisements have distinct differences, the NRA has established two very powerful advertisements which support their call to fight against stricter gun control by using the four rhetorical appeals. Word Count: 1360 Work Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. Smash Magazine, 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 08 Mar. 2017. NRA. Let Hillary Clinton Leave You 2016. 25 Feb. 2017. NRA. Safest 2016. 26 Feb. 2017 Atkins 6 NRA. NRA  NRA Home. National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Morse, Brandon. Over 98% of Mass Shootings Occurred on Gun-free Zones, Research TheBlaze. TheBlaze, 09 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Overby, Peter. NRA: Thing That Stops A Bad Guy With A Gun Is A Good Guy With A  NPR. NPR, 21 Dec. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Atkins 7