Chowdhary 1 Nikhil Chowdhary Kristen Collins ENC 1102 Section 0018 26 February 2017 Go Vegetarian: The New Cool Lifestyle Across the globe, if there is one word than brings a sense of joy to a person from any culture, it has to be the word Food plays a major role in our societies, from workplaces to parties, food plays a really important factor in any chore which one performs in everyday routine. In busy life, one often forget nutrition and indulge in a variety of delicacies. As soon as someone tells that they are vegetarian, suddenly the other person tries to bring their knowledge of nutrition, protein and meat into play. A famous Italian Actor, Pino Caruso once said that eat meant and think they will become strong as an ox, forgetting that the ox eats These days there is a new urge in the society to adopt a meatless lifestyle and turn vegetarian, finally people have started realizing that food can be equally good without killing of animals. There are many organizations promoting this not so new lifestyle called vegetarianism, one such organization is PeTA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). PeTA through its aggressive ad campaigns and social networking skills is urging people to quit meat and indulge in vegetarianism. All living beings deserve to live; no living being needs to die in order to enhance taste buds. PeTA is a worldwide organization founded in 1980, focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (About Us, n.p.). PeTA believes that animals have rights too and deserve Chowdhary 2 equal treatment as human beings. This organization is very active through its unique and attention seeking campaigns. There are two specific campaigns that really stand out. The first campaign chosen, uses a celebrity figure, Paul McCartney telling the audience that he is a vegetarian. Here, PeTA is trying to show that being vegetarian is not something uncool, even famous celebrities are vegetarian. The second campaign chosen, was majorly used by the Asia Pacific branch of this organization, shows a girl and a chicken in a cage, asking the audience to relate who is in their plate. By this image, PeTA is trying to make people empathize with the cruelty, pain and suffering animals, who are living beings too, go through to end up in our plates. In all the campaigns PeTA, brainstorms a lot and uses specific visual rhetoric elements, which make people really fall for the views expressed in the adverts. There are a few major rhetoric appeals or strategies used by the creators of such adverts, that help them master this art of persuasion, namely Ethos: appeal to credibility, Pathos: appeal to the emotions, Logos: appeal to logic and reason and Kairos: appeal to timeliness. In the both images, PeTA has mastered this art and depicts an element of each appeal. Ethos is the appeal to credibility, a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or authority. Rhetors also use ethos by evoking the credibility of others (McKee & Mclnyyre, 27). PeTA uses Paul McCartney in their first campaign, a famous singer/song-writer. This picture also a personal statement attached, saying am Paul McCartney, and I am a in all caps, exhibiting assertiveness, Paul McCartney is pointing his finger to his t-shirt, which says with a picture of cow, showing the viewers/audience that he support eating meat showing credibility and trust. The second picture shows a cage, with a chicken and a girl locked in it. This not new to know that chickens who are used for breading and consumption are Chowdhary 3 locked in cages in miserable conditions, PeTA here is just trying to show people something which is already true and known to all, this making the audience trust the organization a little more as they are not making up something, instead just visually depicting the truth. Logos is the appeal to logic, a rhetorical device used by Rhetors to make the audience think something, supply information the audience may be unware of, or look at a new or a different perspective of an issue. By including Paul personal statement, PeTA is trying to introduce people to a new fact, something which people have really thought of, that even a famous celebrity like Paul McCartney is a vegetarian and supports vegetarianism. In the second picture, the cage reintroduces the fact that the chickens are treated miserably and even put in cages, just to satisfy human needs and end up in varies dishes. Pathos is the appeal to the emotions, a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the argument (Lee, 37). In the first image, PeTA is trying to make people feel that they need to eat meat in order to be like Paul McCartney, also, with the t-shirt he is wearing a little humor is also introduced. In the second image, PeTA is trying to make people sympathize with the inhuman treatment the chickens are given in order to end up in our plates. By putting a girl in the cage along with the chicken people empathize more, making them have sympathy on the chicken. Kairos is appeal to timeliness, an element used to show the audience a sense or urgency or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing so. The t-shirt worn by Paul McCartney says, accompanied by a picture of a cow, the phrase in capital letters urges the audience to stop eating meat which is the whole purpose of the advertisement. Even the text on the top talks about how he realized he has to stop meat consumption uses phrases like am and inside me Chowdhary 4 tries to make people to think they should stop too. In the second picture, the different sized texts try to impose importance of each word. By saying using all uppercase letters, PeTA, is urging the audience to quit meat and follow this new meatless, vegetarian lifestyle. While implementing these rhetorical appeals, Rhetors ignorantly end up doing some Rhetorical Fallacies, commonly known as logical errors or inconsistencies in the argument that end up weakening the hold of the adverts on the audience. Here, PeTA fall into a few small fallacies in both of their images and adverts. In the first image, a slight fallacy of appeal to authority can be sensed, PeTA uses Paul McCartney, trying to imply that ideas upheld by such famous authority must be right, it can be said that there is more evidence needed to imply that his lifestyle is the right one. In the other image, fallacy of appeal to pity can be senses, PeTA uses the cage and the girl trying to imply that all animals are treated badly and put through torture, this image lacks a fact or some kind of evidence that proves or shows that this is really true. Other than these two small fallacies, PeTA completely succeeded in their campaign to support and urge the audience to following the vegetarian lifestyle. Chowdhary 5 Works Cited: Cloudflare Inc., About , PETA, 26 Sept. 1995. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. 26 Feb 2017. Maurer, Donna. Vegetarianism. [Electronic Movement or Moment?. Philadelphia, PA: Temple University Press, c2002. (Baltimore, Md.: Project MUSE, 2015), 2002. Web. 26 Feb 2017.