Acevedo 1 Marisela Acevedo Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 10 March 2017 People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals An advertisement can be a paid or unpaid announcement for a product. These advertisements must contain the right color, text, and symbols to portray the correct message to the audience. Companies will often use magazines, newspapers, radio stations, and television to exhibit their messages. Advertisements call for the attention of the public, therefore should be creative, and eye-catching to attract the awareness of the public. single image can tell a story as powerfully as a paragraph of text Knowing exactly what to place in an ad can convey a story about the product. The ad must also provide to the viewer the reason why the brand that is being displayed is preferred over other competitors. Ads must have a call to action and tell the viewer to do something (Writer). Factory farming is a very large industrial operation that is dedicated to raising an enormous number of animals for food. More than 99% of farm animals in the United States are raised in factory farms (Farm Animal Welfare). With large amounts of animals often comes conflicts such as overcrowding, poor quality treatment, and indoor confinement. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is a dedicated animal rights organization that focuses on the areas where animals suffer most intensely for long periods. Through research, animal rescue, public education and cruelty investigation, PETA protects the freedom of animals (PETA). To fend for the rights of these animals, PETA uses a strategy of promoting a vegan diet for all types Acevedo 2 of audiences. Through color and the use of certain symbols, PETA can create advertisements that bring awareness to stop factory farming and promote a vegan diet. Image 1 portrays a woman carrying a pig. The woman is smiling while holding the pig who seems to be very calm. Pathos creates a sensitivity toward emotion (Hoffman). In this case, the image gives a positive vibe; it creates a satisfied feeling because the woman is doing nothing more than smiling with the pig. The pig is not in any danger or being abused. It looks like it is being handled with care and respect. Then they look at the text of information that is presented and those feeling might change to uneasy or concerned because of what is happening on factory farms. The logos, or logic presented in this image, is in the white square to the left side, where it gives a quick statement of how the animals suffer. Ethos or ethics is the way of establishing trust with his or her reader (Hoffman). PETA is a well-known organization throughout the world, and even though it is small, a website is posted to the bottom right, which gives credibility through PETA. Kairos pertains to the right place and the right time or a call to action (Hoffman). The image reads another reason to go giving a sense of surprise or reality. It seems as if they have stated a lot of facts, and if that is not sufficient, they have another reason for you to change into a vegetarian lifestyle. The background of image 1 is composed of a dark blue. Dark blue often mean strong and reliable and therefore it is an excellent color to express in a design where strength and reliability are important (Smashing Magazine). Image 2, also portrays the PETA logo on the right, it is not big, but it is visible to the viewer, thus establishing ethos. This image does not incorporate any logos. It does, however, display Kairos with the quote on since everything takes the time to grow; it is a way of saying, start eating like a vegetarian now so that it can start developing. It also gives a sense of Acevedo 3 taking immediate action to become a vegetarian. It can also mean let vegetarianism grow naturally. If one tries to change eating habits for a good cause, it can be something that will eventually grow upon the person and become a natural way of life. The pathos expressed by this image is fascination. The dress is made of leaves, so it captures the attention of the spectator while also bringing humor because seeing a dress like that is not a normal sight. It is humorous to see the woman wearing a dress made of leaves, instead of seeing a woman wearing a regular dress while eating vegetarian food. Also, after reading the phrase, it creates awareness of vegetarianism while also evoking a serious feeling. Therefore, the pathos in this image can change from humor to seriousness after the whole image is read. The main color in the image that stands out is the darkish green color of the dress, which can represent a new beginning and grow, renewal and abundance (Smashing Magazine). With this simple ad, PETA can motive the viewers to look into becoming a vegetarian. These two images can create different types of emotions in the people who are viewing them. Image 2 has a clearer understanding to it even though it is simple, while image 1 has to be closely analyzed to understand they are promoting vegetarianism because of cruelty to animals in factory farms. When first glancing at image 1, it gives a sense that a woman is peacefully holding a pig, not much to it. PETA promotes a vegan diet, but also advocates for the rights of animals (PETA). Therefore, this image can become a bit confusing, since there are two points to this image. Image 2 is quick to show their intent to promote vegetarianism. One can obviously see this through the dress made of leaves. They do not incorporate many words, but their quotes state vegetarianism grow on letting the audience quickly see what PETA stands for. There is logos in image 1 but not in image 2 making image 1 have more information to read about factory farming. Both these images can be intended for all types of people, but mainly it is Acevedo 4 focused on people who are meat eaters, or people who are unaware of the hardships that animals go through in factory farms. Also, women are being portrayed in the images, creating a sense that it is learned more toward women rather than men. Regardless of the material these images are lacking, PETA continues to possess the ability to capture the attention of the people and create an awareness of factory farms to promote a vegan diet. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is an organization who stands to protect animals from being in cruel positions or situations. While doing this, they also promote a vegan or vegetarian diet in the lifestyle of human beings. Both image 1 and image 2, are advertisements created by PETA for the audience to become informed of the call to action PETA creates. Although both images have their pros and cons, they do not fail to demonstrate the power of vegetarianism. They both have credibility, poses the ability to stimulate emotions, and promote a call to action. At first glance, they might seem like ordinary images, but once a longer look of them is taken, it can be seen how both images incorporate a deeper understanding. These two images provide a satisfactory method of capturing the attention of the spectator. They both have sufficient information and understand for the viewers to support what PETA lives for. WORD COUNT: 1228 Acevedo 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. History: Compassion in  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Farm Animal  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Writer, Leaf Group. List of Things to Put on an  Chron.com. Chron.com, 28 Nov. 2011. Web. 09 Mar. 2017. Acevedo 6 Image 1 Acevedo 7 Image 2