Clark 1 Kyle Clark Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Images With Firepower: An Analysis of Propaganda Produced by the NRA Recent years have brought an alarmingly large number of firearm-related incidents within the United States. Accompanied with these horrific occurrences is a general sense of fear that has made home within the minds of this citizens. Not only a fear of firearms themselves, but also fears of specific stereotypes, utilizing public services, and a multitude of other seeds of fear have taken root in cultural soil. While these anxieties have given life to the countless debates regarding reinterpretation of the second amendment to the United States Constitution, there are organizations out there that have vowed to conquer the fear through education, rather than attempt to eliminate them through extreme congressional action. One such organization leading the way in educating others is the National Rifle Association (NRA). Established in 1871 by Colonel William Church and General George Wingate, both Civil war veterans that fought for the Union, the mission of the NRA has always been to, and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific (NRA). They stand today for the same values they did in 1871, and continue to train and educate citizens on the proper handling of firearms. The media has given a great deal of focus to firearm related incidents in recent years, and as a response, the NRA has taken a stance against stricter gun laws in the political arena. While the organization does so through a variety of methods, they have maintained the use of visual propaganda to promote the idea of educating and training people to properly utilize firearms. The images they produce are powerful, often inducing a sense of urgency to protect the citizens of the United States. One image that depicts a great example of creating a sense of urgency was created as propaganda for the presidential race between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump in 2016. The image depicts a woman in distress, holding a phone to her ear, and presumably in her home with an intruder inside. It reads, Let Hillary Leave You which is a logos appeal, insinuating that the election of Hillary Clinton to presidency would allow stricter gun laws to be put in place, making it difficult to obtain a firearm for self defense. The advertisement suggests that the logical thing to do is to vote against Hillary Clinton in an effort to maintain the right to more easily acquire a firearm. It is important, however, to look past the political aspect of the image to see what truly moves one to action upon viewing the image. It is often said that fear is one of the greatest motivators in people. This image attempts to use pathos appeals of fear, and captures that emotion in an effective way by the expression on the face. What this allows the image to do is show that she would be better prepared to protect herself with a firearm. The ultimate goal of the image is to explain that being disarmed can result in life-threatening danger with no tool to effectively help oneself survive. By creating an urgent situation in mind, a kairos appeal is used in the sense that having a firearm cannot be an afterthought of being thrown into circumstances similar to that of the in the image. With the presidential election being near at the time this image was produced, it encourages people to decide now that voting for Hillary Clinton is certain doom to the American right to bear arms. This is a mixture of kairos and pathos appeal, essentially urging any viewer to the correct choice Having produced an image that is easy to relate to, the NRA is able to utilize this image with a wide audience and maximize effectiveness of the message it carries. While the NRA produces that speaks to a grand audience like the first image, they also produce imagery that seeks to target a more specific audience when society calls for it. The second image is a fantastic version of this, depicting an elementary school-age girl holding a pistol, with a group of elementary school students in the background. Next to the little girl is a quote by NRA President Wayne LaPierre that clearly plays on pathos. The quote reads, history the presence of a gun in the hands of a good person makes us all safer. The whole flock is safer when the wolves tell the difference between the lions and the This image is absolutely geared more towards an audience of loved ones that are close to students, especially parents. While it is not presented clearly, a loose correlation to a kairos appeal could be drawn from past school shooting incidences. With the high number of school shootings in recent years, this has become a hot-button political debate, and this image is an attempt to shed a different light on the issue. Many politicians and citizens have made it clear that the solution lies in creating zones in schools. This image challenges that logic, stating that everyone would be safer if more guns were in the hands of the right people. The significance of the little girl holding the firearm is to give young people a means of protecting themselves rather than cower in a time of crisis. This play on logos brings a different perspective to mind, making this an interesting approach to the solution. Although, having the firearm in the hands of the little girl may deplete some credibility of the message, as she is clearly not trained to hold the firearm properly. One could take this fallacy and argue that the image is ineffective advertising. It is also important to analyze the fact that the background appears to be a schoolyard, but has no specific characteristics of what the school looks like. This allows the imagination to take over and bring any school to mind, effectively personalizing the image for anyone that thinks of the specific school that their beloved attends. Both images presented are designed to create a sense of urgency and arouse fear to motivate people to take action in favor of loosening firearm laws. The images are mainly centered on pathos appeals, using the power of emotion in an attempt to persuade public opinion in favor of relaxed firearm laws. They both create a scenario that is relatable to a wide audience, which is certainly an effective use of marketing and advertising techniques. While they are designed to speak to different audiences, there is a lot of overlap between them. Any age group can relate to the image of the terrified woman using the phone to call for help, as they can imagine themselves in a similar situation. The second image, while clearly appealing to an audience of students and their families, can spark emotion in anyone that feels strongly about the school shootings of the past, and how to prevent them in the future. It is interesting that even though they have such clear differences, they can still speak to a great number of people, and in many cases to the same people that may fit into the qualifications of both audiences. The mission of the NRA to educate American people to use firearms safely and effectively, and one method in which they do so is to create an emotional reason to commit to educating oneself. By producing images like the ones analyzed here, they begin their process of educating people by showing them a reason that they need to learn, and providing a solution through their organization. It is clear that they attempt to communicate with large audiences in an attempt to grow their organization so that easier access to their training programs is available. The images play on logical and emotional appeals from different perspectives, and subtly promote the timeliness of learning to use firearms by creating images that bring the thought to mind that the unexpected can happen at any moment. The goal of these images appears to be one of creating a safer United States, not by attempting to take weapons out of the hands of everyone, but by showing law abiding citizens that the best defense is a strong offense. Image 1 Image 2 Works Cited NRA  NRA.ORG. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Ammoland. Let Hillary Clinton Leave You Defenseless  AmmoLand.com Shooting Sports News. N.p., 20 Sept. 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print.