Brooke Anderson Ms. Tisdale Composition 1 2 March 2017 Project Two Very recently in the U.S. Americans are beginning to realize the benefits of legalizing the recreational use of marijuana. Ever since Colorado began the process of recreational legalization, Americans everywhere are seeing the benefits of the tax revenue in the state. Many other states have started to follow lead and they are already starting to see the benefits as well. Alaska and Washington were the first two follow and just recently Washington D.C., Massachusetts, North Dakota, Oregon, Maine, California and Nevada all passed the law as well. These states are realizing that there are not too many server dangers of smoking weed and begun to take advantage of the economic profits. Since 2014, the conversation about legalizing recreational has changed because of the profits that Colorado has produced from marijuana sales. The first state to legalize recreational marijuana was Colorado. Since the legalization in 2014 the state has raised over 40 million dollars in taxes. This is with only taxing 35% on sales. They have gotten so much money they have started to redo their public schools. In Washington they tax their sales 37%. They have given their tax money to youth drug prevention. These states have a surplus of money so they can use it on whatever they feel matters. Both of these states also still strictly enforce laws involving the safety since they understand marijuana is a drug. If other states follow their examples by legalizing it while enforcing rules, every state should have the same turn out as them (Jensen 2010). This is good for each individual states economy since they are able to choose what to do with the money. However, if the federal government would oversee these transactions they would also be able to take money from it, which would benefit the whole nation. Another state that has legalized marijuana recreationally is Oregon. They tax it differently than the other states mentioned. They tax based of the weight of the product. Each ounce is taxed $50. Marijuana been legal in Oregon long enough to see the actual benefits but as of right now it is predicted to bring in seven million one hundred thousand dollars in the next year (Vaida). Since marijuana has not been legal for very long, people are starting to predict what will happen as it becomes more popular. Right now it is legal in eight states and money are predicted to follow. The states that become legal in 2016 were Washington D.C., Massachusetts, North Dakota, Oregon, Maine, California and Nevada. Each of these states are predicting at least one million dollars in tax revenue the first year of legalization. This includes all marijuana produces including pipes, papers, and bongs. Right now these things are taxed as tobacco projects, which is not has heavily taxed as marijuana is. They have also predicted how the federal legalization of recreational marijuana would be very beneficial. If each of the states would bring in about one million dollars each year, that means the federal government would be bringing in about eight million dollars a year just from marijuana taxes (Underhill). If the government puts in place laws to keep people safe then it is perfectly logical for recreational marijuana to become federally legal. Since 2014, the conversation about legalizing recreational has changed because of the profits that Colorado has produced from marijuana sales. It is important for the federal government to realize how much money they can make from passing this law federally. Most people are starting to realize the benefits that other states have already seen from this legalization. The conversation has changed drastically since the first state legalized marijuana in 2014 and will continue to change until all sates pass it as legal or it becomes federally legal.