Martin-Smith 1 Darius Martin-Smith Nusspickel Comp 1 2/25/16 Effect of Pollution on the Ecosystem and Bees Recently, there has been a slightly concerning decline in the bee population, not only in North America, but in other regions of the world such as Europe. This decline was first noticed in the year 2006, and has been looming ever since. Researchers and scientists have been studying this trend, and have been looking for causes as well solutions to this present problem. The main cause of the decrease in the bee population would have to be pollution. Pollution of many types affects the physical and psychological aspect of bees. Not only does pollution affect bees but it affects the ecosystem that they live in as well. With the recent efforts, scientists and biologists are making steps towards solving the problem of pollution and the decline in the bee population globally. As stated before, the decline of bees is being experienced globally and is a problem that occurs in most areas of the world. Per Dawid high levels of metal pollution occurring in regions around Europe are affecting the reproduction rate and survival of bees. metal contamination likely affects much of the European (Lado et al., 2008), and investigations are needed to provide insight into the general mechanisms determining the detrimental effects of heavy metals on bee communities as well as to formulate remediation et al., 2012). The pollution alters the genetic and cellular make up of female bees and their offspring as well. The outer body protection is broken up by the pollution and to Martin-Smith 2 measure the effects of the pollution scientists studied two different colonies of bees in two regions in Europe, one being affected heavily by pollution and the other being an adequate ecosystem capable of maintaining life. The outcome is quite predictable as the bees who were exposed to pollution were effected negatively and died faster. To continue, for the problems of pollution and the decline in the bee population to be corrected further research would have to be made rather than analyzing the information that is on the surface. Aneta Strachecka does just that while she explains the physical make up of a body and how pathogens in the ecosystem effect it. Aneta Stracheka explains that the body of a bee has protease enzymes and proteases that shield the body from airborne pathogens. Bees with higher levels of proteases and protease enzymes are better protected from pathogens in the environment. pollution contributed to the deterioration of the surface proteolytic barrier of respective groups of bees. Bees kept in a clean environment exhibited high protease and protease inhibitor activity (Strachecka 855). The research done by Aneta Stracheka includes two groups of bees; one in a polluted environment and the other in a clean environment. Again, the outcome of the research is obvious, as the bee colony in the cleaner environment had a higher concentration of proteases and protease enzymes. Research done in later years provided information that vaguely described the problem of pollution and its effects on bees globally. New research has surfaced within the past few years that provide detailed research and experiments done to solve the problem of pollution along with the decline in the bee population which continues to decrease rapidly. Martin-Smith 3 To go along with the topic of new research, scientist Noah Wilson-Rich studied the immunity differences between elderly bees and young bees. Per his studies elderly bees experience higher levels of pathogens and have a higher immunity to pathogens than younger bees. The reason being is that younger bees stay inside the hive more than older bees who are usually out pollinating and if the environment is polluted they are in constant contact, giving them a higher immunity. If younger bees were to go out and pollinate they would be effected negatively and cause the whole hive to be in contact with pathogens from the outside environment and eventually decreasing the bee population. Honey bee brood are infected by different pathogens than are adults. Brood are susceptible to bacterial disease (e.g. American and European foulbrood, caused by Paenibacillus larvae and Streptococcus pluton, respectively; Govan et al., 1998, 1999), fungal disease (e.g. chalk brood, caused by Ascophaera apis; Gilliam et al., 1983; Johnson et al., 2005), and viral disease (e.g. sacbrood, caused by the SBV virus; Ghosh et al., 1999). Lastly, it is well known that exhaust pollution affects the environment greatly, and in comparison, to other types of pollution it is more common. According to Inka Lusebrink, the number of pollinating life forms have been decreasing due to pollution. Inka Lusebrink mainly focuses on the diesel exhaust emission pollution. The emissions destroy flower/crop volatiles that are necessary for bees to locate and identify certain flowers for pollination. If the flowers and crops cannot be detected by bees, then the process of pollination in that area will start to decline and will eventually cease, leaving the environment diminished and decreasing the bee population and the flower/crop species population as well. Bees use mixtures of olfactory and visual stimuli to find suitable host plants and Vereecken 2010). They rely mainly on Martin-Smith 4 olfactory cues during their initial foraging bouts, and visual cues become more important in host- plant location as bees gain more experience (Dobson 1994). However, floral scent remains an important stimulus for experienced bees, since it allows them to discriminate between rewarding and non-rewarding flowers (Dobson 2006; Wright and Schiestl, 2009). Ozone or reactive species, such as hydroxyl and nitroxyl or nitrate radicals, readily react with volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (Atkinson and Arey 2003; Calogirou et al. 1999), which contribute to floral scent and could, therefore, impact upon VOC-mediated plant-insect interactions. Conclusively, Deadly pollution has been altering the earth slowly but steadily and it not only effects the environment but the lifeforms that reside in it. In earlier years of research the bee population has been decreasing over the years mainly due to pollution and destruction of the environment. Scientists and researchers are scrambling to find a cause to this problem that is surfacing globally. Works Cited Dawid, et al. Survival, Reproduction And Population Growth Of The Bee Pollinator, Osmia Rufa (Hymenoptera: Megachilidae), Along Gradients Of Heavy Metal  Insect Conservation And Diversity 2 (2014): AGRIS. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Martin-Smith 5 Lusebrink, Inka, et al. The Effects Of Diesel Exhaust Pollution On Floral Volatiles And The Consequences For Honey Bee  Journal Of Chemical Ecology 10 (2015): 904. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Strachecka, Aneta Joanna, Magdalena Maria and Magdalena Krauze. Influence Of Environmental Pollution On The Protective Proteolytic Barrier Of The Honey Bee Apis Mellifera  Polish Journal Of Environmental Studies 19.4 (2010): 855-859. GreenFILE. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Wilson-Rich, Noah, Stephanie T. Dres, and Philip T. Starks. The Ontogeny Of Immunity: Development Of Innate Immune Strength In The Honey Bee (Apis  Journal Of Insect Physiology 54.(2008): 1392-1399. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.