Phillipson 1 Ashley Phillipson Ms. Collins ENC 1102. 017 26 February 2017 Perhaps Trees and Bees are not to be Trees and bees do not have a lot in common. Their differences are considered first and lengthier than their commonalities. However, one similarity that they share is that apparently they are both impacted by human interactions. This similarity is shown through two similar advertisements which highlights the human and manufacturing impact on the environment. Greenpeace, an environmental agency devoted to tackling environmental problems such as deforestation, climate change, toxic pollution, ecological farming, and nuclear energy, is the first stakeholder (Rahmawati). Their history lies in a Canadian activist group dedicated to change how humans interact with the environment by appraising denizens of actions committed against the environment, the consequences of actions, and the long term repercussions (Rahmawati). The next stakeholder which parallels to mission of deterring environmental problems is Too Bee or Not to Be. Their stance on environmental problems takes a different approach, rather than only highlighting the need to preserve bee colonies in trees, this company also manufactures beekeeping equipment, live bees, honey, and demonstrates any information relevant for owning a bee colony which seems contradictory (Museum). The history of To Bee or Not to Be lies in the act of safely harvesting bees without damaging colonies permanently and educating citizens how to properly bee-keep a colony (Museum). Both advertisements of each stakeholder highlight some aspect of the environment and human impact on it. Nevertheless, analyzing Aristotelian appeals will shed light on the tactics used to convey the image. Furthermore, looking at Phillipson 2 logical fallacies will help draw attention to contradictions that exists from the use of the Aristotelian appeals. In the first advertisement which is that of makes use of pathos. According to the Literary Dictionary, pathos is the appeal that up emotions of pity, sorrow, and in a reader or viewer advertisement makes use of pathos by portraying the various species of forest animals as frightened and vulnerable while humans take over their home. Furthermore, the position of the animals is essentially epitomized by the hackneyed phrase of stuck between a rock and a hard place because they lie on the edge of a cliff while the personified industrial machines creep closer as they deforest more of the land. Will the animals back up as the machines get closer? This thought-provoking question can lead to further inquiries on the fate of the animals due to the precise use of pathos by Greenpeace. Not only did Greenpeace incorporate pathos, but they also integrated the appeal of Kairos which refers to the time when conditions are crucial or imperative and there is no better moment than the present (Merriam-Webster). Greenpeace used kairos to exercise a sense of urgency to tell denizens that if the problem is not fixed now then these are the consequences. It is an inherent call to action without explicitly dictating what to do. As mentioned before, the various species of animals lie directly on the edge of a cliff. If viewers procrastinate to repair this problem, it could possibly be too late as the animals might have perished by being displaced from their homes and figuratively have fallen of the cliff as depicted in advertisement. Kairos shows the viewer that procrastination is not an option and only restoring the situation in the present will improve the conditions of this problem. Phillipson 3 Greenpeace did include a slight appeal of ethos within its advertisement. Ethos demonstrates the appeal of ethics in which an illustrious character, moral nature, or means are defined (Merriam-Webster). The Greenpeace advertisement contains a small phrase that embodies their overall mission. The phrase Forests for Life in the upper-right corner demonstrates purpose for creating the advertisement which was to depict the consequences of harvesting the trees at an exponential rate for commercialization can have a disastrous effect of various forest environments and can directly impact populations of animal species. The concept that all animal species are affected is emphasized in the advertisement by the use of various animal species that do not live in the same environment. In the ad, some species have a relation within their select environment, but not all of the species as a whole are present in one environment. Lastly, the use of logos which highlights an argument used to convince a reader to side or go against a topic through the use of reason and logic has a miniscule presence in the Greenpeace advertisement The advertisement relied on pathos, kairos, and ethos while logos played a small role. Greenpeace uses inductive reasoning by stating the phrase Forests for life; meanwhile, animals are about to be pushed off a cliff and the surrounding area is filled with dead and dismantled trees on the ground. This leads to the assumption that forests are not for life because the forests are dying from human actions. Forests are meant to be for life, but this advertisement depicts that they are not. The second advertisement created by the company To Bee or Not to Bee incorporates pathos in their ad to depict how humans have decimated the surrounding area of forest land and there is one tree remaining. The humans have their axes and chainsaws ready to cut down the tree while the tree remains there, vulnerable. This advertisement also poses the question, what Phillipson 4 next? What will happen after the tree is cut down? The harvesters portrayed in this ad have already cut down any remnants of trees in the surrounding area. To Bee or Not to Bee additionally conjoins kairos into the mix or Aristotelian appeals. The advertisement provokes a sense of urgency among viewers because it is the last tree. Referring to the question posed in the previous paragraph, when the tree is cut down, what will be the course of action after that? That is why this advertisement discourages a sense of complacency because if humans do not remedy the situation then the death of that tree will be inevitable and many negative repercussions will be produced as the ad highlight in the bottom left corner by highlighting that the death of that tree will impact the environment and on food production because killing that tree will also directly kill the bee colony attached to that tree. As if the picture was not enough, To Bee or Not to Bee explicitly states informed. Protect to emphasize the seriousness of this situation. The To Bee or Not to Bee advertisement uses logos also to reinforce the idea of devastating human impact on the environment. The name of the company, To Bee or Not to Be alludes to Hamlet novel in which Hamlet compares death to a silent sleep (LLC). One can interpret this inclusion as a new perspective on the bee deforestation, the death of this tree containing a bee colony will not be reduced to as a death or murder, but rather a silent war as it clearly states in the advertisement. Furthermore, this advertisement also incorporates deductive reasoning. The generalization on the initial stage begins with the deforestation of trees lead to the killing of bees and then the situation becomes more specific as the advertisement includes a blurb on the affect that the deforestation of trees have on pollinators As a result, this will disturb the food production of humans for fruits that need to be pollinated by bees. Phillipson 5 The inclusion of ethos in the To Bee or Not to Be advertisement is minimal at best. While ethos focuses on ethics. The advertisement includes a blurb about the death of bees and the consequences that result from their deaths. The website is also included for reference purposes and essentially summarizes their take on the death of bees as Ultimately, the advertisements of Greenpeace and To Bee or Not to Be are different in the messages that they are targeting, but they both relate to environmental issues and how humans have negatively impacted the environment. Furthermore, both demonstrate the consequences that result from human action by incorporating the Aristotelian appeals of pathos, kairos, ethos, and logos. Although some are more apparent than others. They all play a role in conveying the message to the viewers. Word count: 1368 Phillipson 6 Works Cited LLC, SparkNotes. SparkNotes. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Literary Devices. n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Merriam-Webster. Definition of ETHOS. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Merriam-Webster. Definition of KAIROS. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Museum, Peggy Notebaert Nature. Peggy Notebaert nature museum. 3 June 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Literary Devices. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rahmawati, Annisa.  Greenpeace International. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Phillipson 7 Phillipson 8 Phillipson 9