Wilson 1 Isaiah Wilson Kristen Collins ENC 1102 26 February 2017 MADD Goes on the Offensive There are several organizations fighting for the reinforcement of the age restriction placed on alcohol in the United States because they strongly believe that this restriction is protecting both society and those that are underage. Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) is one such organization. MADD is the largest non-profit working to protect society from drunk driving, drugged driving, and underage drinking. This organization strongly believes that there is an age of initiation for the consumption of alcohol, which is 21. Enforcing this age restriction decreases the likelihood of the underage posing a threat to themselves or to those around them MADD effectively reinforces the law and discourages underage drinking through two images that successfully manage to incorporate all four rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. The first image (Image A) is trying to encourage the underage to stand tall and not be influenced by peer pressure, which is one of the root causes of underage drinking. According to PBS Kids, peer pressure is many young people experiment with underage drinking. If a popular kid offers you a drink, you might think that become popular if you do what he or she says. When a close friend starts drinking, you may worry that lose the friendship if you join Peer It also warns them of the consequences that can occur if they do decide to go along with their friends and engage in alcohol related activities by giving Wilson 2 statistics regarding the correlation between those that start to drink early and alcohol related accidents. As stated by Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre, is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (27). With regards to the first image, the statement work has saved nearly 300,000 lives and is a clear indication that MADD is a credible organization that has been in this line of work for a very long time. Furthermore, logo on the image is a clear symbol of credibility. There are clear elements of pathos present within this image as well. appeal to emotion, or pathos, is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help then connect with the (Gayle Lee, Kendra et al. 37). The quote who start drinking are 7 times more likely to be in an alcoholic related embodies pathos because it stimulates an emotional response from the audience, shock or sadness for example, and captures their attention. Pathos is further seen in the main image of the girl staring blankly with her mouth covered because it also stimulates a similar emotional response and directly coincides with the purpose of the image as a whole. The image wants people to not be pressured, and it shows how horrifying this can be by including a girl who seems to be trapped or silenced by peer pressure. Logos also manages to manifest itself within this image. Logos the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Lane, Emily et al. 32). It can be seen in the statement who start drinking are 7 times more likely to be in an alcoholic related because this statement gives very serious evidence in the form of statistics to support the overall purpose of the image. It is also an indication of the reasoning behind the advertisement. Wilson 3 The final rhetorical appeal found within this image is Kairos, which is the appeal timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable (Hoffman, Allyson and Alysia Sawchyn 41). The phrase be is a call to action that gives the audience a sense of urgency, and the size and color of the phrase also strengthens this urgency. Furthermore, the message itself also embodies kairos because it refers to a current crisis occurring in society underage drinking. It must be noted that there are three logical fallacies at work here. The first is the appeal to pity. The image wants us to feel emotional regarding the statistics that cover the mouth, but it does not provide any evidence that these statistics are indeed truthful, which leads to the second fallacy at work here the appeal to authority. MADD is clearly using the elements of ethos included within this image to get the audience to believe in these statistics because of their authority over this issue. Image B urges drivers to be responsible and to not drink and drive, but at the same time, it also alerts the audience of the ridiculous amount of times drunk drivers usually drink and drive before getting arrested. can we truly tell if drunk driving has increased or decreased over a period of time? We can only tell the extent of the problem by the number of people who are caught either through being pulled over or involvement in an Driving We attack this problem if we do not truly understand just how serious it is. In terms of underage drinking, this image seems to be appealing to two different audiences the youth and the guardians of those that are underage with very different elements. The effectiveness of this image will be uncovered in the same way as with the last image by exploring the rhetorical appeals noted. Wilson 4 This image basically contains the same elements of ethos seen within the first image. The statement work has saved nearly 300,000 lives and along with logo is seen here once again and is used to establish MADD as a credible organization that possesses authority over this issue. The quote average drunks drive 80 times before first symbolizes pathos because it stimulates an emotional response from the audience, which could take the form of anger or shock to name a few. The other element of pathos is the image of the person handcuffed. This also stimulates an emotional response because the audience may become fearful that they will be placed in that position and will remember why they should obey the law. Logos is seen in the statement average drunks drive 80 times before first because this statement can be seen as evidence to support the message being sent by the image. MADD clearly wants us to understand how easily drunk drivers can escape the law and this knowledge should instill some sort of fear within the audience. Kairos can easily be found within this image through the phrase since this is a call to action that gives the audience a sense of urgency. Once again, the size and color of the phrase strengthens this urgency and the message depicted by the image refers to a current crisis occurring within society. In terms of logical fallacies, the appeal to authority is seen here as well because MADD attempts to use their reputation and authority on this matter as a basis to support the statistics they included; there is no reputable evidence given otherwise. Another fallacy that can be seen is the red herring fallacy. The image wants us to but it includes statistics that make it seem as though there is no real harm to driving drunk because 80 times is a considerable Wilson 5 amount of times to drive drunk before being caught. Thus, why should the audience really care about being responsible? MADD successfully manages to appeal to the sense of logic, emotions, and awareness by including all four rhetorical appeals in both of their advertisements. Both images address a very serious issue within society and tries its best to address it. However, it is clear that the first image is more effective than the other. Image A manages to keep its message very focused and precise; it can easily be understood that MADD wants the youth to avoid peer pressure because this can lead to very serious incidents. Image B on the other hand has its message disrupted by a red herring fallacy; it wants the audience to be more responsible when getting behind the wheel, but the statistics it includes can be seen as undermining. Clearly, an effectiveness is determined by far more than just its rhetorical appeals. Wilson 6 Works Cited Peer PBS Kids Go. CastleWorks, Inc. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Driving Stats: Do They Tell The Whole Sobering Up. Sobering Up, Alcohol Monitoring Systems, Inc. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gayle Lee, Kendra, et al.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41. E-text. Lane, Emily, et al.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32. E-text. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27. E-text. Why  MADD. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Wilson 7 http://cargocollective.com/sachiedesigns/MADD-Ad-s Image A Wilson 8 https://www.pinterest.com/burnsgalen28/madd-mothers-against-drunk-driving/ Image B