Mohammad 1 Esmaeel Mohammad Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Banning cigarettes or just specific places Advertisements persuade the people on doing or not doing things. For cigarettes most of the advertisements wants the people to quit smoking, to do that the videos or pictures most of the time would be emotional and facts that the cigarettes will lead to cancer or death. Anti-smoking ads BlogSpot and NHS are the two stakeholders that are against smoking so they have lots of advertisements against it. Smoking advertisement is meant for the audience who smoke, not only that but some are specifically meant for the parents and some for the teenagers. Even though the smokers know the consequences for smoking cigarettes the pictures will help them open their eyes on this big issue and it may help them quit. For Image 1, the picture was found from anti-smoking ad BlogSpot, they did not say who made this picture so it probably is not credible but it is trustworthy (Ethos). The picture shows a teenager who is smoking a cigarette; the smoke of the cigarette is a gun pointing on the head. It is trustworthy since the cigarette is killing people just how if someone points a gun in a head, both of them will kill the person, but the gun is quick death unlike the cigarette, which is a slow and painful death. Not only that, the audience know that smoking will lead to death, so for image 1 if teenagers who smoke cigarettes saw the picture it might make them react to stop smoking. Mohammad 2 Image 1 refers to logos; it is logic that smoking kills. But the feel like cigarettes has a long-term affect, but the pictures shows that it does not work that way. It may affect some people in a long-term but it also may affect other people in short term especially the young people that is why the picture has a teenager and not an old person. Image 1 appeals to pathos, they used emotion not just in the image but at the quote as well. The teenager looks sad; the smoke that is coming out from his cigarette is a gun pointing in his head. Kill a cigarette and save a life. This quote is also emotional; throw the cigarette before it kills you. It is also black and white, which shows that smoking will lead a person to a dark place. Kairos is also applied at the image; the audience has knowledge of what smoking will lead to. Even though the smokers know that cigarette leads to cancer and death, they still smoke, but with the color of the image and the gun it will encourage the people to stop smoking. It also appeals to force, it shows threat from the gun as in the smokers are killing themselves. It is also black and white; it shows how serious the tone of the image is. Image 2 is from NHS, which is for health. It is ethos since it is credible from NHS and it is also trustworthy. When people see big organizations like NHS, they would trust them especially when it comes to health. At this image, the audience is the parents who smoke cigarettes in front of their children. They want the parents to quit cigarettes, and they know that love children more then anything, why they sent this message in, refer to the health of their children and not them. The image is also logic. People know that second hand smoke is bad, but some do not know how serious it is and that it is worse then smoking a cigarette. To show how Mohammad 3 serious it really is, the image does not show that the kid and inhaling the smoke, but the smoke is choking the kid. It also appeals to pathos, to make the message powerful they have a young kid and it shows the smoke is like a hand that it is choking the kid. They have to use emotions to make parents stop smoking in front of their children. But not only that, most of the teenagers start smoking cigarettes because their parents influenced them. They would see their parents smoke a cigarette everyday in front of them. So the children will do the same thing and try a cigarette and little do they know, they are addicted to it. This image appeals to Kairos. It will give the parents knowledge on how the children will feel when they inhale the second hand smoke. People hate the smell of the cigarettes, but the children they do not only hate it but they feel like they cannot breathe from it. That is why in the picture it shows the smoke is choking the kid and the second hand smoke will lead to asthma and breathing problems that will not get better when they grow up. This image may also appeal to bandwagon fallacy. Since lots of parents smoke in front of their children, the image shows that it is a bad thing and it should be stopped. And appeal to force, they are trying to persuade the parents to stop smoking in front of their children through a threat. The threat is that the child will get affected, and if the parents are not worried about their health, they must be worried on their health. Appeal to pity may also have been included in the image. The image is referring to second hand smoke; smokers do know that second hand affects the people. But in this image they used a kid and the smoke is choking the kid, it feels like they are persuading through emotion more then facts in the image. Mohammad 4 Slippery slope fallacy may appeal to both of the images. For image 1, if the people continue to smoke cigarettes then death would eventually happen, because of the gun. So quite smoking before it happens. And for image 2, if the parents continued to smoke in front of their children, they will hurt their children. So they need to stop smoking in front of them before their children would get an asthma or something else. Both of these images had appealed to Ethos, Logos, Pathos and Kairos. But in the most part, emotion was the key of these pictures. When it comes to health and the people they love, emotion would be the most things that people would be persuaded on. That is why in the first image, they used a teenager and the smoke from his cigarette is a gun pointing to his head, which means that the teenager would die young, so it persuades the teenagers to quit smoking in an early age before it is too late. And for the second image they used a young kid, and the smoke is choking him as if it is the second hand smoke. Even though the image does not persuade the parents to quit cigarettes, they are trying to persuade them to not smoke in front of their children. Image one. Mohammad 5 Image two. Mohammad 6 Work cited Kill a Cigarette and Save a Life -  Kill a Cigarette and Save a Life - Yours! N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 Stop smoking - Live  NHS Choices. NHS, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.