Matos1 Andrew Matos-Pagan Ms. Kristen Collins Composition II 29 January 2017 Whiteness White privilege. The term has gained increased attention in political debates and in racial campaigns in America. Liberals, also represented through a group called ground work, believe white privilege is evident and must be dealt with to maintain equality and freedom. The organization itself has multiple goals simplified they are White People to Work for Racial Justice, Collaborating with People of Color-Led Organizations, Deepening our Members Own Education and (groundwork). Essentially their goal is to end white privilege in America and combat white supremacy. The first image displays the name of the organization with tree roots growing from the bottom and the words anti-racism on the top of the central image. Meanwhile the second picture is more focused around portraying white privilege instead of portraying a way to combat white privilege and racism. By having the words myth misunderstanding of white it presents the relationship with the other image itself because both are about anti-racism. Which in turn correlates with the goal liberals have of uprooting white privilege and white supremacy. The organization groundwork can also be represented as liberals for the continuing of the essay to simplify the essay itself. Liberals have long since been for equal rights and to completely end racism. However white privilege was not prevalent or even recognized as a real problem till Peggy McIntosh in 1988 released an opinion article titled White Privilege and Male that began the discussion of what it means to have white privilege. The main piece of evidence that supports the Matos2 liberal position that white privilege is an issue that must be dealt with is the historic evidence of Europeans subjugating the natives and African Americans for the benefit. Due to this event in history it engendered the first steps of a society that would forever be in favor of white Americans over any other minorities in America. Other examples vary from more simple things to more complex examples. Such as if a white person were to walk into a store to purchase something, and then similarly a black person was to do the same and walk in the same store he/she would have a higher chance of being followed through the store compared to the white person. Therefore, liberals will strive to dismantle white supremacy where it is found and privilege. Another somewhat more complex example of racism is that of color already face many disadvantages accessing and completing postsecondary (Major Malfunction) which is factually true but much more complex of an issue. The purpose of the first image is meant to show how if all Americans were to be united they would be able to grow like the roots in the image, however the roots and words are black and surrounded by white. Allowing the viewer to understand at a simple level how America is fundamentally driven by minorities but run by white Americans and how America was also built by minorities. The rhetorical appeals used in the first image is the appeal ethics or the appeal to ethos. The audience is the American people who commonly would be against racism considering the constitution thus appealing to the audiences ethically. Rui Gong did a study using backgrounds of white and black colors and influences of the backgrounds and color appearance parameters were discussed, and it could be concluded that the backgrounds did influence the (Original Research Article) which in turn will influence the perspective of the audience. So, by using only black and white in their image it takes a level of uncertainty thus further appealing to ethos. Matos3 The second image purpose is meant to show the two opposing sides of the argument regarding white privilege but it marks out the right wings claim that white privilege is a myth. Both images are trying to accomplish a representation of their position regarding white privilege. The audience of the second image is similar to the first image however it varies because it has myth crossed out. By having the word myth crossed out it not only directs its message towards Americans but American conservatives as well. This can be contributed to common sense that white privilege is not a real thing in America. The message is more direct than the first image because it clearly states the misunderstanding of white which asserts that white privilege is already present. Once again, the rhetorical strategy used is ethos because of the size and the bold front centered placement of the message gives the image itself a sense of credibility. The second image however does not offer a solution in the image itself unlike the first image that represents unity is the best way to combat white privilege. Both images have apparent rhetorical fallacies that are used to further groundworks argument and goal. It can be interpreted the first image from groundwork uses the false  to argue that you are either help to combat racism or you are a racist yourself. Or It can also be argued that the whole image is a false dilemma between accepting white privilege and combating it to not accepting it and support racism. The use of white  also points towards a false dilemma or in literal terms a black and white . This in turn is cause by the term raising questions such as whether there is any racism between other races. The second image does have the usage of a false dilemma. The present generalization however is more evident and predominant in the image. A hasty generalization is made when the image claims the misunderstanding of white  assuming the general population does not fully understand white white privilege is. instead of possibly maintaining a sense of Ambiguity towards American Matos4 peoples understanding of white privilege. Some Americans may not even know white privilege is a characteristic of American society thus not allowing them to even misinterpret the meaning of it. Although the organization groundwork indirectly stands for liberals it does have some rhetorical fallacies in its usage of images to convey their message. Liberals do have facts to support their claim about white privilege in American culture both historical and current facts. The two images both have their own flaws and their own strengths in terms of how they convey their message to the American public. Issues arise from the organizations eagerness to engender change in America, this is due to the belief of a subject wholly, dismissing possible flaws in the claim. Overall the two images did exactly what they were intended to do however which was at least to get the viewers to ponder about what exactly white privilege is and if it is such a problem what the proper steps are to dismantling it. 1130 Matos5 Works cited Groundwork. 2016. website. 28 January 2017. <https://groundworkmadison.com/>. Gong, Rui, et al. Original Research Article: Investigation on Factors to Influence Color Emotion and Color Preference  Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, vol. 136, 01 May 2017, pp. 71-78. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ijleo.2017.02.026. Allison, Tom, and Konrad Mugglestone. Space Shuttle Challenger Springer Praxis Books (n.d.): 231-72. Younginvincibles.org. Younginvincibles, Oct.-Nov. 2015. Web. 1 Feb. 2017.