Mirzakhalov 1 Jamshidbek Mirzakhalov Kristen Collins ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 Life or Pain Amidst everyday stress and emotional problems, some people decide to simply give up and end their lives. This type of practice, known as suicide, is disapproved in many cultures and ethnicities as it shows signs of non-perseverance, cowardice and weakness. However, when a person is in deep physical pain or has a disability to function properly on a daily basis, suicide or suicide becomes a viable option for those. Still, there exist many voices that ring the alarm bells and want to help those deciding to end their lives because of an illness or disability. Indeed, despite the furious debate around this issue, it seems more fair and humane to try to help those people who are deciding to end their lives rather than letting them die. It is important for them to hear the voices willing to heal their pain. One of among many voices is HOPE: preventing euthanasia & assisted suicide. This is a coalition of groups and individuals based in Australia, who actively fight against any euthanasia practices and assisted suicide programs. HOPE focuses on these two issues and leads global campaigns and events to support measures to completely eliminate the idea of assisted suicide and euthanasia. It has expressed interest to work with any internal or external organizations sharing the same concern. Since it was founded in 2010, it has grown substantially from a group of like-minded individuals into a national organization with worldwide Mirzakhalov 2 First of all, two pictures were chosen to represent view and argument on the issue. The first one is trying to deliver a message that assisted suicide programs are not the only options for the people with disabilities and diseases. In fact, there are many organizations and clinics that offer suicidal assistance and euthanasia programs and make a lot of profit out of it. It is worrisome to see how little human lives matter in the face of financial gains. Undoubtedly, they assume that people coming to die are happy with their decisions. What they fail to realize is those people come because of having no hope. In the picture, there is a comparison between two offices. Assisted suicide office is well-equipped and appealing in the functional design. Meanwhile, suicide prevention office is depicted to be limited, unwelcoming with a closed door. By depicting the stairs for the suicide prevention program doors, the picture suggests that these programs are not equally accessible for everyone. This image uses some strong appeals to deliver the message successfully. This picture strongly relies on logic. The way it opens up the case and clarifies the whole issue and its causes makes the picture meaningfully rich and comprehensively complex. The closed door of the suicide prevention programs, inaccessible stairs, run-down walls, disabled sign pointed to the assisted suicide door all seem to make a statement about the issue. The picture also appeals towards ethos. Combined with logos, the design of the first picture makes an expression that people who have no access, comfort or welcome in suicide prevention offices will most likely feel hopeless and vulnerable. They will see no other viable alternative to the suicide assistance program. Eventually, those disabled or diseased will throw themselves into death. One of the most interesting elements of this picture appeals to timeliness. The disabled person in the picture is turning his head towards the closed door while moving to the assisted suicide program door. Mirzakhalov 3 This is very symbolic in a sense that a person who is deciding to end his or her life will look out for any hope around. This sends a message of being around those who need assistance and emotional help, and how this help is immediately necessary. As the picture does not represent solely view on the issue, it has no design elements appealing to pathos. Despite the strong argument, the image has some logical fallacies which effects its pathos negatively. The first logical fallacy to be noticed is appeal to pity. An appeal to pity attempts to persuade using than evidence. Playing on the pity that someone feels for an individual or group can certainly affect what that person thinks about the group; this is a highly effective, and so quite common, fallacy (Hample 76). The picture conveys a lot of emotional messages that it creates an impression that the statement is right because people are being killed. Another logical fallacy observed is appeal to consequences. Appeal to consequences is defined as that a proposition is true because belief in it has good consequences, or that it is false because belief in it has bad consequences is often an (Curtis). It assumes that if people choose to live, they will be happier. In fact, there might be cases when assisted suicide may be necessary i.e. irresistible physical pain. Believing in only good consequences is also not an option. Meanwhile, the second picture mainly focuses on the process of euthanasia, which is translated from Greek as the practice of ending a life in order to relieve pain or suffering (Helga 40). Amongst the huge debate over the practicality and ethical implications of euthanasia, HOPE stands and fights against it. In the picture, there are many design elements which individually and collectively convey the stand of HOPE. As a matter of fact, this picture is used as one of the banners of new documentary against euthanasia, which is called Vulnerable (Russel). The choice of color and objects was quite interesting. Everything from medical syringes, wet Mirzakhalov 4 little pod to some surgical and sharper devices, from the faint red font of the words in the middle to the corresponding red lines slightly fading in the background reminding the red veins of a human being is creatively composed and located. Similar to the first one, the second picture relies on logic and emotion substantially. The image tries to bring the real idea of killing people behind the words of It calls the euthanasia a deception since the real process of a killing person differs from what people imagine as suicide assistance. By the depiction of blood vessels, syringes and other surgical devices, it appeals to emotion making people think outside the box. In the same way, it appeals to logic since it is undeniable that the process involves killing someone no matter in what way. Logically, it is a simple reminder of the actual practice behind the curtains. Picture does not reveal any elements directly supporting credibility or call to action, but the overall message HOPE is sending through this picture is clear. Though it is not noticeable immediately, there might be some small logical fallacies in this image. In fact, they are closely similar to the fallacies in the former picture. First, the picture appeals to the ethos too much, and as a result creates a fallacy called appeal to pity. The argument of this picture using design elements of physical pain i.e. syringe, blood etc. can be falsifiable on many occasions. For instance, those who are agreeing to end their lives are informed about the procedure and they willingly make a decision. Although it is hard to grasp this voluntary suicide and its ethical or religious interpretations among people, they are not necessarily being deceived. Overall, despite the fact that the picture got across its message to the audience, it has some logical fallacies to overcome. All in all, both images represent the overall mission and concerns of HOPE very successfully. As the first image covers concern on Assisted Suicide Programs, the Mirzakhalov 5 second picture focuses on Euthanasia. These two issues lie at the heart of HOPE and make up its goals. Both images were designed creatively and intelligently to be able to encompass all this information in them. They both actively used tools of persuasion by appealing to logos, ethos, pathos and kairos. Hopefully, in the future, HOPE will grow even bigger and can become that voice of hope many hopeless would hear and continue to appreciate a precious gift called LIFE. Mirzakhalov 6 Works Cited HOPE: preventing euthanasia & assisted suicide. HOPE. 26 Feb 2017. Curtis, Gary. Logical Fallacy: Appeal to  Logical Fallacy: Appeal to Consequences. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Hample, Dale, et al. The Effects of Topic Type and Personalization of Conflict on Assessments of  Communication Reports, vol. 22, no. 2, July 2009, pp. 74-88. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/08934210903008935. Helga Kuhse, BIOETHICS NEWS, July 1992BACKGROUND BRIEFING* (from BIOETHICS NEWS Vol.11 No. 4 July 1992 page 40) Russell, Paul. Euthanasia Deception  ReVision. N.p., 2015. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Mirzakhalov 7 Pictures http://www.noeuthanasia.org.au/about-us/issues.html http://www.noeuthanasia.org.au/euthanasia-deception-documentary.html