Shah 1 Akash Shah Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 Vaccinations With the flu season around the corner, people are urged to get vaccinated. Every year a new strain of the virus is produced and people advised to vaccinate themselves and their children. However, not all parents are believe that vaccines are the safest option for their children and refuse to get vaccinated. An organization campaigning to increase vaccination rates is the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The CDC does more than just advise people to get vaccinated; this organization aims to protect the health of American citizens by combating any disease no matter where it comes from and supports a community effort to eradicate any prevalent diseases in America. Their pledge to the American people is to be trust worthy with fund given to the organization, provide an atmosphere for intellectual and personal growth, make public health decisions based on only the most reliable scientific data, put the well-being of the institution before the well-being of the society, and treat everyone with dignity, honesty, and respect. Hence, their overall motive is to keep the health of the American people in check. To protect the health Americans they advocate health choices that would better society through the use of advertisements. A majority of their advertisements are geared toward vaccines because unvaccinated people is one of the most significant threats to American health. The advertisements for vaccinations uses several rhetoric appeals to persuade their views to get vaccinated or vaccinate their loved ones. They use ethos to appeal to empathy, they use pathos to show that they are a credible organization, they also appeal to logos by give facts and showing Shah 2 their viewers that it is the most pragmatic choice to make, lastly they appeal to Kairos by telling their views to immediately take steps to get vaccinations before too late. The argument against vaccinations stems from a misconducted research paper that was spread by the media. This propaganda led the manifestation anti-vaccination campaigns. A brief history of vaccinations tells why the CDC has to advertise vaccinations. Since the discovery of vaccinations they proved to be safe, until Andrew work was brought to light in the scientific community. Wakefield, a gastroenterologist, conducted a study that showed a correlation between taking the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine and being affected by a syndrome of autism; essentially he was saying the MMR vaccine causes autism. His study was rejected by a group of peer-reviewing experts. Adamant that his findings were valid, he moved to the United States and leaked study to the media who displayed his findings to the public. Before long, parents were convinced that vaccine are unsafe for their children and refused to vaccinate them. Most parents were easily convinced because their only source of scientific data were media outlets such as the newspapers and magazines. The first incident of death occurred in the UK. Wakefield was subsequently brought upon the General Medical Council the next year and barred of his medical license (Knopf). With many parents misinformed on the matter, vaccinations rates significantly decreased in the US and the vaccination campaign began. Image 1 is a picture of a healthy boy, about 10-11 years of age, at a dock by a lake and about to jump-in for a swim on a sunny day. It is evident that they target audience is parents of children between the ages of 11-12 because they say vaccinate children between those ages. First piece of rhetoric that the CDC aims for is pathos or emotion. A first glace they pictures entails a connection of empathy with its audience. The picture of the boy about to jump into the lake is Shah 3 supposed to remind the parents of their own children in good health and enjoying a sunny day outside; possibly even a vacation they had went on in the summer. They key about depicting a summer vacation is that it is right before flu season, so they are reminding parents of recent memories. Thus, they appeal to empathy by resurfacing good times they had in the summer with their children. Next, they appeal to the logos or logic of their audience. Now after they have their attention by appealing to empathy they will read what the CDC has to say. Next they will read, there were a vaccine against cancer you get it if for your kids? HPV vaccine is cancer This tells its audience that getting the HPV vaccine for their children is the sensible choice to make. If a parent thought that getting the HPV vaccine was unnecessary for their children this is aimed to change their mind. Now that the audience has their children in mind prove an image of their children getting cancer. They do this because it is commonly known that anyone can get cancer and that no parent would want their children to get it; therefore, the parents would do anything to prevent such a tragedy. Then, by telling them that the HPV vaccine will prevent cancer, they are appealing to the logic that the vaccine is the most practical step they can take to ensure the health of their children because HPV, like cancer, anyone can get it. Next, they appeal to Kairos by telling their readers to immediately take action by talking to a doctor about vaccinating their 11-12 year old children against HPV. Lastly, both advertisements appeal to ethos or credibility by putting the CDC, a well-known organization dedicated to public health, emblem at the end of the image. Although image 1 did a great job of rhetorical appeal there are many logical fallacies at play in this vaccination advertisement. This first fallacy present is that the image has a weak analogy. The entire argument surrounding the image is the connection between HPV and cancer. With no other reasoning besides their authority the comparison between HPV and cancer is Shah 4 loosely held together causing its viewers to lose motive to take action. Saying that HVP prevents cancer make any sense with no provided context. This then leads to the next fallacy appeal to authority. Their premise convincing their viewers that HPV prevents cancer relies solely on them believing it just because it said so. In doing so, they are relying on their authority for justification. The second image is a picture asking a question with the answer as a large, with inscribed pictures of a diverse group of people in the word and then gives an answer telling its viewers to take initiative to get vaccinated. The target audience of this advertisement is to the general public because it speaks to anyone who is capable of receiving a vaccination. The piece of rhetoric that pops out is pathos because the image initially aims to appeal to empathy. The checkered red background makes the enlarged stick out the audience. Upon viewing the their eyes are drawn to the many different people in the word. Without even reading the question the viewer is reminded of their family and friends provoking a feeling of empathy. Next, they read, needs a flu vaccine? You. Even healthy people can get the This appeals to logic because the viewer, who is assumed to care for their loved ones, is told that the best way to protect their loved ones is to vaccinate themselves and their loved ones. In addition, they argue against the common objection, one does not need a vaccinations because they are healthy and have a robust immune system, by saying that no one is safe. Lastly, they appeal to karios by telling them to take immediate action by saying, in bold white; to look as if the advertisement were giving an order. Two logical fallacies in this are that it relies on authority and fear. They use the is safe to persuade by fear. Upon their connection with empathy, they proceed to tell their audience that no one is safe from the virus no matter how healthy one is. This furthers their fear Shah 5 tactic by taking away the sense of fear. Next, they rely on the credibility of the organization to persuade their viewers that what they are saying about vaccinations is true. Overall, both images did an adequate job of persuading their audiences of their goals. One aspect they had in common was that they both used the credibly of the organization as persuasive mechanism rather than giving reasoning behind their logic. However, Image 1 did an effective job of appealing to empathy in their audience and image 2 effectively appealed to logic. Ultimately, successfully used rhetoric to appeal to their viewers. Shah 6 Works Cited Knopf, Alison. MMR vs. Autism: A False  The Brown University Child and Adolescent Behavior Letter 31. (2005): 1-2. Academic Search Premier. Web. 10 Sept. 2016 Mission, Role and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 14 Apr. 2014. Web. 13 Feb. 2017 Images Image 1 Image 2