Aggad 1 Tareq Aggad Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1101 02 /14 /2017 The Advocacy towards Safe Abortion IPAS Health. Access. is a global organization standing for women reproductive health. The primary goal of IPAS is to diminish and alleviate the exposure of women to reproductive risks emanated from abortion. In order to effectively fulfill this task, IPAS has undertaken to raise awareness and to support safe abortion in an effort to eliminate maternal deaths occurring with unsafe or inaccessible abortion. As shown in the website IPAS promotes researches, advocacy, and medical training to support and enhance the accessibility to safe abortion. Creating a decent engagement, IPAS utilizes rhetorical appeals to convey the argument that an enhanced access to safe abortion would decrease maternal deaths. The two videos Safe Abortion Saves Women and IPAS Puts Youth At the incorporate the use of pathos, ethos, kairos, and logos in order to persuade the viewers to support safe and accessible abortion for women. IPAS employs the use of pathos in the video Safe Abortion Saves Women in an attempt to establish an emotional connection with the audience. The video started with acknowledging the audience that unsafe abortion results in millions of maternal deaths. Hence, this strategy was to draw compassion from the audience into the argument. Increasing the emotional connection, IPAS used specific phrases in the video, which aimed towards raising empathy from the viewers. In particular, IPAS incorporated Aggad 2 intense phrases such as Unsafe abortion HURTS and to evoke a rage from the audience towards unsafe abortion and to acquire support for safe abortion. Additionally, to incorporate further compassion into the argument, IPAS used several pictures of women in rural regions, who looked depressed due to their experiences with grave reproductive complications. IPAS informs the audience within these pictures that these women had experienced serious maternal risks since they used improper methods to end pregnancies. IPAS showed these pictures to raise empathy and compassion from the audience. Therefore, the intention of IPAS from using pathos at this point was to persuade the audience to support the argument that accessible and safe abortion would limit reproductive complications. IPAS incorporated the use of pathos in the video IPAS Puts Youth At the to support the argument that an accessible safe abortion would eliminate maternal deaths. In this video, IPAS made a considerable correlation between the future of youth and safe abortion in order to draw the attention into the argument. For instance, in the beginning of the video, IPAS emphasized that the proper path of youth should not be accompanied with unsafe abortion. To further enhance the correlation between youth and safe abortion, IPAS used the phrase when denied reproductive health care, young people often face hopeless This correlation between future and safe abortion was used to establish an urgent connection with the audience. This correlation conveys a sense to the audience that their daughters and their paths can be potentially affected by unsafe abortion. Also, with the global society endeavoring to advance the success of youth, the society would respond to the need of safe abortion due to the correlation made by IPAS between safe abortion and future. Moreover, IPAS in Aggad 3 this video used hopeful music, light colors, and youth pictures to indicate that future and their paths can be inspired through the elimination of reproductive complications. IPAS used logos in the video Safe Abortion Saves to appeal to logic and reasoning linked to safe and accessible abortion. IPAS incorporated statistics and numerical data in an effort to reinforce the argument and to engage the audience with the argument. According to the video, 60,000 women die every day, which leads to 22 million women die each year due to unsafe abortion (IPAS). These findings appeal to the logic that an enhanced access to safe abortion would effectively lower these rates. Therefore, a higher percentage of people can be engaged into the argument of IPAS. Additionally, IPAS in this video used examples of women who improperly attempted to terminate their pregnancies, resulting in reproductive complications. Using these examples, IPAS appeals to the logic that reproductive complications would not have occurred if safe abortion had been accessible by these women. Furthermore, IPAS used a casual statement to reinforce the argument and to provide a further logic for the audience. According to the video, if the community provides an access to contraception, safe abortion, and health care knowledge, lives would be saved from grave maternal risks (IPAS). Supporting this statement, IPAS implied through the use of pictures of women in rural communities that unsafe abortion and its adverse complications chiefly occur in rural regions in which abortion can be inaccessible. IPAS incorporated logos in the video Puts Youth At the to reinforce the theory that unsafe abortion targets young women and their future paths. IPAS used statistical data to illustrate the correlation between youth and unsafe abortion. As shown Aggad 4 in the video, young women between the ages of 15 to 24 experience 9 million unsafe abortions each year (IPAS). With this being said, the video emphasizes pregnancy complications and unsafe abortion as the leading causes of deaths for girls aged 15 to 19. Using these statistical data, IPAS reinforces the logic that unsafe or inaccessible abortion has deleterious implications on young women and their paths. Therefore, following this logic, high proportion of the audience can be engaged into the argument and can contribute to have a higher accessibility of safe abortion. In addition, IPAS incorporated the use of casual statement to illustrate how accessible reproductive care would inspire young future. According to the video, if young women connect with each other through a shared knowledge of reproductive care, they inspire and save their futures due to the elimination of reproductive risks (IPAS). This statement effectively supports the logic of the audience that a stronger reproductive knowledge would prevent reproductive risks and would therefore eliminate risks facing young paths. IPAS employs a similar use of ethos in both videos to establish credibility and therefore a trust towards the organization. In the video Safe Abortion Saves IPAS includes a reference to its current efforts to resolve the issue in order to indicate the credibility to the audience. For instance, this video showed that IPAS currently concentrates its efforts in several countries where abortion can be inaccessible. These efforts aim to increase access to knowledge, contraception, and health care in regard with abortion. Similarly, the other video IPAS Puts Youth At the incorporated a reference to the recent achievements of IPAS in several countries so that a higher proportion of people can have a trust in the organization. For instance, the video acknowledged that IPAS establishes youth-adult partnerships in Zambia aiming towards Aggad 5 the advancement of abortion care for young women. In both videos, the reference to current efforts or achievements was to make the audience feel that IPAS is a trustworthy organization due to the continuous endeavors of IPAS in regard with the issue. Enhancing the credibility of the organization, IPAS at the end of each video showed the logo of the organization and invited the audience to learn about their work. It can be seen that the reference to the achievements or efforts in each video along with showing the logo were to gain a trust from the audience and therefore to facilitate the engagement into the argument. IPAS in both videos used kairos to tie the argument with current occurrences in relation to unsafe abortion, creating an urgency around the topic. IPAS in the video Safe Abortion Saves referred to the current problem that unsafe abortion accounts for over 22 million deaths each year. The reference to this problem in the video was to create a current urgency, which appeals for the engagement of the audience. Similarly, the video IPAS Puts Youth At the which focuses on the correlation between youth and reproductive healthcare, used the current timeframe to raise an urgency towards the argument. For instance, this video highlighted that ten percent of girls in the current time become mothers by the age of sixteen. This current occurrence, which is relevant to the argument of IPAS, was used to inform the audience that there should be an effective improvement and accessibility of reproductive care. Using these current occurrences in both videos, it can be seen that IPAS effectively pushes the audience to contribute to the accessibility of safe abortion and reproductive care. Aggad 6 In regard with the argument of IPAS, several studies and journal articles attest to the theory that a substantial proportion of maternal deaths is attributable to unsafe abortion. The article Abortion: The Preventable written by David Grimes, who is a physician certified in obstetrics and gynecology, establishes a pivotal connection between unsafe abortion and maternal deaths. Grimes states, Nearly all unsafe abortions (97 percent) are in developing countries. An estimated 68000 die as a (Grimes 2). Due to the fact that unqualified practitioners preform the majority of unsafe pregnancy terminations, Grimes advocates the improvement and the expansion of medical centers specialized in abortion. Similarly, the study Abortion: A Neglected Tragedy. Review from a Tertiary Care Hospital in executed by Vanita Jain, who works in Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, made a significant correlation between the high percentages of maternal deaths and unsafe abortion. Jain writes, with 16 Percent of the population, India accounts for 20 percent of the maternal (Vanita 3). This quote indicates that maternal deaths resulted from abortion do not merely occur in developing countries, but they also happen in countries with low or middle incomes. With these sources condemning unsafe abortion, it appears that the argument of IPAS is valid and should be reinforced by the global community. In conclusion, abortion can be seen as an element, which extremely ties with reproductive care. With this matter, IPAS aims to shun the negative implications arising with unsafe abortion through an enhanced accessibility to safe abortion. IPAS utilizes the use of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos in two videos, which effectively convey the argument and engage the audience. For example, while pathos was used to evoke compassion from the audience into the argument, logos was incorporated to support the Aggad 7 argument by logics and reasons. Furthermore, through the use of ethos, IPAS established a credibility and acquired trust from the audience. Kiros was used to establish a timeframe in which unsafe abortion is noticed in current occurrences. All of these rhetorical strategies were used to propel the audience to act against unsafe abortion and to work for the accessibility of safe abortion. Aggad 8 Work cited Abortion Saves Lives. , Youtube , 2016. Accessed 14 Mar. 2017. Grimes, David A. Unsafe abortion: the preventable  The Lancet 368.9550 (2006): 1908-919. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Ipas Health. Access. Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. IPAS Puts Youth At the Centre. , Youtube , 2015. Accessed 14 Mar. 2017. Jain, Vanita. Abortion: A Neglected Tragedy. Review from a Tertiary Care Hospital in Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Research 30.3 (2004): Web. 12 July 2006. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9kNw2zSPz30 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xqOuzfuCAPg