Joyce 1 Shannon Joyce Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 14 March 2017 The D.A.R.E. Program Implemented in 1983 by the Los Angeles Police Department, the D.A.R.E. (Drug Abuse Resistance Education) program is a school-based substance abuse, gang, and violence prevention program, that became the standard anti-drug (Glass, Stephen). The controversy regarding this program stands with whether it is truly effective in preventing elementary, middle, and high school students from abusing substances, joining gangs, and participating in violence. The D.A.R.E. Program relied on a curriculum that addresses a variety of psychosocial processes thought to be related to substance use and potentially modifiable through programmatic (Hansen, William B. and Ralph B. McNeal). They hope to reach their goal of prevention of substance abuse, gangs, and violence by using ads such as the image and the commercial, featuring Serena Williams. The image is focused on spreading the word about D.A.R.E. programs, while the commercial is popularizing the program with the use of a celebrity. Both ads use the rhetorical appeals: ethos (appeal to credibility), logos (appeal to logic), pathos (appeal to emotion), and kairos (appeal to timeliness). These appeals assist the D.A.R.E. program in reaching its goal of preventing drug use by establishing a connection between the argument and the audience. The D.A.R.E. Program uses the rhetorical appeal of ethos in the picture in order to add credibility to the program, and therefore increase its prevention of drug use, by using experts and adding logos. Ethos is method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts Joyce 2 to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Hoffman and Wiggs 25). The picture from their website features many aspects of ethos, from the text, to the logos, and even from the images. The advertisement features text that says, new programs created by experts, for all students and The use of the phrase by adds a lot of credibility to not only the advertisement, but also the D.A.R.E. Program as a whole. Relating to this, the advertisement features an image of a doctor. This picture adds credibility, as this is one of the experts they are talking about, as mentioned above. Doctors are known to be intelligent individuals, who want the best for the people of our society, which adds to the credibility of their advertisement. The final element of ethos in the advertisement are the numerous logos in the bottom left-hand corner from different companies. The logos consist of the companies: Abbott Laboratories, Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), and Consumer Healthcare Products Association (CHPA). Each of these companies involve research and studies that add credibility to the D.A.R.E. Program. The commercial also employs a lot of ethos throughout the advertisement in hopes to reach the goal. The commercial created by the D.A.R.E. Program also uses ethos in their advertisement by using a celebrity, who adds credibility and increases the prevention as a whole. The major element of ethos in the D.A.R.E. commercial is the starring of Serena Williams. Throughout the commercial, Williams discusses how she was once a part of the D.A.R.E. Program and how it held a positive influence on her, and eventually her dreams come Many people look up to the star athlete, which adds credibility to this advertisement as she talks about her personal experiences. Throughout these advertisements, ethos plays a crucial role in achieving the D.A.R.E. goal of preventing the most drug use possible, as the credibility of the program is essential in prevention. Joyce 3 The D.A.R.E. Program also incorporates the rhetorical appeal of logos into their advertisements, to publicize the program to society in a positive way with logic, facts, and evidence. By definition, logos is appeal to logic and the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Hoffman and Wiggs 30). Advertisements typically utilize logos in order to incorporate logic. In this case, the commercial featuring Serena Williams has major elements of logos that adds to the connection with the audience. During the commercial, Williams uses statements that not only make conclusions about the results of joining the D.A.R.E. Program, but also uses logic to encourage one to join the program. The statements made by Serena Williams indicates that if one joins the D.A.R.E. Program, their dreams will then come true. This conclusion appeals to the audience in a logical way, as she uses her own personal evidence to support her claim, which then adds to the advertisement. By incorporating logos into this advertisement, it helps them reach their goal of drug prevention by adding logic, facts, and evidence. Additionally, both advertisements utilize pathos in their persuasion by adding the element of emotion, and therefore establishing a connection between the audience and the D.A.R.E. Program. Pathos is appeal to emotion and a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Hoffman and Wiggs 35). The image from the D.A.R.E. website appeals to the emotions by featuring pictures of happy children and a happy family. This shows the community aspect of the advertisement, and how the program will have a positive effect on the D.A.R.E. Program life. During the D.A.R.E. Program commercial, Serena Williams states that joining the D.A.R.E. Program can make the dreams come true. This is bound to affect the emotions, as everyone wants their own dreams to come true. Also, the use of the cartoon lion throughout the Joyce 4 commercial will appeal to younger children, who may or may not know who Serena Williams is. The lion will appeal to their happiness, as it acts out what Williams is saying. Throughout these advertisements, pathos plays a fundamental role in achieving the D.A.R.E. goal of preventing drug use, by giving the advertisements the ability to connect with the audience, by appealing to their emotions. The advertisements developed by the D.A.R.E. Program use the rhetorical appeal of kairos in their persuasion techniques, by urging to join the program now, rather than later, and therefore preventing drug use. Kairos is appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman and Wiggs 39). The advertisement found on the website of the D.A.R.E. Program features kairos in the implementation of making the word stand out in the phrase get started contact your local D.A.R.E. Program In the advertisement, they do not only put it in another the bright red color, contrasting the white, but they also italicize the word to make it stand out even more. This call to action implements an appeal to timeliness, as it urges them to call rather than tomorrow or the next. Throughout this advertisement, kairos plays a vital role in achieving the D.A.R.E. goal of preventing drug use, by making the call to act now, rather than later. The rhetorical appeals, ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, assist the D.A.R.E. program in reaching its goal by hopefully establishing a connection between the argument and the audience. The rhetorical appeals are essential to the advertisements, as they add credibility, evidence, emotional connections, and timeliness to the argument the advertisements are trying to persuade the audience towards, which is more people joining the D.A.R.E. Program. The use of these Joyce 5 elements not only added to their argument, but also enhanced the program in terms of how the society views D.A.R.E.. Serena Williams ad: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7WQkY0L7ygs Joyce 6 Works Cited abuse trends change DARE America D.A.R.E. America, www.dare.org/drug-abuse-trends-change-dare-america-responds/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Commercial / Public Service Announcement - Serena YouTube, YouTube, 7 Sept. 2014, www.youtube.com/watch?v=7WQkY0L7ygs. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric matters: foundations of rhetoric and composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Glass, Stephen. You D.A.R.E.: An Anti-Drug Program Strong-Arms Its  The New Republic, no. 9, 1997, p. 18. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=e sgao&AN=edsgcl.19166458&site=eds-live. Hansen, William B. and Ralph B. McNeal. How D.A.R.E. Works: An Examination of Program Effects on Mediating  Health Education & Behavior, vol. 24, no. 2, Apr. 1997, pp. 165-176. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/109019819702400205.