Daugherty 1 Julian Daugherty Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Inspiring the Next Cyber Professionals In the never-ending battle to ensure the safety and security of United States citizens, the National Security Agency (NSA) uses numerous methods to attract skilled individuals. The government agency utilizies a variety of methods to secure information and maintain an advantage over enemies of the United States. A video and image from the NSA seeking to recruit more talent were used. A variety of rhetorical appeals were applied to meet their goal. The video uses mostly ethos and logos, with subtle hints of pathos throughout. There are noticeable appearances of kairos and ethos in the image. The presence of these rhetorical appeals in the recruitment approach act to inspire individuals with desirable skills to seek employment with the NSA. Credibility is important in both advertisements, since the NSA is trying to recruit members. Once the audience understands where the information comes from, they can focus on the logic of what is being said. Using this logic, the emotions will likely be subject to change. The image will pressure the audience to act sooner rather than later, which may have some effect. Together, ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos complement each other to persuade the audience to join the NSA. Using current employees and the NSA insignia, the NSA aims to establish trust with the audience through ethos. The video begins with the emblem, followed by what are believed to be current employees. Using actual workers provides a reason for the audience to Daugherty 2 consider the information presented. The experience of the workers strengthens the credibility of the video. Their status as actual employees is confirmed by their insight into the duties of their respective departments. The NSA is willing to put their reputation behind the advertisement, which will convince the audience that they are professionals. In a similar manner, the image does not try to hide the name of the agency. It presents the name in a visible font, so the audience can easily see who sponsored the image. The audience will likely understand that the National Security Agency is backed by the United States Government, so establishing credibility will depend on the view of the government. Nonetheless, the information will be presented in a professional manner. Once the NSA has established credibility, it can begin conveying information to the audience. In the recruiting video, there are several employees that describe their professions within different departments and a signature logos approach. The message is delivered as a great opportunity for individuals to better themselves. If they join the NSA, then they will increase their educational and professional capabilities. It is inferred by the video that the lives will be improved if they join the NSA. The described departments range from finance and logistics to project management and technical areas. Potential programs open to new employees are mentioned as well as benefits. A comparison between the private sector and public sector is used in favor of the NSA and numerous opportunities are stated. Each person provides some background and terms that are specific to their duties and why they enjoy working for the NSA. The information acts to justify why working for the NSA is desirable. They strive to tell the audience why the NSA is worth working for. The people interviewed paint the NSA as an agency that develops their employees, and why working for them would be beneficial. Individuals are usually concerned with how earning sought after skills, but enjoying where they Daugherty 3 work. The NSA follows a logical approach to convince the audience that the NSA is worth working for over similar organizations. The approach is most apparent in the video, rather than the image. The use of pathos is less noticeable in the recruiting advertisements than logic and credibility. Only through the impacts of working with the NSA, can emotional impacts be discerned. Possible emotions may be ambition or motivation. Multiple employees describe the standard of living the NSA provides, may cause the audience to feel ambitious. The video infers that working with the NSA is recommended to become successful. This notion is captured by a account of working life. Managing a flexible schedule, having influence over where you want to work, and taking classes while on the job. Older members of the audience may be persuaded by the appeal of job satisfaction, while younger members of the audience may find a new motivation to develop necessary skills to work at the NSA. In a broadcast from National Public Radio, Welna states of the students at Annapolis will end up pursuing cyber operations (All Things Considered) Cyber related college majors are exactly what the NSA is looking for, and other students may want to ensure that they will be employed. The advertisement may provide the motivation to obtain a cyber degree. One of the interviews describes how the public-sector values mission accomplishment over optimizing the values of stocks. If optimizing the value means dismissing groups from their jobs, then people may desire the NSA for increased job security. Since the NSA develops the skills of employees through numerous opportunities, laying off workers for lack of abilities will be rare. The video utilizes a complex strategy to strike at the emotions of the audience. It refrains from using music or images to influence the audience, instead the NSA uses current experiences to induce a want to improve self in the audience. Daugherty 4 The image and video are reactions by the NSA because of the shortage of skilled cyber professionals. The shortage has led the NSA to use kairos to capture talent sooner rather than later. The image calls for individuals that can use certain computer skills to apply for the NSA immediately. The statement is in large and bold print that is immediately noticeable to the audience. An exclamation point is present, which acts to convey a sense of urgency. This may infer that the NSA needs individuals with the necessary skills. Since the skills are needed urgently, skilled individuals will likely be accepted. The high chance of acceptance may persuade individuals with computer skills to join the NSA. Together, the rhetorical appeals work together to persuade the audience to work for the NSA. They complement each other effectively through the varying styles of persuasion used by the NSA. By establishing credibility, the other appeals can operate to their fullest extent. The NSA uses ethos as a professional greeting. By starting off stating who the speaker is, the audience can understand what their intent is. In the video, the NSA presents a logical argument for why skilled individuals should seek employment with them. Accounts of the varying departments, benefits, and opportunities influence the audience to consider employment with the NSA. In an interview recorded by Arlene Richman, Bill Mathisan states this translates into less cost of operations and more funds available to benefit the (Mathisan 1999) This reinforces the stance to provide employees with benefits, which is depicted in the video. The video begins with what the employees do, how they can advance, and why they enjoy working for the NSA. The logical process and credible source tie in together to indirectly generate pathos rhetoric. Younger members of the audience may be motivated to be more ambitious and crave success amongst the NSA, while parents may pressure their children to seek opportunities the NSA can provide. Since the NSA is not for profit, individuals may be inclined Daugherty 5 to join an organization that strives towards a mission. The video has more time to present an argument, but the image has only so much room to remain effective. Daugherty 6 Works Cited The NSA Doing Now? Training More  All Things Considered, 30 Apr. 2014. Literature Resource Center, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA367 468171&it=r&asid=f05fc632067f6c9327a9e8294dca1820. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017 Media National Security Agency, 29 Jan. 2017. Careers at Youtube, 20 Jan. 2017, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tADl4JjtV54 Richman, Arlene. USA uses technology to benefit member services and enhance  National Public Accountant, vol. 44, no. 4, 1999. USF Library. Accessed 12 Mar. 2017.