Ewing 1 Degas Ewing Ms. Staiger ENC 1102 21 February 2017 Use of Rhetoric in with The organization Death with Dignity is a stakeholder that has the main goal of legalizing physician assisted suicide throughout the United States. Death with Dignity is a non-for-profit organization based out of Oregon. The two images Death with Dignity created to promote physician assisted suicide are very different in their use of rhetoric but both accomplish their objective. The first image is a picture of a New Jersey assemblyman, a person in authority, accompanied by a logical statement that promoted physician assisted suicide. This picture relies mostly of ethos due to the authority figure and logos due to the logical statement that promoted physician assisted suicide. The other image is a somber looking elderly man next to his quote explaining that he wished a woman by the name of Margie, who the audience assumes to be his wife, could have had the option of having less suffering. This image relies more on pathos due to the somber looking old man that causes an emotional impact as well as logos as his quote relies on logic to a certain extent. The pictures use the rhetorical appeals of pathos, ethos, and logos to convince the audience why physician assisted suicide should be legalized. Pathos is very prominent in the first image. Pathos is the use of an emotion as a means of persuasion. The second image is of a sad, old man. A sad old man elicits an emotional response. Furthermore, the somber, old man is talking about what the audience most likely presumes to be his dead wife. Death of a spouse is likely to elicit sympathy from any normal emotionally mature Ewing 2 and healthy human. The image states, just wanted to option to shorten her The thought of a presumably elderly woman that had to suffer is an emotional appeal. There are many elements to this this add to the emotion of this piece. The main components would be the age, people tend to feel bad for the elderly due to their delicate nature; facial expressions, the sad facial expression makes the audience feel sad that the other person is sad; and the dead spouse, a dead family member is always very traumatic and the audience can imagine how hard that would be for others personally. There is some emotion in the second image as the New Jersey assemblyman talks about how people should have a choice and by alluding to the fact that people may be lacking that, which could get people emotional that they do not have control or their inalienable rights are being violated. However, it is quite obvious the use of pathos, emotion in the first image is far more extensive. The use of ethos is the use of authority as a means of persuasion. Even though the images presented have a lot to do with medical and science issues rhetorical appeals are still very necessary. According to the Oxford research encyclopedias medicine and science are very related to rhetorical appeals, commonly understood as the art, practice, and analysis of persuasion, has longstanding connections to medicine and The organization is unbiased and peer-reviewed and therefore very reputable. The second image has an abundance of ethos. There is a picture of a well-dressed, educated- looking man with the statement Jersey next to him. A state assemblyman is a very high state government official and therefore very credible. The audience would trust someone with that influential and high of a position. The problem with putting government figures as people of authority is that government officials and people in politics is that there is often ulterior motives such as they are being paid Ewing 3 by certain parties or organizations. However, most of members are taught to trust people that hold high government positions. Logos is the use of logic to win over an argument or persuade an audience. Logos is very apparent in the image with the assemblyman. The New Jersey assemblyman explains how it is only logical to let people have a choice. This statement is mostly based on logic rather than emotion. New Jersey assemblyman states, should be able to say, is my Only logical people have say in decisions regarding their life. Logos is also in the image with the old man. His statement about Margie suffering calls for logic. It is only logical for Margie to have less suffering. Makes audience ask themselves why Margie should have to had suffered more. suffering in the elderly quote has emotion, pathos, as well as logic, logos. The creator of these images combined humanism with logic to create this appeal, terminally ill patients request assistance in dying because of their suffering, and their request meets commonly endorsed safeguards, their request should be (The Permanente Journal). According to the Permanente journal different rhetoric can be used to describe physician assisted suicide to make it look either positive or negative. For example, calling it would be negative rhetoric whereas would be positive. The Permanente Journal is scholarly and peer reviewed and highly reputable. In summation rhetorical appeals are very crucial in the art of persuasion. According to PDX scholar rhetoric is crucial to building solid arguments as discovered by Aristotle thousands of years Rhetoric offers writers and speakers a foundation from which to build their PDX scholar is an educational peer-reviewed organization that is very scholarly and reputable. Logos elicits logic and is most clearly seen in the New Jersey words about how everyone has the right to have a choice. The assemblyman clearly and logically Ewing 4 explains this. Ethos is the use of authority for means of persuasion and can most predominately be seen in the use of the government authority figure, New Jersey assemblyman, which adds credibility showing a prominent government figure supports the issue will make others support it since they trust the figure. Pathos emotion can be seen in the picture with the old man because a sad, old man talking about his suffering, dead wife is not happy, it is in fact extremely sad and elicits an emotional response from the audience. The audience sees the picture and the very somber, devastating situation and thinks they do not what him or anyone to be in that situation and for that reason they are persuaded to allow physician assisted suicide so Margie will not have to suffer and her husband will not have to see her suffer and be so sad. The one rhetorical appeal that was not found in my images was Kairos. Kairos uses timeliness as a means of persuasion. There was no call to action, no one saying action or any reference to time, aside from the fact Margie had to suffer a longer amount of time, and therefore Kairos is not very prominent. Logos, pathos, and ethos are cleverly used in order to accomplish the objective of convincing the audience to support the nation-wide legalization of physician assisted suicide and the death with dignity acts. Ewing 5 Works Cited Boisvert, Marcel. Physician-Assisted Suicide and  The Permanente Journal. The Permanente Journal, 2012. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Death With Dignity, www.deathwithdignity.org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Malkowski, Jennifer A., J. Blake Scott, and Lisa Rhetorical Approaches to Health and  Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Communication. N.p., 14 Dec. 2016. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Site, pdxscholar.library.pdx.edu/. Accessed 21 Feb. 2017. Ewing 6 Ewing 7