Samuel Fonseca Guimaraes Professor Sabbah Uddin Composition I 02/13/2017 Does the early use of marijuana cause brain damage? Marijuana is known for affecting certain areas in the brain, especially in teenagers. However, some specialists say that smoking marijuana in youth can affect the brain in adulthood. Despite using different methods of research to come to this conclusion, the four scholars have come up with similar results, all showing a link between the early use of marijuana and psychological diseases in early adulthood. Jane E. Anderson (2015), a clinical professor of pediatrics at UCSF, summarizes all her experiences on the field and put them into layman terms. article Development in Adolescents: New Research - Implications for Physicians and Parents in Regard to Medical Decision this article was focused on the parents and teenagers, thus, she tries to get the parents into the subject and get them to help their kids to not use marijuana, by clearly talking about what she has experienced and researched throughout her career.. The article shows the influence of dopamine on the process of addiction, and about the damage marijuana causes to every lobe of the brain, specially the frontal lobe. She uses anecdotes for an easier understanding of the brain, e.g. when she says that frontal lobe is the CEO of the (Jane E. Anderson 2015), which is the lobe responsible for thinking, processing information and other complex thoughts. By damaging the frontal lobe, the frontal lobe does not work at full capacity, inhibiting the brain development. Anderson also talks about the hippocampus, and how crucial it is to the development of the neural system, and also said that the earlier it is damaged, the longer the effects will last. Anderson demonstrated on this article the results of her innumerous experiences throughout her time working at the pediatrics department at UCSF. Similarly to Anderson (2015), Valerie Canadie (2015), another scholar, who is the editor of Mental Health Weekly, wrote her article not based on her own researches, but contrary to Anderson (2015), Canadie (2015) wrote her article bases on her interviews with Dr. Tomaz Paus, while Anderson (2015) discussed her experiences on the field. Canadie (2015) wrote her article based on her interview with Dr. Thomaz Paus, the Tanenbaum Chair in Population Neuroscience, Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at the University of Toronto, about the research made by him and his team on the links between smoking marijuana and schizophrenia. Paus was the first researcher to look into the brain, he used fMRI machines to analyze the brain of 1,024 teenagers from both genders; afterwards, he made a replica of this study using a sample of 504 males. The third and last replica was made with 426 adolescents. team found that there is a negative relation between using marijuana in youth and cortical thickness on teenagers who had a tendency to develop schizophrenia, where the more marijuana was smoked, the thinner the cortical tissue was, thus, increasing the odds to develop this disease and other psychological diseases. Both of the scholars did not conduct the researches; Anderson (2015) summarized all her experiences acquired whole working as a pediatric and wrote them down into an article to alert both teenagers and parents; while Canadie (2015) wrote her article based on her interview with Dr. Paus, who conducted a series of experiments using fMRI machines to have a detailed view of the changes the teenager brain passes when it is exposed to cannabis. Graham Lawton (2005), who is the Executive Director at New Scientist, agrees with the previous scholars, and again, bases his thesis on his experiences and interviews. Lawton (2005) talks about the history of the use of marijuana in early ages, from the Rastafarians in the 1960s to the coffee shops in the Netherlands. He interviewed Van a psychiatry of the University of Maastricht in the Netherlands, an expert on the effects of marijuana in the brain, especially in adolescents; Van concluded that smoking marijuana during adolescence increases the odds to develop schizophrenia in 23%. The author introduces us to a myriad of studies conducted throughout the years on the link between cannabis and psychological disorders in early adulthood due to the early use of the substance. Gerry Jager - an expert in Psychophysics, Cognitive Science, Cognitive Psychology, from Wageningen University in the Netherlands - et al (2010) agrees with all the scholars; however, Jager (2010) wrote his article based on his own research, differently from the previous scholars, who based their articles on others researches or experiences. The scholar conducted his experiments on an fMRI machine, the same machine used by Dr. Paus, who was interviewed by Canadie (2015), and through these experiments he came up with equivalent results to the ones showed by Lawton (2005). The scholar group found that smoking marijuana in youth increase the chance to develop schizophrenia in early adulthood, and also decreases the IQ levels. study consisted in examining the brain of 47 teenagers boys and test their IQs; after a couple years, when the boys had become adults, he tested them again and found out that the IQ levels of those who often smoked had decreased and were lower than 80, while the ones who had not smoked marijuana kept their IQs at the same level they were when they first took the test. Anderson, Jane E., Development in Adolescents: New Research - Implications for Physicians and Parents in Regard to Medical Decision Issues in Law & Medicine; Fall2015, Vol. 30 Issue 2, p193-196, 4p. Canady, Valerie, use by youth, schizophrenia genetic risk Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter; Oct2015, Vol. 31 Issue 10, p3-4, 2p Lawton, Graham, much, too New Scientist. March 26, 2005, Vol. 185 Issue 2492, p44, 4 p. Jager, Gerry, et al. Use and Memory Brain Function in Adolescent Boys: A Cross-Sectional Multicenter Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, v49 n6 p561-572.e3 Jun 2010. 12 pp.