Homayoun Kamalimoghaddam ENC 1102 Mrs.Staiger March 14, 2017 When picking our make up cosmetics do we even stop and think about what product are we using? We could be supporting animal brutality and not even see it. Using animals in research, to test the safety of different products is an issue. A research by Cruelty Free International and the Dr. Hadwen Trust indicates that, least 115 million animals may be used in experiments worldwide each year (Cruelty Free Many research facilities and companies are exploiting animals for their own advantage all around the world. Regardless of the benefit that human beings gain from these experiments, the pain, the cruelty, the agony and deaths of many animals is not worth the human benefits. Animal testing is a process done by scientists and many companies in research in order to deliver high quality products. Make up cosmetics companies such as make up and shampoo companies perform the animal experimentation in order to deliver the best products to their consumers. This has been a controversy for a while now as there are many advertisements contemplating this issue. The two advertisements that stood out, raised a lot of concern and voices on animal testing was the ad criticizing make up cosmetics companies and the other one criticizing shampoo companies as they do experimentations on animals for the sake of satisfaction. Both of these images demonstrate a relationship with each other, targeting the animal testing and somehow reflect the concerns of the stakeholder. Both the first image and the second image appeal to the emotions of the audience by making the feel guilty and disappointed by demonstrating the reality of what animals go through. There is also a relationship between the text stated on both images, as they both are so effective and powerful and easily appeals to the emotions of the audience. The statements are simple yet so complicated because they make the audience to truly ponder about this issue and what animals go through because of human beings. They create this relationship using the methods of persuasion, pathos, ethos and logos. Besides the fact that there is a relationship between the visuals, there is also a relationship between the methods of persuasion of these two images. They share the same pathos, which appeals to the emotions of the audience through visuals and texts on the poster. These advertisements used the method of persuasion of pathos as it is an appeal to emotion and a way of convincing the audience by creating an emotional response. These chosen images speak the voices that have to be heard by everyone around the world. With so little illustration and texts, these images are powerful in demonstrating the cruelty of the mankind and the suffering that these animals go through. The first image which criticizes makeup cosmetics companies shows a rabbit with an innocent face and on the left side of this rabbit there are a lot of make up products which are covered with the text stating, her sake go cruelty and on the bottom of the page there is a link to a website where they encourage companies to go cruelty free and name those who test on animals. The second image, similarly, demonstrates a related image of animal testing. It shows a picture of a miserable and depressed looking dog looking at his owner pouring him shampoo for food, again with a text stating, never force your best friend to drink a shampoo, so why buy from a company that which does actually appeal to the emotions and imaginations of the audience as they do this to their own pets. The first picture directly refers to animals by stating; HER sake go cruelty it calls on the emotions right away, leading the audience to wonder because humans only think about themselves and this asking the audience to go cruelty free for referring to the innocent animals that are being tested. The second picture refers to the dog as a best friend as most people care for their pets and treat them like their best friends. It also uses the word which points out the process of animal testing where animals are forced through certain things, in this case, drinking shampoo. Both of these images appeal to the emotions of the audience with the use of illustrations of innocent and depressed animals and powerful yet simple texts. Both of these images have the same purpose and this relationship is to demonstrate the reality of animal testing and warn humans about their actions. These visual arguments are extremely effective today as our world is revolved around technology and methods like visual posters to bring people to reality and grab their attention in order for the audience to discover the truth about what is going on in our world. Most importantly these visual arguments reflect the concerns of stakeholders related to this topic. Moreover, the American Anti-vivisection Society (AAVS), an organization whose main aim is to end the use of animals in science, created both of these posters. Both of these images demonstrate the ugly truth about animal testing and the reality of how these animals suffer. This organization creates these campaigns and advertisements to raise awareness, which also brings up the fact that they are also one of the methods of persuasion, being ethos, which appeals to ethics and the credibility of the persuader. Putting these images together, there is definitely a relationship between both of them as they feel the same about animal testing and share the same ideas and objectives. Both of these images share the same purpose, which is to show that animals suffer for the sake of human satisfaction, beauty and pleasure. They share this purpose and relationship with the use of another method of persuasion, logos. Logos on the other hand, is an appeal to logic where it convinces the audience by obvious and logical reasons from the actual real world. Both of these advertisements by AAVS stood out as they raised awareness for the audience by illustrating how every makeup product whether big or small can affect the lives of many animals every day and this is an issue where us humans should put an end to it. Logos method has been used to share with the audience the actual occurrence in laboratories while testing animals for the sake of humans. These images raise a lot of concerns about this issue, which is actually happening in our world. In conclusion, animal testing has been a subject undergoing intense studies. There are many organizations whose main aim is put an end to animal testing and visual arguments only help to raise more awareness and spread the words of truth. Both of these images regarding the fact that animals are hurt through the process of experimentation share a similar relationship. They both share similar views on animal testing, ideas and goals to achieve. Other than the fact that they both appeal to emotions of the audience visually, they share a relationship between the similar persuasion methods such as pathos, ethos and logos. Visual posters can be truly effective as they make people wonder and reflect on the concerns of organizations such as AAVS who are involved with this topic and are making a change for the better by putting an end to animal testing and protecting the rights of animals who are suffering all around the world. Since humans are interacting more and more with technology everyday, visual posters are a great and powerful way to interact with audience and warn them about the reality of this topic. Works Cited Cruelty Free International. Facts and figures on animal testing . Cruelty Free International, n.d. AAVS. AAVS.