Al-Ghaithi 1 Ghaith Al-Ghaithi ENC1101.004S17 March 05, 2017 Safety of Self-Driven Cars Rapidly advancing technology creates wonderful products that make the human life more convenient and enjoyable. It transforms the way people live and engage in their activities. Regular manual operations are gradually assigned to machines to be taken care of. The technology of self-driving cars has become one of the latest revolutionary concepts that would allow an important human operation to be taken over by machines. Once fully developed, it would totally transform the way people commute as computers control the operations associated with driving. However, there are many areas that raise concerns on the reliability on the safety and moral and ethical responsibilities. Who and what will be held accountable in a crash due to technology failure are serious issues. One major argument is that allowing computers to make driving decisions while on the road may pose a threat to safety of commuters as well as others. The question of far we can trust self-driving cars and their use in daily needs the consideration of many aspects related to safety and reliability of this novel technology. Many authors have addressed the advantages and disadvantages of this technology over the years. They have made their arguments based on supporting and opposing the self-driving car technology based on the research findings, historical and date future trends. The debate on this technology over the years shows consistency where both sides focus on making it an increasingly reliable. The scholarly conversation on the promising potentials of self-driving technology, need of consistent improvement and the debate on eventual responsibility has not changed over time. Scholarly conversation over the years has insisted that self- driving car technology has the ability to reduce the risks of manual operations. Large number of people around the world Al-Ghaithi 2 become victims of traffic accidents with death toll is estimated to be in millions. An article published in 2008 provides claims and evidence that improved technology in self-driving cars has the potential to reduce safety risk related to manual vehicle operations (Urmson, 2008). For example, GPS and mapping technologies provide cars to understand the road conditions and control the movements accordingly. It highlights the remaining challenges to make the technology more reliable such as issues associated with urban driving where close monitoring is needed. This claim of scholarly conversation is still remains the same even in 2016 where authors of an article published in 2016 supports the claims of higher safety of self-driving cars over manually driven vehicles. Author stresses that self- driving technology can address the issues related to traffic congestions because of increased efficiency in operating a car without frustration and lack of attention by drivers which in turn increases the safety (Coeckelbergh, 2016). The claim of promising benefits and safety of this technology is further strengthened by the article written by Susan Hassler which highlights how auto manufacturers are competing to develop and market self-driving vehicles to make profits in the future indicating the potential of this technology (Hassler, 2017). Therefore, the scholarly conversation on the promising potentials of self-driving technology has remained the same over time. It stresses the need of continuous improvement to make it a reality. Scholarly conversation has over the years not changed its stance on further improvements of automated vehicle operations and where the eventual responsibility of car crash should be placed. Evans in his article published in 2001 highlights that self-driving cars may struggle to acquire the needed knowledge on the impact of its trajectory, speed at the moment of collision and the actual weight when making decisions on avoiding a crash (Evans). He further stresses the need of significant enhancement to react to sudden risks and decisions on stopping a car. This fact is further clarified in 2008 by Urmson. He claims that although testing of automated cars has proven to deliver the expectations of researchers and engineers, Al-Ghaithi 3 the challenge of fully autonomous urban driving has not yet been met (Urmson, 2008). Therefore, further enhancement of technology is emphasized over the years by scholars. Also, they have maintained a consistent viewpoint on eventual responsibility of accidents due to possible computer failures. Their main focus has been to find a solution to the question, should the driver, manufacturer or the car itself be held responsible (Coeckelbergh, 2016). Self-driving car technology has been on the focus for years as a promising technology to make driving safer and more efficient. Many scholars have published research articles on the transformation on this technology and the advantages and disadvantages. Analysis of these publications show the consistency of their opinion. They highlight the potential of safer and reliable operations that can be delivered by this technology. At the same, they have been arguing the further improvement necessary and the responsibility of the operations. While the technology has improved, it has not reached to the point of full implementation of this technology. Scholarly conversation has not changed its position where they highlight the potential of technology, need of further improvement and finding the answer for eventual responsibility in the event of accidents due to technology failure. Al-Ghaithi 4 Works Cited Coeckelbergh, Mark. Responsibility and the Moral Phenomenology of Using Self-Driving  Applied Artificial Intelligence 30.8 (2016): 748-57. Web. Evans, Leonard. influence of car mass and size on driver fatality Am J Public Health 91.5 Hassler, Susan. Self-Driving Cars And Trucks Are On The Move [Spectral  IEEE Spectrum 54.1 (2017): 6. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Urmson, Chris, and William Whittaker. Self-Driving Cars And The Urban  IEEE Intelligent Systems 2 (2008): 66. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.