Potter 1 Harry Potter ENC 1102 Kristen Rouisse 7 March, 2017 Ads to Prevent Underage Drinking Drinking irresponsibly is something that must come to an end, and Mothers against Drunk Driving (MADD) could not agree more. MADD is not only against drunk driving and underage drinking, but they are also against drug driving. MADD has sponsors like the NFL, State farm, Uber, and much more to help support the foundation. Also, the MADD explains that because of the drinking age being twenty-one, it has saved 25,000 lives in the U.S (MADD). According to Joyce Alcantara, people who begin drinking before ages 15 are four times more likely to develop alcoholism than those who begin drinking at (Alcantara). MADD gives many facts to help support the ending of underage drinking, drunk driving, and drug driving. This organization hopes to end underage drinking once and for all by promoting powerful and meaningful ads aimed at the youth of America. To begin, image one portrays exactly what MADD is wanting the youth of America to understand. It appeals to the youth of America by showing a young teen in the image. The image makes sense without the words at the bottom of the screen but the words do help the image become more understandable. It is trying to appeal to logos when it states, make it a grad to saying that if a death occurs after graduation, the memory of the graduation will be gone. There are many emotions that come from this image including: sadness, sympathy, and guiltiness. The sadness is because the teen is shown dead after a crash from drunk driving. The sympathy that is felt is from knowing that the parents must deal with the death of their child from Potter 2 drinking. Lastly, the guiltiness that comes from this image is knowing that the youth that have drank irresponsibly were blessed to not have an accident like this. The image also adds the logo of MADD to help give the image some credibility or ethos. As explained before, MADD has sponsors like the NFL, State farm, Uber and many more to help support the foundation and make them credible (MADD). Being that Uber is one of the sponsors, it shows how they can help prevent youth dying from underage drinking and driving. In the image, it shows a girl in a graduation gown, meaning the time setting of the image is around graduation. Also, with the dead girl in the picture, it makes mothers and kids want to end underage drinking right away. This gives a sense of time and urgency, which is in reference to Kairos. The only possible problem with this image is that the words at the bottom of the image are too small and need to be larger. Also, it does not exactly say or show that the dead teen was drinking, and it should be clearer on how she died. Other than the few errors in this image, it does exactly what it aims to do, help to stop underage drinking. The colors that are used in image one are to focus the attention on the dead girl. As stated by Cameron Chapman, red can be associated with anger and indicates danger. Chapman explains, shades of red can give a powerful and elegant feel to a Another color used in the image is brown which can bring a warm and wholesomeness to a design. Lastly, blue is associated with sadness, which comes from the girl being dead. This image wants to show danger and sadness to understand the issue of underage drinking (Chapman). Furthermore, image two explains what underage drinking can do to the Youth of America. The audience that the image is directing to is the ages between sixteen and twenty. Potter 3 obvious the image is directed to the audience between the ages of sixteen and twenty is because it states, who start drinking are 7 times more likely to be in an alcohol related meaning the kids must be able to drive to get into crash. This statement not only states what audiences it is appealing to but also appealing to logos. be and, work has saved nearly 300,000 lives and also appeal to logos by stating this in the image. The image appeals to credibility or ethos by putting the logo of MADD and website at the bottom right of the image (MADD). The reason MADD makes the image credible is because MADD wants underage drinking to stop, and it is their image. The statement, work has saved nearly 300,000 lives and gives a since of time by showing the progress MADD has made overtime, which appeals to kairos. The image gives an uncomfortable and disturbing feeling because the girl in the image has tape over her mouth. It also gives a feeling of sadness knowing that teens die from alcoholic crashes. The feelings that come from this image appeal to pathos. Many other feelings can come from this image but it could depend on the person and their past. This image is a very good ad to help prevent underage drinking and it is very simple, so that the audience understands it better. There is nothing to add or remove to improve the image. In addition, image two has many colors to help prevent the issue of underage drinking. The main color of the image is gray, attracting to the tape on the teens mouth. Chapman explains, is sometimes considered a color of The neutral colors in the image are more affected by the colors surrounding them. Lastly, the image has bright red wording on a gray background, giving the image a professional impression. The colors from the image show a mourning of the teens who have been in fatal crashes from underage drinking (Chapman). Potter 4 All things considered, both images bring attention to the issues of underage drinking. The feelings that come from these images are saddening and disturbing. The images contain all the rhetorical appeals and visually have an effective appeal. The two images also contain colors that show sadness and mourning for the lives that were taken away from underage drinking. The facts that are given in the images are practical for attracting to the youth of America. The two images are also different by getting their points across. Image one gets its point across by giving the feeling of being sad, while image two gets its point across by giving the feeling of being disturbed. With the differences and similarities that these two images have, both still make an impact on underage drinking. To conclude, an article by Susan Perry explains, fewer teens especially at the lower ages are using alcohol than did so a decade (Underage drinking has declined significantly, study finds). Images and ads can a make an impact on problems in the world, and these images prove to do so. Underage drinking is taking a decline and MADD is a big part of the process. With the funding of many companies, MADD can continue to make a big impact on underage drinking. MADD hopes to bring underage drinking to an end and if ads like these continue, it could. Word count: 1,208 Potter 5 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. MADD. MADD - Underage  MADD - Underage Drinking. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Perry, Susan, and Underage Drinking Has Declined Significantly, Study Finds (with  MinnPost. MinnPost, 22 June 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Potter 6 Image 1 Potter 7 Image 2