Bricker 1 Madeline Bricker Professor Hanson Composition II 26 February 2017 The Appeals of Media The Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, like any organization, uses forms of visuals to express their message and appeal to their audience. ITEP is an organization that informs the public on American taxation. A video that the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy retweeted on their Twitter account was created by ABC News. The video states that the United economy would be a disaster, and shows that immigrants were encouraged to stay home as a social experiment to demonstrate what America would be like without immigrants. This video includes many appeals, including logos, pathos, ethos and kairos. Another visual that the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy uses is a picture of a chart called Immigrants Pay State and Local This image shows the statistics on the amount of money immigrants contribute in taxes annually. This image uses multiple appeals, including ethos, logos, pathos and kairos. The image and video that ITEP used helps them send their message and visually portray the information. To begin, the image used by ITEP has many different appeals including ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. This media was posted on the Institute on Taxation and Economic Twitter account. It shows a bar chart of the dollar amount undocumented immigrants pay in taxes annually. The bars on the chart are represented in gold coins and each stack refers to the different types of taxes paid. The biggest appeal that the image has is logos. According to Hoffman and Bricker 2 Wiggs, is the appeal to logic. Logos like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (32). The image demonstrates logos because it shows information on the contributions annually in state and local taxes. There are three types of tax contributions that are specified in the bar graph: personal income taxes, property taxes and sales/excise taxes. This use of factual evidence and data appeals to the logical mind. People who think logically are more likely to be interested in the information that is provided in this photo because it uses facts to make viewers understand and agree with the message. In addition, the photo also uses an ethos appeal. As stated by Hoffman and Wiggs, ethos is a of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (27). In the bottom right hand of the photo, the image includes an ITEP logo and shows that the picture was from By including this reference in the image, it shows that the information provided is accounted for. It is more likely for readers to accept that the information is true and accurate, because someone has been recognized for providing the information. Also, because the source is the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a credible organization, viewers can acknowledge that what they are reading and viewing is honest and trustworthy information. This appeals to people who are more skeptical and questions who is providing facts and claims. Another appeal that is used in the image is the pathos. Pathos, is an appeal to emotion that be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Hoffman and Wiggs 37). While it is subtle, the image does in fact appeal to the emotion. The controversy over whether immigrants are negatively or positively affecting the Bricker 3 economy is argued in this photo. It explains facts on how much immigrants are contributing and could potentially make a reader feel sympathetic or accepting towards immigrants and their financial role in the United States. The last appeal used in this photo, kairos, is defined by Hoffman and Kimber as an to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (41). This photo discusses information on how much is paid annually, such as the amount of taxes contributed in that fiscal year. The information that is shown represents a specific time period. According to the Institute on Taxation and Economic website, their mission statement is to elected officials, the media and the general public have access to accurate, timely and straightforward information that allows them to understand the effects of current and proposed tax using this image, the ITEP organization is represented well through the appeals of kairos, ethos, pathos and mostly, logos. The other piece of media ITEP uses is a video that they retweeted on Twitter. The video is from ABC website. It includes basic information about immigrants, what they pay annually in taxes, as well as a protest that immigrants had where they were encouraged to stay home to demonstrate how challenging life would be without immigrants. The visual clip begins by viewing facts with different shots, appealing to logos. One of these images was of a fence with a silhouette of a child on the other side. This particular shot in the video appeals to emotions. The fact that it is a silhouette makes it possible for people to put anyone in their shoes. Since, the figure is not visible, only imagination can define who it is. This figure is small and young, running alone. This would help viewers recognize that some of the immigrants that are included in the discussion are children who are sometimes isolated due to their Bricker 4 situations. Youth are often helpless and innocent in these situations, therefore including this group makes people more sympathetic when deciding their fate. Another image displayed in the film is the American flag, which appeals to emotion, or pathos. Why does a flag make someone feel emotion? Well, because it is the American flag, a country known for its freedom and ability to give people a chance at a new life, it makes watchers recognize that these immigrants are coming to the United States to start over and to have freedoms they did not have elsewhere. There is also a shot of the Statue of Liberty, another symbol of America, which has the same effect as the flag. In addition, the fact displayed during the shot of the Statue of Liberty reads 2014, immigrants made up 13.6% of the total US (@iteptweets), which makes readers understand that they create a large portion of American society, appealing again to pathos. This recognition has the opportunity to make people understand perspectives and to remember that these are some of their friends or people they work with. The ABC News symbol is viewed on the bottom right hand corner, assisting in the credibility of the video. Lastly, the appeal, kairos, is used in the video because it provides annual studies, which are time-measured. Not only that, but the day of protest calls for action at a specific time. The combination of these appeals helps communicate to viewers mission. In conclusion, the two media sources, used on twitter account appeal to audiences who think logically, are emotional, timely and skeptical by using the four appeals. These images were effective in showing the position on the issue. This was done through providing facts, invoking images, a call to action, and statistics on the immigrant population and how they impact the American society and economy. Bricker 5 Works Cited @iteptweets. immigrants, the US economy would be a experts 17 Jan. 2017, 3:17 p.m., @iteptweets. immigration reform would boost state and local tax revenue by $2.1 Jan. 2017, 2:40 p.m., Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. and on Taxation and Economic Policy, Avianne Tan. immigrants, the US economy would be a experts 7 News, Feb. 2017, 3:37 Date Accessed: 26 Feb. 2017