Zariczny 1 Jordan Zariczny Kristen Rouisse Project 2 Intermediate 2/26/17 Arguing Against Music Piracy Through Visual Images The Recording Industry Association of America is an American trade organization that represents the recording industry in the United States. The current mission is to protect the intellectual rights of artists, to monitor and propose policies that effect the music industry, and to preform research about the music industry. This means their main mission is to stop intellectual piracy. Regarding piracy, the RIAA believes that when a consumer pirates digital media instead of buying it, they directly hurt the music artist (RIAA). Established in 1952, the RIAA has been combating music piracy for decades. The RIAA spends between 2 to 6 million dollars a year lobbying for more copyright laws that protect the music industry and music artists, and 85% of all music records are created and distributed by the RIAA (RIAA). Since the RIAA was founded, they have also filed thousands of lawsuits against file distributers in their efforts to stop music piracy. With that said, after 2008, the RIAA has focused most of their efforts on educating the public on music piracy. Instead of filing lawsuits, they have put out advertisements that appeal to certain emotions to try to convince consumers to legally buy music, while educating them on the risks of music piracy (RIAA). Two such advertisements from the RIAA both try to convince the consumer to be against piracy in two different ways. One of the images relates music piracy to communism, trying to relate the consumers hatred of communism to piracy. The other image shows how economically unsound it is, quoting laws that state how much a person could be fined for piracy. Both of these images support in different ways the main goal of combating digital media piracy, and to persuade consumers to buy music legally. The first image that the RIAA uses to try to decrease music piracy has a heavy appeal to pathos. The image depicts a music pirate as a communist and relies on the negative Zariczny 2 attitude toward communism to try to persuade them to adopt negative attitude toward file sharing. The amount of red in the images also shows this because red is related to the communists. This image makes one feel disgust towards music pirates because it relates them to communism. The second image relies very little on pathos because it states mostly facts. This image also slightly relies on logos because if the reader is educated, it can be concluded that communism is a flawed system. So if communism and music piracy are related like the image suggests, it could be concluded that music piracy is just as flawed logically as communism. The image overall relies heavily on a viewpoint at a certain time; when the united states was in a constant fear of communism. This is also why the image really relate to ethos and Kairos. The only credibility is that the image was sponsored by the RIAA. The image is also not very timeless because it assumes that the average American still lives in a constant fear of communism. Overall this image, because of the theme around, sufficiently uphold the mission. This is because it sufficiently establish the credibility of its claim that music piracy relates to communism and only advertises to a small number of people who would be afraid of communism. It would seem however, that if in the time period it is targeted at, it would uphold the mission very well. The image also uphold the second part of the mission, to educate the consumer on why piracy is harmful. The image educate, but only serves as propaganda. The second image also depicts the mission through an advertisement using logos and ethos. The image depicts a series of facts that explain why it would not be beneficial to a consumer to pirate digital media. It explains how If a person is caught pirating music it would lead to thousands of dollars in fines. This advertisement establishes ethos because it manages to establish credibility by having the RIAA tag. This image mostly relies on logos because it states facts. It makes the audience aware of the fine for music piracy and asks the question you rather pay a little, or a The image relies on the ability to logically conclude that they would rather play a small amount of money for a song than be fined thousands of dollars. This image also shows Kairos, because it is directly related to a subject in the period of time. The threat of being caught pirating is still a real thing so the subject of this image is still relevant. This image overall displays the goal quite well. It establishes credibility by not relying on assumptions or false facts, it relates directly to the current time periods, and challenges the consumer logically based of risk versus reward. This image also displays the Zariczny 3 second part of the mission, to educate the public on the hazards of music piracy. It accomplishes this by relying heavily on logos and stating facts. Color theory also comes into play when commercials and other forms of advertisements are being analyzed. For example, in image one, the color red is used in abundance. Red can ignite a variety of feelings. Among these include affection and love, but red can also portray terror, fear and survival (Neidlinger). In image one, the emotion that the advertisement is trying to make you feel is fear, more specifically the fear of communism. The red used in this advertisement is also meant to be demanding and aggressive. The advertisement wants to pull the attention fast, and then instill in them a fear of communism. Red can also be associated with danger (Chapman), in this advertisement it can be interpreted to show the danger of illegal file sharing. The image also has a lot of black undertones. Black can commonly be associated with evil (Chapman), another attempt by the advertisement to make the consumer connect file sharing with evil actions. The white shirt of the file sharer in the image also has significance. White is associated with purity and innocence (Neidlinger). This shows how it is easy to assume that illegal file sharing does not hurt anyone. The second image has a virtual absence of colors, this is because the image focuses on logos and not pathos. The main goal of this image is to inform the consumer with facts, relying on their own judgment. The neutral colors in the image are used so that the reader does not feel any emotions due to different colors. Both of these images try to uphold the mission of diminishing music piracy and educating the public on how it could affect consumers. However, both images do not represent the mission equally. The image that relate music piracy to communism may have worked in the but in present day, the average consumer demands more facts than assumptions. Because of its use of pathos, it accurately educate the average consumer on why music piracy is bad. The second image upholds the mission of stopping piracy and educating the public. It does this by heavily relying on logos to get out facts of why music piracy is bad. Because of this, this image succeeds where the previous one failed, educating the public. Both of these RIAA distributed images succeed in part of the goal; to combat music piracy. However, both of the images complete this task in different ways. The first image relies on a heavy use of pathos to persuade the reader to have a negative attitude against file sharing. It uses the readers fear of communism and colors that are associated with anger, Zariczny 4 fear, danger, and evil. The second image relies on logos to accomplish the task of combating music piracy. Whereas the first image uses color and appeals to emotions, this image relies solely on facts to educate the public and uses neutral colors so that the attention is not drawn away. While both images accomplish the first part of the goal, only the second image accomplishes the second part of the goal; educating the public on music piracy. While the second image accomplishes the entire goal of the RIAA, both images successfully use logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos, and other visual and rhetorical strategies to argue against music piracy. Word Count: 1412 Zariczny 5 Image 1 Image 2 Zariczny 6 Works Cited Adermon, Adrian, and Che-Yuan Liang. Piracy and Music Sales: The Effects of an Anti-piracy  Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization 105 (2014): 90-106. Web. Camacho Murillo, Music Piracy and Illegal Sharing: Are Artists Being  Revisto Criterio Libre 2013, 11th ed., sec. 18: 113-24. Print. Chapman, Cameron. Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Smashing Magazine, 28 January. 2010, https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/01/color- theoryfor-designers-part-1-the-meaning-of-color/. Accessed 26 February 2017. Neidlinger, Julie, and Ashton Hauff. Color Psychology In Marketing: The Complete Guide [Free  CoSchedule Blog. CoSchedule, 18 Apr. 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.  RIAA. RIAA, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.riaa.com/>.