Rios 1 Dylan Rios Ms. Hanson ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Government Surveillance Government surveillance has become a growing concern for many people over the years. Ever since the 9/11 attacks, the power of the government to monitor its citizens has grown in an effort to try to prevent future tragedies from occurring. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) is an organization that aims to protect Americans from invasive government surveillance by bringing lawsuits against the government and promoting privacy technologies. While the EFF acknowledges the threat of future terrorist attacks, they firmly believe that increased security is not worth the freedoms that would be lost through government surveillance. The EFF successfully uses the rhetorical appeals pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos to support their stance against government surveillance. They support their position by showing how the surveillance occurs and connecting current surveillance techniques to those of tyrannical governments of the past. The EFF argues that government surveillance needs to be stopped or significantly reduced through the use of two images that support their cause. This message can be seen in Image A which says Cyber Martial While the EFF did not create this image they use it because of its effective use of rhetorical appeals in order to connect to the audience. The image was used for an article on the website that talked about invasive government Rios 2 surveillance in the Philippines. One rhetorical appeal that is effectively used in Image A is pathos. Pathos is the appeal to emotion 37). The appeal can be seen in the words Cyber Martial by comparing something like internet surveillance to what is usually seen in a tyrannical dictatorship. While this may be a little extreme of a comparison, it is still a good way to appeal to the emotions of people who see the image. The text near the bottom also supports their cause through emotionally engaging words by directly saying that government surveillance is dictatorship and that by supporting the EFF is supporting democracy. While the choice of words may be a little unfair by basically saying that if someone supports the surveillance than they are against democracy, it does a good job of making the EFF appear to be the morally superior side of the argument. Ethos is the appeal authority that can be found in the image because of who created it 27). While the EFF did not make this image, another reputable organization called the Philippine Internet Freedom Alliance created it for a similar goal. By associating with this foreign organization the EFF demonstrates that government surveillance is an international problem that many organizations are fighting against (EFF). Kairos is a rhetorical appeal to urgency that is a very important to the image 41). The most noticeable part of the image that uses kairos is the phrase in the center that says Cyber Martial The word in the image is highlighted in red in a way that evokes a sense of urgency. It is used in a way that implies that this is something that needs to be stopped right now (Shamsi 9). A sense of urgency can also be felt in the words by implying that if government surveillance is not stopped then we will soon live in a dictatorship. The rhetorical appeals that the EFF use in the image do a very good job of conveying the message while at same time persuading people to support their side of the argument. Rios 3 The message against government surveillance can also be found in Image B. While the argument may be weaker than the previous picture it is still effective at getting the message across. One rhetorical appeal that is particularly strong in this image is logos. Logos is the appeal to logic and reason 32). Logos is the main focus of the image because it is a graph that shows how the government surveillance is happening. Specifically naming the organizations and locations involved help people understand how the government is able to gather information on people. By showing how the information is being taken directly from communications, the EFF can show people how their right to privacy is being infringed. The image also directly says that the organization that is taking the information is the NSA so people have an easy target to express their anger towards. While there are many elements of logos in the graph there are fewer cases of the other rhetorical appeals throughout Image B. One such appeal that is a little more subtle within the image is pathos. While most of the image is fairly straightforward and logical there is one part that stands out. The wording under the people labels them as of communications from ordinary This wording can lead to the conclusion that this surveillance is not morally justifiable because it is taking information from millions of innocent, ordinary Americans (Robis 205). While Image B may be a little complicated and hard to read it still effectively supports its argument that government surveillance is something that should be stopped. While Images A and B are both about the same topic they both approach it in different ways. While Image A uses strong emotional arguments and a sense of urgency in order to compel people to take action against government surveillance Image B takes a more fact based approach. By using logic in the form of a chart people are able understand the problem even if they are not as emotionally invested as they would be with Image A. While both images are Rios 4 effective at supporting their argument, Image A has a slightly stronger argument because the picture is simple and easy to understand while also being emotionally engaging and having a sense of urgency. While the emotional aspects of Image A might not matter to someone who is already involved with the issue, it can still serve the important purpose of getting people interested in the topic. It is because of the effectiveness of these two images that the EFF is able to communicate the issue of government surveillance to people who might not be proficient in technology in a way that is easy to understand and relate to. Rios 5 Works Cited McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27. E-text McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41. E-text McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32. E-text McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text  Electronic Frontier Foundation. https://www.eff.org/issues/privacy. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Robis, Leah Angela. When Does Public Interest Justify Government Interference and  Asia-Pacific Journal On Human Rights & The Law 15.1/2 (2014): 203- 218. Academic Search Premier. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Shamsi, Hina and Alex, Abdo. Privacy and Surveillance  Human Rights 38.1 (2011): 6-9. Education Source. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rios 6 Image A: Image B