Lee 1 Yejin Lee Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 25 February 2017 Legalization of Marijuana in the United States The federal law has prescribed that the distribution, possession and the sale of marijuana are illegal. However, 28 states and the District of Columbia have legalized the recreational or medical use of marijuana by state law (McGinty et al. 80). Additionally, the supporters of marijuana legalization have been increasing. According to Gallup News Service, 60% of Americans agreed to the legalization of marijuana in the United States in 2016 compared to the 12% in 1969 (Swift 1). This lets researchers conduct a research that studies the correlations between the legalization of marijuana and increasing public support. They found out that the legalization of marijuana does not directly affect the public opinion, however they observed a national trend that young people have been adopting a more permissive view towards the marijuana use and concluded that it may be correlated to the active marijuana legalization campaign of supporting stakeholders (Schmidt et al. 1502). The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) is a representative and influential organization that supports the responsible use and legalization of marijuana. It has been one of the most active organizations that manifest the campaigns for marijuana legalization It clearly stated that its mission is to change public opinion positive towards the use of marijuana and to assure the rights to have access to high-quality, safe and affordable marijuana Mission Statement NORML supports the responsible and legal use of marijuana Lee 2 based on five principles: adults only, no driving, set and setting, resist abuse, respect rights of others of Responsible Cannabis NORML has conveyed their core messages and goals of legalizing marijuana use through the usage of effective and symbolic pictures and catchphrases to positively change the public opinion and gain support. The first image is a good example of using experience as a lesson to address the current issue. It has the picture that implies the past alcohol prohibition and says and still with logo of The NORML Foundation. The audience are attracted to the image by associating the catchphrase with the picture that reminds alcohol prohibition in 1919, and it reminds them of the failure of past alcohol prohibition. Also, still induces audience to think that the past failure of alcohol prohibition is somewhat analogous to the current marijuana prohibition and makes them think that the current marijuana prohibition is not working well. By making people to flash back the failure of alcohol prohibition, the image appeals to the emotion, better known as pathos. Also, it appeals to logic, logos, by letting the people notice the analogy between the alcohol prohibition and marijuana prohibition. In addition, it appeals to credibility, better known as ethos, by using the logo of the representative organization that supports marijuana use, The NORML Foundation. This makes the audience think that the message of the image is trustworthy. Lastly, its appeals to the timelessness, kairos, by putting the word in the saying still This word makes the audience feel that the marijuana prohibition has not been working well and urged audience to have voices against marijuana prohibition as soon as possible Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing Furthermore, the first image was effectively designed to capture the attention of audience. First, monochrome image helps audience to focus and stick to the past failure of alcohol prohibition Lee 3 and reminds the movies about alcohol prohibition. By using the grayish monochrome image instead of color image, NORML makes audience have the moody, depressing and mourning feelings of the past failure of the alcohol prohibition. Second, it focuses on making audience spontaneously empathize and support its side rather than forcing them to support its side which may cause adverse effects. focuses more on gaining empathy than still does by using the bigger font and more capitalizations in the catchphrases Instead of ending the sentence with period, it questions people to think by themselves and let them empathize while using the white color for to have a clear contrast with a grayish background picture. Lastly, it uses a black bold font in still to have a contrast with the white background and puts it under the catchphrase (Hoffman and Wiggs 350). By effectively using the rhetorical elements mentioned above, NORML conveys audience that the current marijuana prohibition is ineffective and needs to be abolished while letting audience spontaneously support its side. Second image was produced for a marijuana legalization speech. It implies a strong message that the marijuana prohibition violates the concept of justice and thereby should be abolished. It has the catchphrase MARIJUANA the Justitia, the name with information of the speech, and the logos of other organizations that support the marijuana legalization. To fully understand and analyze this image and how it is connected to NORML, profound understandings of the Justitia are required. In the article Visual Rhetoric of Lady Justice: Understanding Jurisprudence through Knox explains that the blindfold, scales, and swords are the three metonymic tokens, the microelements that make up the artifact, and their First, the blindfold of the Justitia represents impartiality based on and which means that impartiality can only be Lee 4 preserved by removing own narrow or egoistic perspective. This also can be connected to the stoicism that the rationality and judgement can build a society that is unconstrained by political subcultures and social (Knox 1). Second, the scales of the Justitia connotate that the decision-making process in legal system should be based on empirical evidence and realistic experience. It can be related to the enlightenment values that new empirical experience can replace the traditional to build a more rational society. Lastly, the double-edged sword of the Justitia implies the defense and protection of current law system. This can be connected to the faith in Christianity (Knox 2). The metonymic tokens of Justitia reflect the claims of NORML that marijuana prohibition needs to be fixed, since the penalties against marijuana use have destroyed the lives than the use of marijuana itself, and arrests just for possession, distribution and sales of marijuana constitute 88% of marijuana arrest It also emphasizes the core principles of NORML that contain the concepts of law and justice, which are adults only, no driving, set and setting, resist abuse and respect rights of others, that imply the responsible and legal use of marijuana of Responsible Cannabis Second image appeals to pathos by helping audience to connect the meaning of the Justitia to the current marijuana prohibition and letting them realize that the current marijuana prohibition working well. It appeals to logos by putting the catchphrase MARIJUANA above the picture and inducing audience to think current marijuana prohibition needs to be abolished. Ethos can be found in the information, Allen St. Pierre who is the executive director of NORML & The NORML Foundation, and the symbols of marijuana legalization supporting organizations, National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML), Drug Policy Education Group (DPEG) and SSDP (Students for Sensible Drug Policy). The color of the image also appeals to ethos since green symbolizes NORML to show that it Lee 5 supports the marijuana legalization. Since the olive green usually used to symbolize natural world, NORML used this color as a symbol of marijuana for this image Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing Lastly, the specific date and time of the speech appeals to kairos, the timeliness. It also used the biggest bold font with capitalization for MARIJUANA to strongly convey its core message. Marijuana legalization has been implemented for a few years by state law and the supporters of marijuana legalization has been increasing despite the prohibition of marijuana use by the federal government. There may be possible correlations between the permissive view towards marijuana legalization and the active campaigns of marijuana supporting organizations. NORML has been the representative organization which has been actively manifesting the legalization of marijuana under its goal of changing public opinion positive towards the use of marijuana. It lets the audience spontaneously support its core messages that the current marijuana prohibition needs to be abolished by effectively utilizing the pictures and catchphrases with appropriate colors, fonts, and capitalization. NORML also emphasizes its goal of responsible and legal use of marijuana by using the profound meanings of the pictures like alcohol prohibition and Justitia. To capture the attention on messages, the images appeals ethos and pathos by using images and appeals to kairos and logos by using words and symbols. By doing these, NORML fulfilled its objective of effectively conveying audience that the marijuana prohibition needs to be reconsidered with a new perspective that fits to 21 st century and it should be either fixed or abolished for the sake. (Word Count = 1500) Lee 6 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing Smashing Magazine. Accessed 10 Mar. 2017. - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws NORML. http://norml.org/faq. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, Masschusetts, 2016. Knox, Bradley A. Visual Rhetoric of Lady Justice: Understanding Jurisprudence through Inquiries Journal / Student Pulse, vol. 6, no. 5, 2014, pp. 1-2. McGinty, Emma E., et al. Perceptions of Arguments Supporting and Opposing Recreational Marijuana Preventive Medicine, vol. 99, June. 2017, pp. 80- 86. Mission Statement Working to Reform Marijuana Laws NORML. http://norml.org/about/intro/item/norml-mission-statement-2. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. of Responsible Cannabis Working to Reform Marijuana Laws NORML. http://norml.org/principles. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Schmidt, Laura A., et al. More Permissive View about Marijuana: Local Impact of State Laws or National American Journal of Public Health, vol. 106, no. 8, Aug. 2017, pp. 1498-1503. Swift, Art. for Legal Marijuana Use Up to 60% in Gallup News Service, 19 Oct. 2016, p. 1. Lee 7 The First Image Lee 8 The Second Image