Schilling 1 Mia Schilling Professor Karen Hanson ENC 1102 10 March 2017 ECEAE Against Animal Testing Over 12 million animals are used by European Union researchers every year, which is the equivalent of 137 animals suffering in cruel and painful experiments every 10 minutes The controversy over animal experimentation has been an on-going debate as some sources support this idea while others do not. The supporters state that they wish to up for and support human progress through the continuation of animal testing Organizations on the other side of this debate believe that subjecting animals to cruel and painful procedures in the name of research is scientifically unsound and morally The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments (ECEAE) is one of these organizations working hard to eliminate the use of animals in any laboratory testing. This organization is leading alliance campaigning on behalf of animals used in laboratories. The ECEAE successfully shows their disapproval of animal testing through two pieces of visual rhetoric on their website. Both images not only show that they are against animal testing, but they also show how the ECEAE is partnering with another organization (REACH) to further their cause. The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments and its members are committed to exposing the truth about animal testing They draw on a political, legislative, and scientific expertise to campaign tirelessly for the rights of these animals. The ECEAE states that research found through animals is scientifically unreliable and humane alternatives can be Schilling 2 quicker, cheaper and more effective The ECEAE strongly believes that animals should not be experimented on and will continue to fight on their behalf. This organization recently joined forces with REACH, which refers to the European chemical testing program of Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances The ECEAE has been working tirelessly to ensure the number of tests carried out is minimized. Their website states, to years of intense lobbying, we have already been successful in campaigning for some life saving amendments to the REACH legislation, saving potentially millions of animals from suffering and death in a This amazing accomplishment came from the ECEAE and REACH combined, and what the images are meant to convey. Not only that animal testing needs to be stopped, but what can be done through this collaboration. Both sources of visual rhetoric do an excellent job of conveying what the ECEAE stands for and why they strongly support the ending of animal testing. The ECEAE is against the use of animal testing and is actively working to prevent it from happening further in the future. Image A does an excellent job of showing the vision of the ECEAE through several rhetorical appeals. The quote used in this image states, I think about vivisection is that if people admit that they have the right to take or endanger the life of living beings for the benefit of many, there will be no limit to their Vivisection is commonly known as the practice of animal experimentation. This can include administering drugs, infecting with diseases, poisoning for toxicity testing, brain damaging, maiming, blinding, and other painful and invasive procedures is The quote used in this image is used as a rhetorical appeal to ethos, which is a strategy of persuasion to make a source appear more credible. With this image, it is done by quoting Leo Tolstoy, a Russian author. He is most commonly known for his novel, War and Peace, and he is still ranked Schilling 3 among the top writers In using his name in this image, it not only makes the quote stand out, but it also makes the quote and therefore the image appear more reliable. An appeal to ethos is also shown by the word on the image. By using this title in the image, it again makes it more reliable, but also gives the people a reason to look into the organization and learn more about the issue. This image also shows an appeal to pathos, which intends for the audience to feel an emotion. In this case, that emotion is meant to be sadness or guilt, and thus encouraging them to help the cause against animal experimentation. The smaller images above the quote show several animals being tested on, such as a dog being trapped in a cage, or a primate behind bars. It also shows an albino rodent, which are common for testing, and some laboratory equipment with a scientist. Furthermore, the image attempts an appeal to logos, which is logic and reason. The quote is used to show that animals are also living beings. Tolstoy is saying that people are endangering or killing animals but they choose not to admit it, for the day that they do, they will realize how cruel they truly are. If people, as living beings, can treat another living being in this matter, he wonders how long it will be until they begin to treat one another in this way. This quote also appeals to pathos as terms like and stand out by giving a negative connotation. This source also stands out due to its use of colors. In a behavioral study of eye movements, it has been shown that ads with color are noticed before ads without color, but they are also noticed more often and viewed for longer periods of time (Lohse 61-73). Lastly, there is a slight appeal to kairos, which is timeliness. The quote uses words such as to show that it is referring to the future and what could potentially happen. The ECEAE excellently uses these rhetorical appeals in the image in order to show their disapproval of animal testing and their fight towards a better future with REACH. Schilling 4 Image B also shows the dissatisfaction in animal testing and how the ECEAE has teamed up with REACH to further their goal. To start off, this image shows an appeal to ethos, again by using a reference to REACH. This reference shows that the ECEAE is working with this organization on Animals Out of According to the ECEAE, up to 54 million animals will be poisoned, some to death, in the European Union between now and 2018 to assess the safety of chemicals for humans This image shows this statistic in all bold to make it stand out to the viewers. According to eye movement data, 42% of people in the study saw advertisements in bold before those without it (Lohse 61-73). This figure is also meant to be an appeal to pathos. It is meant to place blame on the people by saying that must join forces in order to prevent this issue from furthering. It is supposed to instill guilt on the people and have them wishing to help. Also, the two rats on the right-hand side are meant to show how they are living beings, rather than testable objects that are and killed in chemical Moving on to logos, this image shows thought and reasoning by giving a shocking statistic of animals that will be tested on within the next year if nothing is done to stop it, thus persuading the people that they should work together in preventing or stopping this. With Kairos, the appeal to time, this image states that have until This quote gave the audience a time restriction, which can encourage them to donate or assist even sooner. It gives more of an emphasis and shows that an important matter at this very moment and should be stopped as soon as possible. Through the use of these rhetorical appeals, the source effectively shows the cons of animal testing and how it can be stopped with the help of REACH. While animal experimentation has been going on for quite some time, it has continually been a controversial topic. The European Coalition to End Animal Experimentation works endlessly to end animal testing, or at least minimize for the future. Through the use of two Schilling 5 images, this organization shows appeals to ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in an attempt to persuade the audience in their direction. Not only do both pieces of visual rhetoric show that they are against animal testing, but they also show how the ECEAE is partnering with the organization REACH to bring animal testing to an end. Schilling 6 Works Cited About  The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments, 29 Jan. 2017. www.eceae.org/en/about-us  The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments, 20 Feb. 2017. www.eceae.org/en/what-we-do/campaigns Key  The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments, 29 Jan. 2017. www.eceae.org/en/the-truth-sbout-animal-testing/key-facts Leo  Biography, 22 Feb. 2017. www.biography.com/people/leo-tolstoy-9508518 Lohse, Gerald L. Consumer Eye Movement Patterns on Yellow Pages  Journal of Advertising 26.1 (1997): 61-73. Taylor & Francis. Web. 9 Mar. 2017. www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00913367.1997.10673518  The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments, 29 Jan. 2017. www.eceae.org/en/what-we-do/campaigns/reach  Pro-Test, 29 Jan. 2017. www.pro-test.org.uk/index.php What is  New England Anti-Vivisection Society, 22 Feb. 2017. www.neavs.org/about/vivisection Schilling 7 Image A Image B