Kennard 1 Emily Kennard Professor Hanson ENC 1102 26 February 2017 LUSH Cosmetics Against Animal Testing Although animal testing awareness is starting to become more known worldwide, and animal testing is starting to be banned in some countries, China still requires animal testing for hair and skin dye, deodorant, and sun cream rules on animal This means that a lot of name brand cosmetic companies in the United States that sell products under these categories, must test on animals in order to sell their products to China. Which means that many animals are having to be tested on in a day to day situation. LUSH Cosmetics is a company that creates a variety of cosmetics ranging from makeup, to deodorant, to toothpaste, but also advocates against animal testing and want animal testing to be completely eradicated worldwide. They are completely cruelty free, meaning they test on animals, use vegetarian ingredients to create their products and are trying to have other cosmetic companies follow suit with not testing on animals Values: Fighting Animal One way that LUSH is completing this task is that they have created an image and a video using visual rhetoric, which successfully draws the attention to what animal testing entails exactly and why they need more people to join the movement against animal cruelty by having audiences sign petitions. Visual rhetoric includes pathos; an appeal to emotions; logos, an appeal to logic; ethos, an appeal to credibility; and kairos, an appeal to timeliness. These are all rhetorical appeals that are broken down to show how, are coded and laden with (Gerdes 331). Kennard 2 The image that LUSH uses on their Against Animal Cruelty page within their website shows a group of people protesting in rabbit outfits while holding flags with signatures written in red that cover the entire outfit. The appeal to credibility or ethos, is authority that comes from work (McKee et al. 27). Which is shown from the words against animal testing for over 30 This gives the general assumption that LUSH is an expert in its field due to the fact that the company has many years of experience in this certain field. This credibility allows the audience to feel safe and feel as though they can trust LUSH and whatever they say; especially if extent of many years of experience in this field. Logos is also shown in this image and is an appeal to the sense of logic. This is given by the number of signatures on every outfit and each person holding flags. The signatures on the costumes show roughly the sheer number of people that support anti-cruelty campaign. It also shows how many people from different countries support of the animal rights movement, which is shown by the flags. Not very many people grasp the concept of exactly how many people are in support of this anti-cruelty movement. The logical reasoning behind this image is that when an audience sees how many people are fighting for this, then they might also want to stand up and fight for the cause. Having many people wanting to fight for this situation also shows pathos and kairos. Pathos and Kairos follow hand in hand with each other in this image because the emotional reaction to what is happening in the image gives them a feeling to accept the call to action and join the movement. The emotional appeal, or pathos a way for the audience to relate to the subject through commonly held (Lee et al. 38). This is shown by the flags that the protestors are holding because it gives a sense of global unity against animal testing. A sense of unity shows strength for a cause and makes the audience want to participate. This also causes kairos, or a sense of timeliness because when the audience sees a Kennard 3 sense of global unity, they will want to be a part of that unity because they do not want to be someone that follow suit with what everyone else is becoming involved in. Images the only thing that can cause visual rhetoric, videos also have the same types of rhetorical appeals, but there are more examples that happen rapidly, frame by frame. The four-minute video that LUSH created shows specific cosmetic tests that are usually performed on animals being performed on a human subject, which includes, force feeding, skin/eye irritant, hair shaving, etc. This video also includes visual rhetoric containing all of the rhetorical appeals listed above. Ethos is used and shows credibility for the company/organization by having the cosmetic experiments being performed in complete detail during a busy day on one of the busiest streets in London. This shows credibility because the company is advocating against it and the sheer detail that they use shows that they are experts in knowledge about what happens during cosmetic testing on animals. By showing what happens during animal testing, the audience may feel certain emotions that may persuade them to act a certain way. Pathos appeals to the emotion by showing the disgusting and cruel experiments that are being performed on animals in labs. This is shown by the reactions as they are watching what is unfolding in the LUSH shop and is distinctively shown through the disgust on the display of the faces. This is due to the fact that wisdom says that representational images tend to prompt emotional reactions and that, once the emotions are excited, they tend to override his or her rational faculties, resulting in a response that is unreflective and (Hill 26). This is shown by the disgust on the audiences faces after watching the horrors unfold, which cause them to sign the petition even if they never really wanted to. Signing the petition is like an impulsive reaction to something emotional, like crying when you watch something sad, even if you feeling sad. Logos appeals to the Kennard 4 sense of logic and enthymemes which have three parts: the claim, the reason, and the unstated assumption that is provided by the must make sense to audience in order for argument to be considered (Lane et al. 33). The claim in this situation is that animal testing should stop, the reason is that it causes excruciating pain to the animals, and the unstated assumption is that the audience agrees with this statement is shown throughout the video by the disgust on the faces. The disgust shown causes people to react in a timely manner. Kairos appeals to timeliness because it is a form of causing the to take action through the power of argument or (Hoffman et al. 41). Through seeing all of the people passing by the cosmetic testing scene and signing the petition to try to help end cosmetic testing on animals causes the audience viewing the video to want to take action and sign the petition as well. LUSH also gives a link for people to sign an online petition to make it more convenient and accessible for people to sign as quickly as possible. Images and videos may have the same visual rhetorical appeals, but some images or videos execute it better than others. In this situation, video was more successful at raising awareness and wanting people to get involved in the movement because it has more shocking footage that appeals to the emotions more than the image does. In the video, people are actively signing petitions which will make people watching want to sign the petition more than just showing people who have signatures on their costumes holding flags. The image is hard to interpret what exactly is happening and how to persuade people to become involved. Also, the facts being told throughout the video gives more credibility than just stating that LUSH has been protesting animal cruelty for thirty years. Either way, both the image and the video make the audience want to become involved, but the video is more successful at doing that because it uses the rhetorical appeals better than the image does. Kennard 5 Kennard 6 Works Cited China Rules On Animal Testing To Impact Personal  Household & Personal Products Industry, Sept. 2014, p. 28. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Gerdes Julie, Sarah Beth Hopton, and Joshua M. Rea. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 331. E-text. Hill, Charles A. Defining Visual  (2004): 25-40. Web. 11 March 2017 Values: Fighting Animal LUSH Cosmetics USA. 2002, Web. 26 Feb. 2017 McKee, Jessica and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Page numbers. E-text. Lane, Emily, Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Page numbers. E-text. Lee, Kendra Gayle, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Page numbers. E-text. Hoffman, Allyson and Alysia Sauchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Page numbers. E-text. Kennard 7 Image A values-fighting Image B This video shows a personified version of what happens to animals during cosmetic testing. It is a way for the eyes to be opened to the fact that animals do face cruelty in a day to day basis. This shows exactly what happens to animals during cosmetic testing, except the experiments are performed on a human woman for the eyes of the public to be opened to the horrific truth that millions of animals are suffering every day.