Dos Passos 1 John D. Dos Passos III Mr. Kristopher Luce ENC 1101 The Change in Opinion Over Government Surveillance and Questions of Rights to Privacy Over the Past Ten Years The American people have always had the fear of brother them, for as long as people have thought hard enough to be paranoid; that all changed in 2013 when Edward Snowden confirmed the fears of the people and revealed the startling extent of mass government surveillance. Since then, some peoples opinions of government surveillance have changed, while others have remained unchanged and some having even grown more intense. Now that Americans know more about the subject, they are more passionate and opinionated about it then ten years ago, when most of the fears and concerns were stemmed in speculation. From 10 years ago to now, the general public opinion of government surveillance has not changed much, but there has been a historical shift causing people to be more passionate and sure about their opinions as a result of new information coming to light in the 10 years. Ten years ago, the American people were still concerned about government surveillance but much less informed to the extent of it and thus much less passionate about it. Americans were most often concerned or worried, with some even afraid, of government surveillance. Before the Snowden reveal and controversy, the American people had no idea what the true extent to which the government was mass surveilling them was. Many were worried, but others simply considered risk of big brother to be a conspiracy theory. Others are aware the government could be watching or surveilling them, but some are unsure as to why they are being watched or what could cause them to be more rigorously monitored (Best 195). This does Dos Passos 2 not however, mean Americans were unware they were being monitored. As Best also finds, one-quarter (27%) and three-quarters (77%) of respondents perceive that the government would be or to monitor their (198). There were also certain public perceptions over what would cause the government to more likely monitor them. will perceive that if their political behavior involves conflict directed against the current administration, their odds of government monitoring (Best 196). All this happened while most state and government officials either ignored or defended the actions, only a few of which the public were even made aware of. In fact, very few cities had policies restricting or regulating surveillance because most local law officials hold the opinion that the fourth amendment does not protect video surveillance of public areas (Brown 769). On the opposite end of the spectrum from most of the public, some even defended government surveillance due to the growing terrorism scare. For, as Brown said, there was also a jump in the appeal of heavy use of surveillance cameras due to growing concerns over the threat of crime and terrorism (758). Today, now that the American people is more informed over what the government is doing behind their backs, concerns over government surveillance are much more passionate and commonplace. People today are most often concerned, mad, even angry over government mass surveillance. Thanks to Snowden and other whistleblowers, the people are finally given a small bit of clarity, unfortunately it is in finding out the startling extent of their eavesdropping on them. Constantly growing technologies have simply given the government more power and options as to what they can do and how when it comes to surveillance. a result of the digital revolution, the face of privacy has changed, and will continue to change, dramatically. We are in danger of losing much of the privacy we once had, which has immense Dos Passos 3 consequences not only for our personal lives but also for the character of our (Cole 680). Even worse, then NSA now has the ability and capacity to take in and save mass amounts of information for later analysis and seems to think that because it can take in and look over all of this user data, then it should (Cole 682). Also contrary to ten years ago, many experts and even some officials now believe, agree, and support that in many way the scale and recent actions of mass government surveillance are unconstitutional. As Barnett construes, our brief we contended that orders for the seizure of bulk metadata on every American for future analysis to uncover evidence of wrong doing are not authorized by the statute and are therefore (4). This was also supported by an executive branch body, the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, which investigated and determined that contrary to the claims, because the bulk collection of domestic telephone metadata was illegal because it was not authorized by section 215 of the USA PATRIOT Act (Cole 687). Barnett even further elaborates that these blanket seizures of privately-held data are upheld as constitutional, it would constitute an unprecedented legal and constitutional sea change. It is not a policy that should emerge from an advisory panel of judges to which the people are not privy. The American people are no longer the subjects of King George and his general warrants. Nor should we be subjected to these modern-day general warrants by those who are supposed to be our servants, not our (Barnett 20). Thirdly, the reason for this small historical shift in opinion is the emergence of more information over the ten-year period. Simply speaking, the American people were more educated on the matter, and thus more opinionated on it. It is also very important to remember that the Snowden reveal of 2013 happened during this ten year period and was crucial to the small shift in opinion, or more shift in strength of the same opinion as before. Now that government Dos Passos 4 surveillance is a for sure thing Americans must except, and not just something one could shrug off as there are more vocal public opinions on it, usually against it or for more regulations and restrictions. For we insist on new rules to govern and regulate the use of new technologies of surveillance, not only our privacy will be lost but all that depends on privacy as well, including democracy (Cole 691). Dos Passos 5 Works Cited Barnett, Randy. the NSA Data Seizures are Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, vol. 38, no. 1, 2015, pp. eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=a2db95b3-da84- 4d1b-af9a-1b1ca6b21a98@sessionmgr104&vid=1&hid=119. Best, Samuel J., and Brian S. Krueger. Conflict and Public Perceptions of Government Surveillance on the Internet: An Experiment of Online Search of Information Technology & Politics, vol. 5, no. 2, 2008, pp. Applied Science & Technology Source, doi:10.1080/19331680802294479. Brown, Jeremy. Tilt, Zoom: Regulating the Use of Video Surveillance of Public Berkeley Technology Law Journal, vol. 23, no. 1, pp. Applied Science & Technology Source, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aci& AN=34157376&site=eds-live. Cole, David D. Snowden: Regulating Technology -Aided Surveillance in the Digital Capital University Law Review, vol. 44, no. 4, 2016, pp. eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=e702277d-9815- 4c92-a492-d28ffe4f8e03%40sessionmgr4010&vid=1&hid=4203.