Dor Lotringer Lotringer 1 Karen Hanson, PhD Composition 2 26 February 2017 Drug Testing in the Workplace The International Labour Organization, is a United Nations agency dealing with labour issues, international labour standards, social protection, and work opportunities for is determined to find a solution for the controversial drug testing issue. The ILO stands for the promotion of the rights that employees have at the workplace. It also encourages employment opportunities, and a chance to enhance social protection to strengthen dialogue on work-related issues. This organization believes that the power of the employer over the employee exists, and therefore can be used to test against drugs. Since 2003, On the 28th of every April, The ILO highly encourages the international celebration of for Safety and Health at which is awareness-raising campaign intended to focus international attention on emerging trends in the field of occupational safety and health and on the magnitude of work-related injuries, diseases and fatalities 1) They focus on advocating towards keeping a safe workplace towards all employees, while partnering with The International Social Security Association to further educate employers and employees on their existing rights and on how they can improve their work space in order to create a safe and pleasurable environment. Both of the images that were used in this project are excellent examples of rhetorical appeal usage. The purpose of these posters is to persuade the viewer to join the movement and learn more about it. With the visual appeal in the poster, the ILO and the ISSA are able to incorporate the 4 rehtorical Lotringer 2 appeals of persuasion into their ads. The posters to promote this event in 2008 and in 2009. In both years, the ILO has had incredible success with raising awareness to their posters using rhetorical appeals in this issue while also advocating towards keeping employees safe at work from the dangers of drugs. In the year of 2008, The International Labour Organization has decided to promote creation of a global preventative safety and health culture involving ILO constituents and all key stakeholders in this (ILO 2). In the 2008 campaigning poster, My My safe the two organizations conduct intense boosterism towards raising awareness for safe life and safe work. The persuasive appeal of ethos comes to play in the credibility aspect of the poster. Ethos is presented at the bottom left corner of the advertisement, which shows by the International Social Security The use of ethos here is very clear, presenting to the audience that two labor protection organizations (the ILO and the ISSA) both partnered together to support safety day at work. This gives the audience two reliable and credible sources to rely on when coming across this persuasive poster. In the same poster, the usage of logos, which appeals towards the logic and reason aspect, comes into play with the wording of the poster itself. When reading the wording under the title, it is easy to understand the stance and purpose of the poster. The statement, risk in the work is present to showcase reason and logic to the poster and the organizations, showing the message that they are attempting to convey. These organizations explain that safety at work is important, logical and reasonable to take it for granted, which is why it is crucial to know rights and manage the risk factor at work to a minimum. Lotringer 3 In regards to pathos, the appeal towards emotion, is fused into multiple aspects of in the 2008 poster, where a man and a woman are both standing under a protective block, which is held by a hard hat. Without the hard hat, it looks like the big black cinder block will crush the two people. The hard hat and the title both symbolize the elements of emotional protection and security that can be provided at work. It supplies the viewer with the feeling of being secure, and knowing that there is someone looking out for their rights and for their protection at the workplace. Kairos, the appeal to timeliness, is effective in this poster but in a blunt way. On the bottom of the poster, 28 April 2009 is presented right under the title of the day. The Kairos aspect in this is to remind the world that on April 28th is the World Day for Safety and Health at Work, and it also supplies the website information of ILO right next to the date. After the viewer get attracted by the big words and emotional appeals, they usually tend to read the small words last, which in this case is the time and date of the event. The 2008 poster used different, yet effective way to emanate these important rhetorical appeals. Just like in the 2008 poster, Ethos, the appeal towards credibility, is presented in the bottom corners of the sign. The organizations that are presented in this advertisement are all labour organizations, who fight for the rights of employees all around the globe. In 2009, the Decent Work organization partnered with the ILO and the ISSA for their 90th year Anniversary to provide employees with a day dedicated for the endorsement of safety at work. Pathos is presented in this poster by the usage of the human hand skying above a bunch of wooden art dolls which symbolizes protection for the hard working people in the workplace. This also posses the emotion of security by presenting a title that contains big words that spell out Lotringer 4 and life at the workplace is a basic human That emotional statement is an aid to show that employees have power when they are protected by the ILO and the ISSA and the DWO. Logos, the appeal to logic and reason, comes into play with the showing of the big words basic human which is telling the reader that health and life at work is a necessity of life and that promoting this big day can support many employees and their rights all around the world. The ILO is posing an aspect of human rights, which can be inferred to any person living on earth. The constant attempt to gain a following and a crowd has been presented in their usage of the big words and the appeal of emotional comfort towards this poster is very seducing and very attractive to the eye. Finally, the usage of Kairos, the appeal to timeliness, is yet again effective in this poster just like it was effective in the 2008 poster. On the bottom of the poster, 28 April 2009 is presented right under the title of the day. The Kairos aspect in this is to remind the world that on April 28th is the World Day for Safety and Health at Work, and it also supplies the website information of ILO right next to the date. It is important to sometimes repeat the steps that worked in previous years, which is why the ILO has decided to bring back some of its rhetorical appeals. In conclusion, the publicity of for Safety and Health at has been progressing ever since it started in 2003. As the years advance, the International Labour Organization continued to advocate towards the betterment of safe work day. In 2008, The ILO has decided to the shared responsibility of key stakeholders and encourages them to promote a preventive safety and health culture to fulfill their obligations and responsibilities for preventing deaths, injuries and diseases in the workplace, allowing workers to return safely to their homes at Lotringer 5 the end of the working (ILO 1) which is a key to why they partner with both the ISSA and Decent Work Organization. With the partnering of other social groups, the ILO has been successful in raising awareness towards finding a reasonable compromise for the controversial issue of drug testing in the workplace. With the heavy use of the rhetorical appeals in the matter, the ILO has done a magnificent job portraying a safe zone to all employees and employers regarding their race, gender, ethnicity or stance on any social issue. In recent years, the global safety day has become a tradition for the ILO, and with change came a diffusion of themes throughout every year. For example, in 2016, The ILO introduced Stress: a collective which was used on work safety day, which draw attention to current global trends on work-related stress and its (ILO 2) With this day in tact, many college students and professors were targeted to find of psychosocial risks and work-related stress among researchers, practitioners and This is why in 2008 and 2009, when the drug related advocacy posters took place, the ILO tends to use rhetorical appeals which direct the attention towards safety at work, and how drug testing in the workplace could increase that safety net. In most cases they were successful in expressing their issues, but in some cases the ILO was targeted for persuading employees to over think the rights that they have, and cause trouble for other organizations who are attempting to accomplish different goals. In the end, the ILO is continuing their mission towards finding a safe zone for every employee to rely on, no matter what it takes. Lotringer 6 Works Cited Current, William F. Drug Testing: How Both Employers and Employees  N.p., 12 Dec. 2002. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. International Labour Organization. Clean: Drug and Alcohol Testing in the , 01 Sept. 2006. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Miller, David A. Mandatory Urinalysis Testing and the Privacy Rights of Subject Employees: Toward a General Rule of Legality Under the Fourth  N.p., 12 Dec. 2002. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. World Day for Safety and Health at Work (Occupational Safety and  International Organization of Employers (IOE), 28 Apr. 2003. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. World Day for Safety and Health at Work 28 April  28 April 2008. ILO, 28 Mar. 2008. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gnot, Maurizio. World Day for Safety and Health at Work: 28 April  28 Apr. 2009. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.