Thai 1 Sophia Thai Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Approach to Legalizing Marijuana and the Reformation of Marijuana Laws In order to appeal to their audience, stakeholders must create persuasive methods to bring awareness to their cause. Many stakeholders create advertisements using rhetorical strategies such as visual rhetoric, rhetorical fallacies, and the four rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, to promote their purpose. An appeal to ethos is an appeal to credibility, which is to or the moral principles of them (Lane et al. 20). Pathos is an appeal to emotion, which may fall under (Lane et al. 22). Logos is an appeal to logic and reason (Lane et al. 23). Lastly, kairos is the appeal to timeliness and urgency (Lane et al. 25). Stakeholders use these rhetorical appeals to persuade their thoughts to support their cause. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) is an organization that promotes the legalization of marijuana and the reform of marijuana laws. They want removal of all criminal penalties for the private possession and responsible use of and the availability of marijuana for medical and recreational use (NORML). They are a non-profit organization so they require help and support from their advocates. To draw in more supporters to their cause, they created online advertisements in which they appealed to the four rhetorical appeals. If their advertisements correctly follow the rhetorical strategies, then they will bring awareness to their mission which will help gain support and fund their cause. Thai 2 Image 1 shows a man behind bars that quotes, NOT A CRIMINAL. a and in giant letters, calls out, THE This is a great advertisement because the large letters catch the attention. At first glance, the advertisement establishes ethos, which can be seen at the bottom right corner. It shows the NORML logo and is big enough to be seen after taking a brief look. It also shows the location of the headquarters as well as their website under their logo which may add to their credibility. They added both their logo and information because they are urging their readers to sign up; this leads to an appeal to kairos. Right above information, they mentioned, you get involved in the drug war who This has a sense of urgency because NORML wants to stop the criminalization of marijuana smokers with the help of their audience. This statement also applies to pathos, which draws out emotion from the advertisement. The advertisement shows sadness and sorrow, which may create guilt in the audience; this can be seen in the statement above and the man in prison. The man did not commit a murder, he is not an abductor, and he did not steal anything. He was put into prison because he smoked marijuana, which is not dangerous some researchers say; there has yet been a death of marijuana overdose (Huffington Post, 2015). Although the man may not be seen as a criminal to the reader, by the American law system he is, so the advertisement does not use any statistical facts or follow an appeal to logos. While the advertisement uses three of the four rhetorical appeals, it also uses eye-catching visuals. The advertisement has an American flag surrounding the man which represents freedom. The colors of the American flag also help emphasize the meaning of the advertisement. While purity and and valor and is not seen in the advertisement, signifies vigilance, perseverance, and (State Symbols USA). This goes against the advertisement in which the man is put into prison for doing nothing wrong and Thai 3 not getting justice out of it. The last thing about the advertisement NORML used to bring attention was the size of the words in the quote. The man emphasizes the words, A and He does this because he wants the whole attention on him not being a criminal. more emphasis on A and possibly because not a criminal first. This gives the idea of others being put in prison for actions that are defined as but are not seen as crimes. Overall, the message of the advertisement is done very well and uses many rhetorical strategies. Image 2 shows a generic politician proclaiming that he did it and that he enjoys it. His statement is humorous and amusing, as well as the title above his head, Last, an Honest This appeals to pathos and creates and to the audience (Dlugan, 2010.) Right below the politician, it reads, NORML to Smoke Using the friendliness pathos appeal, the reader may think that trying marijuana is safe and acceptable because a politician, who is normally seen as respected and sophisticated, has tried it. The politician in the advertisement gives credibility as well as NORML, in which their abbreviated name is used to replace in the message under the politician. This is an appeal to ethos as well as the website information and the entire name of NORML on the bottom of the advertisement. While the advertisement has a politician in the photo, there is no actual proof the man standing is a legitimate politician, so there is no appeal to logos. The second image may not have the sense of urgency like the previous image, but it did include website information which may make the reader want to sign up for their organization. The advertisement also uses visual rhetoric in which they choose the primary colors green and blue. Both colors give a sense of calmness, like the humor attribute in the advertisement. The dark blue shows reliability whereas the green gives a natural feeling, which marijuana should be Thai 4 (Chapman, 2010). All the rhetorical strategies and effects lead to an effective advertisement which may bring in more support to cause. Both of the images share similar rhetorical appeals. They both had used ethos to show their credibility as an organization. Image 1 had its logo at the bottom right corner and it was large enough to be seen. Image 2 did not put a logo but instead used its abbreviated name in the message NORML was giving out. To give a better sense of ethos, image 1 could have enlarged their font size of their location and the second image could also have enlarged their full name at the bottom to clearly show the readers what their name stood for. Image 2 could have portrayed an example of a real-life politician, rather than a generic politician, to add credibility to their advertisement as well. Both images also appealed to pathos, although they showed opposite emotions. Neither the two images shared logos, which could be changed if the first image shared the number of pot-smokers that are criminalized every year and if the second image shared the percentage of politicians that are for marijuana. If the two images made simple changes and additions, both the advertisements would be more appealing to their target audience. Both the images use rhetorical strategies such as the appeals, the visuals, and the fallacies to draw the attentions of their audience. Most of it was done successfully and effectively, although there should be some small fixes in advertisements. Using sorrowful and humorous emotions, both the images appeal to different-viewed-audiences. All the strategies come to the final message of NORML, which is to legalize cannabis and promote the reform of marijuana laws. The images are a persuasive way to bring support to their organization as well as being awareness to their cause. Word Count: 1265 Thai 5 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Dlugan, Andrew. 18 Paths to Pathos: How to Connect with Your  Six Minutes. Six Minutes, 15 Mar. 2010. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Flag of  State Symbols USA. State Symbols USA, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily; Lee, Kenda Gayle; McKee, Jessica; McIntyre, Megan; Pantelides, Kate. The Rhetorical  Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. Print. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Thai 6 Image 1 Image 2