Sadsad 1 Chrissy Sadsad Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 March 2017 No Trees, No Life The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is the conservation that works in a hundred countries (World Wildlife Fund). WWF raises awareness universally to protect natural landscapes and inhabitants of such spaces in order to reduce global threats. Focusing on forests, WWF claims they are important for oxygen, medicine, food, natural resources such as water and wood, and it is also a home for many inhabitants. It is clear inhabitants of the earth are dependent on forests for many reasons. Moreover, WWF states, the trees, the ecosystem that supports the human population can fall WWF is doing many things to protect forests, such as, creating influencing funding and policies, stopping illegal and unsustainable acts such as logging, guiding the population on where it is and acceptable to build infrastructure, and helping people become more aware of eating proportions to avoid overconsumption (World Wildlife Fund). Through the use of effective visual elements in their advertisements, WWF is able to inform the importance of forests and further their mission to prevent deforestation. Image one is depicting a realistic scenario with a little twist to it and this is done through the use of rhetoric appeals. Rhetoric appeals consist of four elements that are used by rhetoricians within their work in order to find a connection with their audience and make them feel certain emotions (Lane, et. al 18). One element is ethos, which establishes credibility to assure the audience trusts the information being provided is accurate (Lane, et. al 18). In this Sadsad 2 image, WWF shows authority and forms a trust system with their audience by placing their logo in the top left corner, and their website in the bottom right corner. Another element is pathos, a quality that causes one to experience a specific feeling (Lane, et. al 19). A bulldozer is demolishing a forest, and the twist to the image is the angry panda that is much bigger than the bulldozer. This creates two distinct emotions; what is occurring gives off an angry and sad feeling because the panda has a threatening facial expression but it is also evident that the panda is mad because people are tearing down the forest, which stands for the and many other inhabitants home. What is upsetting is that any species can relate to this situation. This is relatable because it is true that many are forced out of their homes in different ways and for different reasons; it is a mutual feeling and if it can be stopped then why not help? Logos to and triggers one to think about an issue one is not aware of and understand it from a different viewpoint (Lane, et. al 21). There are two short statements in the bottom right corner. The first is, donation makes us and the second one is below it and says, our fight against cutting down the last of the These statements prompt one to think that even small donations, which are surely doable, will make a difference and aid the fight against deforestation. The last element is kairos, implying that timing matters (Lane, et. al 23). This image gives off a sense of urgency from the second quote. last of the makes one believe that some type of action must be done now, or rather sooner than later because it is suggesting the few forests that are left are disappearing quickly. The use of color in advertisements is vital. Different colors have different meanings behind them, and one person may understand, feel, or react to one color differently to another person (Chapman). The first image consists of two dominant colors: brown and green, which act as the background of the image. In this image, the trees are green and according to Chapman Sadsad 3 who wrote Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of the color green represents beginnings and growth. It also signifies renewal and Overall, plants embody life. On the other hand, it appears that the ground is what is left. The ground is brown; brown is a natural and neutral color that is correlated with the earth yet dark shades of brown can also be deemed as a tedious color (Chapman). In this image, the trees are green and the ground is brown. Image one is demonstrating that in deforestation, brown is replacing green, suggesting life is being taken away from the trees and the occupants of forests (panda represents occupants) are dying out. Furthermore, white is with and the statement, donation makes us is in white (Chapman). This is in white because even the slightest contributions will aid WWF and do some good towards preventing deforestation. It is clear WWF uses specific colors to symbolize the hidden meanings of deforestation. The second image has an umbrella acting as the only and central visual aid. The pole of the umbrella is realistically the same as a normal one; however, the canopy portion is the top of a tree. Similar to the first image, ethos is established through logo and website placed on the bottom of the page. Pathos is created through the text. The quote raises a feeling of concern as it is proposing one can be personally affected due to the changes in climate because of deforestation. Similarly, logos is also portrayed in the statement, the forests, they are the climate umbrella of our This particular statement states a fact that many may not be completely aware of. Because of this, this arouses concern over the thought that forests just there for show, but are important because if the climate is not controlled then this could produce a catastrophic disaster. Lastly, kairos is portrayed in the statement. By using WWF is creating a sense that the audience has one thing in common: earth. Earth is the home for everyone, especially main target audience for their advertisements: the human Sadsad 4 population. This short statement creates a sense to act immediately before too late because if no action takes place then a change in climate could affect home and possibly wipe out all life on earth. Image two consists of two major colors: black and green. is the strongest of the neutral colors. On the positive side, commonly associated with power, elegance, and formality. On the negative side, it can be associated with evil, death, and (Chapman). The statement, the is in black. This is in black in order to stand out so the audience can recognize the significance of what is being said because if forests are not protected then everyone will be facing death. Furthermore, the canopy of the umbrella, and the last portion of the statement, are the climate umbrella of our are green to imply life but also controlling climate is imperative for life. In image one and two, WWF selected to focus on more or less two colors in order to give off a meaningful message and to keep the audience focused on the significance of the advertisement. In conclusion, deforestation has been a significant problem for many years and for many reasons. However, if forests were to continue to disappear then there is a probability that all ecosystems would die out (Sustainable palm oil). In each of advertisements, it is clear what kind of message they are trying to send out. WWF uses different rhetoric appeals and specific colors to notify the audience over why forests should be taken into consideration and why deforestation needs to stop now. WWF creates a trusting and understanding relationship with their audience by using such techniques and using words such as or makes their advertisements even more effective because not only is WWF including the audience but these words generate the idea that all life, even forests, are essential for the living of others. Word Count: 1321 Sadsad 5 Image One Image Two Sadsad 6 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Smashing Magazine, 28 January. 2010, https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/01/color-theory- for-designers-part-1-the-meaning-of-color/. Accessed 12 March 2017. Lane, Emily, et al. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 18-24. E-text. palm RSPO, https://www.rspo.org/about/sustainable-palm-oil. Accessed 12 March 2017. World Wildlife Fund. http://www.worldwildlife.org/. Accessed 12 March 2017.