Rothkopf 1 Mac Rothkopf Project 2 Final Draft Kristen Rouisse 3/12/17 Analyzing Rhetorical Appeals There are an abundant of diseases or illness and many of them still do not have a cure. If big corporations and scientists wont dare to look at this viable option for more resources to study advance mankind, then who will? are studying whether MDMA-assisted psychotherapy can help heal the psychological and emotional damage caused by sexual assault, war, violent crime, and other traumas. We are also studying MDMA-assisted therapy for autistic adults with social anxiety and MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for people with anxiety related to life-threatening (MAPS). The Multidisciplinary Association of Psychedelic Studies, also known as (MAPS), is a huge stakeholder that has the resources and determination to continue to study ways no other company or scientist will look for to one day find a cure for these syndromes. Being an organization comes with many pros and cons, such as being under the radar to not having enough capital from their stakeholders because they are a small organization. Being that as it may, they do have pose a real influence in many different fields of their work. MAPS mission statement states that they are non-profit research and educational organization that develops medical, legal, and cultural contexts for people to benefit from the careful uses of psychedelics and marijuana (MAPS). The Multidisciplinary Association is truly invested with a heavy stake being that of advocating the use of marijuana for known medical reasons and study purposes only. With color, hints specifically aimed towards a target audience, and rhetorical Rothkopf 2 appeals, it is evident to see with how MAPS strategically uses images and advertisements to further advocate for the medical release of marijuana. The first image represents numerous rhetorical appeals being as it can be related to with such ease. Showing a big strong military member looking out into the abyss, his facial expression tells a lot about the image by itself. From the looks of his services it is evident to see he is going through severe post dramatic stress. Ethos which is an appeal to credibility can be found usually from a logo or website link, however, it is represented in this image by the facts they include in this image. On top of the facts about military veterans and their relationship to stress after they are relieved of their duties, but it also claims to come in for a study evaluating the effects of some drugs marijuana being one of them. Another rhetorical appeal pathos which is an appeal to emotion is greatly represented in this image. This person is son, brother, possible father and to see veterans go through such hard times after they had contributed their life to serve the country is an extreme burden. Logos being an appeal to logic and reasoning, there are facts and stats surrounding a research experiment listed in the image Finally, Kairos an appeal to timeliness, the image itself is persuading these people to stand up and do something regarding this certain stress disorder. The extremely muted greens of the image gives it a very down-to-earth and natural feeling (Chapman). Whereas the black represents a dark and gloomy feeling that can be perceived as a call to action to do something. This image is definitely pointed to an audience with family members who have served and are serving this country. Health should be top priority and it is showing an exclamation point to do something about it. The next image however, being as it is just words and not anything real, can be seen as even more influential and accomplish its purpose. Logos in this specific image is appealing toward morals, by which words were chosen to use. Some of the words include risk, fear, PTSD, Rothkopf 3 anxiety, trauma, and much more intense words. The image definitely appeals to pathos also known as emotion by, how individuals relate to each word differently from experience or education. I will say the appeal to Ethos could be improved tremendously other than the fact that we obviously want any of these negative things to happen to us so it puts a great fear in the audience. The audience is reaching out to all ages, everyone going through one of these disorders or anyone seeing another live their life with a minor handicap. An appeal to timeliness Kairos is also sort of briefly brushed over with no examples or ways to further connect the audience to the image. There are in-fact a few rhetorical fallacies which can be erased if the author had brought us another eye opener into this image, whether it be an action or just someone there that we can further relate with. With not really much of a picture and more of words to display the thought or message, the color of these bold highlighted words are there for a reason. meaning of blue is widely affected depending on the exact shade and hue. In design, the exact shade of blue you select will have a huge impact on how your designs are perceived. Light blues are often relaxed and calming. Bright blues can be energizing and refreshing. Dark blues are excellent for corporate sites or designs where strength and reliability are (Chapman). Color in the second images carries a big role on its back, essentially one of the center points and spotlights of the picture. Color is the most appealing thing to the naked eye and it is the glue to this picture as a whole. The overall goal from most of my images revolve around someone is in pain and this organization is willing to help. Both images want the audience to feel scared that there is nothing to treat what they have, trying to make the audience feel lost. These images are trying to counter that, saying we have what you need to get better. Both images are realistic and can be interpreted and viewed in many different ways. What separated both images was the first one had specific Rothkopf 4 questions to wrap your head around this idea for example are you a U.S. military veteran, Have you ever experienced traumatic stress? The second image may appeal more to certain people. While using just words, it is easier to emphasize key words that stick out to the public. Either way these images both strengthen the argument the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies addresses which is advocating the study of these drugs and psychedelics to simply help and treat people with these disorders. In conclusion the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies, (MAPS) is a non-profit organization with truly only one goal which is to help these people in need. They have researched many different drugs and substances to try and find a cure to these conditions. Through these images which back up what they are preaching, all leads back to one idea. MAPS is trying to have a scientific breakthrough to finally aid all these individuals which have gone through and are currently going through today. It is evident to see with both images the goal of this non-profit organization which is advocate for the use of medical marijuana and other nonrelated psychedelics for research purposes only. Rothkopf 5 Image 1: Rothkopf 6 Image 2: Rothkopf 7 Works Cited: Mission and  The National Cannabis Industry Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Project, Marijuana Policy. Marijuana Policy Project We Change  MPP. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Medical  MAPS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.