Baird 1 Garret Baird Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 March 2017 The Liberties and Freedoms of America A constant and controversial topic, especially in the country of the United States, is the one regarding civil liberties and freedoms. It is continuously fought for and even fought against in this day in age. The topic of civil rights has become such a growing epidemic across the United States, with examples such as the police brutalities on minorities, gun rights, and laws and prosecutions regarding abortions (Lithwick and Stern, 1). But, when it comes to fighting for these liberties and freedoms for the individuals of America, usually one organization or stakeholder comes to mind: the American Civil Liberties Union, also known as the ACLU. The ACLU has been taking the stand for people that are without or losing civil liberties since the beginning of 1920. Since that time the ACLU has stated that their mission and goal is to defend the rights of Americans and preserve any liberties that they have been guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States while also working to stop the erosion of civil liberties before too late and nobody else can (American Civil Liberties Union). Now, when it comes to fighting for these liberties, the ACLU use everything that comes to their exposal, especially when it comes to the media and advertising. Thus, the ACLU uses striking methods in regards to controversial topics via their advertising to gain support in achieving equal rights and liberties across the United States. Baird 2 The first image that has been produced by the ACLU is quite the interesting one, while also having quite the strong purpose. It is a close-up picture of a woman sticking out her tongue, which has been painted to look like the American flag, while the entire picture being heavily edited with filters and gradients, easily catching the attention of any passerby. The ACLU logo in the bottom left of the picture, along with some extra text saying Us Now Because Freedom Protect Then near the bottom of the picture there is more text describing that civil rights are sacred and deserve to be protected with action from the people, ACLU clearly giving the audience/viewer their position on civil rights. Though, the purpose of this advertisement becomes pretty concise with more analysis, and the goal being to catch the attention of the viewer and eventually get the viewer to stand up for the freedom of not only themselves but for other people in this country. The first image also contains a bunch of elements regarding the rhetorical appeals and color aspect of visual rhetoric. The first thing that must be brought up when on the subject of this image is the pathos rhetorical appeal, which is the appeal to emotion. (Hoffman, et al, 24- 25). With the first thing that is being seen is a tongue being shoved in the face, the viewer most likely will be struck with the emotional response of disgust, which can be a good or bad thing, because an image like that can last in the memory. Now, along with further analysis, the viewer might also feel guilty for not taking action for people without rights, in which the image says you should take action because Defend This image also contains an ethos appeal, the appeal to credibility (Hoffman, et al, 24-25). Their ethos is located in the bottom left corner and it is their logo. Being such a big organization, their name carries a credibility. Then right below the logo, is the string of text mentioned in the previous paragraph, can be seen as an example of logos, the appeal to logic (Hoffman, et al, 24- Baird 3 25). This may not be a statistic, but it does make the audience truly reflect how the viewer thinks and sees this nation. Another example of logos can be Defend making the viewer reflect upon their own actions and what they can do to help fight for the freedom of the United States. A good example of Kairos, the appeal to timeliness in this image is right next to their logo which says Us Now Because Freedom Giving the audience a sense of urgency that they need to help now (Hoffman, et al, 20-22). Another thing that could be discussed along those appeals could be this pictures colors. With this picture having a heavy gray gradient, that could possibly come off as depressing and moody, which is definitely a feeling this picture gives off (Chapman). But, the main focus of this picture is the American flag on the tongue, the red, white and blue. That light blue can give off a young and hip feeling when combined with the red and white, which the image could be referencing to the younger generation to take action (Chapman). The second image is also just as thought-provoking and unquestionably controversial, while carrying an even stronger purpose. The image begins by showing an image of 51 Park Place, which is a mosque in New York, near the vicinity of the events of 9/11. Next to the original image, there are three other images that are the same image but altered to fit other religious communities, this adding a good comparison between what is and what could be, creating controversy. Above the images is text asking if there would even be controversy if it a mosque and below is more text saying that religious freedom knows no bounds in America, which really serve as the base and really deliver the message this advertisement is trying to get across. Then below that text are two logos, one being for the ACLU and other being one for the New York Civil Liberties Union (NYCLU). The purpose of this advertisement Baird 4 is to give knowledge to the fact that Muslims are being treated unfairly and even though certain events have happened they deserve religious freedom just as every other religion does. This second image also happens to contain many elements regarding rhetorical appeals and some elements of color rhetoric. The first rhetoric appeal that this pretty gives a great example of is pathos (Hoffman, et al, 20-22). This advertisement brings up the events of 9/11 back up, which is unquestionably a sensitive subject to some individuals and could bring up the emotion of sadness within the viewer. This can also leave a lasting impression on the audience, making it an impressive and working advertisement. Another element of that this advertisement uses well is ethos (Hoffman, et al, 20-22). At the bottom of the advertisement, there are two different logos, one for ACLU and NYCLU, which both implement a stamp of credibility because both of them are very well known and big stakeholders within the civil rights and freedoms community. Logos is another element of rhetoric appeal that this advertisement makes good use of (Hoffman, et al, 20-22). The text on this advertisement definitely does not make use of statistics, however it does lead the audience to reflect upon their own beliefs on Muslims and the events that took place during September 11, 2001. Now, to look upon the color aspect of this image, it is heavily black. Which black can be associated with mystery and controversy, which really helps within the instance of this advertisement because using a color often accompanying mystery/controversy can really bring attention to the image and bring about further thought. (Chapman). To conclude, both of these images/advertisements make use of a lot of rhetorical elements such as logos, pathos, ethos, kairos, and even manage to make good use for color design. The ACLU put a lot of thought and created these images to make a lasting impression on the audience and be keep the audience thinking and challenging their own thoughts in the Baird 5 process. ACLU also made tremendously good uses of controversial topic to help gain traction throughout the world and keep more people coming to them. Hopefully in the future, the ACLU continues to use such thought provoking techniques because they definitely have been working for them. Word Count: 1337 Baird 6 Works Cited the American Civil Liberties Union. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Lithwick, Dahlia and Mark Joseph Stern. Worst Civil Liberties Betrayals of Slate Magazine. N.p., 28 Dec. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Baird 7 Image 1: Image 2: