Alshabnan 1 Yousef Alshabnan Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 February 26th, 2017 Time To Save The Ocean The oceans contain more than 5.25 trillion pieces of plastic and weighing over 250,000 tons (Surfrider). This high rate of plastic pollution can cause a serious harm to many marine species that see these plastics as a possible food source for them. According to a study from Plymouth University, pollution affects at least 700 marine species, while some estimates suggest that at least 100 million marine mammals are killed each year from plastic Plastic pollution hurts many of marine species that are an important part of the nature and a source of food to humans and by polluting the oceans. Not just plastic waste pollutes the ocean, oil spill and petrochemicals can do it too. 9,800 spills of crude oil and petrochemicals have inserted the Gulf alone since 2010 (Surfrider). Waves and wind spread out the oil to more areas in the ocean, which make the habitat of the marine species poisoned and hard to live in. The Surfrider Foundation, which is a non-profit environmental organization and dedicated to the protection of the ocean, by raising the awareness of the ocean pollution. Through these visual ads, the Surfrider Foundation deliverers the significance of protecting the ocean and illustrates the negative consequences of ocean pollution. Image one is two pieces of sushi that wrapped up with plastic pages instead of seaweed, which what most sushi makers wrapping the sushi with. The sushi rolls contain white rice and unlike any normal sushi, the sushi rolls on the image have plastics instead of fish meat. The logo of the foundation is in the bottom of the image, which appeals to credibility, or Ethos (Hoffman, et al, 27-31). The image shows a logical statement says, studies Alshabnan 2 estimate that fish off the west cost ingest over 12,000 tons of plastic a This logic statement is trying to appeal to logos, or logic by providing resent studies on the image (Hoffman, et al, 24-25). By showing studies about the amount of plastic in the ocean, the audience would be more aware of the ocean pollution. Moreover, the image has another statement says, goes in the ocean goes in which makes people afraid of what could be possibly in their food. This statement is trying to appeal to pathos, or emotions (Hoffman). That without stopping the ocean pollution, no more marine species would be eatable, which would make the audience scared of polluting the ocean. The only thing that missing from the image is the call to action part or kairos (Hoffman, et al, 20-22). The image should have a statement that tells the people to act before it is too late. Nevertheless, this image has been chosen specifically by the foundation to get the attention of the seafood lovers. The look of the dirty sushi rolls in the image can easily catch the eye of seafood lovers and make them relies what can happen to their food if the ocean pollution continues. Image one has a white background, which makes the other details of the image get more attention (Champman). By making the background white, the foundation was trying to make the audience focus more on the design and the statements of the image. The statement goes in the ocean goes in wrote in blue, which appeal to sadness (Champman). The foundation was trying to make the audience feel sad after reading this statement. The logos part of the image, which says, studies estimate that fish off the west cost ingest over 12,000 tons of plastic a is written in grey, which appeals to depression (Champman). By using the grey colour, the message should make the audience feel depressed about the amount of plastic entering the ocean. Lastly, the logo of the foundation is coloured in blue, which can also represent calmness and responsibility, when it is used in a logo and not in statement (Champman). Alshabnan 3 Image two has almost the same message as the first image but with different details and ideas. The second image is a barcode scanner on a human hand and she is trying to read the barcode of a turtle. On the top right corner of the image, there is a receipt shows the price of damaging the ocean. Most of the information that the foundation wants the audience to know about is on that receipt. For instance, the logo of the foundation, which appeals to credibility or ethos, is showed there (Hoffman, et al, 27-31). Moreover, the receipt has a statement says, buy the sea which appeal to emotions or pathos (Hoffman). By showing this statement on the image, the foundation is trying to remind the people that the ocean pollution starts from buying objects that will end up in the ocean, then eventually the marine species will pay the expansive part of the price. In addition, the receipt has a logical statement that says, million tons of plastic packaging waste ends up in the oceans every which appeal to logic or logos (Hoffman, et al, 24-25). Particulars can make the audience realize the issue and stop the ocean pollution. Unlike image one, the second image has a statement that calls to action or kairos (Hoffman, et al, 41-46). The sentence is also on the receipt and it says, change the way we That if everyone changes the way of consuming things, the ocean would be cleaner and marine species will survive. This image has been chosen to get the attention of anyone that care about the life of the marine species. The barcode scanner shows that when people buy objects that will end up in the ocean will result in a loss of many marine species. The second image needed to have a bigger receipt to make sure that the audience goes through the statements and get the message. The receipt has a small size, which makes it hard to read the statements and easy to be overlooked. The background of the image is a beach with light, muted blue colour for the sky, which gives a relaxed and calm impression for the audience (Champman). This would make the audience meditated when seeing the image. The foundation tried to make the receipt, which has most of the messages in, look like any other Alshabnan 4 receipt with the same colours. Therefore, the colours of the statements on the receipt do not have deep meaning. The Surfrider Foundation is trying to send a message through their two visual ads, which the common message for them is to protect the ocean. Both of the images have different rhetorical appeal skills that can enhance the awareness of the ocean pollution. The target audiences of these images are the people who love seafood and who care about the marine species. The colours on the images gave meanings and made them more effective, in order to touch the emotions. Through these images, The Surfrider Foundation wants to deliver the significance of protecting the ocean and to explain what can happen if the ocean pollution continues. Overall, the images are easy to understand and perfect to make the audience understand the danger of the ocean pollution. Word Count: 1203 Alshabnan 5 Works Cited Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2017. E-text. Surfrider Foundation, 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Alshabnan 6 Image one Alshabnan 7 Image two