Liliana Alvarez Black Nancy Carr ENC 1101 03/05/2017 Promotion of Positive Body Image The perception of body images has changed greatly as the years go by, but it a 21 st century topic. Actually, changes in body image perceptions have occurred before, for instance, centerfold became progressively thinner from 1953 to 2003, with 69% of centerfolds from 1979 to 1988 weighing 15% or more below the expected body weight for women of their age and (Diedrichs & Lee, 2010). However, with the advance of technology, there are more sources where people can find posts that can impact concept of beauty standards. For that reason, the sources utilized for this project were intended to be the most recent ones. The purpose of the paper is to inquire on how promotion of positive body image has changed over time? People who own the means of communication are often unaware of the power they have on thoughts in general. Harrison (2009) stated: It is sometimes assumed that consciousness of the effect on own cognitions and emotions should make one impervious to those effects, but the acknowledgment that media effects on body image are occurring in own life does not decrease body dissatisfaction. Indeed, media influence appears to increase body dissatisfaction. Regular mass media differs from social media in its interactivity and in its bond with people, since social networking sites are available from any place at any time. So, people can reach easily the promoted images of thin ideals. Explaining why body dissatisfaction may have increased over the last few years. There are many websites promoting anorexic and bulimic lifestyles, and teenage girls and women who visit them are more likely to have higher levels of eating disorders and body image concerns. However, this might not happen every single time, since social media influences tend to be very complex (Perloff, 2014). Fashion models and celebrities promoted in media are believed to be the ideal image for beauty and success, so they become target for comparisons among other women. Since their body sizes and appearances are not generally representative of the general population and they are often digitally altered, they impart unrealistic images of female beauty (Diedrichs & Lee, 2010). These unrealistic images most of the times lead to body dissatisfaction, which is key to disordered eating, low self-esteem, depression, perfectionism, internalization of thinness ideals, centrality of appearance to self-worth and many other complications (Perloff, 2014). For that reason, many have felt the urge to find different procedures to approach society in a way that positive body image can be promoted. Taking into consideration how body image perceptions among women can change due to media, it is important to act and try to promote positive body image. Many researchers have used different approaches. For example, a study aimed to use average-size models versus muscular models. It was concluded that for women, the use of average-size models was equally effective in advertisements as the muscular ones. Moreover, average-size models were associated with a more positive body image (Diedrichs & Lee, 2010). Furthermore, other research tested disclaimer labels and subvertising. purpose is to prevent consumer confusion. For example, adding image has been is a way of promoting body satisfaction. Frederick, et. Al (2016) stated the following examples of subvertising: 1. Taking an advertisement of a slender model and adding Photoshop tool bars. 2. Taking a perfume that lightened the skin of a model and adding the phrase is Aishwarya Rai, and she is Indian. been whitewashed. 3. Taking and advertisement for Special-K cereal featuring a woman in a bathing suit and adding the cheeky phrase there Special-K lady. I know you thing I should diet so that I can be slim just like you. Thing is, I think I look pretty fabulous the way I am. Also, Special-K tastes like cardboard so piss However, instead of providing a positive image, it can also bring more attention to the image and increase body dissatisfaction. Likewise, other researchers have studied and promoted media counter-discourses, which its purpose are to educate girls and women about negative messages promoted by media and to increase self-esteem. For instance, the Dove for Real launched in 2004, aimed to promote the acceptance of a variety of feminine physical beauty possibilities. Another studied case was the blog called Operation Beautiful, launched in 2009, which differs from any other media counter-discourse because the author, Caitlin Boyle, updates it daily with stories and photos on how it has changed lives (Lynch, 2011). In conclusion, body perceptions have existed and evolved over time. But in the last decade, with the development of technology, the unrealistic body images have been easier to reach than before. Which has led to an increase in body dissatisfaction, low self-esteem and many other complications mentioned before. For that reason, many positive body image activists have encouraged on the promotion of positive body image by including diverse shapes of women, adding disclaimer labels and subvertising, and lastly, popularize positive body image campaigns. Works Cited Diedrichs, P., & Lee, C. (2010, March 31). GI Joe or Average Joe? The impact of average-size and muscular male fashion models on and body image and advertisement effectiveness. Body Image. Harrison, K. (2009, April 7). The Multidimensional Media Influence Scale: Confirmatory factor structure and relationship with body dissatisfaction among African American and Anglo American children. Body Image. Retrieved January 27, 2017, from http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/lo gin.aspx?direct=true&db=edselp&AN=S1740144509000345&site=eds-live Lynch, M. (2011, September 18). Blogging for beauty? A critical analysis of Operation Beautiful. (E. B.V., Ed.) Studies International Forum, 34(6). Perloff, R. (2014, May 29). Social Media Effects on Young Body Image Concerns: Theoretical Perspectives and an Agenda for Research. Sex Roles: A Journal of Research, 71(11-12).