Bernardo Osellame Professor Carr ENC1101 26 February 2017 Scientific consensus over smoking progressed in research methodology, but not in general conclusion. From 2000 to 2017, medical research into tobacco still retains the same conclusions regarding its detrimental effects, but the studies evolved from pure medical research in addictive behavior and economic detriments. Jackson, Kristina M., Suzanne M. Colby, and Kenneth J. Sher. Daily Patterns of Conjoint Smoking and Drinking in College Student  Psychology of Addictive Behaviors 24.3 (2010): 424-35. PsycARTICLES. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The study scrutinized the relationship between alcohol consumption in college and smoking, divided into two categories. One category consisted of individuals labeled as light smokers, the other consisted of individuals labeled as heavy smokers. This report demonstrates the shift from medical effects to anthropological study, identifying when spikes of correlation occur between two heavily addictive substances. study seeks to examine the amount of smoking which takes place during alcohol consumption by light smokers and heavy smokers (who fell into the category of college students), and discovered light smokers were more likely to consume more cigarettes during alcohol consumption due to social cues and environmental factors, while heavy smokers base their smoking on internal, neuro-chemical (Osellame; ENC 1101 Assignment 1 Final Draft) Conner, Mark, and Andrea R. Higgins. Long-term Effects of Implementation Intentions on Prevention of Smoking Uptake among Adolescents: A Cluster Randomized Controlled  Health Psychology 29.5 (2010): 529-38. PsycARTICLES. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The study was not attempting to identify further detrimental effects of smoking on health, but the effectiveness of a psychological tool of implementation intentions in preventing the purchase of cigarettes. research aimed to examine the effect of implementation intentions on adolescent smokers, testing its viability to lower adolescent smoking rates, more specifically cigarette turn down (Osellame; ENC 1101 Assignment 1 Final Draft). Denise, Indu B. Ahluwalia, Eugene Pun, Shaoman Yin, Krishna Palipudi, and Lazarous Mbulo. Current Cigarette Smoking, Access, and Purchases from Retail Outlets Among Students Aged 13-15 Years - Global Youth Tobacco Survey, 45 Countries, 2013 and  MMWR: Morbidity & Mortality Weekly Report 65.34 (2016): 898-901. CINAHL. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The authors attempted to study the accessibility of cigarettes to vulnerable groups of minors, or those of the ideal age for commencing addiction. Once again, the study does not report or seek insight into detriments to human health, as the basis and evidence of such effects have already been observed and established. Instead, most studies seek to curtail future use by identifying ages where lifelong addiction to smoking commences and implementing measures to restrict acquisition or usage of tobacco products. study seeked to record and graph data regarding tobacco and cigarette consumption and accessibility for children between the ages of 13 and 15, and use the data to develop effect methods to curtail its use in United States and the world abroad. The survey covered Western and Eastern Europe, down to the northern region of (Osellame; ENC 1101 Assignment Final Draft) United States. US Department of Health and Public Services. Surgeon General. The Health Consequences of Smoking-50 Years of Progress. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Surgeongeneral.gov. U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This complete report by the office of the surgeon general compiles all the research into health detriments, usage patterns, addiction, and comorbidity with other forms of addictive behavior and substance abuse. covers programs to lessen in it on an international scale, as well as cancer rates and cigarette consumption (Osellame; ENC 1101 Assignment 1 Final Draft) The various sources all correlate to a shift in direction from research and studies on the progressively degrading and human destroying effects of tobacco usage, to identifying consumption timeframes and socio-economic pressures leading to the deaths of millions in the first place. The report by the Office of the Surgeon General covers the entire basis for medical effects, while the other sources study the social factors in the practice. In addition to research on cancer rates and treatments for the conditions, better understanding of the motivating factors and flashpoints for potential usage and addiction, better equip governments and health organizations around the world with the ability to formulate long term strategies combat and lower mortality rates related to the practice by preventing its inception.