Malik Fitts ENC 1101 Nancy Carr 5 March 2017 Effects of Poverty In America, 1 in 5 children are living in poverty. 15 million adolescents in America struggling to keep up with their peers developmentally simply because of their low socioeconomic status. This disadvantage leaves them behind in many areas of their life academically, emotionally, behaviorally and through their language development. The conversation of these effects in adolescents has not shown change over time. In 2001, Ruby K. Payne released a book analyzing the effects of poverty on development. In this book she states that the three main affects are emotional, language and behavioral development. Dr. Ruby Payne talks very much about how crucial the ages between 0 and 3 are in child development. She notes that children raised in poverty are often raised by parents that are depressed and focused on stressors in their lives (such as how to pay the bills, going to be for dinner, etc) rather than working to develop their cognitive skills which is the primary reason they are left so behind in later years (Payne 63). In fact, the author states that children in poverty exposed to 3.75 million less words than children not in poverty by the age of 3. This set back occurs because parents of families in generational poverty are often stuck in a casual language register. Payne explains this casual register as in circles until they eventually reach the (Payne 64). The only way to break out of the casual register and into the formal is through education which, for families in poverty, is not reality due to the many other outside struggles and factors dealing with living under the poverty line. Without the formal register, which is the ability to speak with a strong vocabulary straight to the point, ability to speak properly to authority (like teachers and employers) and perform well on standardized tests, which are often the key to advancing to college level education, is extremely strained (Payne 69). As a parent without access to the formal register (which Ruby Payne states is the key to the middle class), they are incapable of passing it on to their children. Because the parents did not master the formal language or value education, their children also begin to disvalue education. This cycle leaves the children of families in poverty so behind that by primary school they are 9 months behind developmentally and by 14 they are 2 years behind their peers academically (Payne 70). Thanks to Dr. Ruby deep understanding and thorough analysis of development in poverty and the generational poverty cycle in 2001, the ideals on the effects of generational poverty on adolescents has only been grown upon, not changed or understood any differently. In 2015, talk of the effect on adolescents did not change, but was grown upon. The study, The Care and Development of Children Living in Contexts of Poverty, was conducted to research the environmental and genetic factors surrounding childhood development of children in poverty. Researchers, through this study, further proved that poverty holds a large influence over childhood development. The study revolved around 629 children in Northern Colombia, between the ages of 0 and 5 years old and followed and compared their developmental tracks (Mandariaga 37). In the study it was seen that 17% of these children were showing developmental delays in their age group due to impoverished conditions, with an increase in delay once the child passed 1 year of age in their communication and cognitive skills (Mandariaga 40). This finding only supports Ruby K. discovery that the ages between 0 and 3 are the most crucial in language development. In another study, Trajectories of Parent- Adolescent Relationship Quality Among At-Risk Youth: Parental Depression And Adolescent Developmental Outcomes, researchers worked to uncover the effect a depressed parent has upon their child. The study was conducted over 18 months, where 110 at-risk of dropping out 15 year olds were tracked for progress (Kim 60). Toward the 18 th month mark, it was found that parental support severely lacked and the adolescent had begun to experience hopelessness and depression, as exhibited by their parents. This depression, in turn, hurt their academic performance and behavior in the classroom (Kim 66). Again, this study also supports early 2000 findings that parents in poverty lack the ability to tend to their needs as entirely as possible because they are focused on other life stressors. In conclusion, the conversation over time of the developmental effects of children raised in poverty has not necessarily changed, but has been grown upon. In early 2000 Ruby Payne released her book that gives a thorough analysis of the emotional, language and academic effects on children from poverty, and from 2010-2015 further studies were conducted that proved these theories through studies and analysis using real children. Work Cited Kim, J. (2015, December). Trajectories of Parent-Adolescent Relationship Quality Among At- Risk Youth: Parental Depression and Adolescent Developmental Outcomes. HHS Public Access, 434-440. . Madariaga, C. (2015). The Care and Development of Children Living in Contexts of Poverty. , 25(12), 3637-3643. Retrieved from USF Libraries. Payne, R. K., DeVol, P. E., & Smith, T. D. (2001). Bridges out of poverty: Strategies for professionals and communities.