Berrios 1 Gerson Berrios Silva Professor Taylor Poston ENC 1102-029 11 March 2017 Berrios 2 The Rhetorical Appeals of Illegal Immigration A controversial topic that has been surrounding the United States through many aspects, including social media and politics, is immigration, and whether illegal immigrants should get benefits. 13.3% of immigrants make up the U.S. population, according to the Migration Policy Institute (para 3). Immigrants come to the United States in pursuit of a new beginning because either their country is facing economical/political issues or they have no means of supporting their family in their country. A portion of United States citizens believe immigrants coming into the country should receive full benefits, just like them. Due to these opinions, the organization MALDEF (Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund) was established. The organization believes in creating and preserving opportunities for those in search. They trust that immigrants should receive benefits and experience the American dream. In order to get their ideas and beliefs out to the public, they present media that includes ethos, pathos, and logos. The images include an emotional feeling due to the color or a hopeful feeling due to the text. The organization hopes to portray a point of view from the immigrant and make the public understand why such measures need to be changed. The population of immigrants and the topic in the United States has been at a constant increase. That is one of the reasons The Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund was founded in 1968. This non-profit organization was built up through the help of the League of United Latin American citizens and The Legal Defense Group. Through grants and funds, they have been able to help immigrants while expanding into many states. According to MALDEF, affects every family, business, and community in the United (para 1). Because of their motto, they highly believe in creating and preserving opportunities for those in search of a better life or personal freedom in America. The non-profit organization not only Berrios 3 wants to help immigrants get established into this country but also push to change unfair reforms. Their mission statement is to social change through advocacy, communications, community education, and litigation in the areas of education, employment, immigrant rights, and political (para 1). Through this, MALDEF has taken many unconstitutional circumstances into court and with the help of their attorneys have overturned ordinances. The president of the organization, who was elected as a nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, John Trasvina, has worked and persisted on reforms for many immigration policies that have changed the lives of many new comers. Overall, MALDEF is constantly working on laws that will give new opportunities and benefits to immigrants constitutionally and welcome them into a new beginning in America. MALDEF uses vast media to broadcast their ideas out to the public. With the help of emotions, logic and credibility, they use images that not only appeal to the subject but also to the reader. The first image depicts a shining sky with rays in the horizon coming down on the American flag. This gives off a sense of sympathy and hope for the viewer. The large crop field with the patriotic colors represents the illegal immigrant workers that have grinded in the lands for this nation. The image is also trying to convey to the audience that the immigrants consider this country as their place of home too. The beams of light over the meadows symbolizes the possible future that could be granted to immigrants, the future that gives them a second chance at life. Ethos in this image is seen through persuasion. The viewers, which are American citizens, contribute to the growing patriotism in this nation, which is the purpose of the text. The words, our makes the viewer align itself with the immigrants. The idea is that regardless of the place of origin, illegal immigrants see this prosperous nation as a place of hope and opportunities. Berrios 4 The next image also uses rhetorical appeals to convey main point of view to the audience. For the new generation of oncoming immigrants to be provided with equality, education, and justice for all. The second image depicts a blindfolded woman holding a justice scale with the United States on one side and the MALDEF symbol on the other. The main drive is for the audience to comprehend the symbol of justice. The scale the woman is holding is equally balanced which stands for equal representation regardless of origin. The woman is blindfolded so that ethnicity is not seen. This alludes to the emotion. Another rhetorical appeal used is logic. The image shows a scale which is mostly shown in court rooms, which is specialty. The organization has dealt with many unjust immigration court cases in which they have been able to overturn, demonstrating the previous experience. Another use of logic is through the words justice for which are clearly instated in the national anthem. These are the words that are song among Americans and further embodies the justice rights in the American land. The image also includes bolded text to further exemplify the values of the organization, which every human being should partake in. The uses of ethos, pathos, and logos in the image aids to the representation of the population of illegal immigrants. MALDEF was established upon the values of providing opportunities to new comers, making immigrants attain the righteousness rights that they deserve as people, but most importantly, incorporate immigrants into American society. Some citizens agree with these beliefs because they understand how it impacts politics and the economy. The organization finds way to expose their philosophies while at the same time impact the view of the reader. The way MALDEF approaches this is through rhetorical appeals. The organization conveys images with an emotional feeling, credibility and logic. The color they use in image one makes the viewer imagine the possible future immigrants could have while image two shows a scale that represents Berrios 5 the needed justice in the topic. Through these approaches, MALDEF, can change the view of the American population and achieve the goal of bettering the immigration policy. Works Cited Frequently Requested Statistics on Immigrants and Immigration in the United  Migration Policy Institute. N.p., 26 May 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Huerta, Dolores, Edgar Pablos, and George Rodriguez. MALDEF Our Short Heads to CineMuestra GuadaLAjara Film Fest. Digital image. LatinHeat Entertainment. N.p., 28 Sept. 2012. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. MALDEF - THANK YOU! Digital image. MALDEF. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Protecting  MALDEF: Protecting Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Romero, Tom I. II. MALDEF And The Legal Investment In A Multi-Colored America  Berkeley La Raza Law Journal (2007): 135. HeinOnline. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.