Badro1 Joy Michela Badro Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 22 February 2017 efforts towards ending animal cruelty Nowadays, there is a lot of animal cruelty in the world because of an increased demand for entertainment, clothing and food, especially in developed countries. For example, on factory farms, animals are essentially awaiting their painful deaths in tiny, narrow cages where they can barely even move. Moreover, when it comes to entertainment, the lives of animals are affected in order to amuse humans; for example, in Sea World, the large orcas are restricted to small containers. For these reasons, a very prominent and successful organization, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), has campaigned against animal abuse within certain industries and publicly voiced their concerns. PETA was founded in 1980, and promotes the idea of animals having the right to not be worn, eaten or harmed in any way to fulfill human satisfaction (PETA). They believe that in our day and age, humans have many alternative options that they can choose from to avoid putting animals through harm. PETA attempts to raise awareness towards animal cruelty in specific industries such as the clothing industry, the entertainment industry and factory farms through their advertisement campaign by evoking empathy from their audiences. Image 1 is a great example of how cruel it is for an animal, especially a large one such as an orca, to be held in captivity. Initially, when looking at this image, some may find it somewhat amusing considering there are four fully clothed grown men squeezed into a bath tub. However, the purpose of this image to create humor; quite the opposite. In fact, the image is trying Badro2 to appeal to pathos, which is an appeal to emotion (Hoffman), by evoking empathy and sympathy within their audience by attempting to make the audience put things into perspective. Real human beings are being used so that the audience is able to relate to the image, by understanding how much they would dislike being put into that position. In that sense, the purpose of the image is to install a sense of remorse and guilt into their audience, who would be the people who go to Sea World and/or support those kinds of entertainment industries. This message is even supported through the message that animals, like the audience, capable of suffering and have an interest in leading their own (PETA). Not only does this appeal to pathos, but also to logos, which is an appeal to logic (Hoffman), because the image essentially asks the audience to picture the situation and understand how it would make them feel, which makes the reasoning valid and personal. The image establishes a sense of credibility, which is an appeal to ethos (Hoffman), by having their visible and clear logo on the bottom of the image. PETA is one of the most prominent animal rights organizations, which makes the image appeal to ethos even more by having the logo. Moreover, the fact that celebrities have been used in the image also appeals to ethos. This is because the audience is more likely to trust this source by knowing the message is supported and promoted by people who are famous, and thus have a reputation to keep up. In terms of kairos, an appeal to timeliness (Hoffman), the image provokes a sense of urgency from their audience and this can be seen through the line/message spending your entire life in a small From this message, the audience is most likely going to feel the need to act quickly because the more time that goes by, the more the orcas at sea world are suffering. According to smashing magazine, the color blue is often with (Chapman). In image 1, the caption is colored in light blue, which shows that the Badro3 message PETA is trying to send through this image is that us human beings should feel a sense of social responsibility for encouraging industries like Sea World. The background in image 1 is black, and black is often seen as a color that could represent evil and the traditional color of morning in many Western (Chapman). This fits perfectly with what PETA is trying to convey through the image, which is that what we do to these orcas is extremely malicious and inhumane. In image 2, the audience targeted is mainly people who indirectly support businesses which test on animals by purchasing their products. The aspect of the image which should draw the most attention out of the audience is the mouse which has been clearly tampered with and experimented on; the mouse is missing fur and bleeding. When first looking at the image, the audience is likely to feel extremely heartbroken for the innocent little mouse, which is an appeal to pathos. Through this, PETA hopes to make us empathize with the animals and come to the realization that it is right of all beings-human and nonhuman alike-to be free from (PETA). Similar to image 1, the appeal to ethos is found through the PETA logo, which can be found on the top right corner in white. The logo contrasts with the background color, which makes it more striking and obvious to spot. Furthermore, in the image, it states on animals: Switch to a better This is an appeal to kairos because PETA is urging their audience to stop supporting brands which experiment on animals as soon as possible, and to also urge businesses to end this form of animal cruelty. On main website, it even states that have the power to spare animals excruciating pain by making better choices things we (PETA) which strongly supports the message that this image is sending out to their audience. In this image, it even says you call it you can get away with This is an appeal to logos, because PETA is trying to make the audience think rationally Badro4 and understand the severe consequences these animals are unnecessarily facing for the own selfish gain. The colors used in image 2 consist of a dull and dark gray for the background, and a white colored text. The color gray dominates the photo, and gray is usually considered to be a or (Chapman) color. This mood that the image gives off with this color fits perfectly with the purpose of this picture; the photo is meant to sadden the audience enough for them to act against animal testing. In terms of the white text, the color white is often with the health care (Chapman). This would fit with the message that PETA is trying to give through this advertisement; to not support medical testing on animals or any form of experimentation on animals. Ultimately, it is evident through these advertisement images that PETA successfully raises awareness towards the extent of animal cruelty that goes on in the entertainment, fashion, and medical industries. Through the purpose of the images and their main message, PETA truly evokes empathy and sympathy from their audiences by attempting to make them relate to the amount of suffering these innocent animals go through within these industries. This can make their audience really put things into perspective, and reach a rational decision; to stop supporting these industries which would eventually makes these industries less common. This is because businesses would be forced to shut down and/or hopefully change their ways when faced with not enough interest. This would have a profound effect on main goal, which is to put an end to unnecessary animal cruelty. Word Count: 1,259 Badro5 Works Cited All About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Badro6 Image 1 Image 2