Student: Chakar Thompson Instructor: N. Carr Class: ENC 1101.005 Date: 01/29/2017 A comparative look at the Effects of using Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs). Adapt or be killed; according to the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, theory of evolution states that those individuals with heritable traits better suited to the environment will survive. Over the years, plants that had large seeds have evolved to produce thousands of small seeds in their fruits so they can repopulate on a large scale.They did this so that when animals eat their fruits, there is a higher chance of the seeds finding fertile ground through animal droppings/ faeces. Some plants even modify their leaves and flowers to adapt to certain conditions. Scientist have studied this behavior and come up with a way to manipulate and monitor these evolutionary characteristics in all organisms even animals. called genetic engineering (GE). In this paper I will identify and compare the effects of using genetically modified organisms (gmos) created through GE. This piece will list some benefits and problems associated with the use of GMOs in agriculture, food production and the health sector. Paragraph 1 and 2- Benefits- According to the author John Doe, he explains that gmos first came to the front in the 1900s with the sole purpose of------- and --------,(source title, page#). However, by the 1920s more uses for gmo technology were developed and this the benefits of using gmos increased on rapid scale. These benefits included but were not limited to: resistance to insects tolerance to herbicides tolerance for heat, cold, or drought higher crop yield low labor and production cost longer shelf life- able to be stored and transported easily additional Nutrients reduced chemical inputs According to the Food and Agricultural Organisations 2005 survey on the impact of using commercial gmo crops instead of regular crops, it reflected that India had more economic gains for they used gmo crops for commercial use than the years they used non-gmo crops. (source title/name of survey, year, page number). The study also revealed that food security in parts of Africa has improved. These solutions act as our premiere steps in the fight against world hunger and poverty. Paragraph 2 and 4- Problems Associated with gmos- cancer food Allergies resistant Bacteria/ mutated bacteria/ evolution of non-target organisms Paragraph 5 and 6- Comparison Paragraph 7- Conclusion