Fernando Camacho Professor Poston Composition 1102 6 March 2017 Visual Rhetoric of Tesla Advertisements deliver the ideals of particular brands and are packaged in a manner that evokes a reaction from its audience. Persuasion is the most desired reaction and Tesla, a thriving technology organization, executes this through its visual advertising. Tesla successfully campaigns its promise for a progressive future powered by clean energy through its visual rhetoric as suggested by Image A and Image B. While both Image A and Image B appeal to the natural aspect of our world, they differ in their intricacies as they reach towards similar, yet contrasting sentiments in regard to our environment. Image A portrays a world divided by the potential decisions of its people (Borghi, More Than Just Choosing a Car). The planet in the image illustrates a clear distinction between a future that is environmentally conscious and one that neglects the effects of industrialization and mass production. The contrasting perspectives are highlighted by the choice in color as the saturated and vibrant blues and greens of the right side are challenged by the diluted and mangled grays and browns of the industrial half of the image. The colors provided serve not only to distinguish a difference in the potential future of our planet, but to also evoke an emotional response from the audience. The diluted browns and grays reflect an oppressive tone that mirrors the deterioration of the environment as a result of pollution and industrialization. This aspect of Image A instills sympathy towards the planet within the audience because they are confronted with the repercussions of their doing. This consequently results in a consumer taking on guilt and responsibility for the hypothetical damage. The negative emotions felt by the audience are instantaneously alleviated by the assurance provided by array of colors displayed on the right. The organic tone of the western hemisphere provides a hypothetical solution, which inspires hope and prosperity within the audience. The reassuring tone of the right half of the image is supported by the information regarding the product being advertised. claim of its product producing and being within MI EPA certified further alleviates the distress of a possible deteriorating future. The claims offer validity to the visual statement made by Image A and confirm position as a leading innovative distributer of clean energy vehicles and efforts to a clean energy (Tesla). The advertised ethics of the product potentially serve to enhance the image of Tesla as a whole and conversely elevate the authority the company has in the innovative world. As a result of the emotional and ethical appeals incorporated by this advertisement, Tesla simplifies its persuasion by offering the only outcomes demonstrated. The technology organization implicitly enforces a decision onto consumers that emphasizes its own product as the logical solution. As individuals, the audience will logically be inclined to choose the progressive future, which offers stability, and will subconsciously correspond with the ideals of Tesla. Image visual rhetoric calls upon the emotional, ethical, and logical reasoning within consumers in order to associate the Model S, and all Tesla ventures, with the world of tomorrow. Similar to Image A, Image B addresses the concept of wellness versus corrosion; however, instead of their environment, the focal point is now the consumer and their wellbeing (Bprghi, Not Just Choosing a Car). Although the image demonstrates a similar juxtaposition, the subject matter is now a bouquet of roses that divides in the middle in order to resemble a set of human lungs. The simple anatomy of this advertisement aims to market the humanity of Tesla and exploit a similar organic tone expressed in Image A. The aesthetic nature of the bouquet aims to separate the brand from its portrayal as an automotive manufacturer, and allow it to identify with a more general audience. The colors utilized in this image follow the metrics of the previous image as they highlight a choice between emotions. The dehydrated and gloomy colors of the left lung complement the fact that the flowers have wilted and are no longer thriving. This indirectly causes the consumers attention to be diverted to the blossoming flowers on the right. The drastic change in color distinguishes the two different moods that are instilled upon the audience: somber and joy. These severely contrasting emotions appeal to an impulsive nature to choose a side, which is even directly referred to in the advertisement itself. The phrase not just choosing a car choosing the air you layers the foundation established by the visual graphics employed in the advertisement. The phrase suggests that the choice consumers make carries a heavier burden, and this suggestion is supported by the same text from Image A that mentions automotive efficiency. The ethical reasoning behind both images is the same, but it is directed at two different audiences. While Image A is backed by the possible repercussions that could affect the planet, the possible effects on an individual consumer support Image B. This form of visual rhetoric that is displayed in Image B isolates consumers respectively in order to increase intimacy and forge a greater relationship with the brand that is Tesla. By employing similar ethical appeals as Image A, Image B consequently delivers identical logical appeals that are limited to the choices offered by the advertisement. The subconscious decision in this case however, is in regard to the individual. Although it is more selfish, it results in the consumer making a more personal decision and associating their independent choice to that of own celebrated brand, which annually reports a customer satisfaction rate of over 95% (Kane Para 3). The emotional, ethical, and logical appeals of the visual advertisements differ slightly. On the other hand, the appeal to urgency and timeliness is identical as it directly appeals to the inevitable end of life. Through the left portion of each image, it is implied that there is an end to be reached, but the message behind each image suggests extending the time there is for life, which can be done by the proposed solution of incorporating Tesla into the life. The images suggest that Tesla can alleviate the potential threats of climate change and carbon emissions, thus prolonging the world we live in and aiding the air we breathe (NASA Para 27). Through the use of visual rhetoric, Tesla appealed to the human capacity to survive and sympathize with the world. The reliance on juxtaposition emphasized the consequential nature of our decisions, but also heavily endorsed the campaign of Tesla to provide an alternative to our way of life. Works Cited Image A Image B Borghi, Bianca. More Than Just Choosing a Car. 2015. Bianca Borghi. Web. 27 Feb. 2017 Borghi, Bianca. Not Just Choosing a Car. 2015. Bianca Borghi. Web. 27 Feb. 2017 Climate Change:  NASA. NASA, 16 June 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017 Kane, Mark. Consumer Reports: Tesla Model S Rated #1 In Customer  Inside EVs. Inside EVs, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Tesla  Tesla, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.