Alshamsi 1 Rashed Alshamsi Nancy Carr ENC 1101.004 5th of March 2017 Development of Computers What compels a human to make a machine that can help him and the world in solving problems of daily life? That was a motivation of making life easy. This motivation becomes the source of biggest invention of human history i.e. computer. The history of computers can be seen in different phases. Conversion of academic discussion also changes with the change of every phase. Computer of every phase was different from the previous phase in sense of machinery that was becoming more efficient with the changing phases. Technology related researchers were putting all their efforts throughout every phase to achieve the impossible. Campbell Kelly in his book A history of information wrote the pre-technological phase of human history in which he wrote about the times when computers exist and humans were the only resources to do any work everywhere. He gave the example of consensus 1890 that consisted of more than twenty thousand pages and took 7 years to write by the efforts of men (14-16). Campbell wrote about the dream of English polymath Charles Babbage, who was a mechanical engineer with the dream of making human life easier with an invention that will help humans in solving mathematical problems. He has a concept of making digital programmable computer and this concept was the start of research on the topic of computer. According to Campbell, this was in fact the origination of academic discussion in the form of first researcher in search of impossible. Campbell called Babbage the father of computers because he invented Alshamsi 2 the first mechanical computer that led to the invention of more complex machines after, but this becomes the base of computers in 19 th century (43). The topic of discussion changed now the focus of researchers was on to building a machine that can work more efficiently. Universities started programs of research with brilliant minds. Academic discussion adopts a new way and that way was technological advancement. These efforts were in vain for many years, models were produced as Campbell in the history of the information machine mentioned various attempts on computers by different people. It was not successful until IBM announced Computer 360 (88-90). This was the history of computer and here after the announcement of Computer 360 computers formally join the world, computer 360 had small applications and other office related tasks. The first generation of computers was before the announcement of Computer 360, these were not the actual computers, they have a larger framework and they were only used by big firms, this generations of computer used vacuum tubes and magnetic drums. The second generation of computers was from 1956 to 1963 and transistors were used in these types of computers it had more functions than the first generation and more efficiency due to presence of transistors. By the time of third generation computers, technological researchers made it easy for common people to use computers. This was the first time when the mouse and keyboard was used as an interface and commands to computers. Third generation also used integrated circuits that made the work fast. The first time the multitasking was possible in a computer. This generation was from 1964 to 1971. The fourth generation of computers is long lasted generation that started from 1971 and ended in 2010 until the announcement of the fifth generation. The difference between this generation and last generation was the revolutionary microprocessors brought by the company Alshamsi 3 Intel in market. Computers first take a full room to fit and now a single board was handling all machinery of a computer. IBM introduced computers for home use in 1981. how discussion of technology came from upper level to lower level and even children started talking about computers in schools. Computer become a basic education subject. The fifth generation is not fully developed, some of the technologies are still emerging as the form of artificial intelligence in computers. Academic discussion is going towards the development of artificial intelligence as a mean to make computers that can think like humans. This is the new way that academic researchers and thinkers are now on (Sixth Generation of Computers 2011). Now, take the discussion direct to the point of social interaction and computers in academic discussion, according to a research paper by J M. Wilson published in Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes journal. An experiment shows that 2 different teams, one with daily face to face interaction and other with virtual interaction through computer. People with face to face interact, trust each other more than people that interact via computer trust each other (Wilson 8). So, this was the result that the researchers found after experiment and it shows that people still feel insecure in trusting someone on the internet. The Computer is taken as a negative mean of communication. Now, the academic discussion is turning towards the negative impacts of computers on society. As written by Richard, computers, indeed are everywhere and this is an alarming situation. Everyone has the access to information about others, if not common people, governments have access to personal data of every single person living in their country and using the internet. Free speech is the right to humans, but people are using this right in a manipulative way and hurting others by using the shield of free speech (106- 110). Later, discussion turns to Alshamsi 4 the issue of privacy protection of personal and collective data. Viruses, worms and hackers are corrupting the data present on the internet; this can lead to a social catastrophe. In conclusion, all this academic debate is turning towards the negative impacts of computers, people need to realize this before posting something on internet and technology researchers need to find ways to secure private and public computers from any type of cybercrime. Computer was a machine made for positive use and human welfare, people must remember this and use computers in a positive way.