Jon Jackson Instructor Carr Composition 1 3 March 2017 The Controversial Evolution of Distance Running Throughout history, we as a society sculpt the way we think about certain topics and ideas through thoughts and actions that challenge what is thought to be fact. When applying this concept to the scholarly conversation on distance running over the years, we notice trends of opposing ideas as the conversation develops and more and more revolutionary ideas are entertained. More recently, we have seen a substantial shift towards the opinion claiming running to be a contributing to health problems later in life. This recent change in opinion illustrates how the conversation concerning distance running has changed dramatically in comparison to 20-30 years ago. During the 80s and 90s, exercise physiologists and other health professionals sternly advocated for more running to improve ones well-being. However, over time the argument against distance running has developed and strengthened monumentally, with more evidence than ever supporting the anti-running argument. This development in the conversation is primarily due to the natural tendency of the scientific community to continually challenge established theories in an effort to either expel or legitimize their basis. The testing of these hypotheses is directly responsible for changing the conversation by forcing development through constant re-evaluation. Perhaps the most prominent evidence for the dramatic changes in the conversation over the past few decades is the staggering amount of articles being published in an effort to disprove running as a health benefiting exercise. In the past we have seen this natural occurrence as a means of advancing the scholarly conversation. While this is beneficial to the conversation and legitimacy, we must also consider the bias that it hinders. While searching through sources, I found a staggering plethora of articles advocating against running published more recently; likewise, nearly all the works published before 2000 contained a theme based solely around how running improves quality of health. This contrast in themes shows a dramatic change in the conversation by illustrating how researchers have changed their focus to a disapproval standpoint thus further challenging the established theories. For instance, in Body Image, published in 2007, author L. M. Anderson discusses how positively affects physiological aspects of a life even after they stop To offer contrast to this, in Palaestra, published in 2016, author Caroline Mueller entails the long term structural damage caused by stress intense exercise like running. Both of these works are prime examples of how the conversation has developed by offering a striking contrast between how running was once endorsed as a vital concept for overall fitness to a detrimental overuse injury waiting to happen. Undeniably the biggest factor in the changes happening in the conversation concerning distance running is the natural tendency of the scientific community to challenge established knowledge. In the past, there seemed to exist an abundance of works advocating for more running to an essential exponential point. This has changed more recently, likely due to the fact that over time scientists and other exercise physiologists in the field have begun to challenge the claims established by their predecessors. For instance, in Running and Holistically Interpreted Health, author Oborny Josef advocates for unbiased research by bringing attention to the fact that over the last 10 years, there has been more research conducted to disprove running-related health benefits than those proving health benefits by a near 2:1 ratio. This staggering turnaround illustrates how the conversation has changed through statistical data representing the transition from research merely confirming health benefits of running to more recent research challenging the idea as a whole. At his hat and coat, got his car out and headed across town toward his TV sales store. He was tired. His back and shoulders ached from digging dirt out of the basement and wheeling it into the back yard. But for a forty-year-old man he had done okay. Janet could get a new vase with the money he had saved; and he liked the idea of repairing the foundations himself. It was getting dark. The setting sun cast long rays over the scurrying commuters, tired and grim-faced, women loaded down with bundles and packages, students, swarming home from the university, mixing with clerks and businessmen and drab secretaries. He stopped his Packard for a red light and then started it up again. The store had been open without him; arrive just in time to spell the help for dinner, go over the records of the day, maybe even close a couple of sales himself. He drove slowly past the small square of green in the center of the street, the town park. There were no parking places in front of LOYCE TV SALES AND SERVICE. He cursed under his breath and swung the car in a U-turn. Again he passed the little square of green with its lonely drinking fountain and bench and single lamppost.