Vanessa Torres Instructor Carr ENC 1101 03/05/2017 Project 2 The topic of babies being born prematurely and the reasoning behind the premature births has evolved a lot over the course of these last few years. In babies were born prematurely because of the drug use of Thalidomide, but currently that is not the main reason why babies are born early because people have learned that mothers who smoke, drink, or do drugs while being pregnant will face complications. Currently face issues that are genetic rather than being self inflicted like congenital anomalies, medical advancements, or multiple birth. drug use was the leading cause to premature births, the women did not know nor did doctors know using substances would harm the baby. The pregnant women who were drinking, smoking, or doing drugs while pregnant did it as a social activity and had now clue of a negative outcome for the baby with practicing these social habits. Currently we are well aware of these negative health hazards for not only the mother smoking, drinking, and doing drugs but as well as the negative effects on the child. According to Joyce, Racine, and Mocan Cocaine use also is believed to slow fetal growth and increase the chance of premature birth and congenital but according to Day and Richardson drug abuse is not the only issue here alcohol use can result in physical malformations of the heart, skeleton, and nervous system. More specifically, fetal alcohol syndrome is characterized by growth deficiency, malformations, and central nervous system dysfunction, which can result in permanent disfigurement and cognitive and as most know smoking is not only bad for the lungs and causes cancer for mother, but can cause lung problems for the baby and the baby will be living inside you with all the toxins you inhale with one cigarette. After learning about how drugs increase the rate of premature births and those habits for were changed- premature births kept occurring. The next conclusion was congenital Anomalies like Omphalocele, which according to Dr. B. Prathap Kumar is when is an anterior abdominal wall defect with a covering amnioperitoneal membrane. The herniated organs can be bowel loops, stomach and liver. Most of the omphaloceles contain liver (80%) and less small bowel and rarely stomach and bladder. Omphaloceles can have associated malformations. They are also associated with fetal chromosomal Dr. B. Prathap Kumar also says Spina Bifida is part of a congenital anomalies which is when there are abnormalities with the formation of the spinal cord. Another common congenital anomalies is down syndrome which is a mutation with the 21st chromosomes. After being well aware 2015 of how congenital anomalies cause preterm babies more Medical Advancements began to grab attentions in 2016. In the year 2016 Often, Busterud, Irgens, Haug, and Rasmussen say in Norway and other countries have shown that this increase in preterm birth was, to a large extent, attributable to medical interventions, such as induction of labour, caesarean section and an increase in multiple births resulting from in vitro Induced labour is stimulating contractions of the uterus or ripening the cervix before the projected delivery date, could be because the mother experiencing some difficulties that could be painful/life threatening. So the mother gives birth early, giving birth to a premature baby. Cesarean sections are also a problem according to Often, Busterud, Irgens, Haug, and Rasmussen because they require very organized check ups to see how the babies is, and indications for the induction of labour, may cause a paradoxical lower non-spontaneous preterm birth rate in deprived Multiple births resulting from in vitro cause preterm births because the mother had less time to rebuild her stores of vitamins, minerals and amino according to Often, Busterud, Irgens, Haug, and Rasmussen. Aware of multiple births by in vitro causing babies to be born prematurely we are now discovering that having multiple births period is a cause to babies being born prematurely. Like Often, Busterud, Irgens, Haug, and Rasmussen said mothers had less time to rebuild her stores of vitamins, minerals and amino having multiple births is a short period of time. Therefor for when the baby is born it is malnutritioned. Not only will the baby be malnutritioned, but because the mother give her body time to build back up her uterus lining is weak and the baby can literally fall out early once the uterus can no longer hold the child. Also having multiple babies are once like twins, triplets, quadruplets, etc, are more likely than not to be born prematurely.