Nicholas McAleenan McAleenan 1 Professor Taylor Poston ENC 1102-029 24 February 2017 Net Neutrality The internet is an amazing and interesting place, where people from all over the planet can talk, design, share and waste time like nothing before it. This is something we take for granted now, as everything from our watches to even refrigerators are connected to the internet. However, there does lie a possible threat in the near future. In 2015, Internet Service Providers(ISPs) were put under a Common Carrier designation of Act 2, which essentially internet is the same as Phone or Electricity, in that the companies cannot control what you look at, or the speeds at which you get that internet as long as you pay for it. This fight continues now though, as with the incoming Republican President comes a now Republican chairman for the Federal Communication Commission or FCC. However, this fight was not easy, as many ISPs have vast sources of money in which to lobby the members of the FCC. So many citizens of the internet did what they were best at, creating. While some resort to spoken word complaints, such as Ms. Taylor Poston who says Republicans, and you can quote me on many images, cartoons, videos and articles were published when the legislation was close to being overturned by lobbyists. These images were sometimes clever political cartoons, some were cleverly displayed statistics, some were just well done art. However, these were just cartoons, things you put into an article to add some color and maybe explain stuff a little better. But they were also informative and a thousand as the old saying goes and could be used to educate people who might not have the time to read an entire article, but wanted to know what net neutrality was and how it might possibly affect them. These two images presented below both fit in the more comedic or emotionally driven side, as these do not really portray much facts or have any credibility. McAleenan 2 These two images present complicated stories as far as logos, or logic goes. Neither image includes any numbers or data of any sort, yet both convey the fact that you will be inconvenienced in some way. Image 1 shows the possibility if ISPs get control that they will slow down your internet to certain sites, or just any site does that not pay them a fee. This may be not too big a deal for a company like Google or Facebook as they can afford to pay those fees. However, papajoes.org may suffer as they may not be able to pay a large fee to allow steady streaming speed to their website. This image depicts internet speeds as a highway, fitting as many nickname the internet information The second image does not fare any better as far as logic goes, as this is a play on the popular website YouTubes layout, but instead of a video you have a message saying how you cannot watch it. While neither of these maybe what you may call logical, they are, but are missing a key element to make them truly which is data. Other than this, these two pictures are very logical and even invoke many of the same thoughts if there were numbers there. But there are much stronger parts to these images, such as the emotional feeling you get. A thought that many have when looking at an ad, image or article is whether this image is credible, or more simply if they can believe it. These two images however, have almost zero credibility, as image 2 does not even have a name or company or logo of any kind, and image 1 may have a signature, but it has been compressed so many times it is unreadable. As neither of these have any numbers or data, having no name would normally be acceptable, as it is not trying to persuade you likely. However, these two images are definitely trying to sway the attention. These images also were used in an article, so the respective authors bear the responsibility of credibility, not necessarily the images themselves. Since they were used as mainly extra props or to aid the article. Because of this, the credibility of these images kind of does not really matter, as they are not meant to be McAleenan 3 standalone pictures. Just looking at the images though, one can see that they have a little bit of credibility as far as you do not immediately distrust them. The main reason these two images work however is that they convey an emotional, an almost hesitative feeling, an abrasive one, towards the future. Both show possibilities that could occur if net neutrality were to be stopped, showing you grim and very unlikable futures. No one wants to be slowed down or not have access to the internet at all, as it is now so ingrained into our lives. These two images stir deep emotional responses, even if the audience aware what exactly that emotion is. Sadness could be used to describe the feeling, or even fear in extreme cases. The emotional part of these images are the biggest component, as they lack most of the other parts. The pathos of an image, or the emotional appeal, can be one of the biggest, as some images or articles can be persuasive with just pathos, and almost none of the rest. Another reason that these strike many readers was when they were presented. The timeliness or the Kairos of a piece of writing or image can cause an image to rise into almost fame, as shown by the pop culture phenomenon known as which are images with either captions or an uncanny similarity to a popular event. When these images were first put out, the fear of this happening was very alive and very active. Yet now, even as it is possible that net neutrality maybe removed or changed, these just do not have the same effect the did before. Images are one of the oldest forms of communication in the world, as even primitive societies like cavemen drew on the walls to communicate and tell stories. These two images do what many try with ads and created content, draw feelings and to convey a message. Both are successful in this intent, as just looking with a small amount of explanation is suffice to understand them. McAleenan 4 Works Cited Gans, Joshua S., and Michael L. Katz. Weak versus strong net neutrality: correction and  Journal of Regulatory Economics 50.1 (2016): 99-110. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Greenstein, Shane, Martin Peitz, and Tommaso Valletti. Net Neutrality: A Fast Lane to Understanding the  Journal of Economic Perspectives 30.2 (2016): 127-50. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://corporate.comcast.com/openinternet/open-net-neutrality Net Net Neutrality. N.p., 02 July 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. (image 1) Newman, Kristan. Net  BlueFletch. BlueFletch, 8 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.Shewan, (image 2) Shewan, Dan. What is Net Neutrality  WordStream. WordStream, 15 Apr. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Image 1 McAleenan 5 Image 2