Alexander M. Grant Instructor Nancy Carr ENC1101.004S17 5 March 2017 RECONSIDER THE RUSH: GO FOR THE GREEK LIFE Since the signing of the Declaration of Independence, Greek-letter organizations have stood as a prominent symbol of university and college culture in the United States. The first of these student associations was Phi Beta Kappa, founded in 1776 at William and Mary College. As collegiate institutions made further developments, allowing accommodations for female students, Greek-letter organizations followed suit. Fraternities and sororities, meaning male and female social organizations, respectively, spread from campus to campus nationwide promoting an exclusive lifestyle that revolves around camaraderie and personal development. With the cliques of women sporting graphic t-shirts printed with Greek initials, groomed men in blazers and colored trousers, and designated neighborhoods of large residential-esque homes meant just for fraternities and sororities members, the influence of Greek-life at a university or college is sometimes difficult to ignore. This is especially true during rush week: the period where fraternities and sororities recruit new members to undergo the process of pledging for their individual organization. Pledging a Greek-life organization begins after a student participates in the events of rush week. At the end of rush week, fraternities and sororities distribute formal invitations called bids to prospective members inviting them to commit to joining the society through an eight-week process. Phrases such as rush week and pledging trigger students who are both affiliated and not-affiliated of a time that is filled with excitement and stress. As a perennial influence that has woven itself into the fabric of this country, the pleasantries and dark underbelly of Greek life have been exploited and often put up for debate. Television programs such as Law & Order: Special Victims Unit and films like Neighbors and Animal House depict Greek-life as a religion of alcoholism and partying and, in its radical form, hazing and humiliation. On the other hand, being involved in Greek-life allows for networks to be developed amongst members and alumni who work in various fields and professions. Not only that, but Greek-life offers leadership and character development, and a chance to be more involved as a student at the college or university that based. While some may feel that Greek life promotes binge drinking and excess pressures, many believe that there are many social and personal benefits that come from being a member of Greek-letter organizations. With respect to both diametrically opposing viewpoints (the advantages and disadvantages of being involved in Greek-life), the conversation of Greek-life has indeed changed overtime. The dialogue surrounding the development of Greek-letter organizations throughout history is detailed in the writings of David Levinson and Karen Christensen. In Encyclopedia of Community: From the Village to the Virtual World, Levinson and Christensen recognize that the original purpose for establishing these societies is for by students on college and university campuses in North America The early fraternities of the 18 th century, such as Phi Beta Kappa, lead the way with that intention on college and university campuses as literary and debating societies. Students sought out these organizations as a relief from the overbearing presence of faculty and monotony of academics for a place of their own. However, coupled with these concerns, students who were considered wealthy and upper class noticed that the demographics of their institutions of higher education became more and more economically polarized. As a form of social self-seclusion to develop and exercise their lifestyle of privilege, recreation, and comradery, these students began to form Greek-letter organizations. These pioneer fraternities were conceived in the 1820s and 1830s, starting at Hamilton College and Union College in upstate New York. Branches of these early fraternities soon started to spread like wild fire in the sphere of colleges and universities in the North America before the Civil War. With several chapters established on antebellum campuses in the East and Midwest, there was no argument that the Greek-letter societies were becoming outstandingly prosperous. On the other hand, the triumph of the male-student organizations was met with staunch opposition. Levinson and Christensen detailed in their encyclopedia entry on fraternities and sororities that in the beginning, presidents, faculty, and students who were not members of fraternities strongly opposed the existence of fraternities as divisive, secretive, and inimical to the goals of college (510). Nonetheless, their growth was unstoppable, and between the Civil War and World War I, Greek-letter organizations introduced societies that stood parallel to the all-male fraternities that proceeded them in establishment. With continued practice and development of traditional customs, forms of initiations, and the culture that is known simply as Greek-life, by 1920, the American educational enterprise found fraternities and sororities to be greatly respectable and highly visible partners. The prestige that was formed within the Greek-letter organizations persisted decade after decade since 1920. The advantages of these fraternities and sororities have been consistent since their early founding, and one such key of advantage is inclusion. Caitlin Austin of the Boston Herald detailed personal accounts of students who became involved in Greek-life. She highlights anecdotes of sorority girls finding their security and comfort in the new city they moved to for college and the guaranteed invitation of friendship, fun, and unity. Not just that, but with these rapports and relationships are connections that are established where internship opportunities through networking are found. Besides the lasting interpersonal relationships that can be formed, becoming involved in a fraternity or sorority influence student to get further involved on their college campus and in their surrounding community (Pledge of Allegiance; Fraternities, Sororities Help College Students, 2004). Consequentially, from news reports to research studies, the participation in Greek-life is shown to have concerns that raise more than just eyebrows. In fact, Sean Esteban McCabe, an interim director and assistant research scientist at the University of Michigan, examined data from 5883 full-time undergraduate students, both men and women, both Greek-life student to non-Greek-life substance usage. McCabe et al recognized that active members of fraternities and sororities had higher levels of heavy episodic drinking, annual marijuana use and current cigarette smoking. The study provided strong evidence of a higher rate of substance abuse among students participating in fraternity and sorority activity, as well as increases in heavy episodic drinking and annual marijuana use during college (2005). The advantages and disadvantages discussed were not special to just one decade or period. Throughout the history of collegiate fraternities and sororities, the problems and positives persisted. When it comes to highlighting the history of the topic, a recognition of both sides is respected. Involvement and networking over possible drug and alcohol usage have been seen decade after decade with Greek-letter organizations. The future of involvement with students in Greek life will continue with regards to both encouragement and negative pushback. Works Cited McCabe, S. E., Schulenberg, J. E., Johnston, L. D., P. M., Bachman, J. G. and Kloska, D. D. (2005), Selection and socialization effects of fraternities and sororities on US college student substance use: a multi-cohort national longitudinal study. Addiction, 100: doi:10.1111/j.1360-0443.2005.01038.x This article covers the concerns of substance use within the populations of students involved fraternities and sororities, nationally. Written in 2005, McCabe et. Al examined data from 5883 full-time undergraduate students, both men and women, both Greek-affiliated and non-Greek affiliated. With this comes a strong comparison of Greek-life students to non-Greek- life substance usage. The study finds that active members of fraternities and sororities had higher levels of substance use than those who were not involved in either. The study is conducted and written by Sean Esteban McCabe, an interim director and assistant research scientist at the University of Michigan. The credit of credibility is given to the setting of conduct, a university and the occupation, which is a researcher. The article provides a number of statistics that allow this essay to appeal to the rhetorical device of logos. Not only that, but it also allows the essay to discuss one side of the argument, which is the drawbacks of Greek life, with evidence. CAITLIN, A. (2004, March 9). Pledge of allegiance; Fraternities, sororities help college students develop sense of community. Boston Herald (MA). p. 40. This article comes from a 2004 edition of the Boston Herald, a publication that provides daily local, national, and international news coverage. Some of the topics of this periodical include lifestyle, entertainment, horoscopes, reviews, and crosswords. By addressing the portrayal of fraternities and sororities, which is negative, more often than not, as well as the benefits and strengths of involvement discussed by students, this article captures a holistic view of Greek life. As a periodical source, the Boston Herald requires its articles to be written by qualified and certified journalists. As journalists, the personal views on the topic are absent from the written work. To draw passion and emotion, others who are relevant to the conversation are interviewed, and quoted. This source provides both sides of the debate of being involved in fraternities and sororities, but more so leans to the side of involvement in Greek life being more positive than negative. This works well for the paper considering the argument takes the side of defending the decision to become involved in Greek life. Christensen, K., & Levinson, D. (2003). Encyclopedia of community: from the village to the virtual world. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications. The Encyclopedia of Community: From Village to the Virtual World provides a detailed definition of North American Greek-life social organizations. Each aspect of the Greek-life social organization, from original origins to contemporary considerations, are covered objectively. These topics listed in the print of the encyclopedia relating to Greek-life social organizations include the following: Antecedents of American Fraternities, The Early Development of American Fraternities, 1800-1860, College Acceptance of Fraternities and Sororities, Fraternities and Sororities As Communities, and The Debate Over Fraternities and Sororities, 1945 to the Present. With this broad discussion of topics within the subject of Greek- life social organizations, the source provides more than enough information for discussion and debate. Do the benefits of joining fraternities and sororities outweigh the costs? The Encyclopedia of Community: From Village to the Virtual World, allows for more than enough room to debate this question. From the history of the development of fraternity and sororities in North America to the objective coverage of the benefits and drawbacks of Greek life involvement, the fuel for the conversation is abundant. As a published encyclopedia, it is heavily cited with the other compilations of entries within the publication. The credibility falls within the objectivity, since encyclopedias merely provide detailed and researched information on a variety of topics. Shirley, Z. E. (2014). Declining participation in fraternity and sorority life: A comparison of perceptions of greek-lettered organizations between affiliated and non-affiliated students (Order No. 3691194). Available from ProQuest Dissertations & Theses A&I; ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global. (1668131295). Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/1668131295?accountid=14745 This article documents the statistics of declining involvement in Greek-life organizations. From Dissertation Abstracts International Section A: Humanities and Social Sciences, Vol 76(8- A)(E), 2016, the utility of the study was for the determination of the perceptions that give probable cause to the withdrawl of participating in collegiate fraternity and sorority organizations. The article provides detailed statistics broken down by demographic as well as citations decorated throughout the document. The credibility of this source falls under the deliverance of statistics and reference of students for the purpose of evidence that appeals to ethos. This study was conducted from the University of North Texas, and serves as a guide to proper presentation of survey results from different demographics. This provide the essay with quantitative references for the appeal of logos.