The Effect of Steroids on Professional Sports The use of steroids in professional sports has evolved and revolutionized throughout the passage of time. Although there are many negative aspects to the use of performance enhancing drugs, athletes who use these drugs have found that the benefits outweigh the risks. With the advancement of technology and studies, specialists have revealed more and more risks associated with the use of steroids. The overall attitude has also changed as the sports world has several differing ethical/moral views of doping or taking steroids. Increased awareness of athletes using these drugs has also led to the increased number of bans and regulations placed by different sports organizations. Overall, this topic has grown larger over time as the number of athletes found using steroids have increased and so has the number of people against the action or idea. Through numerous studies done and historical examples, the risks involving the use of steroids has become more evident over time. Steroids work by increasing the physical capabilities and muscle mass or just simply making them stronger and faster which helps an athlete in pretty much all sports. They perform this function on the body by boosting the testosterone level, however, it stops the natural production of it from the body Other health risks associated with the use of steroids can be seen psychologically, or even mortally. Psychological health risks discovered include different mood and schizophrenic disorders found in athletes Mental disorders are very dangerous as they deal with the brain, which is the main control center of the body. Many successful athletes such as, Diego Maradona, Lance Armstrong, Alex Rodriguez, and Arnold Schwarzenegger, have used steroids or performance enhancing drugs in their respected sports dating back from the 1960s. Although none of these athletes have faced a direct health issue related to doping, there are examples such as Danish cyclist, Knut Jensen, who died on Aug. 26, 1960 due to the use of performance enhancing drugs. There are several differing ethical/moral viewpoints behind the use of steroids and performance enhancing drugs in the sports world. As the use of steroids have increased among athletes, more people start to argue about its immorality amongst its respective sports. Several arguments arise such as the use of steroids disrupts competition because some players are at another level physically. While other authority figures also discuss that it is an act of cheating as it gives the doping athlete an unfair advantage over the rest. Important figures such as Joe Biden reasons why it discredits players and why considered cheating Another notable example was when President Bush stated that the use of the wrong message that there are shortcuts to accomplishment, and that performance is more important than As it becomes a bigger issue and topic of concern, Bush urges that important to look out for the kids who are the future. Because it has grown so much throughout the years, it sends the wrong message to the children and sets the wrong example, because of the dangerous side effects. As the number of doping athletes have increased in all professional sports, most sports organizations and leagues have placed regulations and bans on the use of steroids and performance enhancing drugs. Last year, the IOC (International Olympic Committee) released Anti-Doping Rules for the 2016 Rio Olympic games which subjected all athletes to testing for performance enhancing drugs. Additionally, major sports leagues such as the NBA (National Basketball Association), MLB (Major League Baseball), NFL (National Football League), etc placed regulations on performance enhancing drugs use and implement regular scheduled check ups during the season to make sure that their athletes abstain from these drugs. With the advancement of technology, specialists have found easier ways for these leagues to test or check athletes whether they have performance enhancing drugs in their system. Steroid use dates back to the start of the Olympic games back in Ancient Greece when the stakes of the competition were at its highest. Since then, the use and number of athletes have only risen as the athletes have found many ways around the system and obtaining these drugs. hard to completely get rid of steroids or performance enhancing drugs, because there will always be new drugs to take the place of the banned steroids. The use of performance enhancing drugs became more prevalent through bodybuilding and weightlifting, and eventually reached every sport. As the level of play and competition keeps rising, the players feel the pressure to perform and therefore resort to such drugs. hard to eradicate the use of steroids in professional sports and can not be done instantly, however with the right awareness, tools/technology, and education, it can eventually and gradually lead to the prevention of doping across all sports. Bibliography: 1. Gayles, J. (2009). Steroids and standardised tests: meritocracy and the myth of fair play in the United Educational Studies (03055698) , 1. 2. Heisler, S. R. (2010). Steroid Regulation in Professional Sports: SARBANES-OXLEY AS A GUIDE. Arts & Entertainment Law Journal, 27(1) , 199-241. 3. McGrew, R. J. (2015). Raising the Bar: Why The Anabolics Steroid Control Acts Should Be Repealed and Replaced.. Journal Of Health Law & Policy , 15233. 4. Millman, R. B., & Ross, E. J. (2003). Steroid and Nutritional Supplement Use in Professional American Journal On Addictions , 12S48.