Tracing Conversation Over Time Sahelle Rolles University Of South Florida Throughout history, there have been many forms of punishment to hold people accountable for their crimes. In the past, solitary confinement was a way to punish crime doers by keeping them as far away from people as possible. Solitary confinement has been known for keeping the worst of the worst away such as terrorists or serial killers. For the last few years, the academic conversation regarding juveniles in solitary confinement has grown and gotten more scholars are investigating why young people are being treated the same as serial killers. I did some research to find out what scholars are saying about juveniles in solitary confinement. It is my goal to trace the conversation from what like today and what we still have yet to discover and how the conversation is contributing to any changes being made. Solitary confinement is the act of being placed in isolation as a punishment for a crime. However, according to Castillo (2015), there are four different types of solitary confinements. He states that solitary confinement can be used not only as a punishment but also as a form of protection, administratively, and for medical reasons. This viewpoint is also back up by Owen and Goldhagen (2016) who say, generally justify such confinement for disciplinary action, protective isolation, administrative isolation or medical (p.2). With this knowledge of what solitary confinement was we can turn to an author who has described what one cause of juvenile solitary confinement was. V.P Franklin (2013) tells us of the beginnings of solitary confinement for the young black men in the United States. Franklin claims that in the 1980s with the expansion of privatization of state facilities and African American freedoms, there began a sort of witch-hunt for them to be placed in these facilities so that the private owners would make money off of them. Franklin stated, imprisoned child or adult, award of the target and unfairness, made a move to resist this only increased the likelihood of ending up in solitary (p. 198). Back then, there was no awareness of the effects that solitary confinement had on the mind of adults let alone the youth there was no care by the states or the courtroom judges who Franklin said were being paid off to put these people in jails parallel to solitary confinement. Franklin referenced a report done by Human Rights Watch and the American Civil Liberties Union who called attention to the damage to juveniles spending long periods in solitary (p. 198) by saying It causes serious psychological and physical harm to young people, including heightened risk of (p. 198). This gives a sense no one was correlating long periods of isolation to the deterioration of mental and physical health within the youth. Because children were being placed in jails with solitary confinement was the only way of keeping them safe. Castillo (2015) claims, repercussions of solitary confinement include mental illness or worsened mental illness, anxiety, rage, insomnia, self-mutilation, suicidal ideation, and (p.1274). Castillo (2015) research found that, Roper, Graham, and Miller the Supreme Court established precedent of sentencing juveniles as a separate and distinct category from adults and also emphasized that rehabilitation should be the primary purpose of juvenile (p.1273). This decision was made under the eighth amendment because it was seen as curly and unusual punishment to place children in solitary confinement because of abuse and injuries they could have gotten by boarding with adults. According to Castillo (2015), because of the risk to juvenile future health and the negative impact to future public safety, juvenile solitary confinement is a cruel and unusual punishment, violating the Eighth (.p1275). The Supreme Courts rulings on the three cases are steps towards eliminating some solitary confinement of juveniles because it shows courts stepping in and defining what should be done in juvenile centers. Though these steps are being made according to Owen and Goldhagen (2016) solitary confinement and isolation practices are left to the discretion of juvenile housing facilities that vary in type (detention, group, residential, treatment centers) and staff/resident ratios. These facilities, whether public or private, generally operate outside the purview of public (p.1). Owen and Goldhagen (2016) also inform us the because these facilities are not required by law to report the amount of times children placed in solitary confinement, the length of time, or the reason why they were there the extent to which solitary confinement and isolation is used known. Through all these states have begun to become more accountable when it comes the children in their care. Teigen and Brown (2016) gave a list of states that have stepped in on the matter of juvenile isolation. They state, Alaska, Connecticut, Maine, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Oklahoma, West Virginia and Texas have passed laws, and measures have been introduced in California, Florida, and Montana in the past two (p.6). Though solitary confinement is still being used and hindering the growth of the youth, we can see how things have been changing. From Franklin (2013) who added to the academic conversation by stating reasons why African Americans were being placed in solitary confinement to Teigen and Brown (2016) who began to give hope of the banishment on the practice of the youth. Though both were speaking on the same topic you could see the difference with one sounding hopeful about and look towards the future and one acting as a reminder of the past and damaging effects solitary confinement caused on the youth. Castillo (2015) spoke of what was becoming known about the effects of solitary confinement and the steps being taking to prevent. While Owen and Goldhagen (2016) spoke of what was still in the dark to the public. These sources showed that throughout the time the academic conversation of solitary confinement has shifted. From speaking on the past, to giving notes on what is currently happening and giving a hopeful voice for the future and the youth who hopefully have to be placed in solitary confinement.