Conklin 1 Makenzi Conklin ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Kristen Roussie Image Analysis Human trafficking is a problem that affects people worldwide. Approximately seven thousand five hundred and seventy two cases were reported in 2016 (Hotline Statistics). This epidemic affects people of all ages and races and happens internationally. People that are trafficked can be forced into hard labor or prostitution. One group that is dedicated to stop this tragedy is Amnesty International. They are a group that works worldwide to protect the human rights of all people regardless of their race, economic status, or political views (Amnesty International). They work by educating the public and lobbying or campaigning.The group spreads awareness of its issues of concern by making advertisements, so that the message can be spread to many people in the hopes that they will help the cause or donate. Amnesty International has created successful advertisements to inform and create a reaction from the public about human trafficking using color and rhetoric appeals. The first image has a yellow sticker on the suitcase that says Human along with a yellow sticker for Amnesty International. The color yellow is most commonly used to evoke a happy or cheerful emotion, however it can also be used to show danger (Color Theory). The yellow is a very bright and contrasting color compared to the gray and white that the lady is wearing, so it grabs attention right away. The use of the color yellow for the stickers makes the audience uncomfortable, as immediately they get a sense of cheerfulness but once they read the stickers and look more closely at the image, they realize that this is not the Conklin 2 case. The lady is wearing gray clothes, and gray is a sad and depressing color. The main use of this color is to contrast with the yellow stickers, however it also adds a sad mood to the image. The yellow sticker establishes ethos or credibility in the image as the audience knows that Amnesty International is a legitimate source of information. They are an internationally known group, so most people would immediately recognize the group and what they stand for. The fact that the lady is in a suitcase is an appeal to pathos which appeals to emotions (Bernake). People are obviously not supposed to be in suitcases, and the frightened look on the face saddens or even scares the audience. The words on the sticker appeals to logos, or logic. It makes the audience realize that human trafficking is a serious issue that is currently happening, even if one does not recognize or see it. There is no use of kairos in this first image. Similar to the first image, the second image also has the Amnesty International logo. However, the main focus is on a young girl wearing red heels. Red is a very intense color that represents violence and can even trigger a physical response from seeing it, such as elevated blood pressure (Color Theory). The use of the color red gives off the impression that the girl is in a dangerous situation. The alleyway that she is standing in is shadowy and dark, also giving the impression that the girl is not in a good place. The heels can be interpreted to have a sexual connotation, so it is obvious to the audience that this young girl is being sexually trafficked. The Amnesty International logo is used to establish ethos in the second image. The audience can easily identify it and they are aware of the group and what it stands for. Pathos is represented by the young girl, as the audience is aware that she is being prostituted on the streets, and they become upset about this. If an older woman was used, people might not be as upset, where a child has no voice in the matter and should never be subjected to this. Logos is not as easily defined in the second image as it is in the first, however the girl could be interpreted to Conklin 3 show the audience that human trafficking occurs in life whether one realizes it or not. There is a blurred figure in the background of the image, which represents kairos or timeliness. The audience is moved to act immediately, so that the young girl is saved from this shadowy figure. Amnesty International is known for their straight-forward advertisements about human rights injustices. In Switzerland, they had a campaign where two hundred posters were placed around the country in populated locations, such as bus stops. However, the posters were created so that it looked like the image that was depicted was taking place at that location. The campaign, not happening here, but happening was directed at the citizens of Switzerland in order to, them aware of the issue of human rights abuse but also to stimulate discussion on the (Case Study: Amnesty International). Many different issues were presented in the posters, such as child starvation and mass executions in foreign countries. This campaign definitely caught the attention of anyone who would pass by, as usually advertisements do not depict something that makes one uncomfortable or upset. The creators of the campaign were worried that there would be a large amount of public backlash from mothers or others that did not want to see the disturbing images while in public. The campaign was overall successful, as they were able to massively spread their issues of concern which in turn created more discussion about the issues and more people to act for change. If the group wants to get more people talking about human trafficking, they could have a poster campaign like this in America or other countries. Both of the images on human trafficking were successful in creating an emotional response from an audience. Color was used to draw attention to certain aspects of the images, as well as give off the feeling of violence or danger. The Amnesty International logo made the images credible through the use of ethos. Pathos was a majority component to both images, as Conklin 4 the main focus of both created a sad and unpleasant feeling with the audience. Logos was not as heavily present in the images, however they were created so that people would realize that these tragedies do occur in real life. Kairos was present in the second image, as the main focus of the image gave the audience a sense of urgency so that they could help to stop the tragedy of human trafficking. Amnesty International advertises for its issues in order to create a discussion amongst the public, such as they did with the not happening here but campaign in Switzerland. This campaign could be used in America in order to create a discussion on human trafficking. The images Amnesty International used were successful in creating an emotional response through the use of color and rhetorical appeals. Word Coun: 1144 Works Cited Bernake, Ben. Ethos, Pathos, and  Ethos, Pathos, and Logos. N.p., 27 Aug. 2010. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Case Study: Amnesty  D&AD. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Conklin 5 Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Hotline  National Human Trafficking Hotline. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Image 1 Conklin 6 Image 2