Sharipbayev Yernar Instructor Nancy Carr Composition I March 5, 2017 Tracing Conversations over Time Conversation in the articles of J. Kim et al. and S. Kim et al. evolved from investigating the impact of single aspect of retail management such as sales appearance on consumer behavior to observing the influence of multiple aspects of the store management on diverse set of emotions, respectively. In the study conducted by J. Kim et al. in 2009, majority of participants described appearance as a significant factor of their good or annoyed feeling (4-5). Also, most of them correlated appearance to the image and about 30% bought items that were worn and recommended by sales associate, which looked in the eyes of a particular participant (5-6). In 2016, S. Kim et al. analyzed specific emotions such as anger, pride, shame, contentment etc. and assessed their impact the perceived service quality and attitude toward the trough different service quality dimensions such as physical (fancy interior), personal interaction with sales associates and others (2-3). Concerning the historiography of Comiati et and Wolter et articles, their perspective has changed from examining the effects of emotional strategies used in advertisements to further researching of how firms, in the sphere of commercials, nowadays, use another strategy of a particular product, respectively. Comiati and Negrea, in their research of 2009, state that advertisers are creating and strengthening a favorable attitude towards a brand or a product category, showing emotions as a clear benefit of brand but, also, they can do the opposite, if their purpose is to prevent people from consuming certain products such as tobacco, for instance (1). An example of a TV commercial of Dos beer producer mentioned in the article of 2016, in which qualities of most interesting man in the were prescribed to the beer brand, is great illustration of how the strategy of affects willingness to buy particular products. As a result of this campaign, their more than and brand has outpaced the growth rate of the top ten import (Wolter et al. 1). Both J. Kim et al. and S. Kim et al. concerned the importance of emotions in the retail management because charged episodes tend to be (qtd. in S. Kim et al. 1). However, it can be noticed that the latter article, first of all, found connection of emotions not only with one aspect of the store management, which is sales appearance in the case of the former, but also included other quality such as personal interaction, physical aspect, policy, problem solving, and reliability (S. Kim et al. 3). Secondly, looking at the aspect of emotion evaluation in both studies, S. Kim et al. stressed out the significance of diverse and specific emotions in relation to each aspect of quality in contrast to only good or annoyed feeling reported by the participants of appearance evaluation study (5). Thus, it is seen that, with the time going, the sphere of retail management gives greater concern not only to specific emotions and their impact on consumer behavior but, also, they pay greater attention to different triggers of those emotion in their store management. As Comiati and Negrea mentioned, are trying to create more efficient advertising and that fact can be supported by Wolter et research (1). Nonetheless, their approaches differ in a sense that the former authors studied the impact of the emotional aspect of commercials, while the latter considered psychological side of the advertisement strategy, which is still likely to be used along with the emotional one. Even though approaches of authors differ, it would be wrong to say that emotions and psychology are not correlated. Hence, we can infer that, nowadays, business companies are willing to invest time and money in research of subconscious and improving existing advertisement strategies based on that knowledge, as they are powerful tool of getting new and maintaining existing customers. To sum up, it is undoubtable that, after more than a decade and a half, strategies of both retail management and advertisement, which relentlessly seeking new ways of influencing consumer behavior, admit the fact that human subconscious including psychology and emotions is the most vulnerable and effective trigger of manipulation. Thus, it is in the interest of every business company to deepen in this understanding and that is what can be seen from the examples above, be it various advertising strategies or more complicated store management strategies in a sense of their detailed structure of breaking down emotions and diverse triggers in the shopping atmosphere. Works Cited Comiati, R., & Negrea, N. O. (2009). Romanian consumers attitudes towards different types of emotions used in advertising. the Proceedings of the International Conference, Marketing - from Information to Decision, (2), 127. Kim, J., Ju, H. W., & Johnson, K. K. (2009). Sales appearance: links to emotions, store image, and purchases. Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, (5), 407. Kim, S., Park, G., Lee, Y., & Choi, S. (2016). Customer emotions and their triggers in luxury retail: understanding the effects of customer emotions before and after entering a luxury shop. Journal of Business Research, 69(12), 5809-5818. Wolter, J. S., Brach, S., Cronin, J. J., Jr., & Bonn, M. (2016). Symbolic drivers of brand identification and disidentification. Journal of Business Research, 69(2), 785-793.