Gonnella !1 Anthony Gonnella Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 16 March 2017 The Impact of Steroids on Baseball The stakeholder organization is the groupings of retired players accused of using steroids. The main goal they want to accomplish is to be let into the Hall of Fame, and they demonstrate this by releasing statistics and statements to the press expressing either their plea for innocence or plea for forgiveness. What they stand for is getting the best players into the Hall of Fame regardless of any outside factors, specifically steroids in this situation. Their techniques are proven to work as shown that the majority of baseball fans agree with their statements, the argument came about if these players should be allowed into the Hall of Fame, it was clear to see that the fans supported their entry regardless of allegations put on (Quick 73). This organization releases images showing the positive impact that steroids had on the game as well. Through Figure one and Figure two they use ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, to demonstrate this organizations point that steroids impacted the game of baseball in a positive way and thus should not be a determining factor on who gets into the Hall of Fame. These rhetorical appeals give different perspectives on how each of these images defend the statement that steroids impacted the game positively. Through emotional, logical, ethical, and timely appeals these images create strong thoughts and feelings in the audience that is viewing them. In Figure one, it is trying to portray that steroids are not that bad, and these athletes could be doing many more terrible things. For example, the image uses sarcasm by listing things that are considered worse than steroids and asking why he did not just do those instead. This is Gonnella !2 sarcastic because obviously the commissioner would not want this athlete cheating or doing drugs, but it is powerful for the reason that these acts are worse than steroids, yet steroids are looked at as the ultimate crime. In other words, it is showing the audience that steroids are looked at under such a bad light that it would be better for a player to do cocaine than steroids because it will not effect the players legacy as much as steroids would. Furthermore, Figure one uses pathos, logos, ethos, kairos and symbolism through color in many ways to get its goal across to the audience. For example, pathos is used in the form of a caricature in the way that it resembles drawings that you saw a kid. It brings people back to when they used to read the comics in the newspaper as children and implicates sympathetic emotional thoughts in their minds before you even begin to analyze what is in front of you. It plays on their emotional side because it brings a light-hearted mood out of people before they even begin reading. Logos is present in this image also in that, you can see the logic in Figure one because we all know most of these things are worse than steroids. The image is trying to show us that, and lighten the mood about this topic, making us feel that steroids are not that bad. The logical part of this image is that steroids are not as harmful as they are portrayed to be but for some reason people make them a bigger deal than things that are far worse. Ethos is shown in Figure one in that the player in it is a professional in their sport and have been directly affected by the ongoing steroid debate. The fact that he is in this image shows credibility because he has been through it, he has experienced it and he is the most first person point of view possible in this situation, and that is how this image establishes trust with the audience. Also, Figure one posses kairos and it can be identified when the commissioner is rattling off a list of things he should have done in the past. This is implying that if he goes and does one of these things right now he could change his public Gonnella !3 stature. Two wrongs actually could make a right, by having the lesser wrong take the place of the larger one. Lastly, Figure one uses color to symbolize the softer side of the steroid issue. It uses a soft blue to fade into white to lighten the mood and make the audience sympathize with the character in the image. Since the audience is sympathizing with the character, they are more likely to try and understand this side of the argument. Using these rhetorical strategies and examples, Figure one is able to show the organizations stance on how steroids impacted the game. In Figure two, it is trying to show that steroids changed the game for the better. The picture shows Barry Bonds, a concerned player with a syringe instead of a bat in his hands looking as though something must be done or the game of baseball is going to continue on the downturn. What this image is trying to accomplish is to get the audience to sympathize with steroid users and get them to agree with the players that what they were doing was right and it is what the game needed at the time. Figure two also uses pathos, logos, ethos, kairos and symbolism through color to get its goal across to the audience. For instance, in Figure two, the element of pathos is scene after some analysis. The facial expression Barry has on his face makes you want to sympathize with him. You can see he is concerned with the current state of the game and wonders what he can do to bring the popularity back to baseball. The image makes you just as concerned and uneasy as they player inside it. Furthermore, the logical part of Figure two is how it is stated, that this is just what the game needed. It needed steroids to reverse the current path it was on and put baseball back on the uptrend again. At this time the game was beginning to become less and less popular and steroids were just what it needed to reverse that trend. Ethos is shown in Figure two in a very similar way that it is shown in Figure one. Such as, ethos is Gonnella !4 shown in Figure two in that the player in it is a professional in their sport and have been directly affected by the ongoing steroid debate. The fact that he is in this image shows credibility because he has been through it, he has experienced it and he a first person point of view in this situation, and that is how this image establishes trust with the audience. Figure two also has kairos in it in that, when it states the shot in the arm the game (Figure two), it is talking about a specific time. At the time steroids got big, they need to get big then, not in a few years, they needed them at that moment. At that exact time period the sport needed them to change it for the better as stated in the image. Lastly, in Figure two the image uses color to show a compassionate side of the steroid issue. It only uses warm colors that make the viewers feel the heartfelt emotion in face, it wants to portray to the audience the strong compassionate emotion emotion and wants them to feel the same way. Figure two uses emotional, logical, ethical, timely, and symbolic appeals to show how it backs up the stakeholders stance on the beneficial effects of steroids. There is a strong connection between Figure one and Figure two, they both want to push across the same message to the public. Both images use use ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, to demonstrate this organizations goal that steroids impacted the game of baseball in a positive way and thus should not be a determining factor on who gets into the Hall of Fame. They use these rhetorical strategies in a positive way to back up the message they want to show; these images also use symbolism through color to further show the importance of their goals. Using emotional and logical appeal, the images demonstrate how players benefited from steroids, and how steroids saved the popularity baseball had even when it was on the downturn. Both images use color to make the audience sympathetic to their message, which further gets the point across that Gonnella !5 steroids are what baseball needed at this point in time. (Figure two). Through the implication of all these strategies, they are able to relate to each other and portray the same mission, and that mission is that steroid users should not be punished when it relates to the Hall of Fame (Zeise 1). These two images are related and both express the same goal, and that goal is for steroids to not be the deciding factor on who gets into the Hall of Fame. The organization consisting of retired players wants the best players to get into the Hall, and believe no outside factors should be involved. As stated before, the fans support them and this is shown in this statement, the argument came about if these players should be allowed into the Hall of Fame, it was clear to see that the fans supported their entry regardless of allegations put on (Quick 73). This is the argument this organization is fighting for and these are some of the images released in support of their side. Gonnella !6 Works Cited Courant, Hartford. Hartford Courant, www.pinterest.com/pin/ 328481366551084971/. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Quick, Brian L. et al. Two-Study Investigation Into How Television News Frames the Steroid Scandal in Major League Baseball and Fans Support for Bonds, McGwire, and Pending Induction Into the Baseball Hall of Communication Research, vol. 43, no. 1, 2 Jan. 2017, pp. doi:10.1177/0093650214558253. Radamiz, J. 6 Apr. 2015, dunk360.com/the-funniest-baseball-player-gainz- memes-of-all-time-photos/. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Zeise, Paul. Zeise: Snobby Baseball Writers Need Hall of Fame Voting Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 19 Jan. 2017, General OneFile Gonnella !7 Figure One: Figure Two: