Clary 1 Dominique Clary Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 17 March 2017 Vegetarianism and Its Images Are They Really Effective? All across America the meat consumed by most Americans come from factory farms where animals are exposed to inhumane and unthinkable treatment. (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) main goal is to protect the rights of animals in the food industry, clothing, laboratories, and the entertainment industry Mission They do not limit themselves to just these areas, PETA works on a much broader scale. Such as dealing with the inhumane killing of rodents, birds, and other animals one may consider as pests as well as unjust treatment of domesticated animals Mission Constantly, PETA is helping animals across the globe to have better treatment, while also helping various people along the way to live a much healthier lifestyle. Eating animals is bad for own health, increasing the risk of developing various diseases and illnesses, including heart attacks, strokes, cancer, diabetes, and These are all very serious that can develop over the course of time. Heart Disease is one of the leading killers in the United States, this can be directly linked to meat consumption. By buying into these meat products for consumption people are essentially paying for their own death. Essentially, by not eating meat one gives way to a much longer and healthier life. PETA supports the movement to become vegetarian and even vegan, they offer viable information about the treatment of animals and the benefit of this lifestyle change. PETA answers the most common questions people may have in terms of what, how, and why to stop eating meat. In their article PETA states: it comes to vegetarianism, the number one question on most minds is, do you The Clary 2 answer: Anything we want! There are vegetarian alternatives to almost any animal PETA makes it clear that no matter what one is craving there is almost always a vegetarian option to go for. No matter if the common classic American meals like burgers, ribs, or chicken there is a vegetarian option for all. In simpler terms, being a vegetarian is much simpler than it seems. Despite the ads published by various corporations such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) people continuously pay for this treatment to be done to these animals for their consumption This may because of minimalistic advertisements. However, the images advertised by PETA did not fully portray this to an extinct where it would have a lasting effect on its audience. Therefore, visual arguments did not represent their mission adequately. Although, people are gradually becoming vegetarian more and more PETA still must look for ways to attract newcomers to stop this cruel and unjust treatment. This is what PETA attempted to do in both Figure 1 and 2. It was used in a way to portray the feeling of what it is like to be an animal that is used for human consumption. In these images, PETA exemplified a moderate use of ethos, however possibly not enough to fully account for their credibility. In Figure 1 PETA establishes there credibility by using their trademark name This is a trademark that can be found on all of images thus, allowing the viewer to recognize that it is coming from a legitimate constant source. This is the only trace of ethos that this image has. This lack of ethos does not give PETA the amount of credit one would expect them to have considering that they are a well-established organization. Additionally, it may cause the viewer to disregard the image as not being as important. However, if PETA applied more ethos to said image it would give them a much more solid foundation for the effectiveness of Figure 1. In Figure 2 PETA once again establishes their credibility through the use of their signature Clary 3 trademark Once again, this aids to provide the viewer with the knowledge that it is coming from a reliable and legitimate source. As mentioned previously in regards to Figure 1 this image lacks a sufficient amount of credibility. While it does have a consistent trademark, it still lacks substantial standing. Furthermore, PETA uses the bandwagon method to possibly attract more viewers to pledge to be a vegetarian. Nicole Williams, a famous public figure works alongside PETA to shed light on the issue of using animals for their skin in terms of leather and other items. If a viewer is to see Nicole Williams they may feel more inclined to follow along in her footsteps. By using Williams the viewers may feel that PETA is much more legit due to the fact that they have a public figure working alongside them. Despite the fact that Williams is a public figure she is not a well-known public figure. This may leave some questions in the minds as to who is this person and credibility. The less the people know of the public figure used to endorse the image, the less likely they are to follow through with the actions that the image is trying to influence. As a whole PETA lacked a lot of credibility here in that they did not give enough evidence as to how they were credible. This in turn was a foul on their end in that they did not provide a solid foundation for their credibility with their images. The ethos in both Figure 1 as well as Figure 2 were very lackluster on part, there could have been a more substantial amount of effort put into it. This has led to the images being a lot less credible than they could have been, which gives both Figure 1 and Figure 2 a non-solid foundation to portray its message. Pathos is an appeal to emotion, it is therefore a very good tactic to grasp a attention in any aspect. PETA attempted to use their minimalistic images to connect to the inner emotions of guilt. Guilt is a very strong and powerful emotion as it is one that is often times hard to get rid of. As a result this is a highly effective emotion to use to portray Clary 4 through these images. Figure 1 was utilized to portray the idea of eating or cooking meat being considered murder. In the Figure 1, a woman is seen laying on a grill, on a fire ready to be cooked. Her eyes are closed and she lays their lifeless which induces the idea that she has been killed. PETA wanted to evoke the emotion of guilt here to possibly have the audience relate the feeling they had of grilling a human to that of an animal. When grilling an animal one does not think twice about it or see any issues with it. However, if they are to grill a humane it would cause and uproar. It would not even be a thought in most Americans minds. By trying to connect the emotions one may feel for a human to that of an animal PETA may be able to help the viewers understand just exactly what they are trying to advocate for. This was an attempt to push the idea that animals should not be eaten just as humans are not to be eaten. PETA not only stands for the protection of animals in the meat industry but also in the clothing industry Mission When viewing Figure 2, it is evident how PETA attempted to advocate for the elimination of the usage of animal skins for leather. In the image, it is clear that Nicole Williams shows discomfort on her face, which is very similar to that of which an animal would feel. By seeing a discomfort the audience will be able to relate to her pain which may cause the audience to be able to relate to the pain that animals feel. This connection may have a breakthrough with the audience for a much deeper understanding of the message being portrayed. The brute force of the hands pulling the skin off of her back attempts to show how uncaring, and harsh the workers handle the animals. This gives the audience and inside look as to how the animals are being handled in these factories. Additionally, the fact that they are a hands symbolizes how rough and brash the workers are with removing the skin. This is parallel to the idea of how brash the workers are with the animals and not handling them carefully and properly. The blood coming down her back may also evoke a feeling of discomfort Clary 5 and remorse in viewers who wear or use leather. In the top right corner of Figure 2 states: leather jacket or upholstery was (Figure 2). This quote here also ties into the central feeling of guilt that these images were trying to portray. One may read this and think of the items that they own that are made with leather and relate it to this image of skin being ripped off such as an skin would have been. In both Figure 1 as well as Figure 2 the usage of Pathos is evident and sufficient for each. These two images worked to create a sense of intense emotions that would cause the audience to react. Overall, PETA did an adequate job with portraying a decent amount of pathos to induce a feeling of guilt in the viewers. PETA lacks greatly in the areas of Kairos and logos, two rhetorical devices that could greatly propel these tow images in terms of their effectiveness. These two rhetorical devices could have been used to establish more credibility, offer more knowledge to the viewer, and bring about a much larger call to action. Kairos attempts to call the viewers/reader to action, while logos works to provide evidence and much needed information for the viewer. In Figure 1 there is no attempt made to provide Kairos or logos. By leaving out these two components the viewers is most likely to be less inclined to stop buying leather items as referenced in Figure 2, or to stop eating meat as referenced in Figure 1. In Figure 2 PETA makes a minor attempt at Kairos by using a contemporary public figure, Nicole Williams. This allows for the viewer to possibly connect with the person used to have a sense of understanding. However, this is not something that a viewer would deeply think about as a call to action to participate in this movement. Additionally, in the images PETA did not include any sort of scientific data to possibly let know just how many animals are possibly killed in the meat industry. Or even to inform viewers on the benefits of their health by switching to a vegetarian diet. By not including this vital information viewers may not feel that it is as important of an issue. It will Clary 6 then not be taken seriously and not action will be taken on their part. These are both factors that could have aided in advertisements however were not present at all. As a result of this PETA did not successfully portray this to their audience. To conclude, PETA did not successfully manage to use these images to portray their mission adequately. Therefore, PETA lacked in conducing some sort of real emotion or action taken by its viewers. These images did not have a lasting effect on the viewers. Figure 1 Clary 7 Figure 2 Clary 8 Works Cited Vegetarian  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. http://www.peta.org/living/food/vegetarian-101/ Mission PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. http://www.peta.org/about-peta/ PETA. Leather Is A Rip Off. E! News http://www.eonline.com/news/peta PETA. Meat Is Murder. Adorns Ottowa Ribfest with half-clad woman of BBQ for Is