Graham Lester Enc 1102 Karen Hansen 2/25/2017 Visual Rhetoric Used by PETA The abuse of pit bulls is a rampant issue facing many defenseless dogs. These abused dogs learn violent behaviors and can eventually attack people if nobody intervenes. Many organizations stand against this issue although their methods of doing so vary greatly. The people for the ethical treatment of animals, or PETA, take the stance that pit bulls are at a point where the systematic abuse they face is just too much and the breed should be discontinued completely. They want laws specifically targeting pit bulls that make it mandatory for them to be spayed and neutered. They also want to immediately halt the breeding of all pit bulls, however, important to note that they in no way promote putting down pit bulls already alive and they advocate strongly for those dogs lives and safety. PETA effectively aids their position that the breeding of pit bulls should be halted with two striking pieces of visual rhetoric that show the hardships this breed faces. The struggles that pit bulls face is extremely evident in these examples of visual rhetoric. These struggles are depicted in the images with the obvious signs of abuse the dogs have had to deal with. Images A and B deal specifically with the aftermath of animal abuse. Image A shows the physical effects of abuse on a dog and is thus an appeal to pathos. Image A shows a pit bull chained and starving in the hot bearing sun. This type of emotional appeal is extremely common with animal rights groups. Pathos has long been one of the most effective ways to make an emotional appeal through design and advertisers know this (Winn). These type of pictures are meant to sadden people and make them feel an obligation to donate their time or money to the animal rights groups and are very effective at doing so (Lee et al. 37). While the effects of abuse are primarily an appeal to pathos Image A also has a very strong appeal to Kairos. Seeing a dog starving to deaths adds a sense of urgency. This is meant to get the audience to act right away and not wait. This sense of urgency comes from the idea that pit bulls could be starving right now and would need immediate help to continue living. Another idea that PETA discusses is the idea that the systematic abuse of pit bulls breads aggressive behavior. This aggressive behavior is another effect of abuse featured in PETAs visual rhetoric. This is showcased in image B with the pit bull standing on its hind legs bearing its teeth. This is yet again another appeal to pathos, however, this time it is meant to make the audience feel fear. This is so people will want to help pit bulls to ultimately help themselves. No person would want that dog coming at them, their young child, or their small dog. Using ones fears and making them feel unsafe has proved to be an incredibly effective way to push any sort of agenda or narrative and is once again effective in PETAs use of visual rhetoric. While the effects of abuse are a very strong element in these pieces of visual rhetoric they are a reflection of what has happened to these dogs prior to the image being taken. The conditions present in the image are also effectively pushing PETAs agenda. The setting and background features of these images are clear indicators of unloving conditions that these dogs have to go through. One sign of the unloving conditions these dogs face is the chains in both image A and B. These heavy steel chains invoke emotions of sadness because a properly treated dog chained up outside to face the elements in captivity. Chains also have a negative connotation in a historical context as they invoke memories of slavery and mistreatment. The people for the ethical treatment of animals is definitely trying to promote the idea that pit bulls are nothing more than slaves to their captors since both image A and Image B feature chains. While there much to note about the setting in Image A the setting in Image B tells a story in itself. The setting features a poorly made dog house and a tire in a dirt field in what looks to be a not so great area. This is an appeal to pathos; Once again the appeal to pathos is meant to make people feel sad, more specifically dread. This pit bull is truly in a dreadful environment. An environment that no dog owner would want their best friend to be in. Another element that would make the audience feel dread is the color of the environment. According to rhetoric really matters can have different meanings or connotations that implicitly portray a (Pack 350). The message here is that this environment is not suitable for an animal, especially an animal that is considered by many to be best friend. The rhetorical appeal of pathos is extremely common in these two images and for good reason. Pathos has shown to be the most effective emotional appeal for animal rights groups. This is because animals, dogs especially, are seen as companions. Many people own dogs and seeing another dog in trouble or not being treated right is something that would make many people passionate. This in combination with the Kairos present in image A makes the pieces of visual rhetoric shown on PETAs website incredibly effective. While these images span many kinds of appeals the ones they do use are used very successfully and contribute directly to PETAs cause. Works Cited the Kindest Thing We Can Do for Pit  PETA Investigations. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://investigations.PETA.org/breed-specific-protection/ Lee Kendra, Mckee Jessica, Mcintyre Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text Pack Jenna. Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 350. E-text Winn, Wendy. The Persuasive Power of Pathos in E-Commerce Web  18Th Annual Conference on Computer Documentation. IPPC SIGDOC 2000. Technology & Teamwork. Proceedings IEEE Professional Communication Society International Professional Communication Conference an, 24 Sept. 2000, p. 155.