Comeskey 1 Matthew Comeskey Composition 2 Instructor: Ms. Basil 2/25/2017 Uber; the not so Fading Transportation Uber is becoming one of the most powerful transportation giants due to their cunning app interface, superb customer service, and overall ease of being an Uber driver. Ubers released a statement on how simple and easy it is to use their app which has won over the hearts of many customers tap and a car comes directly to you. Hop driver knows exactly where to go. And when you get there, just step out. Payment is completely (Uber). Their goal has been to take over the industry and provide the best possible service to create a transportation giant. Through visual analysis regarding the stakeholder, within the first image, Uber is driving their competition Taxi companies out of relevance. The image creates a strong emotional appeal as Uber presents the fading of what was once a transportation king. The second image displays Ubers significantly cheaper prices. The information within this image connects to those visually analyzing the picture and immediately creates an appeal to many Americans as saving money is very important. Throughout the remainder of this paper, you will be presented the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos that Uber displays within their images to establish their dominance over the transportation industry and the fading relevance of taxi companies. Each of the images being analyzed display ethos in similar ways. While using rhetorical analysis, the viewer might notice that each image has the renowned Uber logo located within the pictures. Uber is more than just an American company Uber states that its founding in March 2009, popularity has surged, and as of September 2016, the company provides services in 71 countries and 504 cities (Garcia). Immediately, seeing the Uber logo Comeskey 2 within both images should stand out to those viewing as credible and professional as Uber is a company that is internationally recognized. Pathos is an appeal to emotions and feelings. The first image with the fading taxi cab sign strikes the most emotional appeal. Whether the feeling of sadness or the feeling of achievement Uber really packs a statement in this image. Those feeling sad might feel this way because the fading taxi cab sign represents the downfall of their dominance as taxi cabs across the US steadily are going out of business due to Uber. Thousands are losing their jobs and many of these workers are new immigrants trying to get their feet wet in the American way of life. Those that receive the feeling of achievement from this image might look at the perspective that technology has innovated an amazing service. Uber did not become popular solely on the fact that they provide great service but also because working for the company and using the Uber app is easy to understand and efficient. Pathos is displayed within the second image where the viewer is drawn in to the emotion of curiosity. When reading a sign that states Ubers rides just got 25% cheaper, why would one not be curious to check out Uber? In 2017, many families focus on saving money whenever they can as the economy is short of impressive now. To just test Uber due to the curiosity of lower prices has the person viewing the image subject to change from using taxi cab companies to make the permanent switch to ride service apps such as Uber or Lyft. Taxi cabs losing customers to the transportation giant steadily is leading to their downfall day by day. Logos is a statistical claim or common sense knowledge that Uber uses very strategically in the following images. Within the first image the viewer can use common sense to see what the image is trying to display. When viewing a person using the new and flashy Uber app, while there is a taxi cab fading in the background sends a significant message. As a viewer, in this image Uber Comeskey 3 represents the fading relevance of one industry due to the overtake of another. Within the second picture, the immediate statistical information provides that Uber is becoming already cheaper than their previous prices. This directly correlates with the opinions on Uber because the company is already exorbitantly cheaper than taxi companies throughout America and internationally. While the first image portrays logos with the use of statistical information, the second image uses logos to grasps the attention using common sense. Uber deploys the rhetorical device logos to help connect with the viewers understanding of why Uber is better than taxi companies. Kairos is the appeal to the timeliness of a matter. The first picture with the fading taxi cab shows the importance of time throughout the image as it shows the fading of the taxi cab industry. Within the image however this is pictured as not only metaphorically but literally. The timeliness element comes from the decline of the taxi industry as Uber slowly takes over the transportation industry largest taxi company, Yellow Cab Co-Op, said that it will file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in a December letter to shareholders obtained by the San Francisco Examiner. While regular taxi operations will continue, the company needs to restructure due to serious financial  caused by mounting debt and competition from ride-hailing (Solomon). Even the largest Yellow Cab Taxi company in San Francisco, a city where transportation is constantly in the need for demand, now must file for bankruptcy due to Ubers overtaking of the industry. The second image is lacking the element of Kairos. Uber could add the element of Kairos to this image by possibly comparing their new reduced prices to taxi cab companies. This would add the element of timeliness by representing how taxi cabs would need to act on their pricing to stay competitive with Uber. Comeskey 4 Overall, the strong appeals made within each image creates a sense of credibility, professionalism, and an emotional attachment to Uber. Uber uses the four appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos within their advertisements to draw in customers on their route to dominating the transportation industry. Ubers dominance is reigning supreme in the transportation industry and unless taxi companies step up their game, Uber and innovative apps that integrate mobile technology into their business models will crush taxi companies. A failure to adapt will leave these taxi companies fading into irrelevance. Comeskey 5 Comeskey 6 Works Cited Justin D., PhD. Uber  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=er s&AN=113931086&site=eds-live. https://newsroom.uber.com/us-dc/sweet-uberx-prices-just-got-25-cheaper/ http://www.thebubble.com/whats-the-deal-with-the-buenos-aires-court-ruling-that-uber-is-legal/ Solomon, Brian. First Casualty? San Largest Taxi Company Filing For  Forbes.Com (2016): 30. Business Source Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Uber. Uber, n.d. Web