Guillermo Fuentes Professor Sarah Basil Comp. 1102 26 February 2017 Fuentes 1 The Dangers of Drinking In day and age, there has come to be a sort of connection established between what is the consumption of alcohol and having a good time. But what happens when the use of alcohol goes beyond just having a good time? What happens when alcohol, rather than providing users a good time, begins to provide them with hardships and self-destructive tendencies? These are both questions and issued being researched and combated by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. The NIAAA is one of many institutes that research the impact of alcohol on the health of users, while at the same time providing those that develop an addiction to alcohol with the resources necessary to end their abuse of the substance. With their mission statement being improve diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of alcohol-related problems, including alcohol use disorder, across the (NIAAA) It is clear that they are advocates for the proper use of alcohol in daily life as well as antagonist for the unhealthy habits that can result from its misuse. They have come to show this not only through their involvement in research, treatment, and partnerships with other likeminded organizations. On an independent scale, they have also provided multiple advertisements which reinforce their stance and bring awareness to the problem that is alcohol abuse through the use of rhetorical appeals such as, pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos that allows the audience to distinguish the dangers from unhealthy drinking habits, whether it be to own health as shown in image 1 or to those around them as shown in image 2. Pathos is used to provoke the emotion of the audience and force a response whether it be negative or positive. In image 1, a man is shown slumped over a table with half-finished beers Fuentes 2 surrounding him. The caption on the image reads drinking during a game is a bad the message shared in this image is incredibly relevant in culture, especially since colleges seem to have adopted this unhealthy habit which can result in not only sickness, but in many cases death due to alcohol poisoning. The image evoked the audience to understand the feeling of regret after making a bad decision or a as stated in the image itself, granting the reader with the ability to make a connection between football itself and a real life scenario. Image 2 takes a much more direct approach in provoking the response of the audience through involving children. The image shows the face of a child with a sad, empty expression as well as prompting the audience with the question your drinking affect someone you The image is meant to make those which do abuse alcohol to reevaluate their unhealthy habits due to fear of harming someone that they care for. Another effect that it comes to have would be to make others that may not abuse alcohol to become aware of a serious problem in their loved ones lives, thus enabling them to seek them help because of love. Ethos shows the credibility or believability of any given information or image based upon those delivering the information. In both images, the organization name is shown clearly in bold letters. Having a well know organization such as the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism adds importance to both images because of how well established it is. In image 1, the organization logo and name is displayed. In image 1, the man which is passed out at the table would display the consequences of an unethical habit, that being binge drinking, which can seriously affect his health. In image 2, the ethical dilemma being shown is about the harm being done to the children that witness alcohol abuse in their homes. They went a step further and provided their website as well. The website added credibility to the image not just because people have a link to research, but also because it ends in which adds to its legitimacy Fuentes 3 because it is not a commercially ran website. The NIAAA is an extension of the National Institute of Health, and in result has also adopted its credibility for being an organization which important discoveries that improve health and save (NIH). All in all, the credibility of the images is strengthened through the organization being displayed and supported by a bigger well established organization. Logos is the logic that is being presented by the image and how the information is interpreted. In image 1, the logic shown is that bad decisions lead to negative consequences. As shown in the image, the man has clearly had too much to drink at what seems to be a social gathering at a football game, as indicated by the phrase downed your fourth, time to In other words, if had too much, you should know when to stop. It is especially important for the younger demographics which are the ones that participate most in binge drinking. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has hailed binge drinking as most common pattern of excessive alcohol use in the United therefore, educating the public of these dangers can lead to the logical decision to steer away from the unhealthy and sometimes deadly habit. Image 2 shows the image of a sad child with the statistic percent of U.S. children live with a parent with alcohol The information in this image is tangible because it shows numbers or an estimate of the problem that the NIAAA is brining attention to, that being alcohol abuse. The audience can come to a logical conclusion that there is a great part of the population that is affected by alcohol abuse. This image also enables action due to the fact that there is an unhealthy cycle in an unstable home thus bringing awareness to the dangers that the youth of families are exposed to. Kairos referrers to the timeliness of something or when something should be decided or acted upon. In image 1, a man is shown slumped over a table with 3 empty cups and 2 cups half Fuentes 4 filled with beer along with the caption downed your fourth, time to Indicating that there is a time when too much is too much, and that fact should be taken into account when drinking. One can come to interpret this image as an omen that one should know when time to stop drinking. In Image 2, the face of a sad child is shown along with the caption percent of U.S. children live with a parent with alcohol Which refers to time in terms of the age of children. The organization Advocates for Youth has stated that the early stages of babyhood to childhood, childhood to adolescence, and adolescence to changes take place. Throughout the process, each person develops attitudes and values that guide choices, relationships, and (Youth). This is an important issue because children in a way are sponges to their environment in a way that the destructive tendencies of their parents can become their own through early exposure, therefore a proper education early in life is vital for a successful future. Alcohol itself is not an evil substance, people are the ones that make it deadly and dangerous in the way that they choose use or abuse it and the National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism has been established to research and combat this growing problem through programs and educating the public. The 2 images mentioned support their overall goal to create awareness and discourage the misuse of alcohol not only for the benefit the individual, but those around them as well. Fuentes 5 Fuentes 6 Works Cited National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. NIAAA Fact Sheets - Binge  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 16 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. CDC Who We  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. NIH Advocatesforyouth.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Youth