Roehm 1 Chuck Roehm Professor Sarah Basil ENC1102 25 February 2017 Free College Tuition Movements Getting a higher education is one of the most important things for a young adult to do in order to become a skilled member of the workforce. The cost of college, however, can be daunting for many middle to low income families. An organization called the Campaign for Free College Tuition (CFCT) believes that community college tuition should be covered by the government, so that every young American has the opportunity to gain the necessary skills to push into the middle or high income CFCT has created advertisements using rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, and logos to convince the American people that free college tuition is necessary for the future of America. The Campaign for Free College Tuition (CFCT) is a nonprofit organization that economy requires the country to make higher education affordable for everyone if we are going to have a workforce with the skills needed for us to compete in the global (Who we are). The CFCT is a bipartisan group, which politically reinforces the ideas and goals of the organization. Their efforts primarily go into trying to make community college tuition free in order to increase the skills of the average American citizen. They were established only three years ago in 2014, and have already gained plenty of momentum since then. A lot of that momentum has come from their advertisements which employ rhetorical appeals to convey their message. Roehm 2 In both advertisements, the use of the rhetorical appeal ethos is very strong. One of the advertisements has an image of president Barack Obama, and he looks as if he is speaking to an audience. He states that America, a quality education cannot be a privilege that is reserved for a Coming from a president, this statement will have a powerful impact on whoever is viewing the image. The president of the United States is the single most credible person in America, so this is a very strong appeal to ethos. Along with the credibility that it appeals to, there is an ethical appeal as well. The government has the responsibility to give everyone an equal opportunity for higher education. The president himself is pointing this ethical responsibility of the government, and that is very persuasive in getting on board with the CFCTs goals. In the image depicting a coffee cup atop a stack of books, the Starbucks logo is shown directly on the coffee cup. Starbucks is one of the most popular coffee companies in America, so the logo alone will catch attention. Support from Starbucks on an issue that does not directly involve them shows how important the issue of college tuition is and further increases the credibility of the campaign. In both of the images, the CFCT logo is located at the bottom portion of each image. When extremely credible people or organizations are presented, the CFCT logo gains credibility because it is associated with such credible icons. This strategy effectively makes the CFCT more credible, along with sparking interest in the organization. While both images rely heavily on the appeal to ethos, it is not the only appeal utilized in the advertisements. An appeal to pathos is very apparent in the Starbucks cup image. The text in the picture says a grande using a play on words by using a Starbucks drink size to say that covering college for their employees is a great idea. The text is in all capital letters and is in bold, Roehm 3 so this appeal to humor is one of the first things someone will see when they look at this photo. While the humor may not be extremely funny, it is very effective at getting the idea to stick in the mind. Just having that phrase stuck in head will make the viewer continue to think about the message of the advertisement and the CFCT. Along with the play on words in that image, there is also a large stack of books underneath the Starbucks cup. Without even reading the text, the viewer will understand that the advertisement is related to education. They will also see how large the stack of books is, and feel that there is a large workload, along with cost, due to college. That feeling of sympathy for college students will also convince the viewer that students need more financial support to get through college. The image with Barack Obama has a more subtle appeal to pathos, but it is still effective. The president gives the viewer a sense of trust in the advertisement, and in the quote presented. Keeping that in mind and combining it with the text, the audience gains a sense of righteousness in what is being said, and will truly feel that a quality education should be available for everyone. The various emotions that both advertisements play on make the audience think that it is the right thing to do for hardworking students. For those that are not as easily influenced by emotion, the images also appeal to logic. The statement by Barack Obama stresses that higher education should be available to all Americans. America is a country that advocates how all of its citizens have equal opportunity. The opportunity for all citizens to receive a quality education should go hand in hand with one of the most important American values. It just makes sense to support the basic values that America was founded on by offering a chance to receive higher education to anyone who is willing to put in the work to earn it. The image with the Starbucks cup also has a logical appeal which is a bit Roehm 4 harder to identify, but nevertheless makes sense. A coffee company, which is not even involved in college education, is supporting its employees by covering all four years of their college. They do this so that they have more skilled employees, which are more capable of performing more difficult tasks. If a coffee company can do this, then the viewer wonders, why the United States government do this. The citizens are essentially the employees, because they all end up paying taxes. If the government can do what Starbucks is doing and invest in its people, then the government will receive more money in taxes due to the more skilled workforce that earns more money. Logically then, it is a to invest in the American people, so that everyone becomes more prosperous. The feasibility of the idea is demonstrated by Starbucks, and other organizations who support the CFCT have pointed out that the government spends enough money on student aid to cover tuition for every public college student in Campaign for Free College ). The cost of implementing this be too much for the government to handle, and according to College Promise, it would make America much more competitive in the global economy Making Public Colleges Tuition Free: A Briefing Book for State If the entire workforce is even slightly more skilled because of an degree, it gives America the competitive edge in comparison to other countries. The Campaign for Free College Tuition has a goal that would be beneficial for all of America. They effectively convey their goal through rhetorical appeals like the ones seen in the Barack Obama and Starbucks Cup advertisements. Ethos is the most heavily used appeal in the advertisements, and hooks the attention. Pathos supports the argument as well, and keeps the viewers engaged with the advertisement. Looking even further into the advertisements and affiliated organizations, there are many logical arguments supporting their Roehm 5 cause. These appeals combine to create a compelling argument for something that should be accessible for all American citizens. Roehm 6 Works Cited Campaign for Free College  The Tuition Revolution. Tuition Revolution., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Making Public Colleges Tuition Free: A Briefing Book for State  College Promise., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Who We  Campaign for Free College Tuition. Free college now., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.