Elijah Langlois Nancy Carr Intermediate Draft February 24, 2017 Ideal Marriage Age Over Time Although the source of the this is unknown the saying, is like a fine wine, it gets better as you is one that has passed from person to person for years, while recalling this quote it raised a question in my head, what is the ideal marriage age? The purpose of this writing is to deepen my knowledge about how the ideal marriage age (IMA) has been affected over a stretch of time, about less than a hundred of years in the past, and I feel this topic is relevant because it shows how the age that people decide to get married at directly affects things such as birth rates, marriage rates, and increases cohabitation To show how the ideal marriage age has changed you have to look at how its major factors such as age, education, gender (roles), and laws change and how they influence the change in the ideal marriage To start our discussion on how the ideal marriage age has changed over this past century look at the article, Gallup Poll Briefing, by Jeffrey Jones. gives us 4 different graphs, data from 2 different national surveys, the first 2 show how a majority of the people in 1960 voted that they had to get married before the age of 25, especially the women, and the 2006 graph shows that the men become more spread out between 21-25 and after their 30s, while the female votes lost half in before the age 21 to after the age of 25. The other 2 graphs given are based off by educational (what their level of schooling that a person has reached when they get married), the graph for males were similar to the 2006 Polls for just marriage and remained practically the same for 1960 and 2006, and female graph from 1960 say women should get married before 25 to 2006 being between 21-25. To summarize that humbo jumbo I just said, it is basically saying that the IMA has increased over those 60 years, and affected the women more than the men. To give another example of the increase in the IMA you should look at Nepali article in which he wrote the past 40 years in Nepal the singulate mean age at marriage (SMAM) of men and women has increased steadily. For example, the SMAM of men increased from 19.5 years in 1961 to 22.9 years in 2001. For women, the SMAM increased from 15.4 years in 1961 to 19.5 years in 2001 (CBS 2003). Therefore, despite the increase in the age at which both men and women marry, women still marry at an earlier than I think this article is a great way to show many different laws that can affect the IMA, especially in a country foreign in comparison to the US, with the most recent being The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act that was put into action in 2006 and you can been given a harsh punishment of 2 years plus behind bars (if over 18 years old at the time or/and without getting approval from parents or/and they are not 2 years away legal consent age). Sah explains the reason for such a harsh punishment is because in India marriage is a sacred event, plus it is :related to gender - the notion of purity, religious belief and gender discrimination - have been found to influence early marriage of girls.