Wahba 1 Seifeldin Wahba Ms. Poston ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Human Activities are Driving Global Warming Lately, global warming has been a controversial topic between leaders of the world, scientists, and even students. Since this is a scientific topic, every opinion should be proven with evidence, mostly scientific evidence. Some scientists claim that human activities, mainly burning fossil fuels, are the main reason causing the globe to warm. While on the other side, others argue that it is not human activities, but natural factors like solar radiance. Whether the reason causing the climate to change is human activities or natural factors, most scientists agree that carbon dioxide emissions are at a very high level in the atmosphere and that is causing the average temperature of surface to warm which may cause catastrophic crisis in the future. One of the organizations that is taking the side of human activities being the reason behind climate change is IPCC (Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change). Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change is an intergovernmental organization under the auspices of the United Nation. It was established in 1988 by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Its goals are to provide an understanding about the risks behind climate change and how humans are affecting it negatively. Another goal is to inform the world on climate change effects and issues. The assessment reports represent the work of six years, more than 450 lead authors receiving input from more than 800 contributing authors, and more than 2500 experts reviewing the draft documents IPCC: Who Are 2). The authors that produce the reports are divided Wahba 2 into three working groups Working group 1 is responsible for the physical science basis of global warming, working group 2 is responsible for the consequences and impacts of global warming, and working group 3 is responsible for scenarios and options for slowing the carbon dioxide emissions in the world. The role of IPCC is to provide scientific, technical and socio-economic information relevant to understanding the scientific basis of risk of human- induced climate change, its potential impacts and options for adaption and (Principles governing IPCC work, 2). In addition to the written reports, IPCC usually uses informative images to apprise the reader about certain information using the four rhetorical appeals. These images comply with each other to deliver a clear message to the audience which can be scientists, students, or normal people who care about the environment. IPCC used two images in their fifth assessment report that has a relationship with their main argument by showing the impacts of climate change logically and visually by giving numbers and statistics beside the pictures used to describe how people suffer from such impact. The first image is the cover of the report published in 2014. I believe that this image covered the four rhetorical appeals. Starting by ethos, the appeal to credibility was by merging three real pictures from different Figure 1 Wahba 3 parts of the world showing the effect of climate change on people. There are places that are already feeling the effect of climate change such as: Great Barrier Reef, Newtok in Alaska, Mumbai in India, The Alps, Gansu Province in China (Chow, 3). Furthermore, the appeal to logic was by showing how some people suffer from such a crisis and how others are getting more developed. In addition, Kairos was presented by referring to a current crisis which can be realized from the three merged pictures. As the average surface temperature increase, the risk of seas and glaciers melting increases to catastrophic level, thus a serious action is needed to save the world. Finally, the appeal to pathos was by using a picture of a little kid suffering from floods which is one of the effects of climate change. That is a technique that most organizations use to attract people to look at something. Thus, appealing to Wahba 4 the emotions of the reader is important to send your message in a fast way. Figure 2 The second image is a figure from the fifth assessment report that shows the change in the average surface temperature. This image does not use all rhetorical appeals. Ethos was used by giving numbers and statistics which give more credibility and authority to the image. While logos were used by comparing two eras next to each other which make the reader think logically about the situation, how it was and how it is now. Moreover, the organization used Kairos by showing the timeline of the change of the average surface temperature over time and showing how that change is going to affect the future of the earth. Also, it has some meaning of calling Wahba 5 for action as this situation is urgent. With that being said, IPCC used two images that enhance and has a direct relationship between the images and the goals and missions by applying the main idea, that IPCC believe in, to the images used as the visualizations that shows the climate change effects in figure 1, and the statistics and numbers of figure 2. In addition, there are several logical fallacies that are being applied to the images. One of these fallacies is which means if a part of something is true then the whole thing is true. This is applied to the first image which is the front cover of the assessment report by showing that people are suffering due to the impact of climate change caused by human activities of burning fossil fuels which result in excessive amount of carbon dioxide gas in the atmosphere. IPCC assumes that since humans are responsible for the production of carbon dioxide then the increase of the average temperature of the surface is caused because of humans. Another fallacy is where only two alternative states are the only possibilities when more possibilities exist. This fallacy is applied to the first image too as IPCC ignores all factors other than human activities that might be affecting the climate and causing it to change. The image does not show any natural factors. Furthermore, to is another fallacy being applied to the cover of the report as the cover shows a picture of a glacier which represents nature. That glacier is being used as a result of climate change and the message IPCC wants to deliver here is that since something natural is changed, then the claim that the climate is changing due to carbon dioxide emitted from burning fossil fuels is valid and justified. In conclusion, you cannot deny the fact that the climate is changing. The images IPCC uses are credible and shows the real effect of climate change but at the same time it does not have to be a catastrophic issue or as terrible disaster as some scientists deal with the global Wahba 6 warming situation. To sum up the issue, most scientists agree that carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere have increased and it affects the temperature of the atmosphere; however, that does not mean there are no other factors affecting the climate. Wahba 7 Works Cited Chow, Denise. Places Already Feeling the Effects of Climate Livescience, www.livescience.com/41380-climate-change-places-at-risk.html 12 March 2017, Web. Governing IPCC IPCC, www.ipcc.ch/pdf/ipcc-principles/ipcc-principles.pdf 11 March 2017, Web. R.K. Pachauri, L.A. Meyer, Change 2014: Synthesis IPCC, 2014, p.1, 11 March 2017, Web. Change 2014: Synthesis IPCC, 12 March 2017, Web. IPCC: Who Are They and Why Do Their Climate Reports UCSUSA, backgrounder.html#.WMYCkxiZOqA 12 March 2017, Web.