Asiya Ahmed Ahmed 1 Prof. Poston ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Fight for Change The Council on American-Islamic Relations, CAIR, one of the most extensive advocacy and civil rights organizations, is devoted to combating anti-Muslim discrimination. Everyday, their nation-wide offices receive calls on cases of discrimination, and the civil rights staff endeavors to rectify the reports through public pressure, negotiation, mediation, or if need be, legal action. Although the organization tackles a multitude of anti-Muslim hate cases, their services are not exclusive to such, because CAIR defends the civil rights of every American; regardless of their faith. Their services are also commonly delivered free of charge. The organization is composed of chapters in every state, they provide the public with support and awareness through press conference, workshops, and protests. They have spoken out in opposition of President recent executive order, and have filed federal lawsuits on behalf of individuals whose constitutional rights were violated. Nihad Awad, National Executive Director, said, of our darkest moments was during World War II when we turned away Jewish refugees seeking our protection. We cannot allow religious bigotry to affect our willingness and ability to welcome those fleeing violence and Ultimately, the Council on American-Islamic supports the integral and equal rights and responsibilities for all. Council on American-Islamic Relations, demonstrates their message of equality and advocacy for Muslim Americans through copious methods, but visually, the audience is connected through rhetoric appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. Student-held rallies have become increasingly prevalent in higher institutions, many of them being personally affected by the order. The first picture shows a group of Muslim women fighting against Islamophobia at a rally. According to CAIR, 29% of hijab-wearing students report having their hijab pulled off or other offensive touching, while another 20% of Muslim Ahmed 2 students have reported discrimination by a school staff member (CAIR). The image itself illustrates resistance and the power the people in this country have. They are conveying, with their fists up high and arms linked together, that no matter what, they are not backing down from this fight they are doing it together - the best way. Though, the maker is not as effective in demonstrating its appeal to credibility, or ethos, because it is simply a photo taken from a professional camera, and does not contain a watermark nor is endorsed; evidently, it appeals to every fundamental rights of freedom of speech and religion. The image evokes an empowered and passionate feeling within the audience, representing pathos. It reinforces the notion that when we unify - when we embrace and honor our differences amongst each other, and join together - no matter the color of your skin or whether you wear a cloth around your head, we are all fighting for the same rights - human rights. Moreover, the expressions on the faces are very serious and passionate, with their brows furrowed and open capturing their chants in a still shot. It also allows the audience to think about stereotypes plaguing our society; through the logos, the appeal to logic and reason. First, the stereotype that women are in need of a saving and voice, because they are or and need defending. Second, the stereotype that Muslim women are oppressed and are not allowed to voice themselves outside of their homes, for only the men should. Distinctly, both stereotypes, that some may be unaware even exist, are destroyed by this picture of all Muslim women fighting for their rights, not allowing anyone else to dictate lives for them. The religion of Islam deems women valuable and highly, but many people fuse Ahmed 3 their own culture with religion, so the veracity is lost and misconceptions are created just based off a select group of individuals. Deeply rooted in beliefs is conscience that everyone God created is equal and his believers have a duty to not only worship him, but maintain and advocate for human rights and equality. For instance, jihad is a word frequently misunderstood. The word does not mean war or violence, but the internal and external efforts to be a Good believer and strive to inform others on the teachings of islam - the teachings of peace. These women are not fighting for evil or violence, nor are they using violent methods, they are protesting for peace and equality - vision. Kairos, the appeal to timeliness, is also shown to the audience by the sense of urgency that we need to fight, and the time is now. are always strongest as a nation when we stand together in defense of the Constitution and the freedoms it (CAIR). Resistance is not something you simply wait for, change never happens by itself - you must fight for it now, together. The second image is an eye-opening image for many people. The woman pictured, in the white veil, is the first Muslim American woman to wear hijab while competing in the USA Olympics, Ibtihaj Muhammad, who competed as a saber fencer (USA Fencing). is history. This is what America looks like. The color of our skin or the clothes we wear do not define the people that we are - our character and strength do. To watch not only a woman in hijab, but a woman color in hijab, smiling and waving, definitely may change the way minority children grow up and think about themselves. The image was a screenshot taken of the USA Olympic lineup in 2016, and Ahmed 4 has the NBC logo placed in the top-right corner, thus presenting its credibility to viewers; our society deems the media and news outlets very highly and truthful in capturing news and history. It was taken real-time, as is shown by the venue they are located within and the description box reading the name at the bottom. The image allows the audience to feel a sense of pride and patriotism, because this, the diversity, is how the United States should be portrayed because this is the way it is. If that simple idea stirs up outrage and opposition, why is this nation called Land of the White men are not the only ones that excel, or are allowed to, in education and arts; women and people of color can handle the same tasks and duties, it is their right. Without a doubt, the variety of men and women from different backgrounds and religions joining together to play the same sport and demonstrating sportsmanship amongst each other, speaks measures about a society. It surprises the audience because never has there been a Muslim woman in hijab at the Olympics; many, mistakenly, believe it is the religion that prohibits Muslim women from excelling in society, but that is false. During an interview with USA Today, she said, lot of people believe that Muslim women have voices or that we participate in sport..and not just to challenge misconceptions outside the Muslim community but within the Muslim community. I want to break cultural (Wolken). In Islam, the women are given the same privileges as the men, although some duties vary depending on gender, the encourages the increasing of knowledge, regardless of sex. Although, there has not been a Hijabi Muslim in the Olympics before, there has been other Muslims that most people can not visibly assume, or choose to believe, belong to the faith, because they do not wear a veil. This is a wake-up call that anyone can achieve the same greatness as another, regardless of their background or religion; although, some have to work harder than others due to discrimination or any other hindrance, it can happen. CAIR Ahmed 5 advocates for that and strives to ease some of the struggles that those people face through their journey. This is proof, to never stop fighting for what you want and believe in. Council on American-Islamic Relations, displays their message of equality and advocacy for Muslim Americans through numerous methods, but visually, the audience is connected through rhetoric appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos and The organization is the largest Muslim advocacy and civil rights organization and is composed of chapters across the country to help solve discrimination cases, and bring awareness to serious prejudicial issues.However they are not exclusive to only people of the Islamic faith, CAIR the equal and interdependent rights and responsibilities of all. The staff is always on call ready and willing to battle reports through negotiation, mediation, or if need be, legal action. Ahmed 6 Works Cited Abrams, Abigail. What Is CAIR? Muslim Civil Rights Group Struggles To Fight Islamophobia After Recent  Business Times . N.p., 05 Dec. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Admins, IP. What We  - Council on American-Islamic Relations - CAIR . N.p., 11 Mar. 2015. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Combating  New York . N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.  - CAIR Added a New Photo. Facebook . CAIR, 5 Aug. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Ibtihaj  Fencing . N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Lane, Emily, Megan McIntyre, et al. Rhetoric Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text. Naeem, Nabeelah. Press  - Council on American-Islamic Relations - CAIR . N.p., 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Sports, Dan Wolken. Ibtihaj Muhammad Makes U.S. History, Wears Hijab in  Today . Gannett Satellite Information Network, 08 Aug. 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.