Student: Danish Siddiqui Instructor: Nancy Carr Class: ENC 1101 Composition I Date: 03/05/2017 Introduction Cybercrime is any offense that is committed via the World Wide Web, also called the internet. Initially, the prime objective of the launch of the internet was to help people connect socially and globally. Back in the 1950s, the primary use of the Internet was to connect people from different geographical locations as a medium of sharing information. Currently, almost everyone everywhere is connected across the media. However, with the rapid growth of technology, track for criminals has been laid through the use of the internet. There are many horrendous types of cybercrimes which include stalking, hacking, cyberbullying, and identity theft. These are just but a few of the many unlawful acts that happen through the use of computers and internet. Cybercrime is continuously becoming rampant despite the development of securities on cyberspace. In the past ten years, measures have been put in place to curb the cyber criminology which saw a decline in cybercrimes, but it has not got any better. According to Tor Tuluc in 2012 this greatest pandemic has fully developed and fledged into an industry having several markets, suppliers and service providers. It also offers services that supplement financing and trading globally. The growth of the cybercrime industry is intensified by the protective cloak for criminals through technologies. The Growing Threat of Cybercrime With the advancement of technology, the passage of information using our Internet system becomes vulnerable to potential unauthorized users. There was an increasing case of cybercrimes, but the perpetrators were not charged as there was no law in place to combat this kind of crime. The United States introduction of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act in 1986 which was inspired by the released of the movie Wargames has faced difficulty in the implementation process. The computer crime policy was unclear between the distinction of computer trespass and felonious computer crime (Skibell, 2003). The US Congress has continuously strengthened the CFAA since 1984 by creating new crimes, lowering level of intent, ad subsequently raising the penalties for the perpetrators. CFAA was the only law the government could use in dealing with cybercrime relates cases in the 1980s. Even though the Congress passed the 1984 CFAA, it had some challenges as some criticized it for being vague, narrow in scope, and over prosecuting. After an extensive study on computer crime, it led to the amendment of CFAA in 1986, where the scope was increased to include the following three crimes; Hacking, Computer fraud and trafficking of network passwords. With the advancement in technology, different dynamics to cybercrimes emerge, and the Congress had to introduce new changes to the laws to combat cybercrimes. Major changes took place in 1994 even though minor changes were observed in 1988, 1989, and 1990 (Skibell, 2003). Cybercrime has seen it advance from the local to the international level where terrorists are taking advantage of the situation. In 1996, Congress revised the CFAA to the current structure being used today. The amendments of 1996 have a wider scope, and also three offenses were added to cover international computer crimes. After 9/11 tragedy that befell the US, Congress passed USAPA which made it easy to charge computer crime and introduced cyber terrorism acts. There was also an increase in the amount to be paid from $1000 to $5000. According to Wall, (2007) the most difficult task to do is the monitoring of cybercrimes by the police due to its complexity. There has been a continuous effort by the government to combat cybercrime both locally and internationally, but it always faces a challenge as the hackers seem to be on a higher level or using more recent technology than the government. The local police face challenges since the internet is being used globally, therefore, becoming more of a national issue. USAPA raised the charges for victims defiling CFAA felony provisions where first-time offenders would face a five to ten-year sentence and in the case of repeat the offense is raised to between ten to twenty years. In the year 2002, cyber security enhancement act was passed and there was a universal agreement about the increase in growth of computer crimes whose solution is a criminal sanction. With cybercrime being an international issue there has been a problem with legal disparities in inter-jurisdiction cases. Wall, (2007) presents legal disparities where theft of trade secret is a criminal offense in the United States, but the same offense is charged as civil in the United Kingdom. In 2011, there was a high profile CFAA that was drafted by the white house and the Department of Justice where serious issues were included in the CFAA where the prison sentence was further increased, and there was the introduction of RICO offenses (Meyer, 2016). The government has put all resources in the bid to end cybercrime where laws have been reviewed, and individuals sensitized on the cybercrime cases. According to Meyer, (2016) critics have always questioned the method of using criminal law to stop the victims who are hard to find. This is because some of them could be outside the US and worse off some of the cybercriminals are usually sponsored by the foreign government a good example is when the Chinese military officers were identified to have committed the offense in 2014. Cybercrime has continued to be a challenge for most countries today. The police department has received low cases of cybercrime because they are not reported since victims have no confidence in the law enforcement agencies hence leading to the increased threats of cybercrimes. These crimes do not only affect the government, but individuals as well since hackers can use your details to change medical information about a patient and also gain access to their finance accounts. The major problem has been the ill- developed legal system serves and the measures to tame cybercrime may be obsolete (Tuluc, 2012; Meyer, 2016). Conclusion There has been a deliberate move by the government to combat cybercrimes since the introduction of the internet. Laws have been placed with harsh penalties, but the problem seems to be advancing with the advancement of technology. Therefore from the above discussion is evident that the government has not fully combated the cybercrime issues. With the increase in the number of students taking courses in information technology and computer science the number of people venturing into the hacking industry has also increased, and this has posed a challenge both to the public and the government. Lack of global cooperation among the agencies proves to be the primary reasons as to why cybercrimes have proved to be a problem to combat in the United States. References Skibell, R. (2003). Cybercrimes & misdemeanors: A reevaluation of the computer fraud and abuse act. Berkeley Technology Law Journal, 909-944. Wall, D. S. (2007). Policing cybercrimes: Situating the public police in networks of security within cyberspace. Police Practice and Research, 8(2), 183-205. Tuluc, A. M. (2012). Economic Processes Associated with The Cybercrime Industry. Economics, Management & Financial Markets, 7(2), 179-184. Mayer, J. (2016). Cybercrime Litigation. University of Pennsylvania Law Review, 164(6), 1453-1507