Patel 1 Sasha Patel Taylor Poston ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Deforestation- World Wildlife Fund World Wildlife Fund or WWF stands for the most important forests to sustain diversity, along with benefiting our climate, and supporting human (wwf.org). They eliminate deforestation threats, minimize the amount of reckless agriculture, and stop illegal logging. They even address road and infrastructure development to ensure that the trees are safe. goal is to protect the natural habitat and wildlife by stopping deforestation. The images are trying to show that deforestation is a huge deal today, and instead of stopping deforestation, it is being continued. The images try to persuade the viewer to notice a greater sense of loss as the of the climate, or trees, are being cut because of anthropogenic causes. The trees are referred to as the lungs of the environment because of their capability to absorb carbon dioxide and release oxygen, which helps regulate the greenhouse Patel 2 gases in the atmosphere. The images created by WWF help convince the reader to take action because of their visual appeals and rhetorical strategies. WWF was found by British biologist, Sir Julian Huxley, who made a trip to East Africa in 1960 to report the wildlife conservation in the area. During his trip, he was not pleased by the observations that he made and predicted that the wildlife would vanish in 20 years. Then the year after a group of experts established an organization to support the conservation of animals in the area. Around same time that year, a panda named Chi- Chi became a popular attraction, so the group decided to use a panda as their logo. So in 1961, around September, World Wildlife Fund became official, as they raised around $2 million to help other local organizations, such as Masai Mara Game Reserve (Parnes, 1). This led to a great start for WWF and today the organization has made a great mark in the vast communities and ecosystems. Patel 3 WWF, is a world-known organization, and it has logo with a panda on both of the images. WWF works in multiple regions across the globe, such as the Virunga Mountains in East Africa, the Amazon regions in South America, and the Sumatran forests . They also work with multiple stakeholders, with their Global Forest & Trade Network division, GFTN, and alliances like on the to protect the trees. main contributions to minimize the depletion [of trees and natural as well as their proposed policy options to cope with the threats like deforestation and minimize the further depletion of the basin (Meh, 9). So the World Wildlife Fund is a very big and well known organization which also proves the credibility of the images, using the rhetorical appeal of ethos, which then persuades the reader to believe anything the organization supports. The images also use the logos appeal, or logic. Underneath one of the images, a logical appeal can be seen as statics are given. The little caption underneath one of the images says a single golf course puts thousands of trees at stake. However, in southern Turkey, they are planning to build several courses (wwf.org). This is very logical because people can see that golf courses require a lot of land to be cleared down. We can also see that the only reason that the land is cleared is for anthropogenic use, such as golfing as seen in the image. There is a little bit of a logical appeal used in the other image as well. As the viewer sees lungs made out of trees, it gives importance to the role of the trees in the production of oxygen, which then makes the reader logically think about how deforestation causes the greenhouse gases to stay in the atmosphere, which cause global warming. This is logos because of the reasoning that the viewer has to do, to see the importance of the loss of trees. The most prevalent rhetorical appeal that is used is pathos, or appeal to emotion. This appeal is trying to the reader and it is working. The reader looks at the image and sees Patel 4 how there is a big effect by the removal of trees, and how humans are the main cause of deforestation. These images are trying to make us feel guilty. For the first image, we can see how an unwanted action such as deforestation has consequences. The or sick make us feel fearful as to what the outcome of logging will be. One lung lobe is still green and healthy, while the other lung lobe is slowly browning and losing its color, this is symbolizing slow death. The lungs in this image can be compared to a lungs, emphasizing the negative consequence, especially since the trees are commonly referred to as the lungs of the Earth, because of their ability to absorb in greenhouse gases and release fresh oxygen. was probably at the heart of most fears for the narrators also spoke with sadness: Earlier there were dense forests and there were many (Bennett, 22). This shows us that deforestation is bad and how it is just plain sad to see the lifeless and dead landscape. For the second image of the golfer with an axe is very deep because it is showing how our needs affect our decisions. Our anthropogenic needs such as the need for land or large space for agriculture or recreational purposes such as golf fields causes us to destroy trees. We destroy so much that we cannot see the larger impacts such as climate change, soil erosion, and loss of biodiversity. So when we look at the images we realize that trees are being cut by humans for human needs, and that it is negatively impacting the climate. Although the images are not quite direct, they still get the point across. The images show a feeling of guilt and loss as a sign of pathos. In summation both the images are very thought- provoking as they showed how big of an impact deforestation has had. As I first viewed the images, from the perspective, I felt very guilty when I viewed the image of the golfer with the axe in his hand. That was quite thought provoking as I saw the clear blue sky, trimmed green grass, and golfer in his professional attire. The picture seemed so perfect until the axe was seen, instead of a golf club. Patel 5 This image represented how perfect the world seems to be, until the viewer opens his or her eyes and begins to see the amount of destruction that this so called world has caused. This invoked a feeling of irresponsibility, shame, and guilt. We need to realize that the main reasons for the depletion of trees, as seen in the image, is because of our anthropogenic desires such as the want for cleared land for uses like agriculture or golfing, which can be seen in the second or image. The change to stop deforestation begins with us. Stakeholders like WWF simply try to support and promote that change. References Bennett, Olivia. Mountain  UNASYLVA-FAO- (1998): 22-30 Patel 6 Meh, Gilbert Geh. Deforestation in the Congo Basin rainforest, the trend in Cameroon and Democratic Republic of Congo: Efforts of the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) in conserving the Congo  (2011). Parnes, Robin Brett. All About the World Wildlife  HowStuffWorks. N.p., 03 Dec. 2007. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Print ads by World Wildlife Fund. 2013. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. WWF Campaign: Deforestation and Lungs. 2013. Propaganda for change. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.