John Vargas Carr ENC 1101 3/5/2017 Project 2 intermediate draft Some of the greatest stories known to man are just that, stories. But some of them come from real world feats such as Hannibal Barca crossing the Alps with his army of elephants in order to attack the empire of Rome, or the three hundred Spartans defending against tens of thousands of Persians, or in more recent times from a historical point of view, Napoleons conquest of Europe. What do all these tales have in common? They all root from the romantic mystique that warfare help over mankind for millennia. But why are these heroes not from modern conflicts, specifically the 20 th and 21 st century. Well I believe because war is no longer a story of knights in shining armor or these boisterous heroes defying all odds. War is has removed the human element in modern times. In this paper we will be discussing the changes that have occurred in the past two centuries to how wars are fought and how they are perceived. One of the biggest changes that combat received in the 1900s was the development of more destructive weaponry, capable of much more devastation than the human race has ever experienced. In Ramillers New Technologies in the Great he describes the invention of automatic rifles and the influence they had. He provides juxtaposition with previous weapons and modern weapons which provide a great insight into how these heroes could no longer exist and how insignificant the soldier becomes in the grand scheme of warfare. We see this escalation continue throughout the century climaxing with the development of nuclear weapons which not only reduced the significance of individual soldiers, it made entire countries seem insignificant. The creation and use of nuclear weapons provide a stark reminder that the stakes of war has changed. Wesseling provides an argument in his article & the roots of the Great on how the mindset that accompanied imperialism changed the reason wars were fought. In the 20 th century wars were no longer just fought over resources and land, they were fought now being fought over ideas. In the 1950s the conflict in Korea should have been an internal conflict that in history is viewed as relatively insignificant on a global scale. But what you see instead is a conflict that involved two separate great powers in the United States and China, pouring resources into these opposing sides in the name of two differing economic philosophies, capitalism and communism. One of the first wake up calls the world received on the destruction posed by modern warfare was the battle of Verdun in the First World War. In Foleys article the killing he does a great job in conveying the complete hopelessness that soldiers in a modern war felt. People were dying in the thousands for a 12 mile stretch of worthless land on a daily basis in unspeakable conditions. Constant rain and bombardment led to men even just dying from sinking into mud and being forced to eat rats and leather shoes for nutrition. This is when war lost its romantic charm. This is where you see the writers of the time such as Ernest Hemingway gain their bleak outlook and writing style. In Keens article the American Historiography on World War he provides an insight into American culture in the 20 th century and how it responded to how these wars were viewed.