Scott 1 Raekwon Scott ENC1102.016S17 Professor Erika Staiger 14 March 2017 Rhetorical Appeals Used By the NCAA The NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) is a non-profit organization that has dedicated themselves to safeguarding the well being of student athletes. The NCAA is primarily responsible for funding many programs that directly support the educational, financial, and health and safety needs of student athletes. One-way the NCAA is able to demonstrate their dedication to its student athletes and accomplish its main goals is through the use of the four rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos and kairos. These rhetorical appeals help the NCAA enforce their message and establish their purpose of equipping student athletes with the necessary tools they need in order to succeed on the field, in the classroom and in life. Ethos is the appeal to ethics and it is ultimately the means of trying to convince someone of the credibility and character of the persuader. Through the two forms of media representing student athletes, the NCAA is able to establish a strong sense of credibility and trust amongst their audience, by emphasizing and reiterating that they have been helping collegiate athletes over 100 Through the use of this rhetorical device, the audience is actually able to believe that because the NCAA has been assisting student athletes for so long, they must know what they are doing, thus again reestablishing that credibility. Scott 2 Logos is the appeal to logic, and is a way of persuading an audience with reason. In both of the videos presented by the NCAA, they imply that thousands of collegiate athletes will be going pro in something other than their They state that regular collegiate athletes, and even African American college athletes, are more likely to graduate than college students not participating in sports. Additionally, they state that college athletes have higher and SAT scores than inbound college students. It is apparent that they are making these claims because they want to make sure that their audience realizes that collegiate athletes are not just a bunch of jocks who are only in school for athletics. In both videos, the NCAA includes the visual of student athletes dressed up in lab suits and conducting experiments. The video also shows athletes raising their hands and actually participating in class lectures. Again, this restates the general message, that athletes are not only involved in their sport, but also highly involved in their academics. Pathos is the appeal to emotion and is the way of convincing an audience of an argument by enticing an emotional response. The NCAA effectively uses pathos in their video by repeatedly asking the audience will they This demonstrates pathos because it is almost as if they are reaching out directly to their audience and giving them the power to decide what to do. The NCAA is trying to stimulate the audience by giving the audience a wake up call by comparing them to the athletes, and stating that they are the ones who are taking action. By doing this, it is as if the NCAA is issuing a call to action to their audience by saying that college athletes are going to go pro in many other things besides their sport. Therefore it is up to the audience to take action and show what they are capable of, and begin working to reach their goals. This is a demonstration of Scott 3 pathos, because asking the question qill you the NCAA is evoking an emotional response that forces the audience to take the time to consider what it is they should be doing with their future. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness and is the way of establishing credibility, and establishing the main point of your message to the audience. The NCAA makes effective use of the rhetorical appeal Kairos by emphasizing over 100 years they have been helping student athletes find their power outside the field court and rink. This is a primary example of Kairos, because it exeimplifies the timeliness of the help the NCAA has been providing student athletes for so many years. In order to understand why this is so important to note, it is important to remember that the rhetorical appeal Kairos, is all about timeliness. By constantly stating throughout the video that they have been helping athletes for over 100 years they are reinstating their timelines in the lives of student athletes. Through the use of the four rhetorical visual appeals, ethos, pathos, and logos, the NCAA is able to fulfill their goal of demonstrating their dedication to student athletes, and safe-guarding the well being, and reputation of student athletes all while equipping them with the necessary tools in order to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and in life. The NCAA has been successfully representing student athletes, and making sure that the reputation of their student athletes is one that is profound. The NCAA wants their audiences to know that student athletes are capable of much more than the average person may think. They want their audience to realize that although student athletes may dedicate and sacrifice a lot of time to their sport, they are still hardworking college athletes, who can also dedicate themselves in the classroom. It is through the use of the Scott 4 four rhetorical appeals, the NCAA is able to reiterate this message to their audience and successfully influence the way people perceive student athletes. It is because of these various methods that the NCAA has had such great success in representing student athletes, and will continue to do so for many years to come. Scott 5 Works Cited Rifenburg, Michael1. Supporting Writers: A Case Study of a Division I Athletics Writing Center and NCAA Academic  Writing Center Journal, vol. 37, no. 1/2, Spring/summer2016, pp. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/lo Santesteban, Cristian J.1, cristian@redpeakecon.com and Keith B.2 Leffler. Assessing the Efficiency Justifications for the NCAA Player Compensation  Antitrust Bulletin, vol. 62, no. 1, Mar. 2017, pp. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/0003603X16688838. Sugiura, Ken. Lend Helping Hand: NCAA Program Benefits Local Schools, Helps Build Leadership  The Atlanta (Atlanta,2009. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.li live. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NqKsrhkM2MU https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ltaRIJ0N2o Scott 6