Langs 1 Chase Langs Dennis Composition II 26 February 2017 EPA vs NHRA and Their Mission Statement Cars are fun. Racing cars is better fun. Having a Hot Rod to race? as exciting as it gets. In 1951, Wally Parks established the National Hot Rod Association, or NHRA, in California with a mission to organize and promote the sport of drag racing (NHRA). Cars and drag racing are good fun, create an environment to bring families together, and an opportunity to share knowledge, training, and education about the ever-on-going evolution of cars and automobiles. But, cars present a serious problem a serious environmental problem. They eat up fossil fuels, they are loud, noisy, dirty, oily, and substantially add to our pollution crisis. In response to concerns for the environment and pollution, the federal government took the step of creating the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, in 1970. The mission statement is to human health and the (EPA). The EPA effectively acts as the counterweight to car racing both entities, the NHRA and the EPA, balance the interests in pursuing hot rods and racing while protecting the interests of our planet, a clean environment, and the safety of people. For example, take the following image used in support of the NHRA. They say that a picture is worth a thousand words. Here, the NHRA is illustrating through its choice of subject matter, bright colors, style and complexity of message that cars and family are at the root of generational bonding. We have, we assume, to be a father and young son, huddled over the engine of an older-style pickup truck. Langs 2 Arms entwined over one another, the two share a joyous, warm, tender, educational, and lasting moment over the mechanics of a engine. The that cars brings families together is credible, and not only appeals to a sense of morality (that this is right and a good thing), but to the logic and reason (this is how knowledge is passed from one generation to the next), as well as to sense of timeliness fathers and sons and automobiles are lasting. The NHRA, sponsoring both local and national drag racing events for just under 70 years, is said to trail NASCAR in attendance, sponsorship commitment and popularity in the United (NHRA) The NHRA is generally accepted as largest motorsports sanctioning body in the world and has one of the largest groups of sportsmen and professional racers in its contests. (NHRA). Though the NHRA is a global-sports business, has come a long way since Wally Parks founded it in according to its mission statement, the NHRA is there provide competitors a place to (NHRA) The NHRA is so popular, it is estimated that it generates more than $100 million in revenue annually. Andrew Wolf, non-profit status comes under IRS (NHRA) Langs 3 To be sure, the NHRA and race cars are a big-money industry. It is certainly not going to disappear any time soon. With its popularity, the NHRA can also certainly be said to be a participant in the damaging affects of car pollution. A rhetorical fallacy not captured in the NHRA photograph. The Environmental Protection Agency has not been afraid to go after the NHRA and race cars in protecting the environment as well as people. The EPA, clearly, is a major stakeholder in the value and protection of the environment, and specifically as to the safety of human drivers, car standards, and pollutant emissions. The image itself, as shown below, reflects the simplicity of its message and purpose It is a flower supported with a horizon and sun. With its blues, whites, and greens, the logo evinces clean, innocent, and pure principles of nature, unaffected by the dirty notions and ideas of industry and machinery. The image is, unlike the NHRA photograph, intemperate, logical, and without appeal to emotion. It is a pointed delivery of what the EPA seeks to protect our planet. Langs 4 Automobile emissions pose a significant and substantial danger to the environment. emissions can cause headaches, contribute to lung cancer, emphysema, and various other respiratory and cardiovascular problems . . . . They also modify weather conditions, damage vegetation, and eat away at rubber, textiles, dyes, and other (EPA) The EPA, over its 45-year history, however, by regulating and directing the automobile industry has formed, essentially, a partnership with car enthusiasts to a point that each respective interests can be pursued without offending the purpose. In fact, according to Richard Truett from Automotive News, the EPA has been of the best things that has ever happened to the Richard Truett, nod to EPA, cars are faster, more powerful and more fun to (Truett). We can see the blend between industry and nature in the NHRA photograph. The truck, representing machinery and industry, rests open at the behest of father and son, along what appears to be the side of the road . . . in nature. The background evokes a fall or autumn day, sunshine basking the road, on which the truck might eventually run. A balance illustrating the tensions between cars and the saving of nature. that a pollution causing car can exist in a clean natural environment. The image (employing several rhetorical appeals) of a feel-good, educational, and exciting opportunity to bond with family and machine plays well with the pointed image and symbol representing that purpose and directive to uphold our purity and cleanliness. Wally Parks said that the purpose of the NHRA is to provide a safe and open opportunity for people to drag race cars. Conversely, cars can pollute the environment and pose safety risks. In turn, the purpose is to provide and protect not only the safety of people, but the protection and continued growth of the environment. Langs 5 Each photograph and visual image presents the viewer with the ideals and principles each respective stakeholder seeks to pursue. On the one hand, the NHRA, a multi-million dollar car industry, invokes the emotional invitation to participate in an environment above and beyond engineering, plastics, metals, fuel, and emissions by sharing education and knowledge, time, family, and the development of relationships. One might say, this is good for the environment! Conversely, the EPA states in no uncertain terms through its simple and concise logo that its interest as a stakeholder in the safety and preservation of the planet is sought not necessarily through the feel-good activities of drag racing, for example, but through the unflinching business pursuits of protecting the environment. One might say, this is good for cars and car racing. Each stakeholder can effectively communicate its respective purpose through the use of one image an image that encapsulates several rhetorical appeals to lend itself credibility, reliability, veracity, and clarity in message. The NHRA image is one of complex emotion and invitation to greater relationships through cars and automobiles. The EPA logo cuts through any potential loss of message through a simple, clean, pure explanation of its purpose the protection of the planet. The goals of each stakeholder the NHRA and the EPA are stated directly, albeit differently, through one picture a picture worth a thousand words. Langs 6 Works Cited Dvirrueta. How Long Has the EPA Been  GreenAnswers. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://greenanswers.com/question/how-long-has-epa-been-around/>. EPA EPA Main  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.epa.gov/>. EPA SEAL EPA  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. FATHER SON PICTURE Father Son  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://s-media-cache- ak0.pinimg.com/736x/2a/2c/87/2a2c87dff6cfbe81e00e5de3cc99c9a8.jpg>. NHRA NHRA Main  National Hot Rod Association. Various, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nhra.com/>. Truett, Richard. EPA Move Could Set up New Fight over  Automotive News. N.p., 16 Jan. 2017. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. <http://www.autonews.com/article/20170116/OEM06/301169951/epa-move- could-set-up-new-fight-over-co2>.