In 1906 the HMS was commissioned into service for the Royal Navy and the Battleship was born! Historians herald this as a turning point in naval warfare. Battleships were the most powerful warships to ever be produced in an era when Big guns and armor were what carried the day in stark contrast to lightly armored heavy hitting missile warships of today. Battleships fought in both of the world wars on either side, and in some cases even were modernized for action in the Cold War. however after WWII, they were largely considered more of an expensive fleet liability than an invaluable asset. The history of such vessels has been widely discussed and extensively researched in great detail. Despite there being a large number of investigations on the subject there exists a solid consensus as to what caused these vessels to become obsolete. The discussion on the topic has been ongoing for almost three quarters of a century and the general consensus that the battleship became obsolete largely due to its inability to adapt to modernization because of the fact that the battleship was a maxed out version of their design and could not be modified much further. Three sources are going to be investigated to see if this consensus can be corroborated and whether or not there is any new information and ideas floating around on the subject. The book; for the battleship Yamato) by Mitsuro Yushida is a biographical account of the last fight of the Battleship Yamato through the eyes of a young ensign on the command bridge as his ship and its crew were destroyed around him by carrier borne aircraft dropping bombs and torpedoes to destroy the mighty warship. Includes as well is a historical analysis of the significance of the events portrayed in the text. The most important thing to be drawn here is agreement with almost all scholars on the idea that the sphere of Naval aviation caused not only the demise of the but also her sister Musashi along with a large percentage of the IGNs Naval forces. It follows the common ideas that are already present, most notably hat by WWII the battleship was essentially obsolete in the face of advancements in Naval aviation. This notion is further supported in both American Battleship) By: Samuel Loring Morison, and Battleship Book) By: Robert M. Farley. Samuel Loring Morison briefly in his book talks about the popular notion that it was also the exponential acceleration of the gross technological growth of the world in the 20th century that contributed to the class having only been effective for roughly half a century. The ability to advance has been exponentially increasing at a dramatic rate and this can explain not only the short life of battleships but also could explain the quick turnover of technologies from any number of fields. And both cite the attack on pearl Harbor in 1941 as a major indicator of the weakness of battleships when faced with a coordinated surprise carrier attack and reaffirmed the change in fleet organization. All of which follows the conventional understanding of why the battleship was replaced by vessels that were much smaller and more lightly armored but with new technologies that changed the doctrines of naval warfare and rendered the battleship obsolete. battleships of the 20th century) is another text by: B. Ireland that is essentially a type of encyclopedia on all the battleships of the world including their technical specifications and historical information on the different types and classes that existed. The message within follows well with the the ideas and conclusions of the other authors that the demise of these warships was greatly affected by the rapid technological development of the world and most notably the quick rise of aviation as a capable weapon system. Overall the consensus of the histories is that the battleship fell victim to its own slow ability to adapt this is especially clear because no country could produce a battleship that could withstand air attacks not to mention keep pace with technology. That, coupled with the dramatic increase in the pace of technological advancement around the world. While there is not much new information, given that most events and data surrounding the demise of the Battleship happened a long time ago and are extremely well documented and have been extensively analyzed. This therefore allows for an incredibly clear and concise picture of what cause the battleship to lose its reign of the seas. Sources: Morison, S. L., & Polmar, N. (2003). American battleship . St. Paul, MN: MBI. Farley, R. M. (2015). battleship book . Rockville, MD: The Wildside Press. Yoshida, M., & Minear, R. H. (1985). for Battleship Yamato . Seattle: University of Washington Press. Ireland, B. (1996). battleships of the 20th century . New York: HarperCollins.