Calderon 1 Sergio Calderon Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 27 February 2017 The Paw Project Visual Rhetoric Analysis The declawing of wild and domestic cats has been controversial for a long time, and one organization that is against it is the Paw Project. The Paw Project is an organization that advocates for preventing the act of declawing, Paw mission is to educate the public about the painful and crippling effects of feline declawing, to promote animal welfare through the abolition of the practice of declaw surgery, and to rehabilitate cats that have been (Conrad). Doctor Jennifer Conrad is the founder of the Paw Project, and she has had many years of veterinary experience with felines. This organization believes that declawing is inhumane, harmful to felines, and that no owner should be allowed to declaw his or her cat. The morality of declawing is discussed by Nadine Dolby, who had done research in the field of animals in education, and in her journal she had a quote from Friends Animal which explains: is the amputation of each toe at the first joint. In humans, it would be equivalent to cutting off the tip of every finger at the first knuckle very painful, indeed. If performed on a human, this operation would be considered a (Dolby 8). This may be one of many reasons why the Paw Project is strongly against declawing due to the procedure being equivalent to the amputation of human fingers at the first knuckle. Another perspective on the morality is given by Dana Atwood- Harvey, who specializes in Human-Animal Interaction and says that, comparing amputation to a more harmful consequence (death), the owner cognitively transforms his moral action from Calderon 2 behavior that is less than ideal into one that serves a higher (Atwood-Harvey 321). This is one of the reasons why this is a controversial issue in society. The Paw Project have two images that they use to promote their position on the issue: Figure 1 and Figure 2. These images support the Paw goals because they both express a strong sense of emotional appeal, as well as other rhetorical strategies that will give the audience an incentive to support their cause. Figure 1 is one of the images that is used to capture the attention, and it does this by using visual rhetorical strategies. Figure 1 displays a little grey kitten, which would symbolize a sense of gloom and somberness. This grey kitten has bandages on its paws because its claws have been surgically removed at a very young age, and there is also displays a female human lending a hand to the little grey kitten (Figure 1). This would be a strong example of pathos because it resembles a strong connection between humans and cats, and that humans can lend a helping hand to the feline community to prevent cats from experiencing great pain from declawing, as explained by Dr. Conrad: cats experience extreme pain supporting their body weight when standing or walking, if the tendon attached to the retained segment of the third phalanx pulls that bit of bone under the (Conrad). The emotional appeal in Figure 1 lets the audience know that they can lend a helping hand, and help prevent other felines from experiencing pain due to this surgical procedure. Figure 1 has an element of ethos as well, as it is also a visual cover of an advertisement for a documentary by the Paw Project. Not all documentaries are credible, but Figure 1 shows the names of those individuals involved in the documentary, and the filmmaker is Dr. Conrad who is the founder of the Paw Project, and a well-experienced veterinarian which adds more legitimacy to the film. Figure 1 does not have a strong rhetorical element of kairos, and even though the image shows that one is able to lend a helping hand, it necessarily give any sense of urgency. Since it is an advertisement, the creators for this advertisement essentially want Calderon 3 people to act upon the image and support the Paw Project by viewing the film, but there is not any call-to-action display that would make people respond immediately. What could perhaps make Figure 1 a good candidate for kairos is if it contained some sort of message that said, these suffering animals before too because that would give a specific command to do something, rather than only showing a kitten in pain with no urgent message. That is a way in which the Paw Project could have made kairos more pronounced in Figure 1. Logos would be expressed in figure one by the bandages on the grey paws, which lets the audience know that the cat had just recently had its claws removed, and that it is looking for someone to alleviate the pain from being declawed. It is also expressed in terms of the image itself being an advertisement for an informative documentary that give reasons why these cats suffer from declawing, which makes Figure 1 have a strong rhetorical appeal to logos because the idea that the reader is lead to an informative documentary by the images, makes Figure 1 have an indirect, but strong expression of logos. The Paw Project incorporated all of these rhetorical strategies into Figure 1 in different areas of the image, which makes it capable of grasping the attention to support the organization. Figure 1 is not the only image that the Paw Project use to support their agenda. There is another image that is labeled as Figure 2, and it incorporates the same elements of visual rhetoric as Figure 1. Figure 2 shows a female lion behind a fence that is trying to stand on a wooden plank, and she is trying to lift herself up, but she has to stand on her elbows to compensate for the pain in her clawless paws (Figure 2). One may not view the image and identify it as being obvious at first glance, but Dr. Conrad gives a reason why declawed feline tend to walk or stand abnormally by explaining, Calderon 4 The pad is often displaced backwards, toward the rear of the foot, allowing the weight of the body to push the end of the second toe bone (second phalanx, or p2), through the thinned tissue on the underside of the foot. These complications may occur in combination, invariably resulting in great pain for the animal to stand or walk (Conrad). Pathos is presented in Figure 2 by showing that declawing can sometimes cripple felines in ways that impairs their ability to walk or stand normally, more severe and particularly heartbreaking cases, the mutilation from declaw surgery may cause so much tenderness or pain that the animal can move only by walking on its  like Kona, the mountain lion shown here (Conrad). This would explain the reason why the female lion in Figure 2 is trying to stand or walk on her elbows, which is a strong indicator of logos because the audience can observe that the lion has abnormal posture due to her trying to compensate for the pain in her clawless paws, which has been previously explained by Dr. Conrad. In regards to Kairos, it is not very effective because Figure 2 itself does not show or imply a sense of timeliness and urgency for immediate action. Though people taking immediate action to support anti-declawing is what the Paw Project would favor, that is not what the image is trying to achieve, it has a stronger rhetorical presence in pathos and logos. A way that kairos could be made stronger in this image rhetorically, there could be a message in the images that could say, animal is crippled due to declawing, stop declawing or any message of that nature would be could substances for Kairos. Figure 2 is in a good rhetorical position in Ethos due to the condition being explained by Dr. Conrad and the Paw Project. It may be ambiguous at first glance of Figure 2, but the reason that the lion has this abnormal posture has been previously explained by Dr. Conrad, and further explained by adding: some felines will have immediate complications from the procedure, it may be many Calderon 5 months or years before the damaging effects of declawing become obvious. Declawing may result in permanent lameness, arthritis, and other long-term (Conrad). Essentially, Figure 2 may not be obvious at first, but the image is backed up by legitimate statements, which gives this image a good rhetorical position of Ethos. Figure 2 displays all of the rhetorical appeals that were shown in Figure 1, which makes these images carry rhetorical substance that appeals to the audience. Both Figure 1 and Figure 2 have one common goal, and that goal is to inform the audience and make them aware of the health problems that declawing can have on felines. These visual tools of rhetoric show these cats in some sort of pain, and that they have had their claws removed, which is the catalyst for their pain. That is why the Paw Project chose these images because they help illustrate the Paw Projects position on declawing, which is that declawing can cause harm to felines and that it is immoral and inhumane. Calderon 6 Works Cited Atwood-Harvey, Dana. Death or Declaw: Dealing with Moral Ambiguity in a Veterinary  Society & Animals, vol. 13, no. 4, Dec. 2005, pp. 315-342. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1163/156853005774653627. Conrad, Jennifer. ABOUT THE PAW  About The Paw Project. GoDaddy.com, LLC, 24 Feb. 2003. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Dolby, Nadine1. The Paw  Critical Education 6.23 (2015): 1-14. Education Source. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Digital image. Redirect Notice. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Mar. 2017. Digital image. N.p., n.d. Web. Calderon 7 Figure 1 Calderon 8 Figure 2