Raz Belleci Mrs. Carr ENC 1101 March 3, 2017 Documenting the Journey of the Earthship When you see the word you gravitate to the part and think of some sort of vehicle or a mode of transportation. You may explore other ideas in a galaxy far far away like; where do they come from, and who do they belong to? I do admit that the title is extraterrestrial to say the least. However, the idea of the earthship is not as alien as one might think. Its origin is of this world and even from within our own country. A being called Michael Reynolds was the pioneer in the discovery of this new form of inhabitance. I will cover the beginnings of the conversation of the earthship from the and Mr. reasons for its birth. Then, I will discuss the current state of the earthship community touching down in almost every country on the planet. From there I will be discussing the practical application of earthships in less developed civilizations and how it may bring relief to those places. There is a story that begins with a pursuit of one person to manipulate the current trajectory of mankind. An idea that has the momentum and mass to make a major impact on our environment. No I am not talking about a meteor; I am talking about a powerful possibility of living without an energy. I believe that the earthship can have a good impact on our future and it does this on its own power. The sun sets over the New Mexican desert outside of Taos in the as the first earthships rise to the horizon. Michael Reynolds has begun his earth moving discovery of the new vehicle to the future in his earthships. Chris Turner refers to design and terminology of it, in his 2008 article, as having an unmistakable hokiness. Turner further explains how Reynolds had to give up his architectures license to continue his odyssey with the earthship. Clearly in the beginning of the building of the first earthships there were some obstacles. There were issues with state and county building regulations and requirements that could not be met by design. In order to launch these earthships he had to clear the runway sort of speak by committing to the design. His mission with the earthships was to ultimately save the planet from ourselves. Humanity has a massive carbon footprint and it is only going to increase over the years. By solving a simple worldly issue Reynolds could in deed save the world from itself. Current developments have been slow moving but at a consistent pace all over the world. What was started as one earthship in the desert of New Mexico grew into a street, that street grew into a neighborhood, and that neighborhood has grown into a community. I say community because it refers to people not in the immediate area, rather a worldly concept of members. It was difficult to find out exactly how many earthships there are today because many of the people that choose to live in them are truly off the grid. Roy L. Nersesian discusses many different models of sustainability that could be considered for the conservation of our environment. One point that was made was the fact that we cannot repair or replenish what has already been lost, we must look to sustain what we have now so that we do not deplete it further. Traveling through time, there is a different application of this idea that many societies could benefit from. In to the Kristen Pope lays out the basic blueprints of a typical earthship. She breaks down what materials are required for the construction of an earthship. She also describes the availability of these materials thorough out the planet. In doing so she is revealing the ease of development in poverty stricken areas. If the supplies are there then the earthship will be able to be constructed and will provide secure affordable living for the needy. Furthermore, on the earth ship biotecture web site, they advertise an internship where you can go to foreign countries and learn how to build an earthship for a family in need. They offer hours from 9:00 am to 4:30 pm of physical labor building these earthships. It is more of an academy that has been set up and is its own form of architecture. This is just the beginning of the wild fire idea that Reynolds developed over forty years ago. Earthships are proving to be an alternative, resourceful and low impact way of living. Not only are they capable of supporting a family off the grid but they can provide some crops based on its functional design. From the beginning to the end of the conversation around the earthship, there is a clear progression historically, first of all the struggles of the creator of the idea and the issues that he ran into while trying to develop his idea. To the fortified community built around the world and even an academy teaching the methods. Now we can consider looking forward into providing shelter and sustainable living to those who truly need it. I think that this is all a very good start and this idea is building momentum for the betterment of our future. Earthships will soon be a household name and develop into a new frontier upon which mankind will be able to flourish. Bibliographic Information: Nersesian, Roy L.. (2010). Energy for the 21st Century. Taylor & Francis (prev. M. E. Sharpe). Retrieved 3 March 2017, from <http://www.myilibrary.com?ID=289118> Pope, Kristen (2015). Recycling to the max. American Planning Association 81(3). Reynolds, Michael (2015). Earthship biotecture, Earthship, Web. 04 Mar. 2017. http://earthship.org/Learn-More/internships. Turner, C. (2008). The earthship has landed. Walrus, 5(4), pg. 88-93.