Bairkdar 1 Majed Bairkdar Nancy Carr ENC 1101 March 5, 2017 The Transformation of Electric/Hybrid Vehicles Automobiles, we all use them but which type of automobile is the best? In automobile industry, there are three major powered cars. This paper will explain and compare The Transformation of electric/hybrid vehicles. electric and hybrid powered vehicles. Although we believe that the invention of electric and hybrid cars is recent, they have in fact been there for decades. The transformation of electric/Hybrid vehicles had a lot of changes and improvements throughout the years, the electric/hybrid also had major social changes, throughout the people and the market itself. Back in the day electric/hybrid vehicles were used all over, ranging from governments, personal use, and even public transportation. electric/hybrid Vehicles had a weird timeline, where they were famous and were used a lot and at one point the market suddenly crashed. That time it was rare to see an electric/hybrid vehicle on the street, and instead the gasoline power cars started booming. the early 1900s, there were many different brands of automobiles. Names such as Ford, Dodge, Chrysler, Oldsmobile, and Chevrolet are still around today. However, names such as Packard, Hupmobile, Hudson, Frazier, Cord, and, DeSoto have disappeared from showrooms and (Page 6) Going Green with Electric Vehicles (2010) vs. How may incentives for electric cars affect purchase decisions (2016)? Electric cars were available a long time ago, as a matter of fact electric cars were dominating the vehicle industry. Companies such as Packard, Hupmobile, Hudson, Frazier, Cord, and DeSoto, were the famous electric car manufacturers that everyone bought their cars from. Late 1890s was when the electric motor companies started to develop electric motors in America, where a company from Philadelphia started to manufacture a fleet of electric-powered taxis for the city of New York. Unfortunately, that did not last long, since starting the 1900s brands like Ford, Dodge, and Chrysler started taking over, and you would barely see the electric showrooms or even see them on highways. Walter F. was useful, and had a lot of good points. I liked how Deal was broken down into different parts, like starting with the history, going through the battery technologies, and explaining the future of what is predicted to happen for both electric, hybrid car, gasoline and petrol powered cars. Including the advantages and disadvantages to the topic mentioned in the article was a great addition to it, where it gives a great breakdown to the readers to go through the different points and decide what he thinks is better. Overall Deal had solid points with great explanations. Electric and hybrid cars, are a step forward to the end of Global Warming, countries around the world are promoting the purchase of hybrid and electric cars. Germany for the ambitious target of million electric cars on German roads by Bairkdar 2 . Reality speaks, and the numbers now does not show that Germany is getting a million cars on German roads anytime soon. Countries around the world are giving privileges to those who purchase a hybrid or an electric car, ranging from free parking spots all over the city to free charging stations. Mathematically proven owing an electric car is way cheaper than owning a petrol or diesel car, in the long run. tested incentives are direct subsidies, free parking, a separate CO2 tax, an increase of fuel costs by tax elevation, and an increase of available charging article had a lot of statistics, and detailed percentages which I like, because it gives you a great understanding of the points they are trying to deliver. also showed solutions and ideas the countries had to promote the purchase of the electric and hybrid car to start eliminating the global warming issue. Reading made me think about getting a hybrid car, because Rudolph uses a great detailed chart that shows you, that by owning a hybrid for electric cars the odds are in your favor. The history of alternative fuels in transportation: The case of electric and hybrid cars (2008) vs. A positioning-tolerant wireless charging system for roadway-powered electric vehicles (2015). Everyone nowadays think that hybrid or electric powered cars are the latest ever or is the newest add to automobiles, but hybrid and electric cars have been there since the history of the batteries. Electric cars had a great period which was called the golden age, where electric based cars were popular, that period was from about the 1880 to 1900. Electric cars were also used in war back then; they were usually used to clean the streets and garbage collection. By the 1980s electric cars boomed again and in 1990 California announced their first zero-emission regulations to the public. Fast-forward a couple of years 2001 start of seeing hybrid cars on the road. article was well organized, and had great detailed historical points. broke down the article to 11 different subtitles that helps the reader with understanding the points better. I also like how included great quotes. I think this helps the reader while trying to get all the different points of the article. started with the history of the electric cars and ended on how nowadays are a lot of different hybrids and fully electric based cars on the roads, and the electric cars transformed from being garbage collectors in the war to being cars that they use day to day. As stated in the title of Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & journal is about a wireless charging system designed for roadway-powered electric vehicles. A roadway- powered electric vehicle can accumulate energy even while the vehicle is in motion. Therefore, reducing the dependence of a battery or for that matter even battery charging specific stations. Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & Ching provides a solution of sorts that utilizes a positioning tolerant wireless charging system that can be used for roadway-powered electric vehicles. The said technique implements a gapless alternate-winding topology. At the end Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & Ching stated that the solution is feasible and therefore is very much implementable. Bairkdar 3 Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & journal is from a credible source as published by students from the department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering. This is a useful resource as this is applicable to my research and allows for a greater understanding of my work. This is an essential field of research. Overall the usage of a feasible outcome goes to show that is is indeed a viable solution.