Thant Zaw Oo Instructor Nancy Carr ENC 1101 016 5 March 2017 As the world is facing an urgent demand of electricity, many scientists have been researching ways to produce more electricity output. In order to achieve higher energy output and to reduce the hazards coal plants produce, the use of renewable energy is required as it eliminates the emission of greenhouse gases. Many acts like the Renewable Act were carried out worldwide and are anticipating the results compared to the projections drawn a decade ago. Rebecca claimed in the year 2002 that the amount of grid based electricity produced is predicted to be doubled by the year 2020. The quantity of grid based electricity output by the year she stated was 1.5 million MW and it steadily rose to 2.2 million in 2014. (The Shift Project. 2014) This indicated that the foreseen trend is possible since there is only 0.8 billion MW left for the projected 2020 plan. She also mentioned that areas like islands that have difficulties setting up power plants plus the absence of fossil fuels have gained electricity since then with the help of wind turbines and solar power. These places acquire maximum benefits as islands and rural areas have adequate flat land where dams, reservoirs, turbines and panels can be constructed. She uttered that the use of solar energy is also widening in open land and islands. One example she declared took place in Sri Lanka, where 4000 solar systems on residential areas were installed and the number grew rapidly proportional to the population. Soon, more firms were set up and huge investments on solar systems were headed to rural island regions. Since then, the needy renewable technology was exposed worldwide alerting numerous governments and environmental scientists. The change because of its influence was drastic, people were soon concerned about pollution, shortage and global warming; the impacts fossil fuels have inflicted to planet Earth. However, regardless of how fast technology is advancing, Jeffrey declared that there are still some factors that interfere the renewable energy process. spring, the Obama administration temporarily stopped the construction on a solar project in the Mojave Desert because of concerns that it would harm endangered species of (J. Ball. 2012) The construction was later permitted by the government after extracting imperiled creatures. Other rivals like landowners also delayed several construction of windfarms. Jeffery added in his article that the total contribution renewable energy worldwide was 19% in 2012. We can see that there was a substantial increase in its contribution when Paungpornpitak and Tia procliamed that it was only 12% in 2007. In shortly five years, there was a 7% rise supplied by solar, tide, wind and biomass. Although there was a rise in the total amount, they also mentioned that Hydropower has always been the highest provider as it generated approximately 80% throughout 2007 and 2012. Jeffrey revealed that as western governments withdrew their reinforcement for renewable energy, China has been surprisingly pushing full steam ahead of others and the reason was to enhance jobs and exports, to expend cash ,to moderate the rising fossil-fuel requirement and as well as to make the breathing air less polluted. He also uttered that investment made on research and development on renewable energy has escalated to about $50 billion in 2010 followed by $41 billion and 30$ billion by Germany and the United States as claimed by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Furthermore, Jeffery declared that renewable energy worldwide gets less revenues in annual subsidies than fossil fuels do. All renewable energy received $66 billion in subsidies for the year 2010 while a portion of just one subcategory of fossil fuels acquired $409 billion to cover their expenditure to customers as specified by International Energy Agency (IEA). Nowadays, the importance of renewable is taught to students in elementary level science education. Many electrical appliances are also being innovated and replaced by energy efficient electrical systems. This has brought human a step further from facing an energy crisis. To sum up, there are many technological advances and the numbers of renewable electricity systems are rising day by day. With the help of donations and media, the shortage and lack of electricity in certain places were revealed. As a result, electricity coverage has reached rural places such as islands overtime as firms seek for less competitive places. The government is best to accelerate the development of better energy systems by giving out more incentives and subsidies. Carbon dioxide emission must be monitored and maintained to ease global warming by placing caps and taxes. Renewable energy is the only sustainable energy source. References Ball, J. (2012). Tough Love for Renewable Energy: Making Wind and Solar Power Affordable Foreign Affairs, (3), 122. Clay, R. (2002). Renewable Energy: Empowering the Developing World. Health Perspectives, (1), A30-A33. Retrieved Phuangpornpitak, N., & Tia, S. (2013). Opportunities and Challenges of Integrating Renewable Energy in Smart Grid System. Energy Procedia, 34(10th Eco-Energy and Materials Science and Engineering Symposium), 282-290.doi:10.1016/j.egypro.2013.06.756 Destouni, G., & Frank, H. (2010). Renewable Energy. , 18-21. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/40801586