Collins 1 Bethany Collins Ms. Poston ENC 1102 12 March 2017 The Persuasive Abilities of The NRA The National Rifle Association, or the NRA for short, is the most widely known advocate for anti-gun control. The NRA is a pro-gun rights group that tries to make the viewer understand its values from the images they produce. The organization believes in fewer gun regulations, reduced gun control, open carry laws and the protection of the second amendment. The first image is from a commercial produced by the NRA, criticizing former President Barrack Obama. The image states, the kids more important than This goals were to make parents question the value of their children compared to the and also the morality of children being protected by armed guards but not all theirs. The second image compares the use of guns vs. portrayal in movies. Its goal is to try and persuade the viewer to not believe everything Hollywood does and understand that movies do not accurately represent gun owners. Both images represent the National Rifle Association in a positive way and try to show that firearms are not as dangerous as some make them seem. The National Rifle Association is the largest anti-gun control organization in the United States. It believes in many things, including but not limited to: the protection of the second amendment, right to carry laws, gun safety and the right to feel safe and protected(NRA A Brief History par. 12). The second amendment states, well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be Collins 2 (NRA Second Amendment par. 1). The NRA views this amendment as an individual and constitutional right and tries to protect it at all costs. The National Rifle Association wants less gun regulations and believe that with the ownership of firearms, they can protect themselves and lower the rates of crime. In a study conducted at Florida State University, it was found that, were used as often as 2.5 million times a year for protection, three to five times more often than they are used for criminal (NRA Second Amendment section 6, par. 2). The protection of themselves and their families is ultimately what gun owners want. The National Rifle Association tries to persuade its audience by any means necessary, and this often includes the production of commercials. The first image, from a commercial, was produced around the time of the Newtown, Connecticut school shooting. The image itself states, the kids more important than (NRA Are the The dark color scheme can show gloominess and negativity but also power. The use of color, such as red, draws the attention to it and can also show strength. The color red also is known to increase heart rate and adrenaline, which the NRA most likely did on purpose, to create a Collins 3 reaction out of the audience. The audience of this commercial is primarily parents of schoolchildren and the purpose was to make these parents question if their child was any less valuable than the The ethos appeals to the morality of someone children being protected by armed guards while others are not. The image focuses on the emotions of parents, trying to either make them angry or upset, since their children are inferior, according to this image. The logical portion of this image, or logos, refers to the logic that if one children are protected by armed guards, then everyone children should be protected. A main part of campaign was equality, which the NRA realized and tried to capitalize on by making it seem that all children should be protected equally. Another aspect of logos is the common ideology that children are the most precious and important part of life and they should be kept safe. Finally, this commercial was produced shortly after a school shooting, trying to gain support of parents who believe children should be protected so that nothing like this ever happens again. The Vice President of the NRA poses a question during a statement, is the idea of a gun good when used to protect the president of our country or our police, but bad when used to protect our children in our (Castillo, Mariano). This image tries to rally the support of victims from school shootings and other parents who want to protect their children in order to increase the use of firearms, specifically in schools, for protection and safety. Cartoons are also a popular use of visual appeals, often not in favor of the National Rifle Association. This particular image though, is in favor of the NRA and comes from a famous cartoonist by the name of Rick Collins 4 McKee. The image shows two sides, the view from NRA gun owners and the view from Hollywood. The gun owner looks very calm, dressed in hunting gear whereas the view from Hollywood shows a rambo style figure with guns blazing, with ammunition and blood going everywhere. The gun side is very calm compared to side. The purpose is to try and make the audience believe that actual gun owners are nothing compared to depiction of it. This comparison style image tries to show that Hollywood is not a credible source as they are known for their special effects and blowing things out of proportion. While it is not studded with emotional appeals, it does appeal to gun owners, who are most likely upset because of the way the media makes them seem. The comparison between a hunter and an action movie actor makes gun owners seem crazy and out of control. The logical portion of this image is trying to play on identity for special effects and theatrics. It is trying to show that logically, not all gun owners are like rambo. Finally, this image lacks kairos, since there is no sense of urgency. As it being a cartoon, there is no real call to action, just rather trying to highlight the differences among actual gun owners and actors in Hollywood movies. The National Rifle Association tries to capitalize on tragedies, such as school shootings, in order to gain more support to propel their agenda. Specifically, their agenda refers to reducing gun restrictions and control, and the upholding of the second amendment. During the time of the Newport, Connecticut shooting, the NRA released a brief commercial asking the viewer if their children were less important than the Since the children are guarded by armed guards, the NRA poses a question to the public as to why their children being equally protected. Also, the National Rifle Association tries to make the public understand that its members are not the same as the way the media and Hollywood make them seem. By Collins 5 comparing a hunter to a rambo style man, the artist showed the contrast between what actually happens and how Hollywood depicts it in movies. Both images represent the views of the NRA in relation to the upholding of the Second Amendment, less gun regulations and the protection of themselves. Collins 6 Works Cited Castillo, Mariano. NRA Clear on Gun Debate Stance: Arm  . Cable News Network, 21 Dec. 2012. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. McKee, Rick . VS. HOLLYWOOD . Digital image. Cartoons . Cagle Cartoons, 19 Dec. 2012. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. NRA. A Brief History of the  About the NRA . National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https://home.nra.org/about-the-nra/>. NRA. The Children More Important Than Yours? Digital image. Stand and Fight . National Rifle Association, 21 Dec. 2012. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. NRA Institute For Legislative Action. Second  . National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.