Maningo 1 Malia Maningo ENC 1102 Professor Staiger 26 February 2017 The Concerns of Disturbance in Ocean Life The state of Florida is known for its valuable fishing market. In fact, saltwater fishing alone generates $7.6 billion in revenue, and supports about 109,300 jobs (Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission). However, what happens when the fish are being harvested at a higher rate than their regeneration? This is the current problem in coastal and inland waters. The results of overfishing by tourist businesses has been devastating. This is due to the overharvesting of apex predators, bottom trawling, and disrupted food chains (Croswell). Organizations like the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission have been established by the government to spread awareness and prevention of this detrimental activity (Florida Fish and Wildlife). With the distribution of shocking images and educational videos, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission uses rhetorical devices pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos to improve ocean habitats and support the proliferation of fish population. Pathos is used to persuade the audience by acting on sympathy or various emotions. In this specific tweet by the Florida division of the US Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, there is a photo of various stats which involve the conservation efforts of many environmental groups. The words making a are displayed, encouraging the audience to join in on the camaraderie that is advertised in the picture. The caption of the tweet also displays a smiley face, making the picture seem more friendly and inviting. Maningo 2 Pathos is also displayed in a video posted by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation youtube channel. The video is titled and Release and explains the importance of releasing hooked fish safely in order to keep the various fish populations plentiful. It also stressed how important it is to safely catch the fish in order to not do permanent damage. According to the National Park Service, something as simple as not thoroughly reviving the fish can result in the death (nps.gov). In the video, there are images of people fishing with their families, which tries to make the audience feel nostalgic by remembering the possible fishing trips they took as children, or with their favorite people. The video also depicts children happily fishing, casting their lines with large smiles. This was possibly to make the audience want to try out fishing, while following the catch and release policy. Another possible reason it shows kids in the video is to make viewers who are parents want to take their children out fishing, which helps the local fishing businesses. Logos is used to persuade the audience to think logically with the use of facts, statistics, or expert testimonials. The image tweeted by the FFWCC is chock-full of statistics and facts, which the stakeholder uses to persuade the audience to join in on the conservation cause, and be part of such positive improvements to the environment. The image is targeting people who may want to make a difference in the world by joining the advertised  In the Florida Fish and Wildlife video, the narrator uses logos by giving many facts about fish species, geographics, and fish supply. The short video also describes why catch and release fishing is important, along with the various tools needed to safely release the fish. Catch and release techniques are shown, as well as many tips to decrease the trauma the fish receive when being reeled in and released. According to Samantha Kerr, objective of catch-and-release angling is for the fish to survive with minimal fitness consequences. However, fish survival can Maningo 3 be compromised by a number of (Kerr 1). These spurts of logos spread throughout the video are incorporated in order to have Florida fisherman make the logical choice while fishing, and deliver the aquatic animals back into the ocean without harm. Ethos is used to establish a credible source so the reader believes the argument they are given. Without proper jurisdiction in a particular debate, there is no reason for the audience to agree with the person arguing for a certain side. This is why the rhetorical device ethos is used. In the image, the Fish and Wildlife logo is clearly displayed to provide credibility. This allows those who see the image to conclude that the facts are accurate. After seeing the logo of the FFWCC and reading of the success of the 75 year old organization, the audience is sure to heed the words said by this honorable and long standing agency. Forrest Fisher, a wildlife reporter and author, states, the FWC is the lead manager or landowner of over 1.4 million acres and works in partnership with other governmental or private landowners on another 4.5 million With that kind of responsibility, there is no doubt that the FFWCC is a reliable source of information. The Fish and Wildlife twitter page is also verified, meaning it is in fact a reliable place to receive information or facts about Florida Fish and Wildlife. Although there is no logo in the video, credibility is still established. The narrator of the video is Mark Sosin, a fishing journalist, author, and part-time worker at the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation commission. This implies that his opinion is valuable, and catch and release is the safest and quickest way to keep fish populations from decaying. Skilled fisherman are also shown in the video demonstrating various catch and release techniques. Kairos is used in rhetorical arguments to call the audience to action as soon as possible. Although a decrease in fish populations does not seem like an enormous issue, there are many Maningo 4 consequences that result. Overfishing can result in economic and environmental issues, such as loss of genetic diversity, extinction of species that rely on the presence of certain fish species, and loss of food supply for nations that depend on fish for meals (Fisheries and Oceans of Canada). Because of this, the Florida Fish and Wildlife incorporates Kairos. This is shown on the in the picture in the bottom left hand corner, where it states, looming threats to conservation in the U.S.- Friends are needed now more than The organization is practically begging for more volunteers in order to help preserve the local environment. The video also shows Kairos, however, it is in a more indirect way. Images of dead fish are shown, making the audience realize how serious overfishing is. It also describes what will happen if the over harvesting of fish continues, and the results were not pretty. This is to not only encourage the audience to abide by the guidelines of the law, but also use the provided catch and release tips in order to ensure the fish will live after it is released back into the body of water it was caught from. The incorporation of the rhetorical devices pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos into the pictures and videos of the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission strengthen their argument for necessary conservation efforts. These literary appeals were used to persuade the audience to join the fight against environmental degradation by provoking emotion with pathos, logical thinking with logos, using credible authority figures with ethos, and calling them to action with kairos. With these convincing videos and images distributed by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission, it is hoped that more people will join conservation efforts against the degradation of population by overfishing. Maningo 5 https://youtu.be/gD6CufnG7k8 Maningo 6 Works Cited Fisheries and Oceans Canada, Government of Canada, 3 Feb. 2009, www.dfo-mpo.gc.ca/international/isu-global-eng.htm. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, Florida Government, myfwc.com/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Fisher, Forrest. Florida Wildlife Commission- 75 Years of  Share the Outdoors. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Kerr, Samantha M., et al. Full Length Article: Influence of Hook Type and Live Bait on the Hooking Performance of Inline Spinners in the Context of Catch-And-Release Brook Trout Salvelinus Fontinalis Fishing in  Fisheries Research, vol. 186, no. Part 3, 01 Feb. 2017, pp. 642-647. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.fishres.2016.10.001. National Park Services, NPS, https://www.nps.gov/articles/catch-and-release-fishing.htm. Accessed 14 Mar. 2017. US Fish and WildlifeVerified. Media Tweets by US Fish and Wildlife  Twitter. Twitter, 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Maningo 7 10 Alarming Facts About  One Green Planet. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.