NAME: MARRUF MUSFIK AHMED MIHAL TOPIC: GINGA INTERMEDIATE DRAFT INSTRUCTOR: NANCY CARR GINGA Starting as a source of survival to a global sport, ginga has a rather unprecedented history in biography. The word ginga nearly exists in the present world, preferably known in the name of capoeira. Nowadays capoeira means dance or a martial art for luxury, or brazilian style of soccer, but things in the old days was completely different. Today Brazil has a social and rich reputation in the global outlook but in times of the colonists things were divert, being the last country to abolish slavery in all over America, Brazil holds a dark history in slavery. In times of the colonists slaves has to face more than brutality, at the moment death seemed more pleasant. Most of the slaves were from central or western central Africa, among them ginga was born. Ginga, the movement of body from one side to the other, has a rather pleasant outlook but more deadly than can be imagined. This Afro population united and tried to fight against the colonists but sadly ginga was not Enough against the heavily armed colonists. Things began to get worse day by day, few managed to escape from this hardship, others had no choice but to face it. Ginga was mostly famous among this huge Afro population. Trading became a huge business in Brazil, cities like Rio and Sao Paulo became major cities for trading. People began to get more civilized, new sort of technologies were presented and many other things, Brazil was open to the world for business .The year 1800 brought massive changes in history. After becoming an independent country, Brazil started establishing itself as a major country. In the late 1888 Brazil finally abolishes slavery, making it one of the last countries to abolish slavery. Now this huge free Afro population made up nearly 40% population mostly being settled in the north side of the country. Now this slaves were free but they did not have no jobs or any qualifications to be hired for work. The only thing they had was their ancient Ginga. This is where things took a different turn, most afro people who knew ginga turned to the crime world, crime rates increased in Brazil at a staggering rate. Daily life were filled with terror, at a point the government took action against it and abolished ginga and the practice of it. Even though it was abolished, it was still practiced among the Afro people in secret, but if caught, the penalty was harsher than imagined. People practiced it in the disguise of dance, this is where ginga was being implify in many other things. Other than this and being the biggest exporter of coffee, Brazil is highly known for one more things, their history in soccer and the way they play it, many say ginga hides in their style of play in soccer. It was in 1956 when the greatest Brazilian soccer player, Pele, shocked the world with his unique style of play and winning first Fifa world cup. They called it ginga football. Today Brazil proudly represents Ginga but in the name of capoeira. There are even schools to teach ginga in Brazil but in various forms like ginga in dance or sport or even for self defence. The reputation of ginga in the eye exists in a peaceful and pleasing form but it still is as deadly as it used to be. Ginga is now widely known all over the world and not just a martial art, it acts as an export of culture all over the World. Once said to be a disgrace to Brazilian culture, now symbolizes culture.