ENC 1101-013 Mark Sanchez A scholarly conversation about any topic or historical figure can or cannot change over a given period of time. My topic for project one is about prisoners of war and how been affected mentally from the war. Most of my sources stated that these POWs just got PTSD, or post-traumatic stress disorder from the war and now lives in the real world have become slightly more difficult, but the conversation really changed over time. My sources from 2000 to 2010 say mostly the same material compared to my sources from 2011 to 2015. To start, one of my sources from 2006 is called and physical aggression in World War II former prisoners of war: Role of posttraumatic stress disorder and The article is basically about intimate partner relationship aggression among former POWs from the Second World War. The authors also cover the relationship between PTSD and depression within these prisoners of war. A lot of the relationships were reported to have verbal aggression and in some cases even physical aggression, and these forms of aggression are said to have been caused by PTSD symptoms of the POWs. Fast forward to one of my sources from 2014 and you have an article called Railway Men: Prisoner Journeys through the Traumascapes of World War This article is about how prisoners of war are passing down their memories of World War II to their families and friends. The author explains how the memories were recycled through narratives, memorials, and life stories. The connection between the article from 2006 and 2014 is that they both explain how prisoners of war have to deal with posttraumatic stress disorder, or PTSD, in their everyday lives and why I believe the scholarly conversation about this topic really changed much. The article from 2006 explains how POWs deal with PTSD in their relationships, and the article from 2014 basically explains how POWs deal with PTSD so much that they have just decided to start telling the people around them. One of my sources from 2004 called Stress Disorder and Current Relationship Functioning Among World War II Ex-Prisoners of The article is about the quality of intimate relationships that former prisoners of World War II have. The authors of this article also uncover the association between posttraumatic-stress disorder, or PTSD, and the relationships. Another source of mine from 2009 is called of Traumatic Memories in World War II Prisoners of It from 2010 and above, but it is from five years after my source from 2004. The authors of this article uncover the long term effects of POWs who were captured during the Second World War by doing a study with prisoners of war, and basically just describing what the effects of the war has on their well-being. Many of these prisoners of war reported having lots of nightmares and flashbacks of their World War II experiences. Overall, a lot of these POWs just obtained PTSD from the war. The connection between my source from 2004 and 2009 is that they both say that prisoners of World War II have obtained post-traumatic stress disorder from the war. The authors who made the article from 2004 explains how the PTSD that the POWs have gotten from the war has made relationships more difficult for them, and the authors who made the article from 2009 gives information about the PTSD that prisoners of World War II have to deal with such as flashbacks or nightmares.