Sai Kaung Kham Cett Instructor Carr ENC1101.016 3/5/2017 Children and video games Video games are now viewed from a different perspective as it was before 2010. People are starting to accept more views of this topic compare to decades ago when video games are considered a distraction and addicting entertainment. It was seen that way because the researchers mainly focused on the negative impacts of video games but now, studies and researches are being made on the positive impacts of playing video games too and there are quite a lot of things children can actually gain by playing video games. More than a decade ago, all that parents want is for their children to stop playing games and to not get hooked but now they are realizing that some games can be educational and helpful for their children. Porter, the author of problem video game which was written in 2007, focused on how video games are having negative impacts on the children in New Zealand. He made surveys to find out how children feel about playing video games and at the end his researches and surveys, he stated that games can be addicting and due to this addiction, children are falling into the traps of not being able to socialize, not keeping up with grades and most would even play games to a point where they consume excessive amount of caffeine to keep up with themselves which also leads to the children not being able to sleep causing them to be unhealthy. He also believes that video games have a different kind of addiction where children would play even though they know that they should not play and even when they want to play so he is stating that children are getting addicted unconsciously which is like doing something because just nothing better to do. On the other hand, the author of Games Promotes Saudi English Vocabulary Retention Alshaji claims that video games are actually making a big impact on Saudi vocabulary. In the article, he went on to talk about how children and Saudi are learning English via video games and how this process had been very efficient to the children. The combination of learning and entertainment in the same process makes the children more interested in what they are learning. He also believes that educational video games are the best way for the children to learn while growing up since it will be more enjoyable for the children of young ages too. It is not just the language teaching skill of video games that he believed, he also believed that video games not only improve children in creativity and decision making skills, he also believed that video games are readying the children to catch up with the tech life of the 21 st century. Even though he knows how strongly some parents feel about video games could worsen their children, he claims that parents just know about how video games can actually make good impact on their children. Back in 2010, the author of of Violent and Non-violent Computer Video Games on Explicit and Implicit stated that some online video games are too competitive among players which could trigger aggression within the players. Communications made during the game among the players can be toxic and since the games can be very competitive, some players would rage when they lose or while they are losing which could lead to physical raging and mental issues. These raging could create conflicts between players, even teammates sometimes making it an unhealthy relationship between friends. The author also stated how some video games include violent and aggressive gameplay which could mess up with thoughts and point of views in life. He also stated how these influences made by violent video games can cause children to have violent behaviors having to mimic what is going on in the game in real life. Bavelier, the author of brain boosting power of video games (2016) strongly believes that many video games whether it be violent or not, can have good impacts on children. He believes that video games can help improve the power of the brain either with concentration, flexibility to switch form one task to another and faster processing of information. Even though he believes that any type of games may have a good impact, he still suggested designing more non-violent games to reduce the concern of behavioral aggression and addiction to gaming. He also claimed that skills such as decision making under pressure are also improved by playing face paced video games such as first person shooting games and they can also improve their reaction times to their actions which can be honed by playing these kinds of face paced video games.