SADAF TARANNUM U983937337 Are Children becoming smarter or getting addicted to the internet? How the internet can make children smarter when it has so many bad impacts? The question has raised due to the increasing amount of time children are spending on the internet. In the article, Impact of Home Computer Use on Activities and Subrahmanyam, Kraut, Greenfield, Gross state that the benefits of computer-based activities have also been questioned because the time children spend on the computers may replace other important activities that have more developmental value. Specific contexts as well as the specific uses of the internet are associated with the development outcome during childhood. Children who use internet are proactive of seeking help from themselves instead of waiting for a tutor to help them. Computers are playing a significant role in all aspects of our lives. Concerns regarding the internet use has increased. In the article, Generation Children: Smarter or Niyati and Vidani claim that children have the opportunity to communicate with diverse individuals due to the online technologies. According to shin, parents believe that internet can make their children more smart and knowledgeable as it is full of resources. Children use computers and internet for completing their schoolwork to obtain information but it remains an open question that the internet is making them intelligent or addicted. The most powerful social force of our world is the technologies. children are surrounded by technologies such as computers, video games, mobile phones and other devices. Children are actually becoming creative because of using the internet. Problem-solving and cognitive skills are required for development. Subrahmanyam at.al research has shown that computer applications especially computer games can enhance visual intelligence skills. For example, the game of can improve their visual intelligence which leads to better performance in science and technology. Children have to keep track a set of moving objects when they play action games. Video games also improve their ability to find a particular target from within a large field of view. Criminal games such as Theft can help them to process information faster. Video games are the powerful tools which can improve cognitive skills. Action video games improve driving and attention skills as it improves their ability to locate something quickly. Moreover, in action video games children have to perform different task differently so it improves their multitasking skills. Car racing games can improve their ability to make a decision under pressure. So, it improves their decision-making skills. Nowadays, children can get to know about opinion through internet. It increases their community participation and interpersonal intelligence skills. Valatis states that nowadays children develop web pages and conduct online surveys to get to know about opinion. Computer games improves iconic skills which enable them to read images such as diagrams and pictures (Subrahmanyam at.al,129). Researchers have found that action video games include unpredictability, high perceptual, motor load and it also has emphasis on peripheral processing. Niyati and study showed that because of the internet use the standardized test scores have improved and it also encourages children to become more self-directed. Children can find everything in the internet and it also improves their writing skills. Internet improves critical thinking skills. Online reading can enhance skills such as search skills and critical evaluation skills which traditional book cannot. While reading a book online they can take notes on MS word. Moreover, it improves their search skills because they can look for some words meaning which they do not know. Search skills are really important in all aspect of our lives. The use of computers and internet can shape development and social interaction. According to Niyati and Vidani, researchers assumed that they would see less socialization among children but some surveys show that children would have more opportunities to interact with people because of online technologies. Parents think that internet can make their children more intelligent as it is full of resources which enables their children to find information quickly and easily (shin, 9). felt that technology helped them to talk and share their thoughts with influential people (Valaitis, 5). Internet improves problem-solving skills because when they search something on internet, they discover new options for solving problems and explore new ways to make changes. Moreover, children who use internet are proactive of seeking help from themselves instead of waiting for a tutor to help them. If they face any problem for their homework they can easily search on internet and get solution. Moreover, they can also make a group on internet and solve the problem together. Computer literacy can make them more productive and intelligent which is really helpful in the fields of science and technology. Internet also have some disadvantages. Some video games can leave a very bad impact in development. Action games include violence and negativity which can make children aggressive. Moreover, video games also have bad impacts on health. It includes physical risks such as hand injuries and heart rates. Video games also teach children wrong values such as women are portrayed as weaker characters. Children who spend too much time on video games skip their classes so affects their exam results negatively. Children are becoming socially isolated which is affecting negatively on their development. Subrahmanyam at.al claim that greater use of internet leads to depression and loneliness among children. Children are facing many problems for chatting with unknown people online through internet. All the contents on internet are not appropriate for children. Internet addiction, cyberbullying, child-inappropriate content are the concerns regarding the internet. Parents have the responsibility to monitor their children. Parents should strictly control their children so that they do not go to the wrong path. They should teach their children what is acceptable in the society and what is not. They should also encourage their children to spend some time in outdoor activities. Works Cited Niyati.B., Vidani.J., (2016). Next Generation Children: Smarter or Faster. International Journal of Innovative Research in Multidisciplinary Field. 2(7). 110-114. Subrahmanyam, K., Kraut, R., Greenfield, P., & Gross, E. (2000). The Impact of Home Computer Use on Activities and Development. The Future of Children, 10(2), 123144. Shin, W. (2015). Parental socialization of Internet use: A qualitative approach. New Media & Society, 17(5), 649-665. Valaitis, Ruta K. and the Internet: Tools for Youth Journal of Medical Internet Research 7.5 (2005): n. pag. Web.