Roger Vassell Carr ENC 1101-321 March 5, 2017 Technological Change in the Education System It is no secret technology has been advancing and integrating itself into almost every component of our lives. Technology has had a big impact on the education system as well. New technological devices have become smaller, lighter and astonishingly fast. With these devices being so portable students can have access to massive amounts of information at their fingertips at anytime and anywhere. This inevitably shifts the way students perceive and navigate through school. Within the past two decades, there has been controversy on whether or not the influence of technology in education system is beneficial to students. Angelo Corelli, author of the article vs. Anonymous Feedback: Teacher Behavior in Higher Education, with Focus on Technology believes that the impact of technology is a positive one, he states positive effects of technology is two-fold and impact on both learning in specific content areas, as well as on the learning how to use technology (Corelli 54). Students are now able to get information instantly and conveniently, this changes the way students perceive school and learn new information. The traditional education system is being challenged because technology allows for different methods of teaching. Universities have adopted the idea of where students can attend class and learn from anywhere. Neil Morris, author of Digital Technologies, Blended Learning and MOOCS will Impact the Future of Higher states flipped classroom overturns the traditional sequence of events and requires students to engage in conceptual understanding of key facts and in formation using online resources and tools prior to interacting with educators and learning (Morris 402). Students can watch the lecture and come to class with engaging questions they had while watching the lectures online. They can narrow their misunderstanding to one concept and be more specific when asking the professor for answers. This promotes critical thinking on the part and allows professors to be more engaging during class time. However, this perception on technology in education always been so. In 2004, when technology was starting to advance at a tremendous rate, Paula Warnken wrote the article Impact of Technology on Information Literacy Education in She states technology is now quickly and certainly there, but it seems the skills necessary to use it most effectively- and more important- critically are (Warnken 152). Warnken is concerned that since technology is advancing quickly, the school system have the skills or tools necessary to stay up to date. This the only concern raised about the integration of technology in education. Hernando Bustos and Miguel Nussbau conducted an experiment in 2007 titled Experimental Study of the Inclusion of Technology in Higher In the experiment, they granted a few professors Portable Pocket for the students to use and do an assignment on. However, after the experiment they concluded that initiation of a technology inclusion process requires that professors devote additional hours to activities such as learning the process, preparing materials, (Bustos 104). The professors had a hard time with the new technology because they know how to use it themselves. The consequence of integrating technology in schools is that older professors who have the luxury of growing up around technology might have a hard time adjusting. However, this problem can be easily overcome with time. With younger professors coming into the work force and older professors retiring, it is safe to assume that within no time the professors that will be teaching will have a manageable time adjusting to the new technology. The view on technology in education has definitely been changed over the past two decades. In the pre-2010 era when technology started to advance at a tremendous rate, school officials were hesitant and cautious. They feared that technology would be more of a burden than an aid in ability to learn. At the time the learning curve associated with technology was a big concern amongst professors who, themselves, spent much time with it. That concern can now be put to rest. In the current, post-2010 era the mindset is that there are endless possibilities in which technology can benefit students. Professors are constantly looking for new ways to include technology into their teaching styles. Universities have updated class rooms to stay up to date by replacing the traditional chalk board with smart boards. It is safe to say that impact on education is beneficial to students and will continue to be in the long term. References: - Corelli, Angelo (2015). Direct vs. Anonymous Feedback: Teacher Behavior in Higher Education, with Focus on Technology  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences. 52-61 - Neil P. Morris (2014). How Digital Technologies Blended Learning and MOOCS will Impact the Future of Higher Education. International Conference e-Learning. - Hernando Bustos, Miguel Nussbau (2007). An Experimental Study of the Inclusion of Technology in Higher Education. 100-106. - Paula Warnken (2004). The Impact of Technology on Information Literacy Education in Libraries. Managing technology. 151-156. -