Matias 1 Zuly Matias ENC 1102 15, March 2017 Inequality, The Problem of the Past Today The United States has a population of roughly 319 million people, 51% of which are female (kff.org). With this many women in the population one would assume that the country of freedom and dreams has an equal system in which both women and men get a fair distribution in earnings and even decision making. According to the UN statistics website (UN.org), this is not the case, in 2014 women held 26% of government ministerial positions. To make matters worse the United States Department of Labor demonstrates that women earn roughly 75% of what men earn for the same position, this gap though is varied by race with the lowest gap being Asian women, earning 83.5% of what white men make, and highest being Hispanic women only making 54.6% of what white men make. With the uneven distribution of power and earning that females face today the American Association of University Women, or AAUW, fights for equity for women and girls through advocacy, education, philanthropy, and (aauw.org), the AAUW puts out advertisements and images that help contribute to their goal. Through the rhetorical appeals (logos, pathos, ethos and kairos), used in this particular set of images, the American Association of University Women not only helps the audience identify the current problem of unfair distribution of power and earnings, but also encourages them to join the organization and find solutions. Logos appeals to logic; it is used by the American Association of University Women to persuade an audience by reason. In the first image, I-A, AAUW utilizes the worn Matias 2 out expression to demonstrate to the audience that the biased and inequality is happening whether we experience it or not it can still be seen, for instance only 19% of women in the United Sates held seats in national parliament (UN.org), this indicates an unbalanced distribution of power. The second image, I-B, as a whole helps the AAUW appeal to reason. The first thing that eyes is drawn to is the large text in the middle, together against bigotry and in all capital letters, this in itself a reasonable statement. Then we see that the background showing a group of hands, belonging to different ethnicities and gender, all together joined in the middle, this tied with the text demonstrates that by standing together against the bigotry and bias we can all be united. In I-B the use of logos is within the understated meaning, that we can all be united, of the image, this persuades the audience to figure out ways against the discrimination. Pathos appeals to emotion; it is used by the American Association of University Women to connect the audience to the organization by the means of making an emotional connection. In the first image, I-A, a face, drenched in sweat. The emotions that she depicts can be associated with fatigue and disappointment, this alone intrigues the audience with curiosity to her situation, we then are guided to the text to the right, never be as good as the which works to enlighten the audience of her current state and answers why she is feeling those emotions. Then our eyes are directed to the less obvious AAUW logo on the bottom left of the image, which provides a way for the audience to help her. This layout guides the attention to AAUW and by using the emotions to their advantage, trusting them to tie the whole story together of how the woman got to feel this way, the AAUW persuades the audience into identifying the problem of unfair distribution of power. In the first image, the AAUW also uses the caption, never be as good as the to induce offense into the women who see this image, and induces disbelief to the men who see this. Overall the statement immediately shocks its audience and Matias 3 when paired with the exhausted face it sends out a feeling of oppression and lets the audience feel how this statement has impacted her. The AAUW does this to grab the attention and help them understand that this is not something that should be ever said or experienced which draws them to find out how they can stop this oppression. In I-B, the background is colored in with blue which prompts feelings of grief. The AAUW does this to express the importance of their message and how bigotry and bias hold back the possibility of the unity represented by the joined hands of the diverse group of people, together we can all embrace our differences. Ethos appeals to credibility; it is used by the American Association of University Women to build on its reliability. In I-A, the logo of AAUW and the presence of the woman builds on the images integrity. In both images the logo is present indicating that the position, and though both images use other appeals abundantly, the AAUW logo builds upon the credibility of the images. This ethos is used to enhance the stance against the oppression and unfairness that women have been facing, and encourages its audience to join them and stand up for the cause. Kairos appeals to timeliness; it is used by the American Association of University Women to express the urgency for a solution. In I-A, the background is blurry so that the audiences focus is on the models face. The expression indicates that she has been deprived from certain rights or she has been under evaluated. This strikes a sense of urgency to fight for equity and equality. In both I-A and I-B, the words are capitalized which indicates a pressing tone; this will lead the audience to head what the text advises and do so in so timely manner. In I-B, the AAUW keeps a simplistic style which calls to attention the text, together against bigotry and really puts in perspective that in this day and age bigotry and bias is still a big issue that needs to be addressed. Kairos is used by the Matias 4 AAUW to indicate the importance of what the American Association of University Women advocates. The American Association of University Women, fights for equity for women and girls through advocacy, education, philanthropy, and (aauw.org). Fighting against the uneven distribution of earnings and power, the AAUW puts out images and advertisements that contribute to the knowledge of this problem. Through the rhetorical appeals (logos, pathos, ethos and kairos), used in this particular set of images, the American Association of University Women not only helps the audience identify our current problem of unfair distribution of power and earnings, but also encourages them to join the organization and find solutions. Matias 5 Work Cited Facts Over  Bureau (WB) Facts Over Time. United States Department of Labor, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Population Distribution By  Population Distribution By Gender. Kff.org, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. UN Gender  United Nations. United Nations, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Who We  AAUW: Empowering Women Since 1881. Aauw.org, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Matias 6 Image 1 (I-A) Image 2 (I-B)