Khlebnikov 1 Oleg Khlebnikov Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 17 March 2017 Eating Disorders Millions of people suffer from different types of eating disorders in the US Our ). Following the dream of a perfect body, weight, and shapes, those plagued with eating disorders can ultimately damage their own well-being. It is a serious illness, and even though people think that it is their choice to follow these dangerous diets, consequences could be very deadly. According to the founder and president of Disorder Hope & Addiction disturbances may include inadequate or excessive food intake which can ultimately damage an well-being. Anorexia can have damaging health effects, such as brain damage, multi-organ failure, bone loss, heart difficulties, and infertility. The risk of death is highest in individuals with this (Ekern). Even knowing the risk, researches still show that four out of ten people said that they either suffered or have known someone who has suffered from a different type of an eating disorder Our ). Even though it is an urgent problem, and many people are frightened and left feeling helpless, there is a lack of support and funding to fight eating disorders and their consequences. To combat the issue and to help the victims, organizations such as NEDA have been created. NEDA, National Eating Disorder Association, is a non-profit organization in the United States that defends and supports people affected by eating disorders. The goal is to support everyone affected by the issue, and provide help to people in need. NEDA sees a world without eating disorders. By doing Khlebnikov 2 researches and campaigns, they prevent eating disorders, improve access to quality treatment, and make sure that people aware of and understand the problems, such as anorexia or bulimia (Bell). NEDA, as well, develops programs and tools to help everyone who seeks assistance. To visualize the issue, NEDA created ads with frightening words and pictures, showing the danger of eating disorders, and calling everyone to take actions to cure victims. To visualize the problem of eating disorders, NEDA created Figure 1. The main color of this ad is black, which affects the mind and body by helping to create an inconspicuous feeling of emptiness, gloom, or sadness (Bourn). By using pathos technique, NEDA wants the viewer to feel depressed after the first look at the image. The color surrounds the woman, it could be seen as the eating disorder taking over her body, so even she becomes colorless, because the life fades away. The second thing that catches the attention is the image of a very thin woman in underwear, holding a dumbbell. She does not wear much clothing to show more of her body type. By using pathos, ad aims to terrify the viewer, because the arm is unnaturally thin. This is meant to show the physical effects of eating disorders. However, she still has white underwear, which is the color of perfection, so the advertisement is saying that this woman tries to be perfect (Bourn). It is her goal, and dumbbell symbolize hard trainings that she does to achieve this perfection. This is supported by the text on the bottom: am exercise (Figure 1). This connects the audience with the woman which causes them to sympathize with her, because even though she works hard, she harms herself, and NEDA shows us that she suffers from an eating disorder by using ethos. It is obvious from the inscription in the middle of the ad, scale haunts me. I see it in my (Figure 1). It is a quote from a sick person, probably from the same girl on the ad. Reading a statement from a person who is actually connected to the Khlebnikov 3 problem makes people feel the credibility of the issue, so they understand that it is real and can happen to anyone. The person is not just saying these words, she screams them, that is why the ad uses capital letters. NEDA puts two persuasive techniques in one quote, which are ethos and pathos. These words are supposed to frighten the viewer and to make him or her to understand, that eating disorders are like nightmares. This meant to show that even in the state of rest eating disorders haunts the victims. To show how endless the problem could be, NEDA uses kairos in the same quotation, battle is never-ending. There is no (Figure 1). It shows that people who suffer from bulimia can not stop, and if they started, they became addicted. It refers to the timelessness problem, and even though the phrase seems like a direct appeal to kairos, but also involves ethos by alarming the audience of a hard struggle to get out. By using logos, NEDA points out internal consistency and clarity within its argument, providing the inscription on the bottom, exercising can lead to anorexia, fatigue and physical (Figure 1). It shows the viewer what are the real health consequences of eating disorders. It is important to show some real facts, so the audience can understand, that the problem is not a fiction. It focuses the attention, and appeal to a reason why eating disorders are dangerous. Uniting all these techniques used in the first ad, NEDA tries to prevent the eating disorder issue by mostly alarming the viewer and offering help. To show as many sides of the eating disorders issue as possible, NEDA created another advertisement. Main color of the Figure 2 is blue, which represents meanings of trust and sincerity (Bourn). It focuses attention on the trustworthiness of the advertisement. Through the color, NEDA appeal to credibility, which is an ethos technique. The organization wants the audience to believe them from the first look, and to get their trust on a subconscious level. In the Khlebnikov 4 middle of the Figure 1, NEDA uses pathos by focusing attention on the values of the audience, such as nutrition. Switch of the plate on a toilet seat represents the diet that people with bulimia adheres to. It shows that there is no difference where to put food, on the plate, or in the toilet since victims of eating disorders prevent the weight gain by vomiting or taking laxatives (Berger). Another representation of a color meaning and pathos, is a white color of a toilet seat. As it was said before, white color represents perfection (Bourn). The dream of a perfect body that people, who suffers from eating disorders, tries to achieve, the Figure 1 simply explains as washing a life into the toilet. To frighten the viewer, NEDA uses more pathos by saying that people die on this diet (Mitchell and Crow 438). The phrase in middle of the ad is a wordplay, we lose on this the answer that first comes to mind is an excess weight, because that is what a purpose is (Figure 2). However, next sentence explains how deadly an eating disorder could be, and instead of weight, we lose of people every Combination of pathos and kairos makes this phrase very strong. It is not only terrifying the viewer and showing him a fact that eating disorders could cause the end of life, but also explains that the problem repeats (Figure 2). To convince the viewer more NEDA uses logos. They point out internal consistency and clarity within provided argument that the issue of eating disorders is very serious. At the very bottom of the Figure 1, there is the inscription, saying that with bulimia induce heart arrhythmias, intestinal bleeding and rupturing of the By having the actual data NEDA collected and the experience they have got through years fighting eating disorders, they use it to construct a logical argument that supposed to terrify and stop people from the issue. By using the persuasive techniques in the Figure 2, NEDA shows the audience problems that those who plagued with eating disorders have. Khlebnikov 5 goal is to attract attention around the eating disorder issue and to help its victims. Both ads work this way. They mostly use pathos to scary the viewer: the picture of an eating disorder victim, comparing the problem to the nightmare and showing that the issue could be deadly. White color, a symbol of perfection, appears in both ads, because it is exactly what all victims of eating disorders follow, the dream of a perfect body. NEDA uses logos as well in both ads, by explaining the consequences of eating disorders. The organization clearly shows what exactly the problems a victim could suffer of. Ads are very similar this way, both uses bulimia as an example. To show that the issue has been going on for a long time, and it is not just a couple cases, NEDA uses kairos in both ads. It is a continuous problem, people die every year and can not stop, that is what both ads say. What makes these advertisements good is that they combine rhetorical strategies together. Ethos, for example, does not appear alone. In Figure 1 it connected with pathos. It has the image of a thin woman, which is not only an alarm for the viewer, but it also convinces the audience that the problem is real. It supported by the the quote from this girl, scale haunts me. I see it in my (Figure 1). Figure 2 does not have such a strong element, however NEDA used logos and pathos together in one quote, we lose on this diet? Lots of people every As an organization that works with eating disorders, they use information of deadly consequences of the issues to scare the viewer. Black color on the first ad also works better than blue color, because main purpose is to terrify the viewer, and dark tones do this better than the bright colors. Even though these ads were made for the same purpose, first one works better, because it contains stronger ethos and pathos techniques. In conclusion, NEDA acts as an organization that attracts attention to victims of eating disorder and helps them providing programs and services to give families the support Khlebnikov 6 they need to find answers for these life-threatening illnesses (NEDA). In order to get an attention, National Eating Disorder Association creates different advertisements that show the real side of eating disorders. They warn the viewer about consequences, and urge the victims to get help they provide. Khlebnikov 7 Figure 1 Khlebnikov 8 Figure 2 Khlebnikov 9 Works Cited Berger, Fred K.  Medical Encyclopedia . N.p., 2 Feb. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Bourn, Jennifer. Color Meaning: Meaning of The Color  Creative . N.p., 15 Dec. 2010. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Ekern, Jacquelyn. Eating Disorders: Causes, Symptoms, Signs & Treatment  Disorder Hope . N.p., 19 Apr. 2014. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Our  Eating Disorders Association . N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Mitchell, Jack and Samuel Crow. complications of anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa. Current Opinion in Eating Disorders Association. 19(4), 438-443, 23 Mar. 2006. Web. 17 Mar. 2017. Exercise Bulimia . Digital image. . National Eating Disorders Association, 29 June 2010. Web. 17 Mar. 2017. Bulimia Nervosa . Digital image. Campus . National Eating Disorders Association, 27 Feb. 2013. Web. 17 Mar. 2017. s-250.jpg>.