Wright 1 Clyde Wright Ms.Poston ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Viewing The Syrian Refugee Crisis Wright 2 Syria, also known as the Syrian Arab Republic, is a country in Western Asia and the Middle East on the Mediterranean Sea. Since 2011, the country has been involved an internal engagement that has come to be known as the Syrian Civil War. The confrontation started when peaceful protests of political injustice escalated to violence through armed rebels who now call themselves the Free Syrian Army (Purdy para 1). International involvement has dragged out the conflict, mainly through Russian support of the leader of the Syrian government, President Bashar al-Assad, and the United States arming of Syrian rebels. Much of the fighting of the conflict has been in urban cities where the homes, businesses and livelihoods of thousands of civilians have been damaged or destroyed leaving many with no way to provide for themselves. According to the United Nations, the fighting has killed nearly 300,000 people, displaced more than 11 million Syrians, and left an estimated eighty percent of the population in poverty (Purdy para 1). The horrendous destruction of Syria has left its citizens with only one viable option for survival and prosperity and that is to leave their homes and seek a better life elsewhere. This mass exodus of Syrians, who are now considered refugees, to neighboring countries and Europe has come to be known as the Syrian Refugee Crisis. However among all of this death and destruction is one group known as Regional Response Plan 6 that has been working tirelessly to provide humanitarian support to Syrian refugees. This organization is the culmination of more than one hundred United Nations agencies and international nongovernmental organizations. Their primary purpose is to create a practical plan for providing humanitarian support and enforce it. Regional Response Plan 6 has three target groups: refugees in camps, refugees residing outside camps, and host communities all of which receive support from them. These refugees face overwhelmingly difficult circumstances arriving in a new country or camp with Wright 3 little more than the people they are with and the clothes on their shoulders. More than 4.1 million refugees and 2.7 million people from host communities will benefit in some way from their plan to provide protection, food, shelter, clean water, education, basic necessities, healthcare and livelihood opportunities (Syria RRP6 10). All of these basic necessities are in very low supply for Syrian refugees. It is imperative for the successful aid of Syrian refugees that more countries worldwide give support. Through the use of propagandic images that make the viewer feel a moral obligation, the Syria Regional Response Plan can gain more international support to better accomplish their mission. Looking at the first image the viewer will instantly notice a few things, the first being that the child depicted is a Syrian refugee as indicated through the context clue in the title. Secondly they will most likely notice that the image is distorted and looks almost pixelated. This is because the image of the small Syrian refugee child is actually made up of the flags of countries who have given sanctuary to Syrian refugees. Lastly they will observe the state of the child including the worn out clothes and harrowing expression of the child. All of these elements of the image together give the viewer a very serious reality check about the severity of the Syrian Refugee Crisis. It is important for organizations like Syria Regional Response to make the bystander feel and understand that refugees are everyday people affected by a disaster through no fault of their own. It is that feeling that drives people to lend a helping hand. The use of a child in the image really helps to drive this point home because people associate innocence with children. On the topic of the credibility of the image it is obvious the picture is trustworthy because it comes directly from a United Nations organization. If the culmination of the governments cannot be trusted then it is safe to say no one can. The overall purpose of the image Wright 4 is to make the viewer feel a moral obligation to supporting Syrian refugees in some way. The use of the flags to depict a syrian refugee child is an incredibly strong way of portraying this. The flags make the viewer understand that this issue is not just affecting people at the edge of the world but is in fact a global dilemma. The second image depicts a family of Syrian refugees in a refugee camp. While the first picture uses more intellectual elements to convey the message, this image uses the raw daunting nature of reality. Emotions are a strong tool when trying to persuade someone and the image does a good job of tugging at the heartstrings. Seeing the faces of people who have suffered and had to endure so much brings out the sympathy in humanity. It is this emotion that Regional Response Plan 6 requires to be able to fully accomplish their goals. This image also depicts how the United Nations have helped to shelter refugees as shown by the tents provided for the Syrians. While the situation is bad it could be much worse if the Syria Regional Response Plan did not provide the basic necessities shown in the image. Even still though the faces of the refugees shows a clear message, more help is needed. Both of these images are working towards depicting Syrians as good people who just had bad things happen to them. This is a crucial part of getting them the support Syrians need. It is bad reputations and perceptions about Syrians that is in part to blame for lack of support to refugees. For example in places like Saudi Arabia the government does not wish to admit refugees because according conservative Gulf monarchies, Syrians are perceived as a destabilizing and pose a cultural and political risks as well as security threats (Welle para 16). These images help to bring out the best in people through the emotion of feeling a moral obligation to help someone in need. Wright 5 Works Cited Dettmer, Jamie. About Time: United Nations Plans Refugee Camps for Syrians in  Daily Beast . The Daily Beast Company, 12 June 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Operational  - Syria Regional Response Plan 6 . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Purdy, Elizabeth Rholetter, PhD. Syrian Civil  Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Winter, Chase. Arab Monarchies Turn down Syrian Refugees over Security Threat News DW.COM  . N.p., 1 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2014 SYRIA REGIONAL RESPONSE  SYRIA REGIONAL RESPONSE PLAN . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.