Stephenson 1 Kaylie Stephenson Erika Staiger ENC 1102 14 March 2017 How PETA uses Rhetorical Devices to End Animal Captivity PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) is a well known organization that fights for animal rights. They focus on four main issues including the food industry, the clothing trade, laboratories, and the entertainment industry (PETA). Their main goals when advertising is to relate humans to animals, and to use controversial images of animals in order to get their point across. The first image is an advertisement that portrays a somber monkey behind bars, in order to elicit emotions in the audience. They want the audience to feel bad for the animals, that way they will want to put an end to captivity. The video is also made by PETA and it shows the strange behaviors that zoo animals frequently adopt. This video is used to educate people on the psychological damage that animals in zoos undergo. It also makes them sympathize for the animals. PETA uses ethos, logos, and pathos in their advertisements in order to provoke emotion in the audience, thus urging them to go out and fight against animal captivity in zoos. To begin with, PETA uses ethos in its advertisements in order to persuade the audience to believe their stance on animal captivity. By using ethos, PETA is appealing to their credibility or character. In both the image and the video, they include their logo in the advertisement. By including their logo, they establish credibility. PETA has more than 5 million members, thus making them the largest animal rights organization in the world (PETA). Because PETA is so Stephenson 2 massive, many people recognize their logo or have heard of their organization. Consequently, they are more likely to believe what PETA is telling them. In addition, they use logos in order to convince the audience that zoos create psychological damage. In video, they talk about  and then they proceed to give the definition of it. PETA defines  as a physiological condition of animals kept in circuses and zoos. Symptoms of zoochosis include pacing, circling, swaying, and self injury caused by deprivation, loneliness, stress, desperation, and  (PETA). By giving this definition about the abnormal behavior that zoo animals adopt, it allows the audience to make sense of why they behave this way. Therefor, it appeals to the viewers sense of logic. The audience can then use this information in order to fight against animal cruelty. PETA uses examples of pathos in their advertisements in order to evoke emotion in the viewer. Thus making them want to join the fight against zoos. In the image, the biggest example of pathos is the sad monkey trapped behind bars. This makes the viewer sad because the monkey is looking down very dismally and obviously does not want to be stuck in a cage. Some other examples include emotion filled words such as:   and  and the use of color to emphasize certain words. They do this by making the words so  yellow amongst all the other white letters. By changing the color, it draws the viewers eye to those specific words and makes them think about what exactly they mean. All together, these examples of pathos hope to induce feelings of sadness or anger in the viewer. By doing this, it makes the audience want to help the animals, thus making them want to then go out and help PETA in their fight for animal rights, especially in zoos. In the video there is also plenty of examples of pathos. First of all, they use a bunch of videos that show animals behaving strangely and/or dangerously. They also use really intense music in the background. In addition, they also Stephenson 3 use emotion packed words in the video, these include:   and self- . These examples effect the audiences emotions thus persuading them to believe argument and encourages them to not go to zoos. Although PETA successfully used rhetorical devices throughout these two images, they have been known to use extreme measures in their advertisements. They are most well known for their images of scantily clad women. In a study performed by three Australian professors: Renata Bongiorno, Paul Bain, and Nick Haslam, it was found that the advertising strategy of sex  actually decreases interest in a cause due to their dehumanizing nature (Bongiorno, Bain, Haslam 1). However, PETA did not use the sex  method for these two advertisements. By using sad images of animals behind bars or showing animals who have been driven insane, they appeal strongly to the viewers emotions. In addition, there are articles that back up argument about zoochosis. An article written by the conservationist, Damian Aspinall, talks about the effects of this condition on zoo animals. He says they [zoo develop behaviors known as - repetitively walking in tight circles, rocking, swaying and sometimes mutilating  (Aspinall, 1). He urges people to watch animals at the zoo and search for these odd behaviors. Therefore, argument about zoochosis is backed up by facts. In conclusion, PETA effectively uses ethos, logos, and pathos in order to persuade their audience to support their organ. By using these appeals throughout their images and videos, they appeal to credibility, logic, and emotion. The audience then uses this information in order to form an opinion on the advertisement. goal is to make their audience feel bad for animals whenever they are being harmed, they use these rhetorical devices in order to do that. Stephenson 4 Ultimately, they hope that their advertisements will encourage people to support or become a member of their organization going to zoos. Stephenson 5 Works Cited Bongiorno R, Bain PG, Haslam N (2013) When Sex Sell: Using Sexualized Images of Women Reduces Support for Ethical Campaigns. PLoS ONE 8(12): e83311. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0083311 Damian, Aspinall. Look into the Eyes of a Caged Tiger - and You Will See a Zombie Victim of  Mail on Sunday, 11 Aug. 2013, p. 25. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bw h&AN=89648088&site=eds-live PETA. Advertisement. www.peta.org. Accessed 13 Mar. 2017 People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. 9 Animals Driven Insane. , PETA, 2014. Accessed 13 Mar. 2017. Stephenson 6 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u4lbpEiltI4