Project 2 1-In this article, the authors are trying to explain the materials used for the building of the pyramids and the places where the Egyptians got those materials from. In the introduction of their article they explained that stones were the most important raw material used in ancient Egypt as stated by the quote out of which the authors quoted from Evers(2009). From figure 1 of the article the authors stated that there are a lot of stones used or been used to build the pyramids and the Nile mud bricks was the most important raw material used in the stones. Figure 5 of the article shows that different types of stone were used on different levels of the pyramids depending on the physical and chemical ability to survive in that level. 2-The authors of the second article talked about the wind flow of ancient Egypt and how it affected Egypt in lots ways but I focused on the wind affecting the sphynx of Egypt and several reconstructions through the years. In the article the two authors stated that the wind flow affected and damaged some buildings and artifacts and the sphynx was one of them. The wind in Egypt sometimes brings dust and small rocks mostly in sandstorms as Egypt it in a desert and some of these particles that the wind brings collides with the buildings, while these very small rocks and sand might not seem harmful but over a long period it becomes a serious threat to the sphynx which was damaged and collapsed if not for the reconstructions that were made for it. Restoration attempts for the sphynx were made in 1955, 1977 and 1979 as the neck was about to break and collapse. 3-In this article the author says that the techniques of building the pyramids is extraordinary as they lasted for over 5000 years and is fascinated by that fact and in the article, he the Great Pyramid and the other structures at Giza, which are generally considered to be the pinnacle of the The reason the author is constantly praising the pyramids is because the pyramids are way out of their time in terms of the science and engineering of the pyramids as the ways of building the pyramids were intelligent, resourceful and organized. The author says in the article that the construction followed the basic engineering concepts of increasing the size of dimensions and keeping it from collapsing. 4-in this article the author explains how the agriculture of Egypt and the farms helped keep the pyramids and other constructions from destruction. The author first stated that because of the Nile the areas around it became more cultivated with farms and plants in general. Because of the Nile and the weather of Egypt the water from the river floods almost every year and causes a dry season every year and some archeological sites near the river have deteriorated and some have been destroyed. The agriculture in the area helped the floods from reaching farther area and kept the floods in a specific region but the buildings and sites within that region are always effected and damaged by the flood. This continued to be a problem until the 1970s when the Egyptian government built the high dam which kept control of the flow of the river and eliminated floods. Resources:- 1- Klemm, D. D., & Klemm, R. (2001). The building stones of ancient Egypt a gift of its geology. Journal Of African Earth Sciences, 33(African Renaissance and Geosciences), 631-642. doi:10.1016/S0899- 5362(01)00085-9 2- Hussein, A. S., & El-Shishiny, H. (2009). Wind flow modeling and simulation over the Giza Plateau cultural heritage site in Egypt. ACM Journal On Computing & Cultural Heritage, 2(2), 1. doi:10.1145/1613672.1613674 3- Fonte, G. A. (2007). Building the Great Pyramid in a Year : An Report. New York: Algora Publishing. 4- Ahmed, A. A., & Fogg, G. E. (2014). The impact of groundwater and agricultural expansion on the archaeological sites at Luxor, Egypt. Journal Of African Earth Sciences, 9593-104. doi:10.1016/j.jafrearsci.2014.02.007