Torres !1 Alexandria Torres Erika Staiger ENC 1102 14 March, 2017 World Wildlife Fund Propaganda The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is in an ongoing battle against oil companies, over to drill or not to drill within the ocean. WWF is an advocate against deep water oil drilling and uses ads to show the message, which is to save the ocean from further damage from oil spills. WWF is known for their heart touching propaganda, two images that were used for the campaign against ocean drilling were the most powerful. One is an image of a pelican who is choking on oil with a dead fish at his feet with the words lives at the cost of The second use of propaganda is a video discussing why ocean drilling should not be allowed within the Arctic Ocean called Arctic Drilling Cold-Keep Oil Under the Both of these ads use rhetorical appeals such as Pathos, Logos, Ethos, and Kairos to display message to save the oceans by ending ocean drilling. Firstly, the rhetorical appeal of Ethos is used in both the photo of the pelican and the video about deep sea drilling in the Arctic ocean to give credibility to the propaganda. The use if Ethos is done by putting the World Wildlife logo and none of the images. WWF has been around for fifty plus years and works in more than eighty countries around the world; therefore it can be concluded that WWF is well known. The organization is also one of the largest non-profit conservation groups in the world. Patrick Sullivan from the Non-Profit times states, Wildlife are rated the most trusted nonprofit partners for (Sullivan). Torres !2 Therefore, having the World Wildlife logo on both the video and photo shows that WWF approves the message of ending ocean drilling to save the ocean ecosystem and gives the message credibility from a credible source. Furthermore, Logos is used within the video Arctic Drilling Cold-Keep Oil Under the WWF uses Logos to help inform the audience of the dangers of deep sea drilling within the Arctic Ocean. During the beginning of the video, the World Wildlife Fund states organisms that rely on the Arctic Ocean. The video then goes on to discuss the water warming within the Arctic. Then the video moves into more serious events such as the oil spills and why the organization feels that drilling in the Arctic Ocean is dangerous. The main reason that WWF uses to give logic to its campaign is that the Arctic Ocean unlike the Gulf of Mexico is uninhabited; therefore, it would be even harder to clean-up the spill compared to the BP spill due to ice and harsh weather. WWF then goes on to discuss the Obama administration drilling lease within the Arctic Ocean. An article was posted in the Natural Resources Journal named Oil and Gas Development in the Arctic: Softening of Ice Demands Hardening of International Law. The article discusses what Arctic drilling dangers and compromises that are needed to help prevent these dangers from occurring. The authors, students of natural science state The melting of Arctic sea ice, caused by climate change, presents opportunities for access to new oil and gas reserves in the Arctic. With access comes the risk of damaging the unique and fragile Arctic environment and threatening already vulnerable Arctic communities and indigenous (Noelle 825). There is also another article that also states the damage that is caused by oil drilling in general from students at the Ocean University in China, oil spills cause damage to marine biological, fishery, seawater, tourism and mineral resources to various extents, which contributes to the Torres !3 lower quality and value of marine (Mei 314). The use of logos within the video is a very strong appeal to the audience because it informs them of things they or-or may not already know about deep sea drilling, while also stating the mission of WWF against ocean drilling. Moreover, the rhetorical appeal of Pathos is by far the strongest used rhetorical appeal throughout both of the World Wildlife Propaganda. For example, the video uses tone and music to cause the audience to feel sad for the indigenous people and animals of the Arctic. The video also shows images of whales, polar bears another Arctic animals covered in oil, to show the detrimental use of oil in the Arctic. Though the image of the pelican very bluntly uses Pathos, unlike the videos hidden signs. The image shows a pelican covered in oil choking to oil as well, with a dead fish at its feet and the words lives at the cost of If that does hit the audience in the heart who knows what will. The article by Mei and Yin, the two students from the Ocean University of China states, The motive for huge economic benefits of oil industry owners and oil shipping agents for surpassing their sins of ecological (Mei). By showing the audience that the need of oil by first world countries is causing beautiful animals to die hits home for a lot of people. The use of dying animals is strictly Pathos because no one wants to see a dying animal, especially if they are the cause of it. Lastly, the appeal of Kairos is used within the video to give a sense of action and urgency to the audience. Within the video, WWF mentions the Obama lease within the Arctic and then states what the audience can do to help the World Wildlife Fund save the ocean. The tell the audience to go to twitter and spread the video to let the Obama Administration know that the public does not want to drill in the Arctic. Also by spreading the message of WWF on social media, it will get seen by more people than it would if it was posted on TV, due to the Torres !4 number of people who use various social media accounts. WWF used Kairos in a very subtle way to help spread their goal of ending deep sea drilling one step at a time. The World Wildlife Fund is known for is movements dealing with nature conservancy. The organization is a well trusted non-profit group, therefore by having the WWF logo on any of the propaganda proves Ethos. Also, WWF uses Logos within the video to help the audience have a better understanding of the message being portrayed. Furthermore, the main rhetorical appeal that WWF is known for using is Pathos. The organization uses Pathos by showing animals covered in oil and dying to break the hearts of the audience. Furthermore, WWF uses Kairos to help call the audience to action as well was rapidly spread its message. The World Wildlife Fund uses rhetorical appeal to show is true passion against deep ocean drilling in both the images and videos. Torres !5 Video Link : https://www.youtube.com/watch? v=rMYpG0m51F8&list=PLP27HyDShLKjfH-5vMEjiXlmop1f09iST&index=1 Torres !6 Works Cited Mei, Hong, and Yanjie Yin. Studies on marine oil spills and their ecological  Journal of Ocean University of China 8.3 (2009): 312-16. USF Online Library . Web. 20 Feb. 2017. <http://link.springer.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/article/10.1007/s11802-009-0312-5>. Noelle, Kristin, and Casper Noelle. Oil and Gas Development in the Arctic: Softening of Ice Demands Hardening of International  Natural Resources Vol 49 (n.d.): 825-81. USF Online Library . Web. 21 Feb. 2017. <http:// eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ehost/detail/detail?sid=83dd09f9-8bfc-4670- b7cc-00246b3d3660%40sessionmgr4010&vid=0&hid=4103&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2 ZQ%3d%3d#AN=502106409&db=lft>. Sullivan, Patrick. Influence, Credibility, Effectiveness Measured in New  The NonProfit Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. <http://www.thenonprofittimes.com/news-articles/ influence-credibility-effectiveness-measured-in-new-poll-2/>. WWF. WWF Oil Spill Campaign Pelican . Digital image. WWF, n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <http:// airduster.deviantart.com/art/WWF-Campaign-Pelican-Oil-Spill-215471704>. Wwfus. YouTube. YouTube, 05 Oct. 2016. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/ watch?v=rMYpG0m51F8&list=PLP27HyDShLKjfH-5vMEjiXlmop1f09iST&index=1>.