Alexis Wallace Wallace 1 Professor Roth Composition I March 12, 2017 A Decline in Art Education Over Time Can you imagine a world without art? Of course not. However, it is easier to imagine a lack of opportunity to create art. When schools started receiving budget cuts, art programs took a hit. This was especially true in urban school districts. An article from 2012 stated 1999, 100% of school districts with a majority of free or reduced  students had music programs. Today, the figure stands at just (AAE). Over time art programs have started to become when compared to other programs provided by schools. Although most articles written before 2010 explored uses of art in education and did not acknowledge any obvious absence of art, ones written in the years after until now are worded in a more argumentative way to express the need for art in education and acknowledge a lack of arts within cultures. Before 2010, schools were relatively well stalked with a variety of art programs in all grade levels. Art was even being expanded in some ways. It started to make appearances in various mediums. For example, an article written in 2006 explores how to incorporate creative writing into our observations of other cultures. argue that by working with different methods, it is possible to move out of closed ways of thinking and writing that are constrained by cultural biases and disciplinary practices or 2006). When there a battle for gaining arts education, it is easier to expand its possibilities and build on its foundation. Another article, written in 2009, discusses creative art education in Australia. Under their well- organized program were believed to come to a better understanding of the Creative Arts through engagement as both arts practitioners and (Alter, 2009). They saw the Wallace 2 benefits of art education and made sure to take advantage of all aspects involved in various forms of art. Instead of arguing that the arts are important, the Australian education system already acknowledged its importance. The article continues on, offering ways to improve the system. Both of these articles offer great insight on how to build on the advantages of the arts, but as time went on, their studies were interrupted by a sudden decline in arts education as a whole. Unfortunately, close to 2010, arts education experienced a huge fallback that has left the art community scrambling for a solution. Budget cuts forced schools to pick and choose the programs they could provide for students. Arts did not always make it onto the list of priorities. STEM programs now seem to have an overpowering importance that leave art programs in the shadows. STEM stands for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. Since this acronym is so highly valued, an article written in 2015 challenges it by changing it to STEAM so that Arts is included. education is based on the premise that STEM and the arts function better together than they do (Ghanbari, 2015). People are realizing that art contributes to a way of thinking that other subject matter quite reach. So, to keep art in the game, this article offers a creative way to slip it into normal curriculum. A similar article written this year suggests that art contributes greatly to student engagement, therefore making it a vital part of the education process. It states that, school-based arts programs have been reported as particularly effective for both preventing disengagement, and re-engaging students in (McFerran, 2017). This shows that even today the arts is fighting to fit into our education. Despite the many studies that show beneficial outcomes from the incorporation of arts in our education, it still gets overlooked by some schools. Wallace 3 To conclude, time has not been kind to the arts. Soon after 2010 the arts took a hit and are experiencing a slow recovery. Hopefully we can eventually make it back to a point where we are building on art programs, rather than trying to fight to have them back. Researchers and art enthusiasts are definitely helpful in the move towards a more creative society, but if schools better funded the arts are at a serious risk. Art leads to inspiration, and that is something everyone needs. Wallace 4 Works Cited Alter, F., Hays, T., & R. (2009). Creative arts teaching and practice: Critical reflections of primary school teachers in Australia. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 10(9). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v10n9/ Ghanbari, S. (2015). Learning across disciplines: A collective case study of two university programs that integrate the arts with STEM. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 16(7). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v16n7/ K. (2006, March 16). Experiences with poetry, pedagogy and participant observation: Writing with students in a study abroad program. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 7(1). Retrieved from http://ijea.asu.edu/v7n1/ McFerran, K. S., Crooke, A. H. D., & Bolger, L. (2017). Promoting engagement in school through tailored music programs. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 18(3). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v18n3/ Association of American Educators. (2012). Report: Art Education Programs on the Decline. Retrieved from https://www.aaeteachers.org/index.php/blog/700-report-art-education-programs- on-the-decline