Ortega 1 Yosselyn Ortega B. Hernandez ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 Analysis of Rhetorical Appeals Used in Images The question of the ethicality of using animals to test scientific theories for the sake of humans remains controversial. PETA is an organization notorious as an advocate for animal rights. They fight against pet cruelty and the human consumption of animals, as well as using animals for cosmetic testing and medical experimentation. slogan clearly explains their mission as an animal rights organization as they state are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other (PETA). The images PETA releases to advertise their animal rights campaign play a large part in the way they persuade people that testing on animals is an injustice of animal life. Two of ads will be examined for their use of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos, the first being an image of a monkey in a cage waiting to be tested on and the second an image of Noah Cyrus being dissected. advertisements effectively inform their audience of the inhumane approach of obtaining scientific knowledge by testing on animals through the use of rhetorical appeals in their gruesome and emotion-provoking images. In the first image, pathos is used by PETA who displays a distressed monkey behind bars with the words, you call it you can get away with (PETA). By repeating the word the advertisement is addressing the viewer, causing the viewer to feel Ortega 2 guilty over the death of the monkey and other animals being tested on for science. By presenting the monkey as looking wide-eyed and frightened, the viewer feels compassion for the monkey and make them want to help this animal in need because the monkey looks helpless. The bright light focusing on the face appeals to the emotions because the monkey looks like it is being illuminated with a spotlight with the focus on his face. The viewer can view this image and feel pity for the monkey that had no say in this operation or experimentation. Also, the fact that the monkey is behind bars implies that it is trapped in a cage and has no choice in the matter. The monkey image displays credibility in that it is branded with logo. Viewers tend to value more legitimate organizations PETA happens to be largest animal rights organization in the world, with more than 5 million members and (PETA). An organization as established as PETA further validates the advertisement because the viewer is convinced that PETA is worthy of attention. A viewer is more likely to believe in and support the campaign of an organization that has as many supporters and connections as PETA has already. The monkey image uses logic to persuade the audience testing on animals is inhumane through the argument that hurting a living creature is wrong. Showing the frightened monkey trapped in a cage and having the word in a sentence next to the image leads the viewer to believe the monkey will be killed. Logically, hurting something with life is unethical and should be stopped. This advertisement includes the words, you call it you can get away with (PETA). PETA is claiming researchers are testing on animals for medical purposes as an excuse, and because it is for science it benefits humans. But logically, nothing should be used as an excuse to end an innocent life. In fact, there are already various methods of testing that do not require the use of animals, including methods Ortega 3 include sophisticated tests using human cells and tissues (also known as in vitro methods) advanced computer-modeling techniques (often referred to as in silico (PETA). Logically, using these methods to test products or conduct experiments would be more efficient without having to harm animals or humans who volunteer as test subjects. monkey image uses kairos to express urgency in stopping experiments on animals. The sense of urgency comes from lives of these animals being experimented on because year, more than 100 million mice, rats, frogs, dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs, monkeys, fish, and killed in U.S. laboratories for biology lessons, medical training, curiosity-driven experimentation, and chemical, drug, food, and cosmetics (PETA). The advertisement is implying that the animals being tested on are running out of time to live, so it is urgent to stop testing on animals immediately. By acting now, one could prevent the death of more monkeys. The second image released by PETA is one of Noah Cyrus lying on a table with her, ready to be dissected with a view of her entrails. This image appeals to the emotions because it depicts a young, human girl as an animal being dissected. She is extremely pale, implying she is dead, like the frogs and pigs that are dissected everyday in the classroom. You can see all of her internal organs, and this can make the audience feel like the image is revolting and that animal dissection is revolting as well. The fact that her eyes are opened makes the connection between the message and the viewer more emotional because her dead eyes are staring up at the viewer. It can make someone uncomfortable with the image and leave a gruesome and lasting impression on the viewer, especially because humans have similar organs to some animals, like pigs. According to the Smithsonian, pigs organs such as the heart , kidneys, Ortega 4 and liver are similar enough to human organs that scientists are working on using pig organs as transplants for humans. The dissection advertisement uses ethos to convince viewers to join their mission to end animal testing by having a celebrity endorse the PETA brand. Her name is Noah Cyrus and she is mostly known as Miley younger sister. She is also known for acting roles and has released her own music. This image with Noah Cyrus comes from PETA2, a young program at PETA, and is largest youth animal rights group in the (PETA2). PETA2 released an ad with Noah Cyrus to appeal more to their teenage audience, because Noah is also a teenager. By including her in the advertisement, teens will believe that testing on animals is wrong because Noah Cyrus agrees with the message. By falling under the PETA umbrella, PETA 2 receives all of credibility as well. The advertisement with Noah Cyrus also uses logos to persuade the viewer through its statement and the image of a dead girl. The image includes the statement am not a classroom (PETA 2). This appeals to logic because it is obvious that a human girl should not be cut open to take a look at the location of her heart and lungs and intestines. It is evident that taking a look at the organs of a person or even an animal is wasteful and only results in deaths of animals. According to the Humane Society of the United States, of vertebrate animals are dissected yearly in U.S. high schools alone, with an additional, unknown number used in colleges, and middle and elementary Some will argue that by dissecting animals, scientists were able to learn about animals but logically, students in grade school do not contribute to knowledge already discovered from previous research. Ortega 5 The dissection image uses kairos to express urgency halting dissections of animals. Dissections involve studying the internal structures of animals euthanized and injected with formaldehyde. PETA has found that in some cases, were removed from gas chambers and injected with formaldehyde without first being checked for vital signs, a violation of the Animal Welfare (PETA). The urgency in this advertisement is implied because by supporting their mission, more innocent animals can avoid the abuse inflicted upon them and more animal lives can be saved. To conclude, the rhetorical appeals used by images effectively help inform the viewer of the injustice of animal used in experiments. With these two images, PETA hopes to appeal to viewers who are affected by the messages of the images, and those who respond by taking action to support the campaign. Their campaign and their message help save the lives of animals and help end the suffering of animals all around the world. By appealing to emotions, using credibility to their advantage, using logic, and creating a sense of urgency, PETA convinces its audience to agree with their campaign. Ortega 6 Works Cited About  . Web. 26 Feb. 2017. About  - Free for All. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hansman, Heather. The Future of Animal-to-Human Organ  . Smithsonian Institution, 17 Sept. 2015. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights . Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Questions and Answers About  Humane Society of the United States . Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Ortega 7