Berry 1 Cody Berry ENC 1102 Dennis MW 11:00am-12:15pm Opposing Views on Violence in Video Games Social media has become an important part of business in world. From promoting business to advertising products, there are many uses for social media when it comes to anything. Social media can even be used against other organizations. The Parents Television Council (PTC) aims to protect children from media violence due to its harmful effects, while the Entertainment Merchants Association (EMC) protects the rights of the distribution of all forms of virtual entertainment. These two organizations are on opposing sides of the same topic, however the PTC is very adamant about its opposition toward violent video games while the EMA is just defending the rights of distribution, not directly opposed to the PTC. Both organizations have used social media in some form to create an audience for their cause, whether they themselves created the media or not, and the most common form is depictions or images. The PTC is strongly against violence in video games and is involved in legal activity to inhibit the freedoms of distribution of said violent video games. Legal activity includes a law that passed in California that restricted the sale of violent video games with a mature rating or higher, which was proposed initially to the senator of california by the PTC. This law was eventually brought to court and was denied by the supreme court under the first amendment. Conversely, the EMA supports the rights of distribution of all forms of entertainment, including video games. The EMA is not in direct opposition with the PTC which is exemplified Berry 2 by their website. The website is strictly informational and business related as it describes what the organization does and what it wants to accomplish. There was an instance, however, of these two coming into direct opposition and it was when the California law that restricted sales of video games went to court. The EMA actually brought the law, that was initially proposed by the PTC, to the supreme court and was able to overturn the law which was a violation of the first amendment. (Video Game Violence) The image above represents the PTC and depicts two children who find a newspaper dispenser with a newspaper that reads, TV and games linked to The two then get angry with what the newspaper says and proceed to beat up the dispenser. Looking more in depth, what the paper reads and what the children do as a result is contradictory, and the whole message of the image. The two children seem to play video games and watch TV since they get Berry 3 angry at what the newspaper reads, however does not see the effect of the violence on their behavior, which was exemplified by their hostility toward the newspaper dispenser. In reference to the rhetorical appeals, ethos is present in this image in two ways. The first being that the information is coming from a newspaper which is an everyday source of information for many people, giving it credibility and reliability in terms of information. The second is the fact that one of the kids says that he those bogus which refers to the psychological studies performed in an attempt to link increased aggression in adolescents to habitual usage of violent media in all forms. An example would be a study conducted by Craig A. Anderson et al. which recorded the behavior of 3 groups of children: a group of Japanese students ages 12-15, another Japanese student group ages 13-15, and an American group of students ages 9-12. Their behavior was recorded in three different samples at 2 points in time ranging from 3 to 6 months and the results showed that children who habitually played violent video games became more aggressive as the school year progressed (Anderson). The image also appeals to pathos. The image of these two children getting angry and destroying the dispenser is attempting to create anger towards violence in video games. The image also could be trying to invoke a call to action, making it seem like something needs to be done about excessive exposure to violence. Finally, the image appeals to logos as well. The reference to studies in the image is the logical appeal in the image. Studies on behavior are conducted by psychological professionals who are attempting to further human knowledge of their own behavior and how the brain works. In this case, studies successfully showed a link between violent video games and their effects on developing adolescents. There is no appeal to kairos in this image. Berry 4 (Rousse) This second image represents the EMA. It is actually a depiction of Super Mario under the American flag, which represents the flag at the end of each level in the video game, saluting the word The image refers to Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association in which the EMA declared a judgement action against California for a their law restricting the sale of video games rated mature and above. There are once again, two appeals to ethos in the image. The first being the gavel to the right of the word protected. A gavel is used in courts to demand order and is a representation of justice. The judicial branch of the government is a definite source of credibility as it is the law in which Americans live by. The second source of ethos comes from the background of the image. It is a representation of parchment paper, which was once used to write on before modern paper. When one thinks of parchment paper, they tend to think of official documents such as the Berry 5 Constitution or the Declaration of Independence. It is depicted in the image to support the reference to the court case. In reference to pathos, the image gives off a sense of relief or justice. The word protected in bold and big letters makes the viewer feel safe. Anyone who plays video games may see this image and feel a sense of relief that the law does not exist anymore, for had it been around still, it would have spread across the country and inhibited many from playing video games they love. Finally, there is not much appeal to logos and no appeal to kairos. The only appeal to logos present in the image is, again, the gavel that represents the judicial branch of government that dictates law and delivers justice where it needs to be. It handles criminal cases and the final say in laws that pass and laws that do not. In conclusion, both images were created in order to attract attention to each point of view on the subject of banning violent video games. The first image characterizes how the PTC thinks that violence in media and videogames is affecting the children who partake in that form of entertainment. It is attempting to create a call to action toward its audience basically saying that it is time to stop children from playing violent video games. The second image represents how the EMA won the court case with the law attempting to restrict violent video games that was initially presented by the PTC. this image characterizes more of a sense of justice than anything being that the right for this form of entertainment is protected under the First Amendment. clear to see that there is some form of tension between the two due to the fact that the PTC proposed the law that the EMA had to take to court in order to avoid the infringement of their right to provide entertainment. These images represent the current conflict regarding the issue of violence in media. Berry 6 Work Cited Videogame Violence, Sex, and Effects  Violence, Sex, and Effects Studies . N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Rousse @ludist, Tommy. Not New Enough: Brown v.  Screen . N.p., 17 Nov. 2015. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Anderson, Craig A., Akira Sakamoto, Douglas A. Gentile, Nobuko Ihori, Akiko Shibuya, Shintaro Yukawa, Mayumi Naito, and Kumiko Kobayashi. Longitudinal Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Japan and the United  . American Academy of Pediatrics, 01 Nov. 2008. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.