Nodarse 1 Luis Nodarse Professor Bianca ENC 1102 The death penalty and its impact on people The death penalty is a problem that comes to mind when speaking of the problems that the US criminal justice system has since many people do not agree with it being implemented. One organization against it is the National coalition to abolish the death penalty (NCADP). The NCDAP vision is to live in a logical world where there is that are care for all for offenders that is just and acknowledges the possibility of self-transformation, grace and of all touched by criminal justice and that are which this spells out NCDAP. They agree with the death penalty because it is inhumane and they believe no one deserves to be killed. As stated in their website National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty seeks to build a diverse and powerful national constituency favoring death penalty They want the death penalty completely gone and they have ideas that will help with alternatives to the death penalty and ways to fix the root of the problem being crime (NCADP.org). The NCDAP uses 2 images in their website to try to get their goals across to the people the first one being about taking the pledge to stop all executions and the second one is about society toward more Nodarse 2 humane These two images are used by the NCDAP to express ethos, pathos, logos and Kairos to get the point across that the death penalty should be banned. The first picture is a chair where the convicts get executed in and over the chair there is a logo saying take the pledge and #HaltAllExecutions and on the bottom right it says 90 million strong. This picture uses pathos firstly which means that the picture is evoking emotion and in this case it is evoking emotion by the use of the execution chair which leads to the viewers of the picture to think of death and cruel punishment, this is spoken out all over the country because lethal injection always as quick and painful as it is said to be when the right chemicals are not used according to scientific American [the could suffocate painfully if the anesthetic comes from an unknown (scientificamerican.com). Since it is also in a very dull room with no colors this leads to emotions of sadness, another element in the picture that shows pathos is the straps on the chair which leads to think of how they are trapped there and there is nothing they can do about it which leads to the audience to think of hopelessness. Which goes back to the goal of the organization which they want people to stop getting killed and these emotions of sadness makes the people want these executions to stop which lead exactly to the point of the picture. This leading to Kairos which is a sense of timelessness and wanting the viewer to do things now, and that is what this picture does it first gives emotions of sadness then it tells you to take the pledge which goes back to Kairos meaning that it wants the viewer to make the pledge now. Kairos here leads to the goal of the picture of doing the pledge to make a difference and ban the death penalty all around the united states which is what the organization wants. The organization shows the goal also by showing ethos which is trustworthiness by the million in the bottom of the screen showing how the Nodarse 3 organization already has 90 million people already devoted to ban the death penalty this leading to the viewer to think that joining and taking the pledge is worth their time. This million also goes back to logos which means logic and in this picture the million strong gives a sense to the audience that joining will make a difference and it will not be something that will waste their time which is also shown in the website because right next to this picture NCDAP talks about ways to get involved and ways for the individual to make a difference. This picture gives the viewer the idea that the death penalty is cruel and it is shown by the multiple problems of how not the right chemicals are being used giving pain in the execution as previously stated. The second picture is the main brochure of the NCDAP and a picture of the bars in a prison cell and it says moving society toward more humane society and in the bottom it shows the logo of the NCDAP. This picture shows pathos here because of the jail cell in the back to give the feeling of entrapment for the people in jail which is an inhumane thing to do as stated in the Marshall project article of death penalty opponents they speak of lived in extreme isolation in a 7 x 9 cell. He is fed through a slot in the solid steel door, and on some days allowed out for an hour to alone in a small, barren which is completely awful for someone to live in such conditions(themarshallproject.com). Bringing back to what it says of bringing society toward a more humane justice these emotions being evoked lead back to the picture showing the goals of the organization. The picture also shows logos which is showing logic in the picture and in this picture logos is being showed by the jail cell and that is that it gives the viewer the feeling of that they know that no one wants to be in such a place as a jail cell all day we want more which is also written in the in the picture leading to the Nodarse 4 viewer thinking this immediately. Another rhetorical appeal showed here is ethos and it is showed here by the logo of the national coalition to abolish the death penalty and this gives the viewer of the picture a sense that they can trust this brochure and what it is trying to say. The last rhetorical appeal showed here is Kairos and the sense of timelessness and here it shown by the words printed on the picture of society towards more humane this speaks of the future and how the organization is moving our society towards the better future and that is what Kairos is all about moving forward and taking action now and that is what the picture says taking action now and moving towards the future. Making this a great picture to show exactly what the organization wants to talk about with their vision and goals of and about the death penalty. In conclusion the goals of the organization are to abolish the death penalty and the images are being used to show the goals of the organization. It makes the audience feel that they matter and they should be involved in an organization such as this one because they see the cruelties that the death penalty has and this organization shows that they have the million to make a difference and the audience can also make a difference. Not only they show these images they also have explanation next to the images next to their websites to be able to actually go and do something and not only be motivated by the picture but also be able to do something about it in the website whether it is the vision of the organization or join the pledge. Word count:1263 Nodarse 5 Picture 1 Picture 2 Nodarse 6 Works cited About  About Us National Coalition to. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Greenemeier, Larry. Cruel and Usual? Is Capital Punishment by Lethal Injection Quick and  Scientific American. N.p., 27 Oct. 2010. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Take  Take Action National Coalition to. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. What Death Penalty Opponents  The Marshall Project. N.p., 16 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.