Alexis1 Usha Alexis Dennis Mont Ros 1102 English Composition 19 February 2017 Project 2: A message within the image. percent of the processed foods that American consumers eat daily contain plants that have been genetically Banerjee, 2014). There is no doubt genetically modified food is becoming more and more prominent in our food chain. But what exactly is a GMO? GMO is the outcome of geneticist manipulating the genes from the DNA of one kind of animal and artificially inserting that same gene into another unrelated animal. And this is through the use of gene technology in a way that does not occur naturally through mating and/or natural recombination. Genetically modified organisms are very unnatural. GMO is created by the insertion of one or more functional genes from different species into the genome of an organism. This technique is used to produce new genetic combinations that are of value to science, medicine, agriculture and industry, and it has been Alexis 2 used with several species of plants, animals, fungi and (Milavec, M., Dobnik, D., Yang, L., Zhang, D., Gruden, K., & J, 2014). When it comes to there are two viewpoints. One side demands mandatory labeling of while the other side does not find the action of labeling is necessary. There is a continued battle in federal court about this issues. In Congress, the House and Senate appear split over whether such labeling should be a state or federal issue. More attention is brought upon the debate and action is starting to take place. In 2013, for example, Whole Foods announced that by 2018, all products in its U.S. and Canadian stores must be labeled if they contain genetically modified organisms. (Beecher, C, 2016). While the organization of Monsanto believes that GMO foods promote effective productivity of produce, because GMOs can be altered in genetic material to bring about favorable traits in the produce; Label GMO Florida opposes GMO productivity due to the fact that GMO products have not been thoroughly investigated to determine any trace of prolonged side effects of GMO foods when ingested into the human body. Label GMO urges that companies at least label when the product has GMO components within it. To satisfy the objective of both groups GMO foods should still be administered but labeled on each product that does contain GMO substances. Those companies that label efficiently would get higher rating, than those that do not. We may think that the term GMO is a fairly new concept, yet the introduction of genetically modified foods and organisms started in the Advance Alexis 3 research was conducted to deepen the understanding of genetically modified products throughout the years. Now, as American consumers we are faced with the fact that are incorporated into the majority of our foods. The question is, we have the right to choose whether we want to ingest foods that contain altered genomes. Label GMO Florida was founded on the idea of ensuring Floridians have the Right to  and be well informed on what they feed their family. Label GMO wants to make sure we are allowed to vote on complete disclosure of food whether it is  or genetically engineered in 2014. We must demand that we know the whole truth about each product so that we can and make the right decision on the food we want to eat. This organization also informs consumer on new updates and developments of genetically modified foods/organisms Alexis 4 (Pulse,2012) The ethos of this image is very obvious. This is a laboratory rat, being held by a credible scientist. He is wearing a glove while handling the rat. The rat has various tumors throughout its body. We can see the rat is suffering immensely, those that view this picture will feel a sense of shock and fear as a pathos. A lab rat at was given the exact same amount of this ingredient called NK603 Roundup, which is a prominent component of GMO foods served to humans. (Pulse, 2012). After extensive research, the rats developed cancer and lived less than the rats the were not give this toxic ingredient. Shock and Fear is invocated in this image. The graphic nature of this image, can cause viewers to really ponder on the safety elements of GMO foods. This photo causes viewers to analyze how GMO toxins could affect human beings when ingested. The tumors on the rats were severe and gruesome. Alexis 5 The FDA is not concerned about the risk of in fact they express that they are safe and harmless. The FDA fully comply with organization that promote and manufacture The USA does not require genetically modified foods to be labeled. On that same note, Monsanto is an organization claims that it employs more than 20,000 people, which ultimately helping the us economy in providing jobs. These employees main goal is to alternate and quicker methods of cultivating crops providing more crops to the world. The organization is highly extensive, branching out in 67 other countries around the world. Monsanto main task is to provide genetically modified seed of fruits, veggies, and cotton to field growers (agriculturist) to develop crops with more sustainability and strength. An abundant amount of many was spent towards research to grow more dependable and efficient crops. We employ and provide data to help farmers, both large and small, make more informed decisions on their farms. (Monsanto,2017) Monsanto is also very charitable, contributed about 50 million to help those in need. Alexis 6 The ethos of this image is very subtle. This picture shows a beautiful scenery of nature, a vast field of corn. The landscape is almost perfect with its diverse levels. We see the blue sky and the sun shining from the right. Monsanto wants to send a clear message that their product is natural and authentic, when in truth their products are genetically modified. I think the picture deceives the viewer, to the true nature of their organization. We can also see in the picture, the logo Monsanto on the left. This indicated the company, has total confidence in their product. Photographer captured a beautiful field of crops, with vibrant colors to demonstrate the positivity of GMOs, and how it develops favorable crops. This picture practically mimics nature fields, while in reality it is a field of GMO products. The logos of this is a picture is a field filled with corn, and this represents the productivity of Monsanto, GMO organisms. Mass production main goal of Monsanto, the organization also stresses the fact that their crops help feed those in Alexis 7 less fortunate countries. The pathos of this image demonstrates love for nature, its beauty, the ability to alter crops in favorable characteristic. Its integrates a feeling of peace and tranquility. When I look at this image I feel in touch with nature. Alexis 8 Work cited CRIIGEN Study Links GM Maize and Roundup to Premature Death and  Sustainable Pulse. Sustainable Pulse, 01 Mar. 2013. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Blake, C. (2015). Day a logical opportunity to discuss GMO benefits. Western Farm Press, 37(21), 4. Drott, L., Jochum, L., Lange, F., Skierka, I., Vach, J., & van Asselt, M. B. (2013). Accountability and risk governance: a scenarion informed reflection on European regulation of GMOs. Journal Of Risk Research, 16(9), HEMPHILL, T. A., & BANERJEE, S. (2014). Mandatory Food Labeling for GMOs. Regulation, 37(4), 7-10. Milavec, M., Dobnik, D., Yang, L., Zhang, D., Gruden, K., & J. (2014). GMO quantification: valuable experience and insights for the future. Analytical & Bioanalytical Chemistry, 406(26), 6485-6497 Paskalev, V. (2015). GMO Regulation in Europe: Undue Delegation, Abdication or Design Flaw?European Journal Of Risk Regulation, 6(4), 573-578. Label GMO  Label GMO Florida. N.p., 12 Nov. 2013. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Latest Headlines  Monsanto Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Mar. 2017.