Singh 1 Puneet K Singh T. Poston ENC 1102.027 3/12/17 Project 2 Final Draft The National Rifle Perspective The National Rifle Association (NRA) communicates with their supporters primarily through their website. Although social media is a popular way for the organization to reach out personally to its members, their website contains information that offers a broad range of information. Tucked neatly within the articles posted on the website are visual images that are used to evoke a reaction from the reader. The NRA is keen on upholding American second amendment right to bear arms. Supporters of the organization believe that their rights have been infringed upon. They also agree with the notion that shooting should be and per Col. William C. Church via their website. The visual arguments found on their website help to convey their perspective on gun regulation as well. Frank Winn is a member of the NRA community that writes articles frequently. In one of his pieces, The Truth About he describes the perspective of gun owners versus the view of large media outlets. He claims that owners in general, and the folks who care enough to get carry permits in particular, are astonishingly safe and Winn wants to highlight how the media paints all gun owners with the same brush- as high risk criminals. He is stating that the majority of crimes that are committed with firearms are executed by those that acquire guns illegally. According to this article, one in every 37,647 guns are used in homicides but the media exaggerates the news in order to maintain ratings. Singh 2 The first image is an advertisement that is displayed across the header of the explore page. No matter which article that is clicked on, this image will appear along the top banner of the page. The purpose of this image is to make a pertinent statement regarding gun laws. The rhetorical appeals used in the first image are pathos and ethos. The second image uses pathos, ethos, and kairos. Logos is not evident in either of the photos. Through the use of rhetorical visual appeals, the audience is able to understand the perspective on the topic of gun control. https://www.americas1stfreedom.org/media/1533217/sharp-mini-marqueerv1.jpg The first image is an advertisement that makes the audience want to feel how the character in the photo feels. The NRA relies on advertisements to portray their stance on gun laws. By dissecting the rhetorical appeals used in this image, the message becomes clear. Through focusing on the selling aspect of gun trade, they are indirectly stating that the gun laws in place are sufficient enough. The goal of this image is to convince NRA supporters to endorse their sharp shooter guns and lessen restrictive gun laws. Visual rhetorical appeals used in this photograph are pathos, ethos, and logos. The image is used to advertise the sharp shooting store. It is used to appeal to the pathos (emotion) of the audience. It was created to make the viewer want to purchase a heavy duty gun. The photo displays pathos as the strongest rhetorical appeal. The image is of a young woman wearing dark sunglasses and red lipstick holding a heavy-duty gun. The red lipstick and sunglasses give a sense of confidence and fearlessness that many women strive to feel. This can appeal to many women that like to sharp Singh 3 shoot. By adding the gun into the picture, the audience is given an extra boost of how intimidating they can appear if they also invest in sharp shooting. Therefore, the audience is left feeling that if that is what owning that type of gun will make them feel, then they must own it. Ethos is present and effective in this photo as well. The use of the logo stamped onto the photo makes it a credible photo for their website to use. The distinct way the logo is presented next to the logo makes the audience believe that it is truly from their website. No logos or Kairos appeals are present in this image. The NRA chose to share this image as an advertisement in order to display how the organization feels about gun trade laws. https://www.nraila.org/articles/20170213/california-doj-withdraws-assault-weapon-regulations Following the first image, which acts as an advertisement, the second image clearly displays the perspective on gun laws as well. In this photo, pathos is also the main rhetorical appeal used to grab the attention of the audience. It is placed in this article in order to question if gun control policies are worth the work put in. The second image was found embedded in an article about assault weapon regulations in California. The image displays Singh 4 pathos as an important rhetorical appeal as well. This photograph looks like it was taken of an elevator panel, a scene that many people are familiar with. Everyone knows the feeling of pressing a button that light up or takes forever to respond to the command. In the same sense, the photo evokes a sense of no matter how many times the button for more is pressed, there will never be a time where there will realistically be no more guns. In this way, the image appeals to the emotions and makes them think deeper into the photo. In the second image, ethos is present through symbols. The red symbol surrounding the gun references a symbol that represents authority. It is a common symbol that has been used for many years. It adds credibility to this photo because it is a known symbol. In the second image, kairos is evident because the word occurs right after the button. Because this image has the words and the timeliness of this photo is endless. It can be interpreted that no matter how many times people try to enforce there will always be others out there that have access to them. The term has significance to the Kairos appeal because the timeliness of gun control can never end. One can press the button countless times, but there will always be guns. From analyzing the visual rhetorical appeals of this advertisement, it can be assumed that the NRA feels that gun laws are sufficient today. Frank article, Your Firearm Carry attacks the extensive process to maintain a gun under laws. He claims that the journey to possess a firearm is unnecessary and that the laws should either be less strict or kept how they are. Winn says that years of soul-searching (and perhaps waiting for the appropriate legal climate), invested in training, certification, background check(s), licensing and only to have to continuously train and prepare for life. The method to Winn is just a way to discourage potential Singh 5 gun owners from receiving their firearms. He believes that current gun trade laws are excessive and unfair because the majority of gun owners are law abiding citizens. The National Rifle Association is known for supporting gun trade and the promotion of the second amendment of the Constitution. Through deciphering the two images found on their website, it is concluded that the NRA believes that gun laws are adequate and gun trade should be continued. One image is an advertisement that supports the selling of guns. The other photo is making the statement that guns are not going away. Both of the images use visual rhetorical appeals in order to connect with their audience. Frank Winn uses his articles to explain why the media misrepresents gun owners and that gun laws should not be as tough as they are. Singh 6 Works Cited A Brief History of the NRA. NRA  NRA About the NRA. 2017 National Rifle Association of America, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Digital image. Https://www.nraila.org. 2017 National Rifle Association of America, Institute for Legislative Action, 13 Feb. 2017. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <https://www.nraila.org/articles/20170213/california-doj-withdraws-assault-weapon- regulations>. NRA Sharp. Digital image. Https://www.americas1stfreedom.org. 2017 National Rifle Association of America, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <https://www.americas1stfreedom.org/media/1533217/sharp-mini-marqueerv1.jpg>. Winn, Frank. Carry Life Is Your Firearm Carry  1st Freedom. 2017 National Rifle Association of America, 10 Mar. 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. <https://www.americas1stfreedom.org/articles/2017/3/10/carry-life-is-your-firearm- carry-ready/>. Winn, Frank. Carry Life Twisting The Truth About  1st Freedom. 2017 National Rifle Association of America, 20 May 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. <https://www.americas1stfreedom.org/articles/2016/5/20/carry-life-twisting-the-truth- about-firearms/>.