1 Olivia Stea Professor Roth ENC 1101 12 March 2016 The real reason why the United States is losing jobs Due to the ever-changing economy, more and more companies are offshoring their jobs to other countries for cost effective purposes. American companies are moving their jobs to popular low cost countries like China, India, Indonesia and many others. More and more jobs are being outsourced because it is simply cheaper and more efficient. It is also better for the environment on the United States end of it. Not only is it extremely expensive to import the things needed to run a factory but environmentally the cost of waste being exposed into society is a risk no one wants. To fix the economy, the United States needs to find a way to create more jobs and risk the cost that it will take finally and environmentally to keep their companies abroad. Doing this is simply smarter, more realistic, and could save the economy. Do the lack of jobs in the United States have to do with the fact that more and more companies offshoring their facilities due to cost efficiency? When one looks at the entire world and thinks about which countries have the richest economies few come to mind. One would probably say, the United States, China, and India. These are all correct but we are going to focus on the United States. With a gross domestic product (GDP) of about 17 trillion yet its debt accounts for about 19 million, this a well known fact. But when one tries to contemplate where all this debt comes from people think of bills, overused credit but also most importantly lack of jobs. Every year more and more jobs are being 2 shifted out of the United States and into China, India, and other countries. According to an article, Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) estimate of jobs lost due to the shifting of US jobs out of the country grossly underestimates the total number of jobs lost. While BLS reported 4,633 private sector workers in establishments with 50 or more workers lost their jobs due to global outsourcing in January-March (Bronfenbrenner). Also out of a statistic of random companies surveyed by the authors of this article, an estimated 32% of companies surveyed are outsourcing from high to low cost countries. This article is extremely relevant to my research question in the sense that it shows statistics on companies considering offshoring for the main argument of y research question that it is pertained through a cheaper functioning alternative. Companies like China and India are able to produce product at a much cheaper cost and also are able to provide workers that are willing to work for a much lower standard of living. There is a lot of arguments on if it is worth it to have a cheaper cost at the life of other people. Humanly, it is wrong but at the same time, people are willing to work for that cost. To look further into this epidemic, I found an article that delves into the science behind why it is so much cheaper to offshore jobs into low cost countries. The authors of this article developed a country general equilibrium According to these scientists, the presence of fixed costs for offshoring the most productive firms self-select into offshoring, which leads to a reallocation of domestic labor towards less productive uses if offshoring costs are high (Egger). Basically stating that it is safer to offshore a company because one is able to use fixed costs with lower developed poorer countries rather than dealing with the nightmare that is ever changing minimum wage costs in the US. 3 This article goes more in depth to the science behind my research question. The reasoning behind this corporate revolution is purely cost based. Looking at the two country equilibrium model clearly shows that there is a model to calculate the fixed cost to compare how much it will be to have a factory in one country versus another. Also, this model shows if there would be a change in hard versus soft currency because it is widely known that the US dollar is a hard currency that is reliable to use in other countries where as the rupee in India may not be as reliable of a place for their business. However, the idea of offshoring is not simply just cost based, but also has to deal with other aspects. This article competitive conditions driving the manufacturing location focuses on the global aspect of location of businesses rather than the cost. Some common factors that go into this are: location, national disasters, currency valuation, labor, transportation costs, and (Tate). This article also goes into the concepts of not only offshoring but reshoring as well. Reshoring is basically rethinking the ideas about offshoring and reconsidering if it is worth it or not. One other interesting study in this was considering what the customers think about the idea of reshoring. Also if reshoring would ultimately result in an opening of new markets. Lastly, to completely understand the mindset of offshoring, one must understand its counterpar, reshoring. Reshoring is a term used to describe when a company that offshores their company considers it, or bringing it back to the USA. In the book, offshoring: A research framework based on disintegration, location and externalization the three advantages are, location-specific resourcing, and (Mukherjee). This source also delves into government policies, and possible recommendations for companies who are attempting to dive into this idea. 4 In order to defend my research question I must firmly understand offshoring and its policies rather than just a simple definition. This source is imperative for my argument simply for the fact that it shows what happens to a company before and after they attempt to relocate. Recognizing the three advantages is crucial to define in order to understand what the lack of jobs in the United States are justified. In conclusion, one can now be more educated at offshoring, the reasoning behind it, and why it counts for the lack of jobs in the United States. One can now be certain about the science behind it, the economic advantages and disadvantages, and the process of reshoring. This argument, while very controversial, is ever-changing, and hopefully will educate the public to bring more jobs back into the United States. 5 Works Cited Bronfenbrenner, Kate, and Stephanie Luce. E Changing Nature of Corporate Global Restructuring: E Impact of Production Shi S on Jobs in the US, China, and Around the  Cornell University ILR School. N.p., 14 Oct. 2004. Web. Egger, Hartmut, Udo Kreickemeier, and Jens Wrona. Offshoring Domestic Jobs  Offshoring Domestic Jobs. Science Direct, Sept. 2015. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Mukherjee, Debmalya, and Ben L. Kedia. Understanding Offshoring: A Research Framework Based on Disintegration, Location and Externalization  Understanding Offshoring: A Research Framework Based on Disintegration, Location and Externalization Advantages. Science Direct, July 2009. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Tate, Wendy L., Lisa M. Ellram, Tobais Schoenherr, and Kenneth J. Petersen. Global Competitive Conditions Driving the Manufacturing Location  Global Competitive Conditions Driving the Manufacturing Location Decision. Science Direct, June 2014. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. 6