Ruble 1 Courtney Ruble Ms. Poston ENC 1102 10 March 2017 Physician-Assisted Suicide Advertisements are a common marketing tactic used by companies to promote some kind of awareness for their service or product. These companies use a variety of mediums to get their message out, such as print ads and billboards. The ads are designed a certain way to get the audience to feel a certain emotion and impact their opinion on a given topic. Like many companies, Death with Dignity uses advertisements to raise awareness on an issue specific to them. Their particular issue is physician-assisted suicide, which is the act of a physician prescribing a patient with a lethal dose of medication, so they can in a peaceful, humane manner in a place and time of their (Death with Dignity para 1). The visual advertisements used by the organization are designed to evoke feeling from the audience, in ways such as color choices, to inform its audiences to support the right to die. Image 1 shows a disabled man in a wheelchair looking at a set of stairs that leads to a door advertising a Prevention while heading towards a wheelchair accessible ramp leading towards a door advertising Through this picture, the audience is able to depict a bit of irony and Ruble 2 humor. When an individual is considering suicide, they are often redirected to health professionals for guidance, yet the only way into the building is stairs. It could be seen logically that the man will take the ramp towards assisted suicide since the organization conveniently provided a ramp for access for anyone to use, not just disabled personal. While no specific organization is identified, which hurts the pictures credibility, it can be seen that the photograph supports aid in dying. Upon first glace, the audience can catch what the essence of the photo is, but may not analyze some important aspects about the picture. In particular, is the use of color, or lack thereof. The photo is in black and white, with some shades of grey. The lack of color can be interpreted in many different ways. Seeing as it is in black and white, it could symbolize that in a situation such as this one, there is only two options: death or to continue living. As well as that, the audience could analyze the colors used within the photograph. White is commonly associated with purity, safe, good (Fatrabbit Creative). The door for the suicide prevention program is colored in a white light, seeming a more ethical solution to dying. On the other hand, black is associated with authority, mystery, death. The door for assisted suicide is cast in a black shadow, causing it to come across as the unethical decision. Even though society often approaches the issue of assisted suicide as a right or wrong decision, the decision should be left in the hands of the person themselves. The man in the wheelchair has a choice in what he wants to do and in the case of this photograph, he feels getting aid in dying is what is easiest option for him. The visual appeal that black and white create is example of how two divergent colors communicate more powerfully together than they do on their (Fatrabbit Creative para. 10). Ruble 3 Not Dead Yet is a disabilities rights group and strong opposers of physician-assisted suicide. They feel as though disabled people are discriminated against. On the twitter page, image 1 appears with a caption [American Foundation for Suicide This is what it looks like when #suicideprevention grps throw old, ill and disabled folks under the (Not Dead Yet tweet). As previously stated, majority of the people that consider suicide are referred to specialized individuals that can aid and convince them against suicide, but the only access into the building is stairs. In their eyes, the picture can be seen as people get suicide prevention while sick and disabled people get assisted (Pickup para. 2). This goes with the notion that Not Dead Yet feels the disabled are discriminated against. Even though they feel this way, not every individual that considers assisted suicide is disabled. But every individual, regardless of disability, should have the option to choose life or death. In the second image, it portrays a man in a hospital bed holding a sign saying he wants the right to choose, while it appears the various officials are telling the man that they want the right to choose what to do with the patient. The image has what looks to be three different trust sources: a government official, a doctor and a religious man. These are people that are generally credible, and that we trust to make decisions that will Ruble 4 be in the best interest for not just one person alone, but large populations of people.This photograph can classify two different types of people. The patient being treated in the hospital bed can be seen as weak and in need of assistance. In other words, vulnerable. These people can be viewed as having clouded vision, because they will be subjective to only their suffering. The second type of people represented in the photo can be classified as the people with power (Dying with Dignity Canada). These credible sources are often intelligent adults that have years of experience in their given field. These people feel that they are qualified to make decisions for these people because they have clear minds and are not confined to a bed. That being said, it is still the life on the line. Those officials are not experiencing the pain that the patient is, and furthermore may not fully understand what he could be going through. The organization that released the ad supports the notion that the patient should have the ultimate choice what to do with their life. In contrary to the first image, the second image is in full color. The color that stands out is the red located in the name that emphasizes the In total, both of the images are intended to evoke an emotional response from the intended audience, as well as campaign for physician-assisted suicide. Both of the photographs widely use appeals to logic and emotion, in ways such as the color scheme and the choice, in order to create visual and rhetorical appeals. Death with Dignity is a national organization that petitions for the right to make their own end-of-life decisions. The graphics produced by Death with Dignity are intended to introduce the public to this subject and then encourage them to support the right to choose. Ruble 5 Works Cited Death With Dignity. (n.d.). Learn - Death With Dignity. Retrieved from https://www.deathwithdignity.org/learn/ Dying With Dignity Canada. The Other Vulnerable  Photograph 2. Dying With Dignity Canada, 22 July 2015, Fatrabbit Creative. (n.d.). Psychology of Black and White and What They Mean for Your Business [Web log Retrieved from https://www.fatrabbitcreative.com/blog/psychology-of-black-and-white-and-what-they-m ean-for-your-business Not Dead Yet (@NotDeadYetUSA). This what it looks like when #suicideprevention grps throw old, ill and disabled folks under the 23 Jan 2015, 2:17PM. Tweet. Pickup, M. D. Suicide Prevention or Assisted  Photograph 1. Human Life Matters, 13 Feb. 2014, http://www.humanlifematters.org/2014/02/suicide-prevention-or-assisted-suicide.html