Randy Wamsley Erika Staiger ENC 1102 10 March 2017 The Florida Department of Environmental Protection Wants Community Support The Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) is tasked with protecting the quality of land, water, and air (dep.state.fl) and their authority are granted by the Environmental Protection Act (Handburg, 26). They consist of professionals trying to create new strategies and technologies to preserve and protect the natural environment that the state depends on. One such strategy is visual rhetoric. Through the logo and the production of a video called Environmental the FDEP tries to persuade its target audience through the use of rhetorical appeals to rally support from local communities and organizations. The FDEP wants a network people and organizations working together to complete the tasks necessary to protect natural resources, the environment of in which people live, and restore or remediate polluted areas to their former condition. The Florida Department of Environmental Protection uses pathos-, logos- and ethos-rhetorical appeals to help create strong community partnerships to protect our natural resources and improve the ecosystem. Their actions are public knowledge and their progress is often evaluated by organizations such as The Florida Bar Journal. Ethos is the appeal to credibility and authority which can be found in the organization logo and extensively in the video. In name alone, they are known to be a government agency; in the video, the spokesman, Greg Strong, North East Director of the FDEP, announces his title and speaks with authority. He is dressed professionally and speaks softly but firmly. He goes on to tell the audience of all the scientists and professionals who are employed with the agency to appeal to its credibility. In fact, due to the Florida Air and Water Pollution Control Act of 1967 and the Environmental Protection Act of 1971, the FDEP is the leading authority on environmental protection regulations in Florida (Handberg, 26). They actually have the ability to approve or deny building permits, issue fines, determine property zoning (residential, industrial, commercial, etc) and set standards, but instead of sounding like an official with authority, through his demeanor and tone, the Director sounds as if he is a peer or a friend. The people of Florida are also strongly informed that the FDEP supports new business as well as a sustainable environment for future generations, which supports a morality aspect. The message is that the target audience, the residence and working class of Florida, can trust the FDEP to protect the environment in which they live because they are knowledgeable government professionals. The support of new job growth and employment also appeals to our emotions, bringing hope and a promise for a better future. Pathos is the rhetorical appeal connecting emotion or feelings between the message and the audience. This message is strongly highlighted in the video to show that the FDEP want to cooperate and support industry, especially manufacturers who wish to work and develop in Florida. Manufacturers tend to hire large numbers of unskilled workers, meaning many people in the community can qualify for a decent paying job with benefits. This, in turn, helps the local economy. Manufacturers also tend to need large qualities of water and have waste products; this is where the FDEP is here to help. The FDEP are using their support of job growth as a pathos rhetorical appeal to gain support to achieve their goals and develop long-term relationships with the community. The promise of new job opportunities tends to grab attention. Their plans are outlined in a list of six strategic goals stated by the organization, posted on the FDEP website (dep.state.fl.) The remaining goals are as follows: to focus resources on projects to provide direct benefit to the environment and local communities, use clear metrics to evaluate and strengthen the activities, promote economic growth through business and community partnerships, to improve the quality of natural resources through planning, restoration, and maintenance, encourage innovation and efficiency among employees, and proactively communication a clear and consistent message. To further encourage warm and fuzzy feelings, the spokesman mentions how they want a clean, healthy, and sustainable environment to encourage new families to live in Florida and support future generations to grow, work, and play. The soft bluish-green color of the organization logo and the images of nature and water are designed to make people feel a reverence for nature and sympathize for the cause. The overall emotional theme is to make the audience feel a sense of peace and serenity. Logos is the rhetorical appeal to common sense and logic. Logic and reason are implied through various means. The mention of scientists conducting experiments and research to develop new strategies and technologies to support environmental protection and restoration is a logical action. As stated in their goals, they encourage innovation and efficiency from their employees to develop solutions to environmental issues (dep.state.fl). It also supports reason in stating they want sustainable resources to support the present needs as well as the needs of future generations. The spokesman states that they are people on the ground collecting samples and taking measurements, to show you they are working hard. Overall, the logos rhetorical appeals are to make the audience trust in the FDEP to take the correct actions and have confidence in knowing that scientific reasoning is the influencing factor in their decision-making process. The work being done by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection is public knowledge and is often evaluated or monitored by other organizations. The article Corrective Action in Florida: How is it found in The Florida Bar Journal outlines the various programs that the FDEP is responsible for and discusses their progress. Risk-based corrective action means the restoration of contaminated property sites to protect human health and safety and to protect the environment from further harm. The article describes in detail the numerous actions taken by the FDEP to progress in their Petroleum Program, Brownfield Program, the Drycleaning Facility Restoration Program, and others to remove harmful pollutants from the ground surface and prevent further damage to surrounding environment. The authors conclude, has been tremendous activity in the area of risk-based corrective but goes on the say, is still a long way to go to achieve fair and balanced remediation of contamination resulting from a discharge of pollutants or hazardous substances in (DeMeo, 50). Meaning the process of writing rules and taken action is slow and arduous. That is why it is important for the FDEP to have strong community partnerships to have support when implementing new rules and regulations. Having cooperation and favor from local communities, businesses, and officials allow for quicker action and better results, which benefits all. The Florida Department of Environmental Protection uses pathos-, logos- and ethos-rhetorical appeals to rally support and favor from businesses, organizations, and communities in the organization logo and the production of a video to help create strong community partnerships to protect natural resources and improve the ecosystem. They designed their logo precisely to be pleasant to look at, present their authority, and give you an idea of what they do. Through the video Environmental the FDEP makes good use the rhetorical appeals to inform the audience of their presence, and tell you their mission and goals, and to rally favor from families and businesses alike to support their cause. They want to public to recognize them when they see them working and view them with respect. Logo: http://www.dep.state.fl.us/mainpage/default.htm Link to video (on youtube): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jwsenpB71mo Works Cited DeMeo, Ralph A., Michael P. Petrovich, and Christopher M. Teaf. Risk-Based Corrective Action in  The Florida Bar Journal, Jan. 2015, pp. 47- 50. http://www.dep.state.fl.us/mainpage/default.htm. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Handberg, Roger B. The Florida Attorney Environmental Protection  The Florida Bar Journal, vol. 85, no. 9, Nov. 2011, pp. 26-34.