Cruz !1 Zac Cruz Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Efforts Towards Ending Teen Smoking In 2015, there was approximately 4.7 million middle/high school students that were tobacco users. And since then tobacco use has substantially decreased but there is still a huge portion of high school students that smoke or use tobacco products (The Office). According to (#Finishit) black neighborhoods tend to have more tobacco ads than other neighborhoods. It seems that these companies are trying to profit and sustain the tobacco/and illegal substance use in low income neighborhoods that also tend to be black neighborhoods because of the institutional racism in America. This problem could lead to more problems in the future if it continues. Also these tobacco ads are also being places near schools in low income neighborhoods (#Finishit) as well which is wrong for obvious reasons. The tobacco industry in general is a bad business and if teenagers have such easy access to tobacco that can cause an entire future generation to smoke. Luckily the commonness of tobacco use has been on a decline, it mean that people will not smoke. So this mission is to end smoking once- and-for-all. It will also cause a lot of deaths to happen because tobacco is linked to 90 percent of all cases of lung cancer (The Office). It should be hard for teenagers to get tobacco because there are laws in place so that teenagers cannot buy it. But somehow they get it from either using fake ids, getting other people to buy it, or stealing them from parents who could also be Cruz !2 smokers.TheTruth.com is a site and organization devoted to ending teen smoking/smoking in general. Their goal is to advertise and educate the youth on the danger of tobacco use to end it once and for all. This organization works toward ending teen smoking using tv and other types of media ads that would appeal to teenagers. Image 1 is a very emotional and scary ad that can really get your attention. The picture is of a old man or lady turning into smoke with the caption will suffer with It has the color orange on the face of the old person, the reason the ad probably has orange in it is because the color orange commands the focus of the viewer without being too overpowering as colors like red or neon colors. (Chapman) Most of the ad itself is an appeal to pathos. This ad has the sad face of the old person and the fact their turning into smoke tugs your heart strings if a smoker. Also it could symbolize the smoker itself is old and has been smoking all his life that he literally is smoking his life away, and this could cause a huge amount of grief hence will suffer with Also the words will suffer with is very strong and bold statement but it is also true. This is an example of logos. Also the color black of the background makes you feel the death imminent for smokers (Chapman). Also overall its a very powerful ad that makes not want to smoke. There also seems to be some kairos in the ad. The old woman turning into smoke kinda shows that time is running out with your family because someone is choosing not to quit or quit at all. Everything was done right in this ad because of the purpose of having the visual rhetoric is because the ad needed to be a scare tactic ad to persuade teenagers to quit smoking or not to smoke at all. Cruz !3 Image 2 is an ad that has a very demanding tone to it. This is also one of the older ads of This picture is of a corpse laying in a morgue with the tag on the foot. The black background in the back represents death and isolation. But the color red on the Smoking kills. tag brings your attention to the message of the picture. (Champman) Red is a very vibrant demanding color that guides the eye well. The white color of the sheets makes the viewer think of the peacefulness of the corpse and in relation to the black background. At the top of the ad there is a caption that says 440,000 Americans die each year from diseases related to smoking.. 90% of them started as teen is in appeal to logos. The statistics brings credibility to the viewer and shows them that this is the truth about tobacco that this organization is trying to display to the viewers. The tag that says is an appeal to pathos. It scares the viewer and puts a fear onto them that It shows that if you are smoking or if you are thinking about doing so, this is what can happen to you if you do. Also the fact that the corpse is young is in relation to kairos. It could mean that time is almost running out. Lastly the logo in the bottom right hand corner is in relation to ethos. It gives them credibility that they are the organization that created this ad and If you want to learn more about the topic or issue to go on their website. They did this ad very well and it had a lot of visual rhetoric in it that made the entire ad whole. Overall both of these pictures can be used as scare tactics or persuasive ads to get teenagers not to start smoking or to stop smoking altogether before its too late. These ads tended to have the visual rhetoric of kairos, pathos, and logos. Color was also a big part of the ads and gave the viewer something for their attention to be guided to. Both of the ads had a lot of visual and rhetorical appeal that made the ads have a lot of meaning to them. It gets the reader Cruz !4 interested in the ad and makes them interpret it to understand its meaning, which in turn makes the reader become persuaded and feel a certain type of way. The ads not only could be used to persuade teenagers to stop smoking but it can persuade even adults to quit being it really have a target audience for these ads. But on thetruth.com their networking and social media campaigning seems to mostly target the young generation which are mostly teenagers.The organization as a whole pursues the young generation to smoking for (#Finishit). This main goal is to crack down on big tobaccoo and use ads, events, and networking to end smoking. Their ads are a form of fighting the view of tobacco that has been engraved in society. Tobacco is seen as a legal recreational substance that people can buy when they turn 18. The fact that it is common knowledge that people still buy tobacco even though it kills them is because the big tobacco companies get away with it buy putting stickers on their products to warn people. But they going to stop selling because they make money on this addiction. what truth is fighting against. Cruz !5 Work Cited  Truth. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The Office of Adolescent Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human  Office of Adolescent Health. N.p., 27 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cruz !6 Image 1 Cruz !7 Image 2