Qihang Zhou Professor Poston ENC1102.027S17 Mar 12, 2017 Images Help to Promote Tax Policy Hong Kong is a smoke-free province in China. The whole area carries out a total ban on smoking in public places because smoking has raised lots of problems. Among those smokers, adolescents are particularly concerned because smoking seriously hurt the physical development of teenagers. Consequently, Hong Kong Council on Smoking and Health (COSH) issued some mandate to prevent publics being damaged by tobacco products. Raising tobacco tax was considered as one possible order to reduce smoking of the publics. There are two images contained in the paper help to demonstrate the necessity and determination of tobacco control further. The article published by COSH tries to use two images to support their purpose of reducing smoking of the publics by raising tobacco tax. COSH decided to raise the tax on retail price of the tobacco products to prevent publics from smoking in 2014-15 fiscal years. This policy is credible and it supported by both publics and academic survey. Before we start talking the details of the issue, understand this organization is of great importance so that it conducts a correct direction of helping quit smoking. COSH was established by the Hong Kong Government in October 1987 as a result of the World Health proposal. The purpose of the establishment is to analyze the smoking behavior of the publics in Hong Kong and try to propose possible suggestions for smoking people to help them to stay health. The Government supports the primary funding. It is a nonprofit organization. Consequently, all the result that reported by COSH are credible because other powers do not affect the body. Based on their functional testing, increase tobacco tax could reduce smoking in Hong Kong. It is not only the belief of the COSH. Martire, et al. used the sample from both America and Australia to test the effectiveness of tax on smoking. As a result, the tax can potentially decrease the smoking of the publics (1). Different from the existing results, this paper did not directly point out the effectiveness of tax on the prevalence of smoking. Potential effect means the policy is more likely to have such effect. At least the decreasing trend should exist. The government should carefully consider the current situation if they decide to make policy. This relationship could exist in some circumstances. In another word, the system could reduce smoking in some way. Scollo, et al. mentioned in their paper that the high cigarette price resulted from increased tobacco tax could be one of the most effective government interventions to reduce smoking (2). Lots of countries gradually realize that smoking has significant damage to humans body. After massive experimental, experts had come to an agreement that increases tobacco tax could reduce smoking. Consequently, lots of countries are now following this conduct to lead smokers a better choice regarding their health. Also, the decision of raising the tax is credible because it supported by the historical experiences. After the tobacco tax had increased in 2009 and 2011, the smoking had dropped almost half percent, which provides substantial proof of the correction of the policy. Furthermore, the tax increase plan is also widely confirmed by the publics. After randomly pick 2401 people as the testing sample, 65 percent of respondents support the activity of growth tobacco tax. Besides, not only has the fiscal policy, but the COSH also reinforced the education to publics, adolescents in particular, as support for the smoke-free policy. It is necessary to increase tax of tobacco product so as to prevent smoking volume in Hong Kong. Sometimes, words are not sufficient to convince. That is why other media used in our real life. There are two images located in the half-way down of the text as further persuasive. The location of the image is proper because the audience could see the image after they fully understand the text. Images are here to make further persuasion. So, locate after text could bring the audience that the image does not appear abruptly. Much more information could emerge if we break down the whole picture into details. Now we look at the image 1. Several broken cigarettes spliced into a word We can also see the spot on the dark, disgusting floor. There also have the part green area on the bottom and words is written in this field. This image tries to convince people to break their cigarettes and keep away from it. Apparently, the cigarettes side looks dirty and side looks green and healthy. It seems like deliver a feeling of on, quit cigarettes and join the green It is more professional in the use of color. More precisely, the color of the painting is contrasting. The green-black color delivers a sick feeling. The green side gives a peaceful and healthy feeling. No doubt chooses green part, which is control tobacco, is the better choice. You can see the imagine two composed with six Chinese who are holding a sign. There are several words written on the sign that just means increase tobacco tax by 100%. On the top of the image, you would find a clue tells about where those six people are working for. You can see a simple man composed in green lines is holding two cigarettes and standing on four capital letters A little down from you will find the second clue tells you that those people represented Kong Council on Smoking and This background, which contains those two clues are popularly used in lots of images of published news. According to the report that was posted by COSH in October 2012, news that contains such background brought more preview than any other kinds of images (1). Indeed, The whole image is full of green and yellow on the top and bottom side. Green always brings a healthy feeling and yellow make people feel warm. The happy facial expression easies up the tension that were resulting from increasing prices also expressed their determination to raise tobacco taxes. Each part of the image has the proper location so that the whole image is full of golden ratios. Each line cuts boundary of the image in proper proportion. Golden ratio makes audience feel comfortable. face is in a good balance that audience could see their facial expression clear and do not feel they are too big or too small. Both two images are delivering comfortable feeling and work well with persuasion. Images are the most direct way to attract emotion. Based on the news published by COSH in 2011, the research had found that people are more likely treated by ghastly image (1). When you see the break cigarettes and dirty background of the image, you will have the feeling that cigarettes are now hurting your body. You can feel the determination of stuff to fight against smoking. When you see the smiling face of the thing, you suddenly feel peaceful in your mind. It seems everyone is going to help smokers with the patient. Images are played a significant role in attraction, convince and so on. That is why our facial features have a clear division of labor. In conclusion, the article committed to clarifying the effectiveness of raising the tax on tobacco products. It expresses their opinion from two perspectives. Both historical experiment and current survey suggested that raising the tax is a correct direction to keep the health. However, using simple words are sometimes unsatisfactory. Images always bring further information and emotional rendering to the audience. Consider the favorable location, color-use, proper tone and space control. Images are achieving a multiplier effect. Image 1 Image 2 Work Cited Martire, Kristy A., et al. Cigarette Tax and Public Health: What Are the Implications of Financially Stressed Smokers for the Effects of Price Increases on Smoking  Addiction, vol. 106, no. 3, Mar. 2011, pp. 622-630. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/j.1360- 0443.2010.03174.x. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Tobacco Tax for a Smoke-free Hong 2013: JSTOR Journals. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Tobacco Tax for a Smoke-free Hong 2012: JSTOR Journals. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Tobacco Tax for a Smoke-free Hong 2011: JSTOR Journals. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Scollo, M., et al. Impact of Tobacco Tax Reforms on Tobacco Prices and Tobacco Use in  Tobacco Control, 2003, p. ii59. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?di rect=true&db=edsjsr&AN=edsjsr.20208197&site=eds-live.Web. 25 Feb. 2017.