Scilabro 1 Richard Scilabro Ms. Poston English Composition II 23 February 2016 Image 1 https://www.facebook.com/pg/PlannedParenthood/photos/ Scilabro 2 Image 2 https://www.facebook.com/pg/PlannedParenthood/photos/ Scilabro 3 The term abortion is often synonymous with many words, and depending on your cultural background, the terms will vary. Furthermore, those with a pro-choice perspective tend to think of abortion as a right and a choice for many women across the nation. The numerous organizations and groups that support the cause are very influential, but none stands out as much as Planned Parenthood does. Planned Parenthood stands for a number of things that are in regards to sexual health, safety, and rights of all women (Gordon et al). They believe that safe and easily-accessible abortions are necessary for women to not only maintain their rights but also their health (Gordon et al). Their goal is to make abortions and health care more widely available to the general public for the assurance of reproductive rights Moreover, Planned Parenthood publishes many pieces of visual rhetoric in order to persuade the general public on the urgency of the issue of abortion (Gordon et al). As seen above, these two images are very significant in conveying the importance and relativity of abortion in modern-day America. The first picture portrays abortion as an urgent issue as seen with the woman holding up a sign trying to argue that without abortion, complete freedom is nonexistent (facebook.com). The second image depicts abortion as shameless and something that should be stigma free as seen with the texts within the big red heart. Both pictures harbor sharp contrasts in content; however, they share a common goal of conveying the overall message of the pro-choice movement: abortions are absolutely necessary for full freedom to be existent, and that there is nothing shameful about exercising your right to choose. Planned Parenthood, in a historical context, was founded by an American birth control activist known as Margaret Sanger She asserted that women needed to be provided with all of the necessary tools to live a healthy life and that they deserved Scilabro 4 the right to govern their own reproductive circumstances She opened her first clinic on October 16, 1916, thus laying the foundations to what would later become Planned Parenthood. Many trials and tribulations were faced by both Margaret Sanger and her peers; yet, they persevered and advanced their movement into a reliable and mainstream organization, Planned Parenthood (Gordon et They are still to this day governmentally funded and are still trusted as a reliable resource for both abortions and healthcare (Branhorst et al). Additionally, Planned Parenthood often organizes demonstrations advocating reproductive rights and is very present in schools, teaching our youth about safe sex (Brandhorst et al). Recent changes in government administration have threatened Planned future, and it is uncertain whether this organization will be around in the coming years. Overall, they have gained a superb record for their support in the pro-choice community and for their reliable information and resources (Brandhorst et al). It is Planned outstanding record for integrity and reliability that has captured the support and trust of many Americans. This fact in and of itself gives both images that are displayed credibility in numerous ways. Planned Parenthood has established its reputation and has been around for more than a century In addition, Planned Parenthood is highly esteemed not only among pro-choice advocates but also from people on the other side of the ideological spectrum (Brandhorst et al). When an organization has been around as long and Planned Parenthood has, a certain credibility is built, and it is this credibility that gives their visual rhetoric pieces substantial meaning and relevance to many people. Scilabro 5 When analyzing the first image put out by Planned Parenthood, a sense of power and rebellion brims from it. This element is displayed with the women standing in protest brandishing signs. They are clearly speaking out against authority to convey a message. Arms are raised further empowering others and at the same time making a statement of power and rebellion. One sign states We Persist and another one states the words reproductive freedom, there is no (facebook.com). Moreover, the image displays a woman publicly speaking at this protest with a powerful and assertive manner (facebook.com). One thing is clear about the overall tone of the image; it is powerful and full of pride. A mood and attitude of empowerment are clearly displayed in the image seen with the women protesting to have their voices heard. Planned Parenthood demonstrates a blatant appeal to emotion, as seen in the texts of the signs itself. The comment made about freedom on one of the signs held by one of the women attempts to open the hearts of many Americans because the people of the United states treasure their freedom, and if reproductive rights are not guaranteed, then we truly lost our freedom. That being said, the sign should provoke Americans and empower them because freedom is a way of life to the average American, and individuals should be emotional over losing that freedom. Also, the aspect of not having a certain freedom should raise fear in the minds of many Americans. In the case with the other sign that states We Persist emotion is aroused to the viewer by trying to evoke the passion to persist on the issue of reproductive rights. It is fear and empowerment that embody the image as a whole. From the women speaking out at the rally, to the signs being displayed, these feelings and emotions are clearly trying to be instilled into the minds of the viewer through this visual piece of rhetoric. Scilabro 6 Upon viewing the first image, it is logical to assume the overall reasoning of the picture is that without reproductive rights, we are not entirely free. The sign arguing reproductive freedom embodies the logical part of the image. She argues on her sign that we as Americans cannot be considered entirely free if reproductive rights are not granted as seen with the texts on her sign stating reproductive freedom, there is no (facebook.com). It is in essence saying that we may be given many rights, but if one of those very rights is absent, then there is no true freedom. Thus, it is important that we act now before those rights are taken away permanently and the women in the image clearly understand this and are striving to maintain the right to choose. When analyzing the second image, the big read heart is what is most prominent to the viewer. However, it is what is written under the big red heart that conveys the main message of the entire picture (facebook.com). The message under the heart states from shame. Free from stigma, Full of (facebook.com). It is also noteworthy that the Planned Parenthood logo sits at the bottom of the image establishing credibility (facebook.com). Additionally, all texts but the phrase of are written in a black font; this phrase is written in red. It is obviously done so to make it appeal to the viewer and to stand out as more important than the other texts. Many emotions are expressed towards viewers in the texts itself. These emotions include shame, stigma, and pride. With stigma and shame being on the negative side of the spectrum, the image takes a sharp contrast when it introduces pride in the end. The message to the viewer is clear on the topic of abortion. It is simply that abortion is shameless, stigma free, and full of pride. The text regarding pride is highlighted to show its positive significance to the viewer. It Scilabro 7 attempts to instill a sense of pride in the viewer for supporting reproductive rights. Plus, it is evident that the negative assumptions about abortion should be non-existent as seen with the texts itself. These texts are an obvious appeal to emotion and attempts to paint the right to choose as something all women should take pride in. Lastly, the big red heart that surrounds the texts can be seen as something that shows unity calling the American people to unite and put aside differences to work towards the common goal of health and rights. Logical reasoning is very much demonstrated in this image through the texts that are within the heart. It should be logical to many that no one should be ashamed for exercising their rights whether it be reproductive rights or rights governing speech. We should take pride in exercising our rights, and no one deserves to feel shameful for doing so. Freedom is never free, and we are not guaranteed that we will always have reproductive freedom. Therefore, it is logical to not be ashamed for being free no matter what views others may harbor. In conclusion, Planned Parenthood harbors an extensive reputation for credibility and reliability throughout the past century. It is Planned overall goal to make sure that abortions and health care are readily accessible to the general public in order to maintain reproductive freedom and access to health services (Brandhorst et Moreover, the two images that are presented in this essay are prime examples that demonstrate this message to the public. Although both images are very different in their content, they are similar in nature. The theme of reproductive rights and freedoms permeates them both in their own unique way. Lastly, no matter what ideology one harbors in the United States, it can be agreed that if the public has been denied one particular freedom, then they have Scilabro 8 been denied freedom in general; thus, it is our job as Americans to strive for a more free and equal nation for future generations to come. Works Cited Scilabro 9 100years.plannedparenthood.org, Planned Parenthood. Google Scholar, /#e1916-1936/1. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. www.facebook.coom, Planned Parenthood, June 2016, Accessed 26 Jun. 2017. www.facebook.coom, Planned Parenthood, 13 Feb. 2017, . Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Brandhorst, John K., and Freddie J. Jennings. Fighting for funding: Values advocacy and Planned  www.sciencedirect.com, University of Missouri, 15 June 2016. University of South Florida Libraries, www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0363811116300145?. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Gordon, Linda, and Bonnie Mass. Body, Right: A Social History of Birth Control in  Philpapers.org, Phil Papers. Google Scholar, Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.