YAng 1 Lingyiyang ENC ErikaStaige OPS and Protection on Ocean Animals With the development of society, living standard of human beings have been raised. However, the living situation of other creatures including ocean animals has become worse which is essentially attributed to human behaviors. Though the situation is becoming worse, nevertheless there are some organizations which are dedicated to protection these creatures in danger on the planet. Oceanic Preservation Society is one of such organizations also know as OPS. It was established in 2005 and is located in Colorado. It has been engaged in marine conservation since its establishment. The Oceanic Preservation Society is a non-profit organization which promotes environmentalism and handles issues including animal rights and censorship. Upholding the mission that exposing the truth and protecting the planet, the organization aims to appeal people to realize the importance of marine conservation by means of exposing complex, global environmental issues and promoting advocacy via the utilization of film, photography, social media and collaboration. This essay will focuses on the analysis of two images from the Oceanic Preservation Society by means of visual rhetoric which includes ethos, pathos, logos and Kairos strategy. Both images have adopted ethos strategy to appeal to credibility and morality. First YAng 2 image demonstrates that one manta ray was being hunted and killed by several fisher in Lamakera. The picture was taken on spot and thus is able to convince people who can have access to it. At the same time, it is likely to allow people to reflect on their action and to arouse a sense of morality. All lives on life is equal. Thus their lives worth respects from human beings. The second image shows a group of people in Lamakera sitting together to watch video regarding marine animal(Hoyt, 2005). This help audience to pay more attention to marine animals. Meanwhile, the advocacy facilitates the fostering of moral responsibility among audience so that they can be aware of the significance of marine animal protection. more, it can be noticed that currently, an increasing number of people go to places where various marine animals are captured to entertain human beings be means of their performance. From the second image, it also can be found advanced technology can be deployed to make technological products such as documentary which can show vivid living condition of marine animals to enrich people instead of hunting thousands of them. From the perspective of pathos strategy which aims to appeal to the emotions, the first image could raise the emotional response from audience who can have access to it. The hunting of manta ray along with other marine animals is cruel and should be gradually stopped. It is also possible to make people to have emotional resonance that what if they were the manta rays and being hunted by fisher for financial interests. Once being hunted, they become desperate and hopeless. In this sense, audiences from all over the world can at least feel what their behavior which did harm to these YAng 3 marine animals were wrong and need to come to an end. The second image is also able to make people hold that actually they can enjoy performance of marine animals by watching it at home via video or in the sea after putting on diving suits. It could be better to watch their performance at their original home. Besides, both images is able to appeal to logic and reason when it comes to the strategy applied - logos. First image shows that several fishers were standing on the boat and one manta ray lied down on the boat with bleeding body. People who survive on fishing have to hunt fish for living, but some of them may become too greedy to hunt scare fishes for financial returns. This has lead to destroyed habitat where marine animals such as manta rays can not longer live happily and freely. The second image reveals that the local people in habitat of manta rays live may have gradually realized the importance of marine conservation. Thus they are likely to change their ways of treating these animals as well as watching animals performance for entertainment purpose. Apart from ethos, pathos, logos, kairos strategy has also been adopted to persuade audience into protecting marine animals. First image has shown one of marine animals- manta ray has been constantly hunted by fisher which is one of scare animals living in the ocean. By seeing it, audience may search more information about manta ray and further other marine animals. Based on the report issued by World Nature Fund, it is known that in the past 40 years, the number of marine animals has reduced YAng 4 by 50% mainly due to overfishing along side the coast, environmental pollution and climate change(Linzey, 2013). Besides according to the World Nature Fund, the marine environment has been destroyed seriously by human activities within 20 years. It is also known that about one fourth sharks have been face the extinction of species. The fact has encouraged people to take action to protect marine animals as well as their environment for a mutual better future. The second image also shows the timeliness for audience who can have access to the image to take measure to protect them instead of hunting them for financial rewards or other purposes. Furthermore, it can be found that the main color which can be revealed from the two images is blue. Blue is the color of ocean and also it is the symbol of life. It also means cleanness of the environment. Thus the two images appeal the audience to realize the importance of protecting ocean animals as well as their living 2011). Only when people have started to make contribution to the protection of ocean creatures, it can be expected that their living environment can be improved accordingly. The two images discussed have close relationship since one shows an manta ray hunted in their living area- Lamakera, while the other shows that people who reside in Lamakera have realized the importance of protecting manta ray as well as other marine animals. The both images reveals the main argument of Oceanic Preservation Society that marine conservation should be promoted(Norse, 2005). Since Oceanic YAng 5 Preservation Society is non profit organization, the advocacy of marine animals protection is of great importance and this is where the interests of the organization. This first image demonstrates that one manta ray was being hunted and harmed by fisher. The organization intend to present the situation of marine animals not only confined to manta ray and to arouse resonance among audience who can have access to it. In addition, the second image demonstrates that a group of people gather together to watch videos which may be a substitute of marine animal performance in certain place for entertainment. This also reveals the mission upheld by the organization that exposing the truth and protecting the planet. The obvious damage done to marine animals can be captured easily. Some may be hunted as trained for the purpose of entertaining humans. While some may be killed for their medical uses and potential financial gains. It also can be found that to some extent, humans can enjoy the moment by watching the performance of these marine animals, however to a large extent, they are also suffering its potential side-effects(Vignieri,, 2015). Thus more people should be encouraged to respond to the appeal of Oceanic Preservation Society and get started to take measure to protect marine animals. They can watch the performance of ocean animals by diving into the sea and stay closely with them rather than hunting them and keep them under control. As living creature, they are entitled to return their home and live freely. If human beings continue their hunting and killing, then they are destroying the living environment while destroying their own environment, eventually they have nowhere YAng 6 to stay. YAng 7 References Hoyt, Erich, and Inc NetLibrary. Marine Protected Areas for Whales, Dolphins, and Porpoises: A World Handbook for Cetacean Habitat Conservation, Earthscan, Sterling, VA;London;, 2005. Linzey, Andrew, Desmond Tutu, and Inc ebrary. The Global Guide to Animal Protection, University of Illinois Press, Urbana 2013. Norse, Elliott A., and Larry B. Crowder. Marine Conservation Biology: The Science of Maintaining the Biodiversity, Island Press, Washington, 2005. Jerez, Pablo, et al. Review of the Effects of Protection in Marine Protected Areas: Current Knowledge and  Animal biodiversity and conservation, vol. 34, no. 1, 2011, pp. 191-203. Vignieri, S. Marine Animals are Disappearing,  Science, vol. 347, no. 6219, 2015, pp. 244-244doi:10.1126/science.347.6219.244-p. http://www.opsociety.org/ YAng 8