Penyak1 Tyler Penyak Mrs. Hernandez ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Rhetoric Appeals in Advertisements Gun control has been an avid topic in the United States over the past couple years. The National Rifle Association, also known as the NRA, is one of the largest stakeholders in this topic. The NRA is a non-profit organization that holds safety classes for people of all ages and educational course that are taught across the states (NRA Explore). The National Rifle Association was founded in 1871 by two Civil War Veterans. The main goal is to preserve the Second Amendment rights to bear arms. This has been an issue in the past years due to other organizations trying to stricken gun laws in the United States. This organization presents rhetoric appeals in their advertisement to connect with the audience that is viewing them to have the audience join their cause. The first image is one of the very first logos that was created and used by the NRA. The second image is from a video advertisement created by the NRA about Obama during his presidency. The first image presents great pathos throughout the logo. Starting with the center of the logo, it contains a bald eagle, two rifles that are perpendicular to each other, an olive branch and an American shield. The bald eagle is the largest portion of the logo. The bald eagle represents long life, great strength and its majestic look (Bald Eagle, US National Emblem). When people see a bald eagle the very first thing that comes to mind is the United States of America. The eagle in the image is protecting the other elements by standing over them with its wings flared Penyak2 up. This can say that the NRA is the one of the elements that stands for the United States and the national bird will stand by their side. The next element, the two rifles that are perpendicular to each other, is show as the second level of the image. The rifles are what the eagle in standing over, but the rifles are crossed over an American shield. This can bring the appeal that the rifles are being used to protect the American shield and the holding point for the eagle. They appeal aesthetical to the audience with the fact that are perfectly perpendicular to each other. The American shield is the entire base of the elements in the picture. This shows the audience that the United States is the protector of the rights of the people. Lastly, the red background allows for the whole image pop and draws the eyes to the eagle and the rifles. The logo appeals to logos in many ways as well. The image clearly shows exactly what the NRA stands for. The eagle shows strength of the NRA, the shield shows that they are willing to protect the rights of the people. The guns are the aspects of what the NRA is standing for and trying to accomplish. The unity of the elements and the date the NRA was formed in the image shows the audience the NRA is for the United States and has been around in the states almost since they were officially formed. The second most powerful rhetoric appeal is pathos. The biggest and boldest part of the image is the wording the kids more important than This draws attention to the audience members who have kids. All kids should be considered equal and none should have an advantage over another. The wording is all white besides the words which are in red and draw the eyes toward it. The background is a grey color which usually brings a gloomy feeling to the audience. Also, in the far background an American flag flies in the background. This shows the three kids having a good time together on American soil, living the American dream. Penyak3 The logos of the image in the image but the reasoning behind the image being created. Obama pointed out that the need of weapons in public education institutions; however, his daughters are attending schools with security personals that are carrying weapons. The audience may question the reasoning behind why the president who say that then send his daughters to school like that. Both images present kairos and ethos is the same aspects. For ethos, both images present the credibility by presenting the logo of the NRA. The first image is the old logo itself and clearly says National Rifle Association around the elements in the logo. For the second image, it clearly stated in the image but at the end of the video advertisement the NRA logo appears establishing the credibility. The kairos for both images are that over the past couple of years the issue of gun control has rose due to many mass shootings that have occurred. Fatal shootings by police are up in the first half of 2016, as compared to the same time in 2015, per a Washington Post analysis. January through June of 2016, these fatalities totaled 491, compared to 465 last year. Today advertisements really play a part in how a company can pull people into joining their causes and buying their products. The NRA ties to logos, ethos, pathos and karios to pull people toward their cause of keeping the rights of the Second Amendment. The NRA believes that all people should have full rights to the Second Amendment. The NRA has been one of the longest organizations around still do this day. The two images that are discussed are just two of the thousands of ads created by the NRA all with the same message to allow for full gun rights. Penyak4 Penyak5 Works Citied Bald Eagle, US National Emblem - American Bald Eagle  Bald Eagle, US National Emblem - American Bald Eagle Information. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Responsible Gun Owners Need to Repudiate the  The Progressive Cynic. N.p., 26 June 2014. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. NRA Uses Visual Rhetoric in Gun Debate (with images, tweet)  Storify. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. NRA  NRA.ORG. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Soffen, Kim. Yes, violence in America has suddenly increased. But far from the whole  The Washington Post. WP Company, 08 July 2016. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Penyak6