Roninson 1 Shamari Robinson Karen Hanson ENC1102 2/20/2017 Campaign for Rights Since the beginning of the modern era, equal rights has been a very controversial subject, especially in regard to rights. For a while, women did not entertain the same rights as men in areas, such as wages and voting rights. The Bureau of Labour Statistics conducted a report that shows earnings compared to men with regard to age the statistics show a disparity in wages between men and women. Statistics like these have lead to many differing stakeholder opinions and debates about gender equality. The National Organization for Women, (NOW) a grassroots arms of the feminist movement, have taken to advocating for rights, and are trying to encourage others to do the same. The National Organization for Women believes that rights are being challenged in the areas of economic pay, image discrimination, women with disabilities, reproductive rights, and family law The group feels that women need to rally and voice their opinion on matters that they believe are unequal and to that effect NOW has taken to holding protests, holding demonstrations and using visual images to get their opinion heard. The National Organization for Women has effectively, but perhaps fallaciously, supported its argument to encourage people and other organizations to campaign for rights by using two examples of visual rhetoric that paints the narrative of vocal suppression. Roninson 2 Image A shows a demonstration being held with signs that for The National Organization for Women believes that neglecting rights is inhuman behavior. This is an effective appeal to pathos as it creates an emotional plea to humanity which in turn is creating an emotional plea to the reader. When creators use mediums to appeal to audiences emotions this is the rhetorical appeal to pathos. ( Lee. et al. 37) The women in Image A can be seen wearing brightly saturated colors such as pink, which symbolize femininity. In a book titled, If Purple, Gonna Die: The Power of Color in Visual Storytelling, the author explains that colors play a great role in influencing the feelings, emotions, and tone that people feel, and this could be an indication as to why we associate pink with femininity (Bellantoni. 35-199). This use of color is another appeal to pathos, the organization is trying to appeal to the emotions by the use of femininity. Image A also effectively uses pathos in the use of the term human rights. Human rights is a term that most people are taught to associate with basic human liberties. In a book titled, Human Rights The authors offer an insight as to why the human appeals so well to audiences. The authors make a mention of the deep- rooted history that humans have been through, such as World War II, the Great Depression, and the Civil Rights Movement. These historical events draw an association with what it means to be human. It creates an innate concept that humans grow up learning. (Davis. et al. 41). NOW associates rights as human rights to appeal to that basic innate human emotion and the feeling of dehumanization, but by doing so NOW has also created the appeal by association fallacy, a derivative of the guilt by association fallacy (Almossawi 32). The Roninson 3 fallacy works by stating that a simpler subject, Is effectively a more complicated subject, Image A subtly makes the viewer feel guilty for not being involved in the movement as if by doing nothing the viewer is dehumanizing women. And this could be seen as an effective use of kairos as the reader feels that time is being wasted by their lack of involvement. Allyson Hoffman and Alysia Swachyn describe kairos an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result (41). Image A takes a close up of a lady in the front panel, the ladies are wearing bright colors to act as a focal point that tries to grab the viewers attention, especially towards the t-shirt that rights= This is to, again, reinforce the notion of getting the viewer involved. Image A can also be viewed as using ethos, the appeal to credibility, in the way it borrows credibility from the Civil Rights Movement with the use of the iconic single clenched fist. The movement has gained notoriety as being one of the most iconic movements in human history and acts as a symbol for activism, the National Organization for Women has borrowed the use of this symbol to gain credibility from it and to also gain support. Image B takes roughly the same approach to appeals that image A does, but incorporates their use in a different way. Image B has women holding a sign that says, Stop voter NOW believes that votes are being suppressed and have teamed up with the Voting Rights Alliance to get the message across and to garner support for the rights movement This is another effective use of pathos as it uses harsh words like, to signal an emotional plea to the reader that the votes of women Roninson 4 are being suppressed. Image B also has women wearing bright colors to act as the focal point of attention, but image B focuses more on the action of the women to which the message of the signs and symbols becomes a secondary focus. The image is trying to create a call to action, to the viewer by putting the women demonstrating emotive passion as the focal point, this can be seen with the use of three women shouting in an emotive way. This is an effective appeal to kairos as the viewer feels compelled to embody the emotions of the women in the picture, as opposed to image A where the women of focus do not look as passionate. Also, the concentrated density of people in image B is a lot smaller when compared to image A, and this can be seen as trying to create a more intimate connection with the viewer as if to say this is normal, everyday women, campaigning, it could be the aunt or mother. This is a different use of pathos when compared to the other image. Image A tries to use pathos with the use of signs and words whereas image B tries to create pathos by using imagery to a greater extent. Image B creates a different effect for the viewer, Image B force the emotion it wants the viewer to take away; it gives the viewer a greater freedom of conclusion. The image acts to subtly nudge the emotion, but the viewer is ultimately left to come up with the emotional afterthought themselves, and this is another example of how Now uses comparative size to play to the strength of the image. If viewers are seeing a lot of visual information all at once they tend to miss important details that the organization is trying to get across. In an experiment by Christopher Chabris and Daniel Simons viewers are told to watch two teams wearing different colored t-shirts play basketball, and count how many times a particular shirt passes the ball; in the middle of the experiment a dancing gorilla appears but it is usually missed by the audience. This can illustrate how over stimulation can cause viewers to miss important details and this is a weakness that Image B is trying not to incorporate. Roninson 5 Image B also uses ethos, the appeal to credibility, in the way it uses the American flag to gain some of its authority (Lee. et al 27). The flag stands as a symbol of liberty and the pursuit of happiness and when faced with what activist consider an injustice the flag has often been used as a reminder of the values that the country was founded on. This association creates a sort of credible strength that the organization is trying to borrow and to bring forth to the reader. The Setting for both images is another effective way NOW tries to encourage support for rights. Both images are held in what appears to be cities, and both images, although different in magnitude, have large groups rallying for rights. This stresses a larger than life perspective for the viewer, which is also an effective use of ethos. The organization is borrowing credibility from the size of the audience which draws from the old adage: is strength in It gives the viewers the perspective that the movement is larger than just a single person issue if entire cities are willing and able to get involved. The National Organization for women has used many rhetorical appeals to get people involved with the rights movement. Both images convey a lot of emotion and passion, in that it does convey the message well to the audience, although a little fallaciously if spotted by viewers. The images use bright saturated colors to draw the attention and to create a human emotion. The organization tries to drive its point across by using strong words like, and to really appeal towards the sense of emotion and ethics. NOW is using every facet of its resources to get people involved in the rights movement, and may eventually achieve its goal of obtaining constitutional equality. Roninson 6 Work Cited Almowassi, Ali. The Book of Bad Arguments. New York: Jasper Collins, 2013. E-text Bellantoni, Patti. If Purple, Gonna Die: The Power of Color in Visual Storytelling. vol. 1st American pbk. ed, Focal Press, 2005. Chabris Christopher and Simons Daneil. The invisible Gorilla. Charbis and Simons, n.d. Web. February 24, 2017. <theinvisiblegorilla.com> Davis, Martha F., et al. Bringing Human Rights Home. Greenwood Publishing Group, 2008. Web. February 24 2017 Hoffman Allyson and Sawchyn Alysia, Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs . Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-46. E-text Lane, Emily. et al. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016.1. E-text. Lee Kendra, McKee Jessica and Mclntyre Magen. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text Lee Kendra, McKee Jessica and Mclntyre Magen. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text Roninson 7 National Organization for Women. n.d. Web. February 25 2016. <now.org> Terry. Why Women Must Still Fight For Voting The National Organization For Women. n.d. Web. February 25, 2017. < media-center/press-release/why-women-must-still-fight-for-voting-rights/> earnings compared to earnings in The Economics Daily. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Web March 11, 2017 Roninson 8 Image A https://www.facebook.com/NationalNOW/ Roninson 9 Image B https://www.facebook.com/NationalNOW/