Student 1 Student Name Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 6 March 2017 When it comes to the topic of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) there are a myriad of stands and opinions that can be taken. Many argue that GMOs are not healthy and contain extra additives that can affect the body in the long, while others debate that they are safe and help reduce the price of food. Even though there are two positions on this issue it is important to weigh each side equally. The Non-GMO Project is an organization that fights for GMO-free food that is labeled and accessible to all of their consumers, while educating others on the process of GMOs. The Coalition for Safe and Affordable Food is an organization whose mission is to the knowledge of the general public about the safety and science of GMOs, and also discuss how GMOs help lower the price of food for everyone and especially those who are struggling. There are two very strong positions made on the process of GMOs; however, in order for them to come together and reach a compromise the two organizations must come together to create a video series equally displaying both of their sides and can be reached by the general public on the web. Allowing them to create their own position on the issue. The Non-GMO Project is a non-profit organization that strives to provide their customers with GMO-free food that they can trust. This organization places a verification seal on each of their products that they verify to be GMO-free, displaying that you can trust this product to be free of GMOs. On their website they try to educate their viewers on the combinations of viral genes that do not occur in The Non-GMO Project works along-side other companies to fight for the labeling of foods produced using GMOs. They Student 2 believe that everyone has the right to know how their food is being produced. Even though they are not producing the food because they are a non-profit organization they make it their goal to verify food that have been produced without the use of GMO and gain their trust. countries around the many of them including the most developed countries in the world like Australia, genetically modified foods to be however, the US and Canada do not require labels In order to further broadcast their position and take on the process, they work along-side other companies like the Right to Know to gain pursuers In contrast to the Non-GMO Project, there is an organization called The Coalition for Safe and Affordable Food. This goal is to also educate their viewers on GMOs. However, they teach others that GMOs are safe and the science used in the process is trustworthy and harmless. They want their viewers to know that there is nothing harmful when using GMOs. The GMO process allows farmers to take different traits from different crops and create a highly desired crop can be healthier, more nutritious and better for the of Because GM crops can be created to have a preferred outcome, farmers can harvest a crop that requires less water and pesticides in conclusion lowering the price of food for the public. One of their main goals is trying to keep the price of food down to allow for the public, especially those struggling to meet their everyday needs. Genetically Modified (GM) technology has allowed many places help with the overall problem of world hunger, they helped feed more than 300 million of As the population of the world is expected to keep growing GM technology allows there to be enough food for everyone and at a reasonable price. Student 3 Obviously, there are two very different positions on the process of GMOs. The Non- GMO Project fights for GMO-free food, but The Coalition for Safe and Affordable Food fights for the use of GMOs. The Non-GMO Project believes that GMOs have a negative effect on the body and that they are harmful to the environment. The Coalition for Safe and Affordable Food on the other hand argues that the process of GMOs is safe along with the science involved in the process. most changes in agricultural technology, GM crops are not free of which is something that the Non-GMO Project strives to broadcast and teach people through their website and organization platform (Abbajes). However, there have been many products such as medicines, to be developed in ways that were not thought because of the creation and use of GM technology (Ahmed). There are many positions that are taken during this issue and many sides that must be taken into consideration. Because there are two such opposing positions on the issue, which is becoming a more common process used in the agricultural department it is important to be well informed on both sides of the issue. After seeing that there are many conflicts between these two organizations, there is a small section where they come together and their goals overlap. Both care about the health and well-being of their viewers. Both care about the problem of world hunger and want their consumers to eat healthy and safe food. Clearly stated in both mission, they both want to educate the public about the process of GMOs. In order for the two organizations to come together for the common good, they must both teach about their position in an equal and fair fashion. Both organizations can create a video series where they equally argue their position and take on the issue. This series would be made easily accessible on the web and allows the general public to decide what stand they want to take. Many people know little to no information about the process of GMOs. Numerous of GMOs Student 4 expected school teachers to be actively involved in this (Rzymski and Krolczyk). This displays that the use of a video series can be extremely helpful and crucial to spread the greatly needed information about GMOs. With GMOs becoming a more common use in everyday products the general public should be well informed about the whole process. They should also be well informed about the possible benefits along with the possible effects that come along with this process. Ultimately, there are two opposing positions when it comes to the process of GMOs. There are some that side with the Non-GMO Project and argue that GMOs result in negative health effects, which can be avoided by labeling products as made with GMOs. Others take the position alongside the Coalition for Safe and Affordable Food and fight for the use of GMOs and argue that GMOs are safe and allow farmers to reduce the price of products. Even though these two organizations seem to have almost incompatible goals, their goals cross over for a small moment. The two organizations must come together to create a video series made easily accessible to the public displaying the two positions equally. This compromise will allow the viewers to create their own stand after viewing both sides of the videos without only being influenced by one position. The general public will be knowledgeable on the process of GMOs, which is the goal of both of the organizations (WC: 1213). Student 5 Works Cited Abbajes and Comas and Lumbierres and Pons. the capacity of fields trials to detect the effect of genetically modified maize on non-target organisms through longitudinal Annals of Applied Biology (2016): 184. USF Library. Web. 5 March 2017. Ahmed, Farid E. Risks and Benefits of Agricultural Testing of Genetically Modified Organisms in Foods. 2-3. USF Library. Print. of Food and AG Coalition for Safe and Affordable Food. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Living Non-GMO: The Non-GMO Project. Web. 20 Jan 2017. Rzymski, Piotr, and Aleksandra Krolczyk. Toward Genetically Modified Organisms in Poland: to GMO or not to Food Security 8.3 (2016): 689-97. USF Library. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.