Song 1 Ainong Song Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Multinational companies need combine with Chinese traditional Culture in China Multination companies and Chinese culture is two names in different fields, but globalization gives them a intersection. Because multinational companies both a cause and a result of the globalization process, and the defining the MNC as a company with headquarters in one country and major investments in one or more other country (Mazlish, 2012). In the China, most of Chinese loves their traditional culture. Even if more and more young Chinese persons start to use modern way to develop their traditional culture which from their family, Chinese culture has a very important status in the minds of Chinese. So in China culture is an imperative component which has affected the multination business operation (Baz, 2016). Multinational companies plan to become business active and get benefit, they must have a lot of goods and services that combined with Chinese traditional culture. Wanda group as Chinese multinational companies has a absolute advantage in China, because Wanda group than other multinational companies to learn more about Chinese culture. Nanchang Wanda Cultural & Tourism City can be called classic. Starbucks as the USA multinational companies, and success in China may have more significance for other multinational companies. Thus, these two multinational companies both have successful goods and services in China, which can be seen in the images they produce. Image 1 is a good example of the combination of modern shopping mall and Chinese traditional culture. In this image, people can easily look for the theme of the picture that shopping mall which Wanda group built it in 2016. Image 1 shows people a big building group that uses a lot of white and blue, called Wanda Mall. The ethos appeal to credibility or morality, Wanda as a big multinational companies, the ethos also is their name. The whole building looks like some bowls and vases together, and gives the audience a Song 2 unique visual impact. In the both time, the logo and name uses red color, red color makes people have to pay attention with the logo and name immediately. The around of the whole building has a lot of black point to represent humans who are customers, the logical proof that the special building attracts a large number of consumers. Actually, the whole building group uses a porcelain concept, the porcelain concept is inspired by the world famous Chinese blue and white porcelain produced in the local town of Jingde, Jiangxi province. (Stufish Entertainment Architects, 2016). In the image 1, the blue and white porcelain as the design concept is combined with the Nanchang Wanda mall. So the pathos of whole building group is classic style, and some retro element. Blue flower is one of the earliest porcelain decoration methods with typical Chinese characteristics, it also boats artistic charms of Chinese Ink and wash painting (Culture China, 2017). Nanchang Wanda mall not only meet the needs of modern mall, at the same time also to take care of the cultural life of the local consumers. Wanda group as a multinational real estate companies and local companies, the modern mall is that it is one of the major projects and the using of Chinese traditional culture is advantage. So the using of Chinese traditional culture can help multinational companies to get more and more supporter who are from local. In the image, Logos and Kairos show in this image. Some logos can be added on the top of the building group, because logos need audience to look for it at the first time. Kairos appeal to timeliness, if this image has a title in the top of image, Kairos can be added after it. In the second image, the main audiences are multinational companies which are catering and service companies. Because the second image is about the development of Starbucks in China. At the first, the Starbucks store opened in Chengdu, China November 3, 2009 in the image. The Kairos is not in the images, the timeliness is introduced in the report about the image. This Starbucks gives up the traditional green color as the background of name and logo, and the outside have any Starbucks logo to broke the whole Chinese traditional building style. This way that breaking the conventional Starbucks style makes Starbucks perfect combine into local traditional culture and have more and more customers. Appeal Song 3 of the pathos, the English and Chinese name both in the image. As of May 2016, Starbucks has more than 2100 stores in 102 Chinese cities and is adding more. It plans to operate an estimated 3400 stores in China by 2019 (Butch, 2016). According to the data, the development of Starbucks in China is very fast. The image 2 not only have Starbucks English name, but also they add Chinese name in inside to give local customers a deep impression. In the second image, the biggest draw is that Starbucks uses a whole Chinese traditional building, and use any their original factors which green color and logo in the building. According to the title, the pathos also same the image 1 which is classic and retros. The traditional style gives audiences a big surprises , but Starbucks also has growth pains. For example, Starbucks closed coffeehouse in Forbidden City in 2007, the reason for this closure was an internet campaign started by Rui Chenggang, a TV anchorman, who stated on his blog that the store over Chinese (Butch, 2016). During the growth of Starbucks, Starbucks has learned about the importance of culture symbol for Chinese. In the image 2, Starbucks uses grey tile and grey brick that southern China traditional building factor to attract customers. And one of the customer has smiling in his face, also representing he likes Starbucks. This also is a good example to represent pathos. Starbucks as a multinational catering and service company, the main customers group is from local. If the most of customer like and support Starbucks, that mean is that the multinational companies should combine with the Chinese traditional culture. So multinational companies not only keep their original characteristic, also should be learned about the local traditional culture. In total, the two images both present a view point, the development of multinational companies in China must combine with the Chinese traditional culture. China has a very long time history, so culture symbol is very important. The two images show the different area has different local culture in China. For example, in the image 1, blue and white porcelain is Jiangxi culture symbol in the art. And in the image 2, the grey tile and grey brick is Chengdou traditional building symbol. Multinational companies Song 4 must really learn about Chinese traditional culture, because all business activities need based on the local traditional culture. In the both time, the two images also suggest multinational companies should shoulder the responsibility of the protection of traditional culture in the development of globalization. Code: 1164 Song 5 Works Cited Baz, A. (2016, 4 6). Culture Challenges That Influence Multinational Operations. Retrieved from www.Linkedin.com. Butch, T. (2016, 6 4). How Does Starbucks Succed in China. Retrieved from thediplomat.com. Culture China. (2017, 2 20). The blue and white procelain. Retrieved from http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:o3aupFh2TdIJ:www.cultural- china.com/chinaWH/html/en/31Arts240.html+&cd=14&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us. Mazlish, B. (2012, 3 1). Three Factors of Globalization: Multinational Corporations, Non-Governmental Organizations, and Gllobal Consciousness. Retrieved from gsi.stonybrook.edu. Stufish Entertainment Architects. (2016). Nanchang Wanda Mall. Retrieved from www.stufish.com. Song 6 Image 1: Image 2: