Fisher 1 Chase Fisher Hanson ENC 1102 12 March 2017 The Government Supporting Autonomous Vehicles Self-driving vehicles have seen rapid development in the past few years. These vehicles can drive mostly on their own, can change lanes, and can come to a stop, all while the has his or her hands off the wheel. These vehicles are seen as a great development that is long overdue by some, and a possible ethics issue in the eyes of others. In favor of these vehicles is The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA). This government organization is encouraging the development of these vehicles as they make the policy regulating these vehicles. Currently the policy allows for relatively free development of the technology. The NHTSA justifies this freedom by saying that the vehicles will improve safety and that they are trying to give the developers space. To support their claim that these vehicles bring can bring greater safety, the NHTSA says that 94% of accidents are caused by human error. They believe that these self-driving vehicles can lower that number and save lives. To spread their message the NHTSA uses images and successfully supports their argument that self-driving cars will change the way the world drives and save lives. The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration uses two images to support their claim that self-driving vehicles are good for the world. The first image shows a crash test dummy sitting safe in a car and a rendering of what an autonomous vehicle sees. The smaller image showing the vehicles vision shows that the vehicle can see the other vehicles and obstacles Fisher 2 on the road. The NHTSA wants this image to show people that the autonomous vehicles are safe and can see just as well as a person. This is a use of ethos, an appeal to credibility. Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre say that ethos is used when the speaker or writer is attempting to prove their own credibility, in this case the autonomous vehicle is trying to prove its own credibility 27). This image shows the autonomous vehicles view and in this the viewer of this image sees that the vehicle can see well. This adds credibility to the claim that self-driving vehicles are safe. The NHTSA is showing that the vehicles are not blind robots with this image, they are showing that these vehicles can see just as well, or maybe better than a person. Also in this image is a crash test dummy. This portrayal of a crash test dummy is different than the normal destroyed version that is usually seen by people. The use of an intact crash test dummy, which looks safe, is a use of pathos. Pathos, an appeal to emotion, is used in a that makes the viewer feel connected. Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre say that this appeal connects the viewer to the argument, and they say to think about humanitarian causes, this image uses pathos in a way connects the viewer to the image through the crash test dummy 37). This appeal to emotion is done by making the viewer think these vehicles are safe, because the crash test dummy is safe. This use of pathos makes the viewer think about the safety of them and their family and how their current vehicle may be unsafe. This use of ethos and pathos combine to provide an image that show the viewer that these vehicles are safe. The crash test dummy and the image of the vehicles view combine to show safety of the vehicle and the accuracy of the systems driving people around autonomously. Along with the previous image, the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration uses another image to support its claim that autonomous vehicles will improve safety. This second image shows NHTSA administrator David Strickland and a quote. The quote Fisher 3 reads its potential to save lives and prevent injuries, connected vehicle technology could be a real game-changer for vehicle Connected vehicles as mentioned in this quote are a result of autonomous vehicles as these vehicles would likely send signals to each other alerting them of their upcoming actions. This means that these two vehicles can avoid the possibility of a collision. Strickland says that these connected vehicles have the possibility to save lives and prevent injury. This statement is an appeal to Logos. Emily Lane, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre say that the logos used in writing is a use of reason and evidence, this is shown in this image by the statement to save lives and prevent 320). statement is an appeal to logos because saving lives is a logical argument that most people can agree with. The desire for safer, and greater developed connected and autonomous vehicles which will save lives is a logical goal, and a reachable goal. This quote helps the NHTSA show the public that this is a serious issue which could help save some of the over 30,000 people that die in car accidents every year in the US Coming along with this quote is a picture of David Strickland and his title. The inclusion of these elements in this image adds an appeal of ethos. Ethos is shown through these elements because Strickland is a credible person. Strickland holds an important position and this gives him credibility on this issue. ethos is further enforced by his involvement in the Self-Driving Coalition for Safer Streets. As a member of this group Strickland spoke before The New York City Council Committee on Transportation, here he says that New York City, 230 people died in traffic crashes, 133 of those were pedestrian (Strickland). This testimony, and shows that Strickland is in a position to present his case in front of groups which can create change, he is also knowledgeable enough to know about the vehicle safety situations in specific areas. the NHTSA is attempting to use one of its high-ranking officials to show that this is an important Fisher 4 issue by including the picture and title of Strickland. This image uses logos and ethos, by using these rhetorical appeals the NHTSA successfully get its message across that these autonomous vehicles are good and can save lives. To show that autonomous vehicles are an important and needed development the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration uses two images. These images include quotes and scenes which help get the message across that these vehicles are safe and will improve safety. The first image, which shows a crash test dummy and the view that the autonomous vehicle sees, successfully uses ethos and pathos. The use of these appeals shows the viewer that these vehicles are safe and effective for transporting them and their family. The second image shows NHTSA administrator David Strickland and a quote. Ethos and logos are seen in this image and show that these vehicles are safe by showing that people who have a high- ranking position believe in them and their development. These images work together to show that these vehicles are safe and have the potential to improve the safety of all drivers. The NHTSA uses three out of the four rhetorical appeals in these two and does so in a way that successfully supports their claim that these vehicles can save lives. Fisher 5 Fisher 6 Works Cited National Highway Transportation Safety Administration. U.S. Department of Transportation, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32. E-text. Lee, Kendra Gayle, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27. E-text. Strickland, David. Before the New York City Council Committee on Transportation, October 28, Self-Driving Coalition for Safer Streets, 28 Oct. 2016. Accessed 12 Mar. 2017.