Thomas1 Curtis Thomas Professor Karen Hanson ENC 1102 March 12, 2017 Friends of The Earth why they are against Cloning Scientists since the beginning have tried to help the world with knowledge and with testing different experiments. Scientists have even started to do cloning experiments scientist are testing these experiments to help endangered animals and people who have children. Some people agree with the cloning process because it can save endangered animals, it can help people who have natural child birth. Friends of the Earth Association is an association that helps the environment, cleaning up our trash filled oceans, saving forests that are going to be knocked down and keeping many of the earths animals from going into extinction, Friends of the Earth does not believe in the cloning process. Friends of the Earth believes that cloning is just another excuse for scientist to play God and also for scientist to use technology instead of cleaning up the earth and making it better the natural way. Friends of the Earth also include that tampering with the DNA of animals and even humans can become dangerous making the experiment unstable. Friends of the Earth successfully supports it argument to other environmentalism worldwide that the cloning process could be stopped by two visual rhetoric that connect cloning to be unsafe to the environment. Friends of the Earth argue that cloning should be stopped by these two images by highlighting the effect it can have on the original source of life. For instance, the first image shows the Friends of the Earth Association protesting animal and human cloning while others Thomas2 who stand with science protest against the FOE. The Friend of the Earth Association of Europe is fighting against the Trojan treaty the Trojan Treaty is a treaty letting scientist have the free will to clone animals and even to start researching the process to clone humans (Franklin,10-11). This is an example of Kairos appeal an appeal to time. According McIntyre, Megan, Kate Pantelides, Kate, and Jessica McKee protests are very political and touch on social which deals with ethos rhetoric appeal Friends of the Earth Association insinuates that this photograph was taken in the middle of a town in front of the area where they do the testing experiments, such as the ones in Europe. In this picture you see the many apart that are a part of the Friends of the Earth Association fighting against the unfairness of animal cloning testing and also the testing of stem aka human cloning. Also in this picture It shows how the people who supported the cloning experiments are fighting against the Friends of the Earth Association wanting scientist to go forward with the cloning experiments protesting that science is change the world for the better. It also shows how the opposite protestors just care about the money instead of caring about the well-being of the animals and the human lives. Image B shows the issues dealing with the environmental cloning entitled Nature (Drawn by one of the people in the Friends of the Earth Association who are protesting cloning experiments on nature), Friends of the Earth show this issue by drawing a picture showing how the nautral way of letting the environment grow is the more appropriate way versus putting chemicals in the ground that could harm the earth or cloning animals that at the end of the experiment kills them because their take the stress of the testing. The picture is showing how science is hurting wildlife and also the environment with their experiments. Friends of the Earth uses pathos rhetoric, an appeal to emotion, within both of these images. When an author expresses his or her feelings using images or song he or she is wanting the reader to engage in emotions. Songs Thomas3 and pictures trigger an emotional response. The symbols, such as the banner that the people are holding up during the protest, are supposed to make the reader go against the scientists that are testing these cloning experiments on humans. Other images like the picture showing the natural side and the science side of nature and the effects it has on, makes the audience realize that the fast new technology way always the way especially when it comes to saving animals helping the environment. Friends of the earth effectively uses ethos rhetoric and pathos rhetoric to validate its arguments through these images According to Glen March appeal to some showing emotion and feeling is the perfect pathos moment, it creates a certain passion for the issue and an Furthermore, the images within the images are another way Friends of the Earth successfully argue that cloning be allowed. Image A takes place in front of the science building where they hold the experiments. This image appeals to ethos, an appeal to ethic because when one fights strongly for a cause others will see their cause and band together with he/she. According to Glen March someone stands up for a cause or fight for what they believe in people start becoming Intune with the issue and join the The Friends of the Earth are trying to make a point and wanted to get their message across clear. This took place in Europe which is heavily populated, so going out in the streets and talking to the people about cloning and its effects will spark something in the people to make them join the cause. Image B is a picture drawn by Lucy Marks, a presenter in the association shows how sticking to the natural way is the best instead of putting science into the earth and killing the earth. Friends of the Earth are trying to tell its audience that scientist are lazy so they want to incorporate technology and want to find a fast way to make the world better. Many animals have died because of the stress of testing and also the needles that the scientist poke them. The Picture Thomas4 symbolizes how saving the earth the natural way is the best way to go the animals are happier, but cloning and putting stuff in the earth that is not good for our environment they want to create a fast way to save the earth but their hurting it. Friends of the Earth is able to get its viewers to see the consequence of cloning from human and environmental perspective. Most Importantly, Friends of the Earth Association effectively argues that cloning should be stopped because hurting our animals, humans and its killing the earth. Both of the images shows that the environment is better off being saved the natural way. One shows people protesting against the harmful testing and experiment and the other image shows the effects of scientist his hurting our earth. Friends of the Earth argue that cloning testing should be stopped because of the harmful effects it has on animals the earth and steam aka humans. These images highlight the effects that scientist have on the world. In the future Friends of the Earth can have one goal to stop all cloning experiments. Though cloning may not be talked about everyday it is still happening and the FOE is making it known. Eventually, Friends of the Earth may get cloning banned. The organization help put a stop to the mistreat of sheep testing in 2011 and still having an impact today. Victories Thomas5 Works Cited Glen is talking about the effects of cloning March,Glen . Cloning and Its  Friends of the Earth. Friends of the Earth, 26 Mar. 2001. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.friendsoftheearth.com/terms/cloning.htm>. Friends of the Earth Association is protesting scientist doing cloning experiments. Digital Image Friends of the Earth. Friends of the Earth Europe, 2013. Web.26 Feb.2017 http://www.friendsoftheearth.org/europe/cloning/ Testing Friends of the Earth. Friends of the Earth, 12 Feb.2012. Web.26 Feb.2017 http://www.friendsoftheearth.org/usa/en/testing/victories/sheeptesting-victories/ Glen March. Appeals to Rhetoric Matter Language and Argument in Context. Thomas6