Choto Segovia 1 Alicia M. Choto Segovia Mr. Spencer Bennington ENC1102.008 12 March 2017 The Bitter Taste of Chocolate: Child Labor The chocolate candy industry represents 100-billion-dollar market, and the foundations of this empire are in the cocoa bean. However, the harvest process of the cocoa bean is a dangerous work, especially for children who are forced to work in the cocoa farms in hazardous conditions. According to the International Labor Organization, more than 200,000 children are working in several forms of child labor in the Ivory Coast and Ghana (IPEC). The major chocolate companies have expressed their concerns and have started to launch organizations to solve the problem. One of these organizations is the Nestle Cocoa Plan, which aims to solve the child employment issues, in words Jose Lopez, Nestle Executive Vice President of Operations, the use of child labor in our cocoa supply chain goes against everything we stand  The Nestle Cocoa Plan gives an opportunity to educate communities and their children so that helps to increase the productivity and efficiency. One of the main goals of this project is reducing the child labor rate by 70% in West Africa by 2020. Nestle Cocoa Plan claims that they are on the way of achieving their goal, and that they exceeded their expectations in 2015, as a proof of their progress, Nestle had released two images that sum up their work against child labor in Ivory Coast and Ghana. Nestle intention with this images is to show how they give to the children a better quality of life with the program of building schools near the cocoa community and training farmers to avoid child labor, in addition, this images improve Nestle reputation by disassociating the company from child labor. Choto Segovia 2 The protagonists in each image are the children because they are the living proof that the efforts of Nestle are taking placed. The children are placed in the center in both images; in the first image the girl is wearing bright colors and this helps to attract the attention to see her having education; in the second image the children have big smiles and are running and playing outdoors, the freedom and happiness that each child shows produces in the viewers hope and empathy for them, this is an appeal to pathos because it lets the viewers feel an emotional connection with them by associating these images with their ideal of a good childhood. Besides the children, another specific way in that Nestle address all its progress in fighting against child labor.is through the data and graphs on the left side of each image. All the data that is shown in the both images are supported by the International Labor Organization and The World Cocoa Foundation. This two-nonprofit international organization are two credible sources that work directly with children in the cocoa communities. This allows Nestle to use ethos in their images by showing reliable statistics about its accomplishments against child labor. Through ethos, nestle is providing the viewers with context and it is letting know how big is the issue, and what role they play in solving the problem. Furthermore, Nestle back up all the information that it gives by providing their website in the images. In the website, everything is explained in more detail and has hyperlinks to the websites of the outside sources. In the website displays that The International Cocoa Initiative estimates that 2 out of 10 children are suffering child labor in Ghana, five year ago, the statics were 4 out of 10 children (IPEC), and part of this is due to Nestle efforts. Choto Segovia 3 Both images have the Nestle Cocoa Plan logo in the upper corner, this means that the images are directly from the company. By providing the logo, the viewers will associate the company with the good action that they are doing. A way that Nestle has to collect donation is destining a part of the profits of certain Nestle products to the Nestle Cocoa Plan. These Nestle products have the logo of the Nestle Cocoa Plan, hence once the viewers have the logo in their main will be more likely to buy products with that logo and contribute to the cause. Another element of the images are the settings, where the action is taking place. In the images, can be assumed that the girl is studying in one of the forty schools that Nestle has built and that the boys are playing in the cocoa field without having to work in the plantations. Nestle is using logos with these elements because the viewers make the connection that Nestle is providing a safe environment for these children and it is keeping them from child labor. The displacement of the school in the first image appeals to the fact that Nestle has spent 2.1 million dollars in building schools in rural communities and that easy school access prevents children from child labor (Nestle). The appeal of logos is clear here because the audience will be more likely to continue supporting the cause because if they know how the funding is used. Nestle claims that the level of child labor has decreased are supported by the World Cocoa Foundation, and international organization dedicated to achieving cocoa sustainability around the world. According to them, child labor has decreased by 6% in the communities were the Nestle Cocoa Plan is working (Cocoa Action). Both images complement each other and see childhood from two different perspectives, education and recreation. Nestle use them to convince the readers that they are doing real changes and improving the quality of life of the children. The strategy of Nestle with these two images is effective because it shows how the funding has been using and that Choto Segovia 4 have had a big impact in the children lives. They are giving to the children access to education and are providing a safe environment for them in the cocoa communities. But besides of showing their achievements against child labor, these images are a call for action to keep buying Nestle products to continue with the work of the Nestle Cocoa Plan in the cocoa communities. However, the message of keeping donating could be more effective if Nestle let the viewers know what percentage of the profit is designate to the Nestle Cocoa Plan organization. Overall, Nestle is improving its business image by supporting causes against child labor, nowadays Nestle is considering a company that cares about its workers and that is making a positive impact in the world. Choto Segovia 5 Appendix Image 1. Image 2. Choto Segovia 6 Works Cited. Cocoa Action, Cocoa Web 10 Feb. 2017 http://www.worldcocoafoundation.org/about-wcf/cocoaaction/ International Programmed on the Elimination of Child Labor (IPEC) Child Labor in Cocoa Web. 23 Feb.2017. Nestle Cocoa Plan Web. 24 Feb. 2017. http://www.nestlecocoaplan.com/ Brian. Bitter  Fortune 173.3 (2016): 54-73. Business Source Premier. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.