McCutcheon 1 Caitlyn McCutcheon Dr. Karen Hanson English Composition 1102 12 March 2017 Animal Captivity to Prevent Extinction People often wonder what it would be like if dinosaurs gone extinct. If humans were alive at the same time dinosaurs were, would dinosaurs really be extinct? With the help of zoos and aquariums, conservation acts are put in place to use animal captivity to prevent extinction of species. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums(AZA) is an organization that supports this idea. Other organizations are against the idea of animal captivity because of the unfair treatment of animals by promoting entertainment. The AZA has been open since 1971, and have now grown to over two hundred thirty accredited zoos and aquariums across the United States and overseas. Their goal is to use animal captivity to promote conservation and protect species of animals from extinction. The AZA supports the fact that animal captivity is in favor to help end the extinction of endangered species and the conservation research that is conducted using two pieces of visual rhetoric shown in the images provided by the AZA. The rhetorical appeals are presented by showing a decrease of statistics in the Vaquita Marina and the different amounts of time, money, and dedication in 2015 from field conservation efforts. To begin, Image A is a graph showing the decrease of Vaquita Marina in the wild. The Vaquita Marina is a small porpoise found only in the Gulf of California, Mexico. The species of Vaquita Marina is highly endangered due to the large amount of fishing nets being used. The image has two main rhetorical appeals, kairos and pathos. Allyson Hoffman and Alysia Sawchyn wrote in Rhetoric Really Matters, defines kairos as appeal to timeliness, or identifying the McCutcheon 2 right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman and Sawchyn,41). The picture provides a visual representation of how the number of Vaquita Marina in the wild has dropped significantly over time, which is an appeal to kairos. A South American organization known as CIRVA 8 has been doing research on the Vaquita Marina since 1997. There were five hundred sixty-seven Vaquita Marina in the wild in 1997, and in 2016, only thirty are left in the wild. The drastic dips in the bar graph grabs ahold of people seeing the span of only a few years. To try to prevent extinction, the AZA has a group of conservationists who work together to save a species by identifying and prioritizing the conservation need of the species then develops a three-year Conservation Action Plan (The Need for SAFE). projects fall within four thematic area including public engagement, conservation capacity, policy and legislation, and economic development. Each project, designed to incorporate collaborator expertise to maximize efficiency and effectiveness, is comprised of detailed goals, timelines, (Vaquita Marina Conservation Plans). Not only does the image show kairos, the appeal of time but also shows pathos, the appeal of emotion. The graph published by the AZA draws in viewers by the vibrant colors and the Vaquita Marina on top. When the reader comprehends the data presented the emotions of fear, astonishment and anger can be shown. The fear of another similar species becoming extinct due to the same reason, and how fast it can happen. Astonishment and anger can occur together, thinking about how this happened, how it can stop, and the detrimental effects of it. The research was provided by CIRVA 8, Aquarium of the Pacific making the research done credible, which is ethos. Logos is presented in the picture stating all of the statistical facts done by the organization and the research on the Vaquita Marina. The AZA is doing the best that they can to spread awareness and prevent the extinction of the Vaquita Marina. McCutcheon 3 In addition, Image B shows a summary of the field conducted research in the AZA Community in 2015. Approximately $186,000,000 was spent by all of the institutions within AZA research in 2015. Although only forty percent of the projects took place in the United States, a total of seven hundred species benefitted from conservation action. Of those seven hundred species, two hundred twenty-seven of them are listed under the endangered species act. Rolf L. Hoefer and Sandy E. Green Jr. stated in the The Role Of Rhetoric In The Formation And Change Of Legitimacy Judgemnts, an integration of classical and new rhetoric also suggests that communication is inherently cognitive because arguments or (Hoefer and Green Jr., 131). The main rhetorical appeal that is present in this image would be logos. This image uses the numbers to show how much research was done for the conservation of animals and the efforts to protect endangered species signaling satisfaction. The research done by the AZA signifies logos within the picture. Although the image displays logos, pathos is also presented. Pathos can be perceived as exciting and hope, by seeing how much the AZA can accomplish within a year. The research in field conservation shows how the AZA is willing to go to different extents to try to prevent the extinction of animals. Most importantly, AZA shows how important preventing extinction and conservation research is to the organization. The Image A shows the decrease in the species of Vaquita Marina from 1997 to 2016 and the Image B shows examples of the field conservation research in 2015 by the AZA. Both images support why animal captivity should be accepted, but in different ways. Both Image A and B have strong rhetorical appeals of Pathos. Each of the images go into further detail within different rhetorical appeals. The first image has a stronger effect on the audience because it appeals to people seeing that a certain species is going extinct so fast. Since the species of Vaquita Marina has less than thirty animals in the wild when there was once 567, McCutcheon 4 it then brings out kairos and logos. People can start taking initiative if they are saddened and worried about different species going extinct. The second image shows pathos but catch as much attention as the first image does. Both images share the idea that the AZA support animal captivity to prevent extinction. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums has effectively shown that animal captivity helps prevents extinction. Both of these images show examples of research of how extinction of animals is occurring and how they are helping to prevent extinction in the future. The AZA supports the fact that animal captivity is in favor to help end the extinction of endangered species and the conservation research that is conducted using two pieces of visual rhetoric. Without the help of the AZA, an abundance of research would have not been found and more precautions to prevent extinction would not be known. The AZA has made a tremendous impact on research and conservation over the past years. McCutcheon 5 Works Cited Annual Report on Conservation and Science Association of Zoos and Aquariums. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. HOEFER, ROLF L. and SANDY E. GREEN JR. A Rhetorical Model of Institutional Decision Making: The Role of Rhetoric in the Formation and Change of Legitimacy  Academy of Management Review, vol. 41, no. 1, Jan. 2016, pp. 130-150. EBSCOhost, doi:10.5465/amr.2014.0330. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-45. E-text. Vaquita Marina Conservation SAFE Vaquita Marina Conservation Projects. Association of Zoos and Aquariums. www.aza.org/safe-vaquita-conservation-projects. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Vaquita Marina. Association of Zoos and Aquariums. www.aza.org/SAFE- vaquita. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. McCutcheon 6 Image A: McCutcheon 7 Image B: