Velasco 1 Christina Velasco ENC 1102 Dr. Hanson 10 March 2017 The Impacts of Gender Neutral Bathrooms As demonstrated in hierarchy of needs, safety is a basic necessity. Currently, there are many organizations that fight for the safety needs of those who are transsexual and gender nonconforming. These groups make it their mission to provide support programs, educate the population on equality, and fight for the building of gender neutral bathrooms. On the other hand, many organizations believe that having a gender that male or female is a sin, and that the installment of gender neutral facilities will do more harm than good. The Alliance Defending Freedom, a religion based organization, does not support gender neutral amenities. The organization believes that creating such spaces will put women at risk, and detriment the emotional and physical wellbeing of victims of sexual assault. By posting visual rhetoric on their website and YouTube page, the Alliance Defending Freedom effectively supports its point that gender neutral bathrooms generate fear and chaos for females of all ages. The Alliance Defending Freedom backs up their stance with the usage of two visuals. The scenery in Image A is an example of the typical bathroom design. As published in the Michigan Journal of Gender and Law, Terry S Kogan states that first laws mandating that public restrooms be separated by sex were adopted at the end of the nineteenth century as extensions to protective legislation passed earlier in the century aimed at women and children in Velasco 2 the (Terry 6). Since then, bathrooms have continued to maintain this design, and this layout is displayed in Image A. The male and female signs are clearly presented and there is walking space between each restroom side. When looking at this image in terms of ethos, the audience can understand and see that the mom and child are walking into their designated restroom. Because this is a typical bathroom scene, the image gains audience trust for credibility. When one notices the typical male figure walking in before the mom and child, the feeling of morality arises. No displayed part of this man looks like a female, or a transgender woman, but if he were to be confronted and give an explanation that he identifies as a women, who is to question that? The Alliance Defending Freedom expresses through this picture that the dangerous possibilities are endless. With a young girl included in this scenario, the people looking at the Alliance Defending website may be drawn to pathos. The child is wearing a pink dress; as published in a study done by Mario De Bortoli and Jesus Maroto, the color pink in the United States represents femininity, childhood, and sweetness (Bortoli, Maroto 15). When looking at the picture, the audience is reminded how delicate and vulnerable girls can be at that age, and this creates a sense of fear from the viewers to the child. The toddler alone represents the statistic that out of every four little girls will be sexually abused during childhood, and without giving free access to (Triller-Haver). In addition, the Alliance Defending Freedom also added a theme of blurriness to the picture. This effect portrays the thought that whether his intent is positive or negative, a man can enter the bathroom in a blink of an eye. Keeping this possible danger in mind, kairos, the appeal to time, is well displayed in the image. When glancing at the picture, a conclusion can be made that the woman and her safety may be at risk. If laws on gender neutral bathrooms are passed, the Velasco 3 community is supporting the idea that abuse victims will never feel safe using public bathroom facilities again. To further support their stance, the Alliance Defending Freedom posted a two minute and eleven second video on their YouTube page. The usage of pathos is displayed throughout the whole clip; when the women speak out about their experiences and what they have been through, one can get emotional because sexual assault and trauma are such heavy topics. When hearing the women tell their stories, fright and concern is audible in their voices. The music that is integrated between and throughout each story is dramatic and haunting, and contributes to the buildup of emotions for the viewer. These two techniques are examples of how the Alliance Defending Freedom uses pathos. As for ethos, their testimonies make them reliable to discuss the issues. . Their individual experiences, such as being a mother, a guardian to an abused child, a victim of sexual trauma, and being transgender, make them credible. Moreover, their experiences are examples of logos; in the video, the women express how logical it is for genders not to mix in restrooms. The first speaker, Kaeley, uses logos by explaining how seeing a man in a facility would be an instant trigger. Autumn explains how any male, can walk in and no one can question that he a woman. Jaqueline, a transgender women and parent, states that gender neutral bathrooms risk the safety for women and children. An anonymous speaker who goes by explains how her daughter, a victim of childhood sexual assault, is afraid to use her restroom now that she knows a boy could walk in at any moment. The Alliance Defending message is clear with every example of logos-giving men access is unreasonable and can cause irreversible damage to survivors of abuse. This video embodies kairos; as expressed in the video, viewers learn that if something done soon, there will be a Velasco 4 significant increase in traumatic experiences for victims and a higher rate all together for sexual assault occurrences. Both Image A and Image B successfully make an impact that benefits Alliance Defending Freedom and what they stand for. Image A portrays a typical male figure walking into a female facility, right in front of a woman and child entering. It is clear that the creator of this image wants the reader to put themselves in the shoes. By doing this, the audience can develop a sense of fear for the mother and her child. This image shows that with the approval of multi stall gender neutral bathrooms, any man can walk in the restroom, no questions asked. Alliance Defending Freedom sides with victims of abuse, and because of this, this image appears to portray the events leading up to a bathroom assault. Image A contains ethos, pathos, and karios, but lacks logos. This missing element is what makes the video a better visual rhetoric. In Image B, the two minute and eleven second clip, four women tell their stories. With each personal account, the audience feels empathy towards the women and gain understanding about how this issue affects more than one part of the population. When the clip is over, the audience is compelled to question how much they value their safety. This source uses all elements of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos which helps the stakeholder portray their message. The Studies International Forum explained in a document that specific needs and interests of women which led to the creation of toilets, and remain valid concerns, are ignored or ridiculed by theorists and activists who seek to the (Jeffreys 9). This organization has not been ignoring the concerns; they have been fighting for the safety of women and their children for years, and these two visuals are just the beginning. The resilient usages of rhetorical appeals are successful and help draw in other people to get informed and involved with their cause. As posted on their website, the Alliance Defending Velasco 5 Freedom reminds that and girls have a right to their bodily and have a right not to be exposed to private anatomy of the opposite (Mayer). With every post, the Alliance Defending Freedom is educating the public and ensuring the well-being of all females and their children from physical and emotional harm. Velasco 6 Works Cited Bortoli, Mario De, and Jesus Maroto. Colours Across Cultures: Translating Colours in Interactive Marketing Global Propaganda(2008): 15. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. http://globalpropaganda.com/articles/TranslatingColours.pdf. Faith and Justice Details Opening The Bathroom  Alliance Defending Freedom . N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. https://www.adflegal.org/detailspages/faith-and-justice- details/opening-the-bathroom-door. Haver, Kaeley Triller. A Rape Survivor Speaks Out About Transgender  Web log post. The Federalist, 23 Nov. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017, http://thefederalist.com/2015/11/23/a-rape-survivor-speaks-out-about-transgender- bathrooms. Jeffreys, Sheila. The Politics of the Toilet: A Feminist Response to the Campaign to a  Studies International Forum, vol. 45, 01 July 2014, pp. 42- 51. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.wsif.2014.05.003. Kogan, Terry S. Sex-Separation in Public Restrooms: Law, Architecture, and  Michigan Journal of Gender and Law 14.1 (2007): 14. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. http://repository.law.umich.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1067&context=mjgl. Mayer, Marissa. Why South Bathroom Bill Has Little to Do with Transgender Alliance Defending Freedom, 15 Apr. 2016. Web. https://www.adflegal.org/detailspages/blog-details/allianceedge/2016/04/15/why-south- 28 Jan. 2017. Velasco 7 Trailer: Unintended Victims of Bathroom Bills and Locker Room  YouTube. YouTube, 07 July 2016. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Velasco 8 Visual Rhetoric Image A Image B In this trailer, four women tell their stories. Through the strong usage of rhetorical appeals, their experiences help the Alliance Defending Freedom validate their concerns.