Schook 1 Bay Schook Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 6 February 2017 Death With Dignity Act Over the last couple decades, the issue of physician-assisted suicide (PAS) has become one of the most controversial issues in the United States. It can be described as the act of a physician knowingly committing the act of suicide by providing medication to a patient. The main proponents of assisted-suicide are that physicians have an obligation to relieve any pain that the patient is feeling, promote the dignity of dying patients, and have respect for the decisions patients choose towards their life (Lurie N,p). Patients usually choose to go forward with PAS mainly because of their intended future plans. In 1997, a nonprofit organization called the Death With Dignity Act was created and gave people the right to die freely by PAS. The main reason behind the creation of the Death With Dignity Act is to allow certain qualified individuals to legally choose to end their life by their own will. The advocates of this organization strongly believe in the power of having the ability to choose when to die. The first image shown presents the type of people who do choose to go forward with PAS through the use of logos, kairos, and ethos. The second image is one of Death With own photos and gives off an empowering message through the rhetorical appeal of pathos. Between both images, the main goal of Death With Dignity is to promote why PAS is not considered morally wrong; dying with dignity is considered empowering when patients are terminally ill. Schook 2 Image 1 mainly shows the statistics of people who chose assisted suicide which represents an appeal to logos and kairos. It presents high percentages referring to the type of individuals who support PAS. It also shows the logistics behind who and why people support PAS. The majority of people who chose this were 65 and older, white and well-educated, and also terminally ill with cancer. What this shows is that PAS is not for everyone, and there have to be certain requirements for it to be done. Death With Dignity is authorized in only five states: Oregon, Washington, Vermont, California, and Colorado. Along with the legalization of PAS in these states, there are certain requirements that are needed for a patient to be able to go through with assisted suicide. The person has to be an adult resident in any one of those states, mentally competent to make life- changing decisions, and terminally ill (Death With Dignity N,p). According to Guy Micco M.D., strict guidelines do prevent some patients from PAS which makes PAS less of a What this means that instead of making PAS available to everyone, it is a restricted process that is only given to selected individuals (Jaret N,p). There have to be certain requirements for PAS. Physicians make this quite clear to a patient that approaches them with this request. This image also is presents an appeal to ethos since it is credible from the Oregon Public Health Division where Death With Dignity is also a part of. The color of the image and the structure are overall quite simple, but are bright and stand out. There is not much of an emotional visual along with this image, but the statistics could potentially appeal to pathos. Seeing that only certain individuals supported PAS could show that assisted suicide is not just offered to everyone. The main opposing argument of assisted suicide is that is morally unjust and people should not just end their lives. These statistics could be comforting, now that it is understood that PAS is mostly used for certain patients. The main focus of this image is the statistical information provided which appeals to logos and kairos. It focuses on timeliness in the sense that PAS is mostly directed Schook 3 towards specific individuals. PAS cannot be for everyone when requested, but it is offered in the states where it is legalized. The second image focuses more on the appeal to pathos but also logos. The main aspect of this image is the written message on the arm: me liberty in my This is one of the main statements a Death With Dignity advocate would support and is an example of logos. The appeal to logos in accordance with this image is that patients should be able to die by their own choice, under the circumstances. The clenching of the fist across the EKG line is a strong message but also suggests that patients should be given the option to choose death on their own terms. The hand across the red line shows strength and the ability to freely end life as it says on the wrist in the photo. It also represents that any strong-willed person may choose how they want to end their life. This photo also explains the argument towards PAS using an appeal to pathos. The main reason why assisted suicide is such a controversial issue is mainly because of beliefs on it, and whether its morally right or wrong. Some people may look at this image and feel opposed to it, as it is morally wrong for a human to want to voluntarily end their own life. This has become one of the main reasons why PAS is a major controversy in the United States. Individuals who are against assisted suicide typically have a variety of reasons as to why they do not support it. Most of these reasons usually include religious views on assisted suicide and the negative idea that humans should not have the ability to choose when to end their life. On the other hand, supporters of PAS may find this photo empowering. Referring to image 1, not all individuals are given the opportunity to go through with assisted suicide. Typically, the people going forward with this process are diagnosed as terminally ill. The large image of the hand and the EKG line stand out Schook 4 the most compared to the white background. This was probably done so to emphasize the visual by and to add to the appeal to pathos. The images shown below are visuals that help spread a message to individuals about the current debate of PAS. The two images differentiate from each other by the use of the different rhetorical appeals. The first image focuses more on the facts, where the second image appeals more to pathos. Both of the images below present valid reasons as to why assisted suicide is ethical through the support of the Death With Dignity Organization. The main reason why PAS is legal in the five states in the U.S. is because of Death With Dignity. The organization allows individuals to freely make their own end-of-life decisions. The main issue with legalizing PAS is that it is considered of being a Meaning that if assisted-suicide were to become legalized, then everyone would have access to to but that is not the case (Jaret N,p). The PAS law strictly promotes that individuals who are fatally ill and do not want to suffer anymore have the option to start the process of physician-assisted suicide. The images used below justify how Death With main goal is to satisfy the individuals who are suffering and want peace and dignity with their death. Word Count: 1206 Schook 5 Works Cited  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Jaret, Peter. Physician-Assisted Suicide: Is It  BerkeleyWellness. N.p., 26 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Physician-Assisted Suicide -  Physician-Assisted Suicide - Introduction. Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Schook 6 Image 1 Image 2