Pittard !1 Tani Pittard Hernandez ENC 1102 An Right to be Free PETA is one of the top animals rights activists organizations in the entire world. It is core belief that animals should have the right to roam freely in the wild. This organization aims to end all traces of captive animals on planet Earth. movement toward non captive animals has many powerful images which cause their audience to understand what really happens behind the scenes of theme parks and which hold captive animals. In image one there is a model confined in a tank, and in image two a man is being dragged away by a whale. These two specific images aim to portray the deep set fears of what it would be like if humans were put into these exhibits. PETA uses rhetorical appeals in the two images portraying the realities of animals in captivity in order to convince their audience to stop supporting companies which hold animals in captivity. While neither image one or two are very in ethos, there are still some traces of this appeal in both. The credibility in image one is mainly portrayed by the PETA logo at the bottom right of the image. In image two, ethos is notable yet again in the logo of PETA, this time in the top right corner, letting the viewer know this has come directly from the organization of PETA. On their main website, PETA states that zoos and theme parks which hold captive animals invest very little time and money into the care of these animals. Protests and campaigns of have had so much influence that many and theme parks are closing their elephant exhibits according to an ex animal trainer at the Busch Gardens in Tampa, Florida. PETA having Pittard !2 such a massive influence in the animal rights community makes their logo appearing an ad extremely credible. Pathos is heavily used and obviously noticed in image one as well as image two. In image one the most striking evidence of Pathos is found in the models facial expression. Her expression is extremely despondent. This look of ultimate depression and fear aims to show the reader how the animals who are held in captivity feel on a daily basis. Upon taking a closer look, one will notice that the hands are pressed up against the glass. This is PETA showing the viewer that these animals are trapped and merely begging for an escape. Another notable instance of pathos is in the dark blue and gray colors which make up the picture, as well as the background. These colors give off a cold and upsetting feeling to the audience. While image one uses the emotion sadness, image two leans more toward fear. The most evident portrayal of fear is found in the CEO being dragged under water by a killer whale. In image two PETA is attempting to warn said CEO that if something is not done, he may end up hurting his entire company. Another use of pathos in this image is the color red. By nature, red is a color of warning, or danger. Using red in the majority of the background is another attempt of PETA to strike fear within their audience and to warn them. Both images use pathos to show the audience that animals do not belong in captivity, nor do they want to be. According to former animal trainer from SeaWorld, Jeff Ventre, these animals only ever harm a trainer close to them because they are forced into captivity. In an interview Ventre stated that, whales attack humans in the wild, what seen in these injuries to people is a direct byproduct of the stress associated with This inside view further proves what PETA is trying to get across with these images. Pittard !3 Both images use an ample amount of as well. In image one, logos is prominent in the text. Under the model in the tank the text reads see Laura as confined to a tiny tank and forced to perform tricks for your This text is introducing the idea of how absurd it would be to put a person in a tank and force them to entertain people. main point being: If we would not treat people this way, why would we do this to animals? Another logical appeal in this image is the size of the tank compared to the size of Laura. While this is somewhat an exaggeration, it is true that the tanks at SeaWorld are not nearly large enough to comfortably hold these captive animals. On the website SeaWorldFactCheck it states that orcas typically as much as 100 linear miles (and dive up to 850 feet in depth) during a the article continues to say that this makes it impossible to create a life like enclosure for orcas. In an interview with SeaWorld, the measurements for their tanks were said to be 36 feet deep and holding 6 million gallons of constantly and filtered which they believe to be sufficient for the whales. PETA does not agree that 36 feet deep is anywhere near the 850 feet whales typically dive in the wild. Following the initial facetious statement in image one are the words, the truth behind the show, and Boycott This statement is overtly telling the viewer that they should be boycotting SeaWorld, because what the audience occurring in regards to the size of the tank is currently happening at SeaWorld with the orcas. Image two uses the rhetorical appeal logos in a way similar to that of image one, also using text. On the right side of the image PETA asserts a warning to those in charge of SeaWorld by writing, WILL LET YOU GO IF YOU LET HIM The definitive use of all caps and bolding in this text appeals to logic by making the statement seem apparent or obvious, as though the viewer should already be aware of this fact. The words are logical within themselves by Pittard !4 pointing out who is at fault for those who are harmed at parks such as SeaWorld. A perfect example of this is Tilikum, a whale at SeaWorld who killed his trainer, Dawn Brancheau. It is said by many animal psychologists that Tilikum attacked Dawn only because the whale was driven mad from being in captivity so long. Image two is aiming to convince those at the top of companies which hold animals in captivity that they are only hurting themselves in the long run by keeping the animals captive, as a case such as could very well happen again. Kairos is not excessively used in image one or image two, yet there are several occasions where it is apparent. In image one there are bubbles coming out of the models mouth and nose leading to the top of the tank. While this is a metaphor for aquatic animals who are meant to spend their lives in water, the bubbles are showing that being in captivity shortens the life of these animals. Orcas in the wild, an average life expectancy of 30 to 50 (onegreenplanet.org) while in captivity orcas on average only survive nine years according to studies done in 2008. This is a call to action because PETA is telling the audience that if they do not act soon, these captive animals will cease to survive. Image two depicts kairos by the CEO being dragged. This is a call to action to those in charge of the funding for these theme parks with captive animals to stop. Coinciding with the CEO being dragged, the text is telling the audience that in order to get rid of the dangers associated with being around large animals, you must leave them alone as soon as possible. Simply stated, PETA is saying sooner, the in both images. Both of these images are powerful pieces of art which use all four visual rhetorical appeals to assure the audience that animals do not belong in captivity. Image one mostly uses pathos to portray what happens behind the scenes at various parks owned by SeaWorld. Image Pittard !5 two, however, sticks to a more logical approach. Image two aims to convince the viewer that in order to stop guests and staff members from getting hurt at these parks, they must all come together with the audience to help end animals captivity. When combining all of these rhetorical appeals PETA is able to convince viewers that animals in captivity are plainly being imprisoned. However, it is up to the viewer to see what is being done and to take arms against what PETA wants their audience to fight for. Pittard !6 Pittard !7 Works Cited Rights Uncompromised: PETA, www.peta.org/about-peta/why-peta/zoos/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. and Marine PETA, www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/zoos- pseudo-sanctuaries/aquariums-marine-parks/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Fans Greeted at Airport by Massive Anti-SeaWorld SeaWorld of Hurt, 30 Mar. 2016, www.seaworldofhurt.com/comic-con-fans-greeted-airport-massive-anti- seaworld-cartoon/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Empty the Cages and Tanks! the Truth About the Lives of Animals in Captivity Versus the  One Green Planet. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Keim, Brandon. SEAWORLD FACT  SeaWorld Fact Check - Killer Whale Tanks. Wired, 20 Sept. 2011. Web. 07 Mar. 2017. Laura Vandervoort: Confined and Naked Laura Vandervoort: Confined and Scared , secure.peta.org/site/Advocacy?cmd=display&page=UserAction&id=5431. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.