Austin Michael Prof. Rouisse ENC 1102 The Rhetorical Appeals of the World Wildlife Fund The subtle skills of persuasion have been ever-present, however it is now reaching a new level of consciousness. People use techniques to manipulate the rhetorical appeals in order to affect how the viewer feels. Effectively used rhetorical appeals can result in effective conveyance of meaning with very few, if any, words. Through this emotion people can be convinced to accomplish some goal such as supporting a social movement or donating to a cause for the betterment of society. The Worldwide Wildlife Fund (WWF) is one of these advertisers who effectively uses these rhetorical appeals to persuade people to donate to their cause through two images provided here. The former image is simple yet powerful for multiple reasons. The image holds precedence since it is stamped in the corner by a well known company, WWF. The trust developed between the viewer and the advertiser is similar to providing a resume showing the company to ensure its goals align with theirs. This credibility is also built via the text at the bottom providing contact information and a website to more information. The appeal to emotion found in this advert is the feeling of helplessness. The company triggers the connection by making people empathize with the animals lack of sovereignty over its self. The feeling of helplessness is innately negative opening people up to suggestion on how to help. The picture of a mouth in the corner is a nice stylistic effect provided by the creators symbolizing the inability to speak. There is also a connection between people and animals that they see which may assist people in forming bonds and ultimately making a decision due to being slightly emotionally invested. If this is not enough for a viewer there are two remaining rhetorical appeals targeted at audiences. There is standard logic in this poster. The logic is rather blunt; however, it does make sense. The line is simply stating the actual fact that animals can not represent themselves in a way that protects them from human behavior, laws, and regulation. As activists that is job. This simple line can inspire many thoughts and ultimately win somebody over who was previously one breakthrough away from being a donor. The to in a piece is essential as it provides a sense of urgency to the matter. This appeals to procrastinators and those who have difficulty making decisions under pressure. The situation is simply enhanced by giving the reader a pace to keep up with in order to support the cause they now have an emotional connection to. The line US TODAY. FOR Is all that most people require in order to feel inspired. Being given a time to do something provides one less excuse for a donor to use to avoid paying. The combinations of these tactics have created a piece of work which inspires, connects, and drives a viewer to donate to the cause that the WWF helps. The second image depicting a seal covering itself with trash on a park bench alludes to homeless people. The WWF symbol in the bottom left is being used to show the credibility of the poster. Since WWF is a highly recognizable organization this is a rather respectable source. The web links on the bottom of the poster are also showing that the cause has a source in order to find more information on the cause being pertinent and legitimate. The appeal to emotion within this poster varies from straight forward to very subtle. The seal is portrayed as a homeless man once again appealing to our feeling of compassion for those who are helpless. The background of the poster is of graffiti and this indicates the area that the seal is in as bad. This symbolically represents that the situation seals are actually in (Global Warming) is potentially life threatening and, at the very least, dangerous. The seal being homeless is referencing to the seals habitat and breeding ground becoming scarce once again due to global warming. With the combination of these the viewer is set in place to empathize with these animals and is then more likely to donate to the cause or help to represent the animals. There is rather limited logic present in the poster besides the simple statement that as a viewer the population can help to solve the situation that these animals are stuck in. There is a short but direct amount of text on the bottom of the poster. This is stating how the problem can be solved and how the viewer can help individually. The call to action is on the far bottom right stating to act immediately and to do so help by doing specific actions or by visiting an external source of information (website). When all of these techniques are combines in this specific poster is creates a slightly humorous yet immediately understood idea that animals are in trouble, becoming homeless, and can be helped by following certain actions. This is an effective advertisement that has the ability to assist the cause by persuading people. Deep blues and darker hues within both of the pictures immediately announce the connotation of the photos. Any outstanding colors are mostly present on the animal or they exist to point out a certain feature within the picture. The outstanding colors on the first picture are mainly the red and cardboard on the upper left hand side of the picture. There is also slightly lighter shading in the center of the picture in order to highlight another prominent figure being the seal on the bench which symbolizes animals losing their homes. The second picture maintains a black background while the outstanding colors are warmer than the former picture. The black tone sets the emotion which maintains solemn regret for those animals which cannot speak for themselves. Color schemes identify the tone for the picture and therefore offer background information affecting pathos on a subconscious level. Effective use of techniques such as ethos: the appeal to credibility, pathos: the appeal to emotion, logos: the appeal to logic, and kairos: the call to action, can cause a person to feel needed or inspired and donate to a cause or at the very least think of the cause they had not before. Another tactic employed within these posters was the use of color scheming which had to do with the implications of color and design within media. With the mixture of this color scheme managing and the rhetorical appeals the manipulation of viewers is not only useful for charitable agencies. Many companies use advertisement such as posters to increase revenue and profit and to grow the company. If people were to avoid the influence of the press and companies this world could be a different and slightly less meddled with than it currently is. With a future where viewers understand the techniques and tricks used against them it may be possible for them to make more educated decisions. The influencing of advertisers can be used for causes both just and capitalistic. With the correct education a person can make more informed decisions with their own money. Bibliography: https://aotw-pd.s3.amazonaws.com/images/WWFSEAL.jpg https://www.pinterest.com/pin/374150681521355129/ Word Count: 1209