Santos 1 Arturo Santos ENC 1102-093 3/12/17 Kristen Rouisse War Between Mosquitos: Exploring Argumentative Strategies Earth, the community hosting a multitude of organisms, bears more than just beauty; the most worthwhile dangers of the outside world are silent and inconspicuous. A tiny but prevailing member of that group, the mosquito is regarded as the deadliest animal in the world in terms of people killed. The mosquito transmits several diseases, many of which can kill, including Zika and malaria. Just malaria alone in one region of Africa can kill millions per year (Snow et al., 624). Oxitec, a British biotechnology company, plans to lower and possibly even eliminate the population of the mosquitos that transmit deadly diseases by taking advantage of the female-seeking behavior and modifying males to have an offspring-killing gene. The mosquitos are released to mate with wild females, and pass on the killing gene to their offspring. intention to release them in the Florida Keys sparked controversy, and petitions were made expressing concern of any possible unintended effects of these GM mosquitos (Oxitec). Thus, Oxitec employs many rhetorical appeals in their advertisements to win as much public support as possible for their experiments. Two of these images appeal to the rhetorical appeals and visual rhetoric such as color theory to achieve this goal. The first image outlines the statistics, history, spread, and consequences of the mosquito- borne Zika virus. One of the argumentative strategies used are the rhetorical appeals. These Santos 2 include the appeal to logic (logos), appeal to ethics (ethos), appeal to emotion (pathos), and appeal to timeliness (kairos) (Hoffman & Kimber). This image focuses on using logos. The harboring of numerous facts and statistics exemplify this rational part of the rhetoric. The most notable example is the use of a timeline to indicate the Zika progression, along with several statistics. The timeline indicates the infection and spread of the Zika virus and the public response to that spread in an interval of time. For instance, the image denotes April 2014, 66% of the general population was (Oxitec). The appeal to logic gives the audience a sense of how effective and important methods are, and they may side with Oxitec and support them. The image also uses the rhetorical appeal kairos, or the appeal to timeliness. The appeal to timeliness would encourage the audience to act quickly with hopes of them adopting or supporting the host policies. The kairos appeal this image exploits is derived from the text This quote prompts the audience to question how the problem of the Zika virus spreads in the future. In the text, Oxitec also claims that key factors in several cities may combine to produce a Zika outbreak (Oxitec). This may provoke people to sense the urgency of the Zika virus and immediately welcome methods of eliminating its vector, the mosquito. Ethos, or the appeal to ethics or credibility of the source, is also utilized by the image. The advertisement directly states that approach of controlling the mosquito population is supported by the international agency World Health Organization (WHO) and the CDC (Oxitec). This enhances credibility, as the WHO and CDC are well- reputable health-related agencies. Pathos, or the appeal to emotion, is applied as well. The image contains a brief summary of the circumstances involving and supporting methods, writing that a tiny bite from an infected female Aedes aegypti mosquito can transmit Zika, for which there is no (Dyer, 2015). The emotion this statement commissions is Santos 3 enlightenment or awareness of the mosquito danger. Citizens may feel scared and concerned for themselves and other people. This rhetoric effectively contributes to goals because the audience may once again welcome and support methods to eliminate this fear. Another argumentative strategy used by the first image is visual rhetoric. This strategy utilizes design, color, and other visuals chosen by the organization to shift the focus or support an argument (Purdue University). Color is one of these features, and albeit one of the most prevalent. Orange is associated with movement and change, similar to the change in the color of deciduous leaves from green to fall colors (Smashing Magazine). In the context of image 1, perhaps the orange signifies the progression or movement of the Zika virus on a global scale, as shown by the map given in the image. This adds to the sense of urgency, possibly enticing the public to support methods. On the map, the United States seems to be a different color than all the other countries. The United States is occupied by red, and the southeastern US a deeper red. Red colors indicate danger, and may be tricking the audience into thinking that the US, especially the southeast, is in jeopardy (Smashing Magazine). Similar to the orange purpose, the red US cues urgency to its residents. However, the contrasting red color with the surrounding orange may highlight the concentration of efforts in the US where the Zika virus is spreading to. Both the color orange and the color red in the image effectively draw attention to experiments, thereby contributing to goal of increasing public support. The second image uses mainly ethos and pathos, or the appeal to ethics/credibility and the appeal to emotion to obtain trust from the audience. The most prominent rhetorical appeal Santos 4 used is ethos. The appeal to credibility is illustrated by the scientist holding up the container with the mosquitos in it, while wearing a lab coat that says on it (Oxitec). The lab coat, laboratory setting, and the scientist all attempt to persuade the audience that Oxitec has performed careful scientific experimentation to ensure their technology works. The image makes the scientist seem credible, and actually appear like a scientist. A person may generalize the credibility to the whole company and support the procedures, contributing to goals. Pathos is a secondary contributor to the rhetoric. The scientist featured in the image is wearing a lab coat, the containers are organized rather nicely in the room, and the scientist looks engaged in what he is doing (Oxitec). The audience may feel secure since the scientist seems to be doing a good job at performing his duties and ensuring the safety of procedures. The feeling of security will naturally draw the audience to goals. There is no indication of logos or kairos, as no facts were given by the image and there was no appeal to timeliness. The rhetorical appeals that are used in this image convince the public that their experiments will result in more favorable conditions for living, resulting in more support for methods. The second image also uses visual rhetoric. The main color image 2 adopts is white, which indicates goodness, virtue, and cleanliness (Smashing Magazine). White is prominent on the lab coat, as well on the wall behind him. The white may symbolize the goodness of intention of eliminating deadly diseases, despite also eradicating a species of mosquito. The color gray is also used, and may share roles with white due to both being neutral colors. Gray is a symbol of professionalism, modernity, and formality (Smashing Magazine). Much of the gray is located away from the scientist, and mostly on the boxes containing the GM Santos 5 mosquitos. Perhaps the gray color persuades the audience that Oxitec is a professional company, using modern technology for their experiments. This implies that new technology is better, which is a logical fallacy known as the appeal to novelty (Williamson). On the other hand, the colors both contribute to goals by evoking a sense of professionalism and the trust it establishes. As of November 2016, Oxitec has achieved their goal, and the GM mosquitos were released in the Florida Keys (Walker). Each of the images used filled a unique niche in advertising experiments. The first image contained all the rhetorical appeals, especially logos, serving as the logical front. The second image lacked logos and kairos, but served a niche that allows the audience to get an inside look at lab and establish trust in sync with the white and gray colors. Despite their differences, the images were effective in their own way. The argumentative strategies harnessed by the two images contributed to goal of successfully increasing public support for their experiments. Word Count: 1383 Santos 6 Works Cited Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Smashing Magazine. Web. 12 March 2017. Dyer, Owen. Zika virus spreads across Americas as concerns mount over birth  BMJ (2015): h6983. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Oxitec. Oxitec Ltd, 2002. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Snow, Robert W., et al. Estimating mortality, morbidity and disability due to malaria among non-pregnant  Bulletin of the World Health Organization 77.8 (1999): 624. Visual Rhetoric:  Purdue Online Writing Lab. Purdue University, 1995. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Walker, Marley. Florida Votes to Release Millions of Zika-Fighting  Wired. Conde Nast, 10 Nov. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Williamson, Owen M. Master List of Logical  Master List of Logical Fallacies. University of Texas at El Paso, July 2006. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Santos 7 Santos 8