Gaffglione 1 Austin Gaffglione Ms. Hernandez Composition II 26 February 2017 The Alliance of Retired Americans and Federal Benefits: The Desire to Preserve and Expand Federal programs like Social Security and Medicare have been a hallmark for the U.S. government. Whether the benefits of such are needed for a lower income individual that does not receive proper health care or for a retired, elderly individual with a lack of sufficient savings, these programs have established a source of reliability for those in need. However, the efficiency and cost of these federal programs have been questioned for many years, as some organizations believe that reducing the benefits for such would lead to overall economic stability. On the other hand, other organizations state that preserving and expanding the benefits from federal programs will allow lower and middle class individuals to establish financial success. An influential stakeholder organization for this issue is the Alliance for Retired Americans, whose main interest is to advocate for the continuity of Social Security and Medicare. For them, their goal is to social and economic justice and full civil rights for all citizens so that they may enjoy lives of dignity, personal and family fulfillment and (ARA). To advocate for their interests, the ARA have held sponsored events and posted images from such on their website with the use of rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to create snapshots of their actions and display their advocacy in preserving Social Security and Medicare to others. Gaffglione 2 In terms of emotional appeal, also known as the pathos component of a rhetorical device, the two images install similar emotions and feelings into the viewer through different displays. In the first image, an elderly woman is holding a sign that states WORKED 47 YEARS FOR MY MEDICARE - HANDS This effectively establishes a feeling of guilt for the viewing audience, as the thought of taking Medicare away would be unfair to others that have sought to earn it when they become eligible. Also, the line under the 47 on the sign could imply that the sign itself is a template for others to use at the event, or it could place emphasis on the amount of years individual has been working. The phrase from the sign holds literal meaning in which it tells others to stop trying to decrease benefits or ultimately remove Medicare. On the other hand, the second image shows multiple individuals with some of them holding signs at an outdoors event sponsored by the ARA. In particular the two signs shown, THE RUSH TO PENSION CUTS! We Earned Our and Are also create a sensation of guilt and shame. With the first sign, the statement Earned Our displays guilt for believing in pension cuts, since doing so would be unfair for individuals that have worked for a long time and would be dependent on pension payments; for the second sign, such displays guilt from a characteristic group at the event for believing in ideals that would go against the interests for the ARA. The signs from both images convey a sense of guilt through a belief of unfairness when going against the interests. The ethos component of the two images shows how both of them contain credible information and hold value to them. For both of the images, the logo for the ARA is either shown on a sign being held by a member or on a stand being used by a member speaking at the event. While it may not seem significant, the logo verifies that the event taking place in both images is Gaffglione 3 an event sponsored by the ARA. In addition, both images also contain a large proportion of elderly individuals at the events, showing that a majority of the individuals have direct experience with Social Security and Medicare. This shows that most of the people in the images are either receiving benefits for Social Security and Medicare or are eligible to receive such, meaning that most likely to be members of the ARA and qualified to hold informational beliefs about federal programs. The combination of both the logo of the ARA and the age of the people at the events display the credibility for both of the images. A logical aspect of the information, also known as logos, is present in both of the images related to the ARA. For the first image, only one sign being shown and it displays a simple message. Because of this, the message on the sign is easy to read as well as easy to decipher. Also, the different color for the phrase places an emphasis on such and tells the viewer to not be involved in taking away benefits for Medicare. Along with this image, the statistics also provide concrete evidence for the message provided; in 2016, among elderly beneficiaries, about 43% individuals relied on Social Security for 90% of their income (SSA). For the second image, the presence of multiple signs shows a common message through differing forms that are simple in nature. For the sign THE RUSH TO PENSION CUTS! We Earned Our the stop sign refers to a direct translation of stopping individuals from allowing pension cuts to take place; the Earned Our part of phrase is straightforward: not fair to take away benefits from individuals that been working for a long time. For the second sign, the phrase Are makes the viewer aware that others (specifically women) know when someone is in opposition of the members in the ARA. Along with this, women are known to receive less benefits from Social Security relative to Gaffglione 4 men; in 2014, average annual Social Security income received by women 65 years and older was $13,150, compared to $17,106 for (SSA). The combination of both images present convincing ideas through similar depictions to express the interests of the ARA. The setting in both of the images create an emphasis on the timeliness aspect, which is known as kairos. For the two images, they both take place at a sponsored event held by the ARA; this type of event is possibly a rally for the members, a natural setting for a call to action to be made by others. This call to action could be made for others to side with the members of the ARA or to agree with the alliance in preserving and increasing the benefits provided by federal programs. Along with this, the issue of changing the benefits of federal programs, particularly Social Security and Medicare, can be a call to action in itself since been controversial for an extended period of time. The setting of both images and the issue itself make the viewer aware about the benefits of federal programs and tell them to take action. With the longevity of both Social Security, Medicare, and other federal programs, no surprise that controversy between two sides that are in support or against their current system. For example, with about nine out of ten individuals 65 and older on Social Security and 34% of their income coming from pension payments, the question of social security benefits negatively impacting the economy comes to no surprise (SSA). The same can exactly be said with Medicare, which accounted for about 14% of the federal budget in 2014 (KFF). Because of this, there also exist organizations like the Alliance for Retired Americans(ARA) who take action in preserving the benefits for programs like Social Security and Medicare. Through images from their sponsored events that include rhetorical components such as logos, kairos, ethos, and Gaffglione 5 pathos, the ARA attempt to persuade others in taking action to preserve and expand federal programs. Gaffglione 6 Gaffglione 7 Works Cited 24, 2015 Jul. The Facts on Medicare Spending And  Facts on Medicare Spending And Web. 26 Feb. 2017. About  Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Social  Security Administration: Information for the Web. 26 Feb. 2017.