Aldhubaiban 1 Abdulrahman Aldhubaiban Professor Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 15 March 2017 Immigration in the USA The National Immigration Forum (NIF) is a non-governmental organization in the United States, which fights for the rights of immigrants. The advocacy mission is to restore the dignity of immigrants. Their vision is to ensure that the rest of the world can value America for its melting pot society. When people visit America as immigrants, they learn several things, including the culture and the language. NIF ensures that such individuals can learn from America, and help improve American society as well. NIF has three different organizations that work under them: the Bibles Badges Business (BBB), New American Workforce, and Forum Action Fund (National Immigration Forum 1). NIF ensures that the immigrants understand law enforcement policies, business procedures, and religious freedom in the United States. The New American Work Force deals with the assessment of an eligibility for the entry into the United States. Furthermore, the New American Work Force ensures that immigrants who cross the borders can perform the functions that brought them to America, including employment, participation in community activities, and involvement in the development of the economy (National Immigration Forum 1). As immigration plays a big role in the United States NIF shows two pictorial representations that advocate for immigrants. Both pictures connected to create a happy visual rhetoric that advances advocacy for immigration by using rhetoric appeals. Aldhubaiban 2 NIF provides pictures that evoke happiness in the viewer for the sake of implementing pathos. Pathos is a way to illustrate emotion in a picture. Picture 1 shows happiness and accommodation making it easy for any immigrant to feel at home while living in the United States. A picture evokes many emotions when a person looks at it. Picture 1 evokes a joyful feeling toward any person who is trying to enter the United States because there is a smile on the map of the United States. Additionally, the first picture states under the United States map which shows the happiness that is visible in the face of millions of Americans as they welcome immigrants. According to the NIF, Americans are friendly people, who appreciate diversity (National Immigration Forum 1). Whether an international student wants to further their studies, or a spouse wants to join their significant other, the sign means that America welcomes everyone to their land. The idea communicated through the image is that no biases exist when America welcomes people from different parts of the world. Furthermore, the picture shows the United States map in a yellow color, which is a bright and warm color that signifies happiness and a warm welcome to all immigrants. The color of the United States is significant in this image, because different colors carry different messages. Picture 2 illustrates new Americans that have happily settled into their new country. The picture evokes happiness in the viewer because the people in the picture are smiling. The flag being raised high by the new Americans shows that the new Americans are filled with pride and joy by being in the United States. The flag being raised up is significant because it adds to the happiness that is being portrayed by the picture. In an alternate scenario, if the flags were on the ground or being burned than this would evoke sadness or anger with the United States. The picture on the right shows a mother who is lovingly embracing her son. Additionally, the mother is a new American who is also a member of armed forces, which signifies that she will gladly serve her new country. Aldhubaiban 3 Logos is an attempt to persuade the audience by stating rationale reasons. Logos could be an appeal in any kind of literature such as articles, essays, and pictures. NIF not only used emotion in their pictures to get the empathy of the audience, they also used rational reasoning to support their argument. Picture 1 is an example of logos due to the fact that the only word that is visible to the viewer is the word This shows that NIF encourages people to come to the United States. Also, NIF would logically use the word welcome because immigrants need to feel like they are welcome in their new country despite all of the hate crimes committed against immigrants. In recent weeks, several minority groups in the United States have witnessed an increase in hate crimes committed against them especially in big cities (Masood 1). Picture 2 illustrates the United States as a country of opportunity by showing various kinds of jobs in the picture for immigrants. The United States has been known for long time as the motherland of immigration. Nevertheless, the logic behind showing an engineer holding iron bars is that immigrants accomplish goals by hardworking. According to Pascual, than one-third or 35.5 percent of U.S. innovators through STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) were born outside the (Tech Times 1). This statistic illustrates that tenacity does not stop after they get into a safe land. They are trying to giveback the country that guaranteed safety to them and their families. NIF utilizes Kairos to appeal to the audience, and basically means timeliness. Kairos appeals on issues of importance at a particular time in life. Nowadays, Many people live in unstable countries that are facing war. These marginalized countries have people trying to leave them in order to have a better life. However, the current American government regulates and bans some countries. For example, President Trump recently enacted a temporary travel ban against seven predominately Muslim countries. This shows that some Americans have grown to Aldhubaiban 4 resent immigrants. President executive order banning the seven Muslim countries is in conflict with goals. NIF encourages the United States to allow immigrants entry, regardless of where they are from. On that note, Picture 1 is an example of Kairos because it states the simple word which would make several immigrants feel welcome in a country where they may not be welcome. America is currently experiencing a large wave of anti- immigrant sentiment that is nationwide. The FBI recently conducted a study that showed an increase of 7 percent in hate crimes in 2015, with incidents targeting Muslim-Americans jumping 67 percent( Masood 1). Therefore, a picture such as Picture 1 is very much needed in time because several immigrant groups do not feel welcome at all in the United States. Besides the emotion, rationale, and timeliness that are apparent in the pictures. Ethos played a large role in the NIF pictures as well. Ethos shows a credibility of the information. Both pictures have the emblem of the organization, which reflects pictures are trustworthy due to the fact that NIF is a credible organization. NIF has been operating in the United States since 1982 (National Immigration Forum). This illustrates that Americans trust this organization because it would not be in business for more than thirty years if people did not support and fund it. Ultimately, the pictures that were selected by NIF were very effective in gaining the attention of the audience because of their use of kairos, ethos, logos, and pathos. These rhetorical appeals were carefully worked into the pictures, in order to persuade the viewer that the United States is a welcoming place for immigrants. Additionally, NIF advocates for immigrants and the potential that they have to positively impact the United States. As a result, NIF implored the use of these rhetorical devices in order to help illustrate how good immigrants can be for the United States. Aldhubaiban 5 Aldhubaiban 6 Aldhubaiban 7 Works Cited Farivar, Masood. Hate Crimes in US Rising, Particularly in Big Cities  Voanews. N.p., 12 Mar. 2017. Web. 09 Mar. 2017. National Immigration Forum. Solutions for Immigrants and 2016, immigrationforum.org/. Accessed 21 February 2017. Pascual, Katrina. Educated, Hard-Working Immigrants Are Biggest Innovators: Study. Tech Times. N.p., 25 Feb. 2016. Web. 21 Feb. 2017.