Shelby Merrell Merrell 1 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 3.12.2017 The Department of Education Progressing STEM Education In the current boom of higher education becoming more of a possibility for future generations, the growth in the amount of interest in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math) education has grown as well. Yet, some groups disagree with the approach of STEM education, advocating that this type of learning in children deprives them from the art and design aspect that could be useful for other technological fields, and would like to see them introduced in current curriculums. In some organizations, this interest has proven successful, and has produced multitudes of young innovators working towards making tomorrow that much easier and more sustainable through new inventions of medicine, engineering, and chemistry. The United States Department of Education, a government organization dedicated to the bettering of national education for all children, supports the current rate and the education being taught. The department innovates new ways to incorporate the STEM teaching into all forms of learning, such as classwork, field trips, hands-on learning, and websites devoted to broadening the horizon and knowledge of young students. The US Department of Education effectively shows the necessity of STEM education with its current approach and should remain the same through two images that express rhetoric to connect STEM education to a better and more successful future. The US Department of Education has its main priority is to promise children the tools and necessities to survive in the global competitive nature or the workforce and education spheres, along with striving for equal opportunity for all children to be able receive an education. The strive for this goal to be completed can be seen through Image A, with President Obama standing over a table of other individuals with a laptop on the table. (United States Department of Education) From this image, it automatically establishes ethos. Ethos can be described as Shelby Merrell Merrell 2 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 3.12.2017 method of persuasion. . .by demonstrating their own credibility or 27-28) The center of the picture is the former leader leaning over a laptop, suggesting interest in what is being discussed, indicates his interest, along with the importance of the discussion with the necessity of his authority being established. In this picture, diversity is also a theme that can be seen, as the multitudes of people being around the table are of different races, indicating the goal of STEM education of inclusion being demonstrated. It traces an appeal back to ethos considering all the people in the photograph are dressed in formal attire, insinuating upper educated and of higher class and the idea of having wealth among the group. The background of the picture shows a door colored blue, an overhead projector, and several diagrams scattered among the walls of the room. These details suggest the people are sitting in a classroom where the learning is being taught and now formally discussed, demonstrating the individuals besides the president as teachers, giving credibility to the teachers towards the progress of the education and their possible concerns. Considering another appeal through this image is kairos, or the appeal to time. As stated by Allyson Hoffman & Alysia Sawchyn, is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable 41) In this instance, it is being discussed in a classroom, which leads to the assumption of any method change or lesson plan being adjusted will be done so immediately after the meeting is adjourned. The laptop being openly displayed in front of President Obama shows him the information, and his discussion of it with those around him show the importance and the urgency necessary to make the plan successful. In this image, the United States Department of Education strongly encourages the ideas of urgency and great importance of STEM education through effective use of ethos and kairos. Shelby Merrell Merrell 3 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 3.12.2017 In Image B, we see a bar graph presented with the future numbers of STEM related jobs and the estimated increases in those jobs. (United States Department of Education) The most outward appeal from this image is one of logos, or appeal to 32) With the application of logos, it can be see that numbers in these job fields will increase with more students receiving the STEM education. The numbers presented also accurately reflect recent news with the newest innovations and research being directed at fields such as the ones listed on the graph, making the appeal stronger. The bracket of time from 2010 to the year 2020 also well supports logos, giving the past consideration of job increases since the taking office. The choosing of brighter colors to highlight the STEM related fields directs attention to these fields rather than the area of showing a small increase in this area while being contrasted with the fields being focused on. The presentation of the numbers increasing in differing fields being organized by the estimation to show an overall increase in the general direction is an effective way to show the growth of STEM education. Another appeal made in this image is kairos, with the address to the progression over time and gradual increase of jobs. Showing the bracket of ten years set, it shows the length of time necessary for the increase to be full affected, but this is generally a short time for innovation. Every few years or so, it seems some new technology or method is being introduced and practiced, and this demonstrates the urgency of the investment into STEM education, and where it could lead to in the future. Through the application of kairos and logos in this bar graph, the US Department of Education can convey the idea of STEM education being successful with its current course of action. In both images, appeals can be interpreted and compared with their effectiveness. Through the appeal of kairos, both images convey the focus of the need to address the progression of STEM education, and where it takes us into the near future. Along with this, it Shelby Merrell Merrell 4 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 3.12.2017 demonstrates the current changes and modifications being made in the teachings to further engage students in a possible future career with this type of education as their focus. Both images differ on their main appeals, with Image A appealing more to ethos, while Image B focuses more towards logos. The application of ethos here is deemed more credible, and typically has a greater effect, with the presence of authority giving a connection to one who sees it. Looking through the appeal of logos, much more difficult to believe the numbers given without showing how they were calculated or how the distribution was evenly placed, along with the difficulty of having to present numbers, lacking excitement and true enthusiasm as did the first picture, with multitudes of colors and differing themes present. The images lack in an appeal to pathos, otherwise known as appeal to 37) Image A shows emotion through the smiling faces on the faces of the teachers, and Image B demonstrates hope with the presentation of growth, and with the younger generation becoming this new group of innovators. Despite this, this was all the pathos to be found and was not a huge contributor to both images. However, the United States Department of Education effectively shows its dedication towards young learners and their capabilities in the future and what they can provide, and lead towards a better tomorrow with steps being taken today. The United States Department of Education has completed its goal of conveying the necessity of STEM education in upcoming world and their current plan for a successful future through rhetorical appeals in two images. These pictures both demonstrate the involvement the department has undertaken to achieve these goals of more students being reached and the hands-on learning and curriculum they currently have in place. Showing these goals and desires presented in this manner, it can be seen to be a demanding world and a goal to Shelby Merrell Merrell 5 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 3.12.2017 uphold our future innovators to and filling in the shoes for the current demands, along with the goals we have for them. Shelby Merrell Merrell 6 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 3.12.2017 Image A Shelby Merrell Merrell 7 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 3.12.2017 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn. Appeals to Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-46. E-text. 24 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily, and Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 31-36. E-text 10 Mar. 2017 Lee, Kendra Gayle, and Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Ed. Jason Carabelli, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. 10 Mar.2017 McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee. Appeals to Authority and Ed. Jason Carabelli. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text. 24 Feb. 2017. Technology, Engineering and Math: Education for Global U.S. Department of Education. Web. 24 Feb. 2017