Crane 1 Shara Crane Bianca Hernandez English Composition 2 26 February 2017 Connection Through Concern Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) is an organization that researches and tries to prevent global stresses. This union consists of experienced scientists that experiment and write blogs/articles to inform the public of concerning environmental issues, such as smog, flooding, rising global The main objective of the UCS is to join with people around the world to, technical analysis and effective advocacy to create innovative, practical solutions for a healthy, safe, and sustainable Union of Concerned Scientists Mission Photography is a main medium for the UCS in communicating the claim. These images have all forms of rhetorical appeal: pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos. Through these appeals, viewers that look at these photos can get a clear message of clean energy propaganda. The UCS releases images with these appeals to shine light on the main concern: the harmful effects of natural gas and oil on the environment. Pathos is the rhetorical appeal for emotion. In terms of pathos, the goal of the first image is to evoke the same drive as that of American women during WWII. That movement is important given that it was one of the largest surges in the U.S. workforce of the time. The same style of the original Rosie the Riveter poster was applied to this image about natural energy as an allusion to evoke similar motivation and propaganda as a means of communicating that people truly can make a difference. The health of the environment can be changed by a decrease in use of oil and gas power. Pathos Crane 2 can be seen in the second image through promotion of clean power. This aspect can be emotional when viewed as a concern for the safety of upcoming generations that are at the mercy of a dying planet. This message demonstrates the part that different forms of energy have in the environment, especially ones that are considered dangerous to the atmosphere. The main point is to communicate that there are alternatives to gas power that are healthier and can create a safer environment for future generations. All people either want to live or want to see their children live long lives without fear of wrath; therefore, the viewer can in some way or another emotionally connect to this image. Although image one has a stronger sense of national union while the other is more personal, there is a common theme of fear between the two images; both call attention to the hazards of climate change and its possible negative effects. This element pulls both audiences together to support the UCS. Logos is the rhetorical appeal for logic and facts, two things that the UCS is based on. This information is important for the UCS because, produce well researched science-based reports on climate change effects and adaptation strategies, and they use this information to educate policy makers and the general (Pardon Our Interruption). The UCS uses logic and facts through the quote in image one, can 1/2 where represents the portion of oil that can be eliminated by reducing oil power practices. Also, there are direct links at the bottom of the image that can take the viewer to a website with more data and information. Given that this is a significant percentage, the image can catch attention and promote the movement. If the audience already aware of the full ability of the movement, they might now consider these outcomes given that there is available, tested information that claims this alternative could be a possible future. Logos in image two is more indirect that that of image one: data that supports the claim in this image can be accessed through the provided direct links. Population growth is addressed as the main idea of the image. Given that population growth is a main concern and pertains to everyone, the subject of the image is likely to draw attention and interest everyone that sees it. The validity of the calculated changes in the environment are necessary for Crane 3 attracting a larger audience to support the UCS organization. Ethos is the appeal to credibility. In image one, credibility is implemented through the direct links to professional websites. Also, the UCS includes their own stamp of approval in the image as an organization built on experienced scientists, writers, and researchers. The UCS is deemed a credible source given its many published works, such as, Climate of Corporate Control (2012) provides a valid and concise account of corporate involvement in climate (InfluenceMap). Another way that credibility is implemented in this photo is through its serious and professional tone set by the way that Rosie the Riveter was transformed into a scientist. The picture must be backed up by reason and evidence through the source given that it provides a direct major claim. Image two also has a UCS stamp of approval and provides direct links to the source of this image which has factual research and data on the issue. From these sources, the viewer can read about research conducted on the dwindling health of the environment. The viewer can also read about highly likely outcomes of this change. Kairos is implemented in the first image in terms of its reference to an earlier movement in history. This element shows that time is changing and change needs to be done quickly; therefore, it creates a sense of urgency. Just like the result of the surge in the economic workforce after WWII, achievement is just around the bend. Kairos is achieved in image two as a concern for life or death. The main message of this image is that the next generation is in danger. Given that this generation is approaching adulthood and life is short, there is little time left to better current environmental conditions or just stop them from getting any worse. The overall purposes of images one and two are the same. Time seems to be a main theme among the two: either time is precious and feels like it is running out, or time brings evolution and change for the better. Either way, the use of time is beautifully implemented in the images. The different appeals are necessary to grab the attention in different ways. These differences are Crane 4 important for the different messages for different audiences. The audience of the first image leans more towards women given its comparison to one of the first female social movements in history. The members of the audience are also likely to find an interest in historical themes and references. The audience of image two is far more broad, relating to people who value family and the lives of younger generations. The diversity of images promoted by the UCS is important: the interest of different corners of the society need to be reached to kick-start a movement for a decrease in the usage of natural gas and oil. Without the audience, the UCS have support in its quest to change the energy practices to save the planet. Crane 5 Image One Image Two Crane 6 Works Cited: InfluenceMap. Influencemap.org Lobbying and  Influencemap.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Mar. 2017. Pardon Our Interruption. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. <http://www.myphilanthropedia.org/top- nonprofits/national/climate-change/2012/union-of-concerned-scientists>. Union of Concerned Scientists Mission  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. <http://www.ucsusa.org/about/mission.html#.WMntKoWcHIU>.