Ferguson 1 Garrett Ferguson Professor ENC 1102 24 February 2017 How do you create a healthy planet? Within the next sixty-five years Earth will be FULLY depleted of the natural resources such as oil and naturel gases. How will earth strive and live once fully depleted of its natural resources? Ingenuity, what drives one for a new and better solution towards a problem at hand. After a brief history overview, it take much to create an argument that attacks the position the earth is in right now. With the Earth running out of resources faster than expected, people need to be innovative with new ways to help sustain a healthier Earth. This means technology is up to bat for dealing with helping turn the Earth healthy. SEPA ( Smart Electric Power Alliance), is an Alliance that controls a very large percentage of Earths environmental protection atmosphere. They create and collaborate with many organizations to perfect new uses of solar energy farms and Wind Turbine farms. With all this new technology being used and created their ability to create jobs fuels the economy to put even more money into green energy for a healthier future. Their marketing firm promotes a wide variety of events, from webinars to physical engagement at hosted events for creating promotion to their plans and models. SEPA shows the world a manageable and needed way of living in order to have a healthier earth by using persuasive imagery and analytics in marketing ads. From as simple as recycling, to as complex as creating a whole state to run green energy, SEPA is battling for solutions and plans to help the earth become more sustainable for the future and less of a waste land for the present. According to Sepapower.org innovative approaches like Ferguson 2 community solar, rebate programs and other incentives, solar is changing the dialogue between utilities and consumers. Within utilities, the changes occurring are beyond just The first image is a picture that shows a very structured scene/system of solar panels. These panels represent a solar farm that SEPA has planned to be built in Texas by 2017. According to the World Resources Forum ecological footprint of 2.7 global hectares (gha) per person means to say that to sustain the current population on Earth of 7 billion people would take 18.9 billion gha which is higher than the 13.4 billion global hectares of biologically productive land and water on Earth, a fact that indicates that already exceeded the regenerative capacity of the planet in the average level of current world With this statement, it makes sense that this first image attacks the feeling of timelessness. The image shows a need in change of how humans use materials, and how soon humans need to switch over to green energy. Due to the present being in a desperate need of change. The clouds overshadow the scene and create a very calming and aesthetic atmosphere. One would be at peace if they were to think about how things would be completely changed with the use of green energy. SEPA is certain on the fact that they try to create a healthier, with a very ordered/structured set. With SEPA focused on their structure of the solar farms they are creating, this should give one confidence to support what SEPA is doing for the future is done professionally. Speaking from a technological standpoint, the image represents a bright future for our economy and our environmental atmosphere. The image represents a model that is nationally used in conferences for promotions and donation ads. The Model shows a meticulous system that will be needed for our future and will be seen more frequently once the depletion of the earths sources are depleted. Jobs are a huge influence on the economy. SEPA is known to work with many companies as I have stated before. It states on main page under their focus paragraph SEPA, our members realize that the positive impact of distributed energy resources are magnified when combined with a focus on grid The image shows a event that created an action that has helped/led to Ferguson 3 create towards the new two hundred fifty thousand jobs that were added to our economy in the last two years, a huge increase of the job atmosphere from previous years. As stated in the image, a twenty-five percent increase to the job atmosphere. With help creating events and projects, SEPA will bring life towards the economy, this will allow the people to give currency towards research on how to save their earth and their The image says it all, Humans need to be more educated on their own economy around them. SEPA gives jobs to create shifts in the economy where the farms of green energy show life to new jobs. This will help create a change with costs of minerals on earths depletion of supply and the costs to use minerals for currency would go down as well. This all correlates over to creating even more currency in our economy. The image shows a happy worker who seems to be blessed for a job and happy to help create a healthier place for his kids. People can work for the present but the need to secure our future to be stable is the most important factor of living in the present. SEPA works with many companies to create a clean atmosphere. This being stated, one can imagine that their events/conferences that they hold are very huge for their work pertaining making Earth healthy. Both images represent events and working systems that can help create working flow in our economy for jobs, and a brighter future for the environment. The Images were both representations of energy sources that will soon be huge for the humans timeline on Earth. With help in both fields humans need, a striving economy, and healthy environment to work in(EARTH), its very understanding to see why people will be confident on the logical process of helping their earth while they help their own economy. The images bring attention to our Earths main problem, its environment. They show two different projects, but both aim to create better longevity for our lives our Earth. The images both create questions. Why do we need these projects? What is the end goal of these projects? After the questions have been raised, then the civilian will look into the organization, thus the people will give donations toward the projects that will thus help benefit their future. Logically these images show the plans and Ferguson 4 dates that represent a better future for our planet. logical to save money and minerals for the earth, Everyone wins. SEPA shows the world a manageable and needed way of living to have a healthier earth by using persuasive imagery and analytics in marketing ads. According to wrforum.org (World Resources Forum) the escalation of this demand continues at this rate, by 2030, with an estimated global population of 10 billion people, two Earths will be needed to satisfy it. It should be noted that from 2050, when the world population will exceed 10 billion people, planet Earth cannot resist such demands on natural With both images representing a need to change our actions soon, to help the need to create a stable environment with different uses of technology and innovations for a healthier living status for the people. Life on Earth will run out if a change in the use of Earths materials/minerals changed. People need to recognize that they need to give help and confidence towards companies like SEPA for a world that is more green and less dry and used up. The use of solar power has been a huge improvement in the last couple of decades, and future use and research of solar power will continue to make it less expensive and more profitable in energy costs to the earth and to ourselves. Ferguson 5 Ferguson 6 Works Cited National Solar Jobs  The Solar Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Smart Energy Research & Education SEPA -  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Solar Energy Events by SEIA and  Solar Power Events. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. PLANET EARTH AND ITS LIMITS ON USE OF NATURAL  World Resources Forum. N.p., 08 July 2015. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.