Aldandan 1 Ahmed Aldandan Professor: Hernandez, Bianca ENC1102 May 15/2017 The Unattainable Beauty Beauty is a complicated word to define, and the arguments around its meaning are still active. From a sociological perspective, the sociologist Jon Witt believe that society do shape the meaning of norm and deviance. Witt also believe that women are more likely to consume products that make them feel more beautiful, and go through plastic surgery to avoid the stigma of not being beautiful (Witt 128). Many organizations are seeking to minimize the negative effects of the beauty standards. The National Organization for Women(NOW) is a non- profitable feminist organization that seeks equality and the rights of women in general. One of their goals is to make women accept their body shapes, their main body image campaign is called Love Your Body(LYB). In LYB, NOW uses posters that are trying to evoke emotions toward accepting their given physical bodies, and toward increasing awareness of women differences in general. Image one is showing fragments of a number of women, the fragments are pieced in way that makes them show a single complete woman. The second Image is showing a group of women that have different heights, shapes, and clothing preferences. Each image raise awareness using the rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos, logos and kairos in order to aware people that women do have different physical and cultural differences that cannot allow them to be similar to women shown in the media. The reference to NOW is included in both images, which gives a strong credibility to them. NOW is a feminist organization, that seeks equality, and the rights of women in general. Based on NOW website, some of their objectives are in regard to wage equality, Aldandan 2 gender discrimination, same sex marriage, reproductive rights and health and body image (National Organization for Women). Thus, NOW do have the trust of many supporters for its wide range of feminist related interests. LYB wants to deliver the message that not all women are similar, they do have physical and cultural differences. Pathos is used in the first image and second images through showing multiple images of women. From the first look, one might only see a number of normal women. However, if then a person tries to think of how hard it might be for any of these women to try to be similar to women shown on TV, then they can realize how the media representation can harmfully pressure women to meet the beauty standards. A person may live his whole life being handicapped, living with obesity, or maybe having a non-perfect smile; like in second and first image. The images ask the question, how can these women try to have a happy life while being told that they need to be like supermodels to be accepted as beautiful? Many women have some serious issues, they definitely do not need more burden to carry. These feelings can make a person sympathies with women affected negatively by the beauty myth, and maybe make them want to help NOW to create a better world for them. In addition, trying to meet the beauty standards can have an impact on health and phycological conditions. Nancy Rudd stated that image plays a key role in many disorders that affect individual health and well-being, particularly among adolescent and young adult (Rudd 153). The use of women carrying letters carrying different letters can encourage women and observers to accept their given bodies, and bring confidence that there are people that do not believe in the beauty myth. Anthropology do focus on the cultural aspect of humans, and the according to the anthropologist Conrad Kottak, cultures are connected through globalization and other practices such as marriage, trade, and religion. Nonetheless, cultures are diverse, people do have their Aldandan 3 religious, social and many other differences (33-287). The images do emphasize women to dress on their own standards. Logos is used in the first image to encourage women and to notify observers that women should praise beauty, but according to their cultural norms because it can be easier for them to meet their standards if compared to a global ideal standard of beauty. It is worth to consider that women are also from different races, they do have different facial characteristics and different skin complexions. The second image do also use logos in showing women with different customs, and from different races. Women should not be judged by how similar they are to an ideal image, because the media can change the beauty standards as the time goes, which makes it not logically realistic for women to keep up or meet these standards. In addition, the cultural differences do even make it harder to meet the ideal representation of a woman. The colors are used to aware the observer that all of these women are different, they cannot logically be equal in terms of how similar they are to women shown in magazines or in the media in general. The images are showing women in different years from different campaigns. Women standards of beauty and physical characteristics always did exist. The images use Kairos, the appeal of timeliness, to make the observer realize that the beauty myth and women differences are an existing issue that can affect current and future women. Each of the images was used in LYB campaign in different years, the first one was a part of 2016 campaign while the second was from 2014 campaign. If separately viewed, the observer can tell that people are acting now to help some women accept their bodies. However, if they are viewed together, the observer can even assume that the campaigns are still relevant and taking place, which allows them to act immediately and join cause. Aldandan 4 The objective of the images is to fight the narrow definition of beauty, in order to reduce the negative influence of the media, and to also make it easier for women to find acceptance. NOW website states that have many options available to them when it comes to campaign tone, design, and creativity. Why do so many choose to use negative, dangerous (National Organization of Women). NOW do also seek to provide a healthier environment for women, in order to reduce how beauty can be related to more dangerous and negative messages in the media. Even though the current images are not by any means an example of positive advertisements, they do represent the ideas that advertisers might consider. Appreciating the diversity of women culturally and physically cannot just yield financial profits, but it can also be profitable for future generation in terms of accepting beauty representations. In conclusion, the awareness of people about the beauty myth and the media representation of it is vital for its future. The usage of rhetorical appeals is necessary to spread the message for people in all ages. NOW is able to attract supporters globally, and the fact that they do support feminism in variety of ways makes them perfect in spreading their message to people with and without interests. The more frustrating aspect of the beauty myth is hidden in the images, it can be related but not directly seen. Influencing women to meet the standards of the narrow definition of beauty may require them to spend too much effort, at the end they may not ever be satisfied with their appearance. At the same time, it is not logical for a person to abandon his values to try and meet some expectations that are too far to reach. One of the goals of the images to replace the notion of perusing a single far interpretation of beauty with more accessible beauty norms. The images encourage the appreciation of multiculturalism, and they do encourage women to maintain their values and peruse beauty to a logical extent. The message is also to any potential observer; people have to change their expectancy to change beauty norms. Aldandan 5 NOW is fighting for their cause every year, which give people a chance to participate in their campaign. If the objective of NOW is actually fulfilled, the media may use more positive advertisements, which can hopefully create a positive influence and wider range of beauty norms. Aldandan 6 Works Cited Kottak, Conrad Phillip. Anthropology : Appreciating Human Diversity. New York : McGraw- Hill Education, 2015.Print Organization for Web. 23, February. 2017 Rudd, Nancy A., and Sharron J. Lennon. Body Image And Appearance-Management Behaviors In College  Clothing & Textiles Research Journal 18.3 (2000): 152. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Witt, Jon. 4 th ed. SOC 2016. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Education, 2016. Print Aldandan 7 Aldandan 8