Vandebogart 1 Skylar Vandebogart Professor Hernandez Composition II February 26, 2017 Humans Are Not For Sale Human trafficking is a form of slavery where people are taken and more often than not, made to be sex slaves and they are bought and sold like merchandise. People of all ages and types are bought and sold in a variety of countries. It is estimated there are over 20.9 million victims world wide Many people are abducted, forced, and blackmailed into it (Liam). In 1865, the Salvation Army was founded in London, England. The salvation army has been working tirelessly to support victims of human trafficking. Originally intended to aid victims of prostitution, founded by a husband-wife duo intent on protecting women and children, efforts eventually evolved into a battle to protect women and children from the horrors of sex They have set up homes for women and girls who have been victims. They aid in undercover operations. The organization releases pictures to discourage human trafficking. The salvation army uses specific elements in their images to promote the safety of people and how wrong human trafficking is through rhetoric. (The Salvation Army) Image one is a very powerful image. It is based off the internet craze over whether the dress the woman is wearing is black and blue or white and gold. The original image had many people stumped. Many people claimed they saw the dress blue with black trim, and many claimed it was white and gold, as this image shows. It was an optical illusion that took the world by storm. The use of this internet craze is to try to relate to a target audience. Most teens and young adults will understand the reference. The Vandebogart 2 choice to put her in the white and gold version of the dress, accompanied by the phrase is it so hard to see black and is intended to comment on the idea that many of these women who are victims are not believed or they are treated like it was their fault. This causes a guilt and sadness in the audience, appealing to the emotions of the audience, as well as showing them this is morally wrong. The image is intended to make the audience feel sick. The use of a fair skinned, blonde model is to draw attention to the injuries she has, making them very obvious. The grey backdrop is very simple. Grey is a cooler, solid color. It is not flashy. It emphasizes the white on the dress, making it brighter. It is used to bring attention to the problem at hand: abuse. The image provides a statistic underneath the phrase commenting on the color of the dress, in six women are victims of abuse. no The term is playing off the fact that the reason people saw different colors was due to an optical illusion. This is intended on raising awareness to women. 55% of victims of human trafficking are women and girls The salvation army feels the audience needs to know what exactly is happening behind the curtains; the salvation army logo is clearly visible and there is a phone number, adding credibility and trust to the image. is a real issue that needs to be talked about and is the intended feeling given by this image. The second image is a department store window with children for sale. The children are on display like mannequins. This is intensely saddening and sickening because humans, children especially, should not be for sale. It is estimated 26% of victims are children The simplification of the signs and walls behind them bring attention to the state of their clothes, dark and dirty. They are barefoot, showing they have much. They are standing close together, trying to save each other. These are kids who have gone through very tough situations. Their faces are very sad and hopeless. They are asking the audience to save them. This brings the audience a sense of sadness and guilt. A variety of age groups are listed to inform the audience and connect with more people, especially parents who have children. The age groupings make it real for the audience. The picture has a sense of urgency. The Vandebogart 3 red sign is intended to play on the idea of a department store sale as well as a call to action. These children need to be saved. It logical that they are for sale. The simplicity and blankness causes the need to do something about it. The salvation army logo at the bottom along with a phone number gives the audience validity. This is real. The phrase trafficking is a is very simple yet powerful. It suggests that there are many out there who would disagree, whether that be civilians or the people committing the crime. Human trafficking is simply not okay. Much of what is done is done out of these victims being coerced or forced to partake by being threatened (Liam) Human trafficking is a serious problem. The Salvation Army has been combating the crime of human trafficking for over 150 years (The Salvation Army). They now possess the technology to raise awareness to more demographics and across more platforms. These platforms can now be seen by anybody at any time, with the click of a button. These images are presented to a wider audience now. Forced child labor has been linked to 139 goods and 75 countries The use of these images is to raise awareness and educate. There have been more than 31600 reported cases in the last eight years It could happen to anybody, and it does happen. It is real and it is a crime. Vandebogart 4 Vandebogart 5 Works Cited Liam.MCLAUGHLIN. United Nations Office on Drugs and  What Is Human Trafficking?N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/human-trafficking/what-is-humantrafficking.html The  Polaris. The Polaris Project, 14 Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. https://polarisproject.org/facts The Salvation Army - Combating Human  The Salvation Army - Combating Human Trafficking. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. http://www.salvationarmyusa.org/usn/combating-human-trafficking