Trey Harrell 3/12/17 ENC Intermediate Draft Without question, religion is one of the most controversial topics among the public and in the media. I am interested in studying religion and the impact it has on minds. Religion is an everyday part of a huge percentage of lives. Different religions exist and provide many different lifestyles. I am interested in examining what separates the actions and motives of someone who is religious versus someone who is not. Religion has been practiced for thousands of years. It has always been prevalent and very much an everyday part of life for many people. There should be a huge spectrum of people to examine, from extremely religious to completely secular. It should make for an interesting study. There are many different things that appear to be actions seeded in religion. Examining the behavior of religious and secular countries, for example, would provide evidence and context to how religious people behave differently in society. Everyday politics are likely influenced by religious backgrounds and how they view relevant topics. Key historical points for the paper would include the involvement of religion in terrorism, politics and many other facets of everyday life. How does religion cause people to behave differently than they otherwise would? Do people who adhere to certain religions behave differently than those who at all? Considering changes that have occur in society, the scholarly discussion about the topic of religions influence has shifted somewhat. Religion has always existed within society and it has always impacted the way that people think and behave. But like all topics, time and events can change the way certain people view certain subjects, religion included. One thing that affects people in modern time more than previous generations is the rapid change in the use of technology. Technology developments have opened the door to subsequent developments in media, and its presence in everyday lives. Media affects how many people understand and perceive certain topics. Religion is a topic that is often covered in the media, leading to people shifting the scholarly discussion on it. Technology has led to media growth, which has affected how people behave. Due to the controversy that a topic likes religion brings, people will forever remain divided on the issue of its presence. According to the Pew Research Center, 73% percent of Americans view influence increasing as a good thing, as opposed to 27% who view it as a bad thing or are indifferent. According to the same study, the world is actually growing more religious as opposed to more secular. Certain events transpiring also can greatly affect religions reception. 9/11 occurring certainly affected the way a great number of Americans feel about religions presence and influence in society. 49% of people felt that religion has too much influence in society after 9/11. This is an example of how time and events occurring can affect how people shift the discussion on certain topics. An article from the IEP discusses how discusses how religion is evident in the public sphere, including in governing bodies. Certain countries allow for religious figures to be head of state. Many countries have very different procedures on separating church and state. Very liberal countries tend to completely try and remove government from having any role in religion. On the other end of the spectrum, there are counties that make religious figures the head of state. Very different situations exist all over the world. In America, the head of state is not a religious figure, but much of politics is very politically charged. The particular religious identity that people choose to adopt often affects the mindsets that people maintain. In Religious Groups and Their Political by Michael Lipka of the Pew Research Center, he examines not only how entire religious groups strictly adhere to certain political identities, but also how religion affects decision-making and motives. This ties in closely with the research question because political motivation is key area where religion plays an influence. The article contains facts that would be useful in addressing the research question and providing detail. For example, 70% of Mormons identify as Republicans whereas, 96% of African Methodist Episcopals identify as Democratic. The way politics evolves in real life is something that is going to affect many peoples perception of religion and its influence. This is true due to the influence religion has on the mindset of many people. The combination of these two articles makes it evident how religion affects mindsets and how politics are structured. All of this being said, it has become rather clear that mindsets towards religion and influence are constantly evolving. People will always remain divided with their opinions on religion. The growing media coverage of certain events and the increasing presence of social media both lead towards evolving discussion on the topic of religion and its presence in society. Bibliography 1) Religion and  IEP. N.p., 13 March 2006, Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2) Gosden, Emily. How Religion Has Clashed with Secular  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 01 July 2011. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. 3) Lipka, Michael. Religious Groups and Their Political Pew Research Center. N.p., 23 Feb. 2016. Web 11 Feb 2017 4) Bailey, Brian. 2: Views of Islam and Religion in the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. 20 Mar. 2002. Web. 03 Mar. 2017.