H o w a r d 1 Savanna Howard Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 17 March 2017 Animal Rights Animals have been globally displayed for the enjoyment of humans for hundreds of years. Individuals can see this in zoos, circuses, and aquariums around the world. The sad truth is that, 96% of a circus life is spent in chains or which can hurt individual animals and their species as a whole (DoSomething). The Humane Society of the United States, or HSUS is a main stakeholder in the fight for animal rights. Based in Washington, D.C., the HSUS is an American nonprofit organization that, decided to develop this new kind of animal organization to confront national cruelties beyond the reach of local societies and state federations. The idea of kindness to animals made significant inroads in American culture in the years following the Civil War. The development of sympathy for creatures in pain, the satisfaction of keeping them as pets, and the heightening awareness about the relationship between cruelty to animals and interpersonal violence strengthened the popular appeal. Today the HSUS is pushing transformational change in the U.S. and around the world by: large-scale cruelties such as puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, seal slaughter, horse cruelty, captive hunts and the wildlife (Humane Society of the United H o w a r d 2 States). There are many ways animals can be abused, sometimes without our knowledge, and many argue that zoos and circuses are the greatest perpetrators. It can be detrimental to the animals to be living in small enclosures without mates. Other factors can affect the psychological wellbeing of these animals, including: furniture, verticality, and variable feeding schedules, interactive technology, and social just to name a few (Maple 65). They cannot learn to hunt for their own meals, and are force fed processed food to make the animals easier to train and show. There will, be debate over the optimal standards for elephants and other non-human (Maple 64). This is why groups like the HSUS strive for more awareness and help. The HSUS and other animal activist groups around the world work for this greater cause of animal rights by spreading the word all over the media. Advertisements are a main source of general knowledge, and how an organization utilizes this publicity can make a world of difference. In these two particular images the HSUS accomplishes their goal of obtaining animal rights, by using rhetorical appeals towards public awareness. When one sees this large, ferocious creature in Image A, one can instantly feel pathos tugging on their heart strings. The eye is drawn to the happy clown face, but this face is so obviously painted on this wild animal the laughter is quickly withdrawn. First, the torture of this animal having its face painted runs through mind, but as one looks deeper a truly somber face of this lion is revealed. When focusing out further one can see the bars running from side-to- side and up-and-down the entire frame, and may feel as if they too are in a cage. These bars are stopping this lion from any chance of freedom or happiness. This serves to educate bystanders of how these animals live. Broadening ones focus brings into view the deep, blackness behind the lion portrays a cold feeling. This is letting everyone know where this lion is and where he is H o w a r d 3 going. He is stuck in this cage, and stuck in time. Kairos is portrayed in two ways in this particular image. Time is standing still as the lion is repeating each day and act over- and He will not accomplish anything needed for his kind to stay alive and will make no progress in his own life. Kairos is also represented by the life and the lifespan of his kind, as it is much shorter in these situation and is drastically decreasing as people destroy their homes and lives. Logos is presented in the paragraph of information and statistics presented in the bottom left corner for the reader (Image A). This little bit of extra information can make individuals feel more knowledgeable and capable of making a difference. Ethos is presented in the various banners and logos places around the image. These give great credibility to the advertisement as many people believe in its message and the chosen design. Kairos is exceedingly present in image B, as the full frame is in fact a clock ticking away. As each second passes, the minute and hour hand move closer together, crushing the bear and crushing his species chance to live. The bear may be a figure but one can sense the immense fear in his eyes, and the power of his helpless cries. The willingness to fight is evident in his sharp and drawn claws. This emotion that is welling up inside is the melancholy presence of pathos. One can identify with these animals as a companion, a majestic creature or one in the same. Each emotions are essentially the same as the emotions these animals experience. It is a somber time for all living beings when a species dies out. This clock is almost at the end and so is their time. The caption stating that every sixty seconds a species dies out, is greatly depicted by this image, but the words help to truly wrap your head around this statistically appeal to logos. This statement and the logo are not presented in a very large, or bold font. H o w a r d 4 They are not very noticeable and may easily be missed. This lack of ethos may diminish the long-term effects of this advertisement on viewers. These two images are strategically planned, shot, edited and chosen for the greater purpose of animal rights. Their main goal is to draw people in and get the message across to save animals lives. This is easy to convey when dealing with the emotional topic of animals. One flash of their face and most people melt inside. The use of pathos prompts people to donate time and money to this good cause. This is the best way to get people to help or volunteer and the groups of animal activists utilize this recruitment of assistance to the best of their abilities. Kairos declares that this help and these changes are needed right now. The time is essentially ticking away at the human race and these endangered species that walk this earth. Logos is presented in the representation and banners. These images are very standard and straight forward: there is not much to figure out or debate over varying interpretation of a deeper meaning. These interpretations could allow people to connect on a deeper level, and pulling them in. There is a lack in appeal to ethos present in these images. This may be a result of the content and overall message. There are some facts and statistics given in each description to establish some credibility of the company. A greater factual or bold statements in the case of these advertisements could allow them to make an even greater impact on the viewer. Animal rights in circuses, zoos, aquariums and more are being challenged every day. These animals are being held captive while some species are fighting to stay alive. This is a major issue and there are many activist groups fighting to stop this injustice. These groups create and publish images and advertisements to get the word out and get help. There are so many H o w a r d 5 strategies that go into a good announcement and these images do a great job of presenting viewers with their message. H o w a r d 6 Works Cited 11 Facts About Animals in Entertainment. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <https://www.dosomething.org/us/facts/11-facts-about-animals-entertainment>. About  The Humane Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. , Julija. 33 Powerful Animal Ad Campaigns That Tell The Uncomfortable  Boredpanda. Scholz & Friends, Berlin, Germany, n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://www.boredpanda.com/powerful-animal-ads/>. Julija. 33 Powerful Animal Ad Campaigns That Tell The Uncomfortable  Boredpanda. Partners Lisboa, Portugal, n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. <http://www.boredpanda.com/powerful- animal-ads/>. H o w a r d 7 Image A: Image B: