Meyer 1 Corinn Meyer Professor Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102-14 1 March 2017 Americans for Cures: Leaders in Stem Cell Advocacy Since its introduction as a modern approach to medicinal therapy, embryonic stem cell research has caused massive debate amongst scientists and social groups alike. The extraction of undifferentiated stem cells from a more likely than not abortion sourced embryo has caused some to label this process as morally ambiguous. However, many scientists and organizations concur that the research being conducted on these stem cells is a boon for the development of treatments for the chronically ill. These remedies may one day alleviate some of modern most common and devastating diseases, such as cancer, MS, and disease. One such organization that readily supports stem cell research is the Americans for Cures; an organization whose main goal is to, advocate for stem cell research and therapy  (Klein 1) through public awareness. The platform relies heavily on personal stories of patient success with treatments developed through stem cell research, which are then posted on their official website as well as their various social media platforms. Americans for Cures also works to provide, actual educational  (Klein 1) for the public concerning the procedures conducted through stem cell research. The information gathered by the organization is then accredited by its, Scientific Advisory  (Klein 1) which includes over fifteen scientists that carefully analyze the content being published. These measures are taken to ensure that unbiased, factual data is being presented to those who may be considering stem cell treatments for themselves or ailing loved ones. In addition to these personal and scientific publications, Meyer 2 Americans for Cures additionally produces various advertisements that convey their support for stem cell research. These images may relate intimate details of experience with stem cell therapy (illustrated in Figure 1), or they may convey the lengths to which the organization will go through in order to provide adequate stem cell information (depicted in Figure 2). These images illustrate both the personal and logistical sides to the stem cell process, thus allowing the organization to both inform the mind and evoke the heart in support of stem cell research. As briefly expressed above, the Americans for Cures organization relies upon the presentation of intimate accounts to communicate their support of stem cell research. Figure 1 is a prime example of this strategy in action. The image depicts a woman relating the benefits stem cell treatments have had on her ailing child, who suffers from Sickle Cell Anemia. This image strongly relates the use of pathos or emotional relatability, for it appeals to the universally recognized human condition of maternal instinct. Although the viewers may not have children themselves, many individuals find themselves to be emotionally aroused by the thought of a diseased child. By including the account of a child who has suffered and yet has had their pain alleviated by stem cell treatment, the advertisement directs the public to not only sympathize with the plight, but to advocate for the treatment which aided their recovery. In addition, the image also evokes the communal factor stem cell research has created. The woman pictured not only acts as a symbol for the medicinal benefits of stem cell treatments, but is directly quoted, stating that, stem cell therapy has  (Figure 1) those who suffer from similar afflictions. This claim of a therapeutic community is also argued by author Henriette Langstrup, who readily points out in her article, Interpellating Patients as Users: Associations and the Project-Ness of Stem Cell , that the treatment has the ability to, offer supplementary support for  ( Langstrup 574) through an active community of the ill. In Meyer 3 short, those who have been diagnosed with seemingly incurable diseases have not only found a breakthrough in treatment possibilities, but have gained a social group of those who understand their affliction. Although this image derives its strength from the emotional resonance it creates, other factors also aid the image in its capacity to demonstrate the viewpoint. The modern attire of the woman presented, as well as the editing software used to create the image suggest that the image conveys a sense of kairos or relative modernity. This technique ensures that the information and its presentation are current, and therefore applicable to the trust of a modern audience. If the presentation of the image was somewhat dated, the viewer would not be urged by the message given to support stem cell research, for it would seem to be an outdated issue that needs no further discussion. Furthermore, the final product of image includes various shades of light blue and natural green in its color composition. Such colors stimulate a calming or reflective state within the viewer, allowing themselves to not only be drawn into the image, but relate the assuring influence of the mother depicted and the words she has spoken. This calming influence also allows the viewer to be more susceptible to acknowledging the organization as one which generates positivity in its recipients, therefore building trust within the viewer as to the certainty of the intentions. In addition, all the information depicted is backed directly by the organization itself, lending the image to be in line with ethos or credibility. As the information obtained is not sourced by some random person, the viewer can rely on the validity that the child is indeed benefitting from stem cell treatment and that it is the organization presented which has facilitated it. Similarly to Figure 1, Figure 2 employs an assortment of rhetoric appeals to convey the stance. The bold typing of the hashtag,  (Figure 2) against a bland background illustrates not just a simple phrase, but the deeper convictions of the organization. As Meyer 4 was stated above, Americans for Cures works tirelessly to ensure that only quality information concerning stem cell research is proposed to the public. By producing an advertisement that invites the public to ask any and all questions they may have, and that these questions will only be answered by a professional in the field, the organization plainly exposes themselves as one dedicated to revealing the truth of stem cell research. This message is thus a prime example of pathos and ethos, for by the organization revealing themselves without bias or secrecy, the public is then able to experience emotions of trust toward them and. However, the hashtag used may also appeal to logos or the use of science, for it is a scientist that will provide the public with quantitative answers. To the viewer, it appears logical that the most qualified should be the one to answer such questions, and therefore they feel secure in their search for truth. Similarly to their commitment to reveal the truth of stem cell research, the Americans for Cures organization also demonstrates within the image that they have no intention of exploiting those who ask for help. Unfortunately, there are those within the scientific community that only support stem cell research for the monetary benefits it will allegedly bring, convincing those desperate for treatment to invest in the research for their own gain. This idea is further expressed by author Olle Lindvall, whose article titled, Medical Innovation versus Stem Cell , examines the harsh reality of scientist who, exploit seriously ill  (Lindvall 1664) without care for the patient they are attending on. The basic wording of,  indicates that not only will the public be provided with scientific data, but that the scientist providing that data has been accredited by the organization as honest with their intentions (which is also indicative of ethos). This form of background check ensures that none of the conning expected of scientists in the field occurs. Likewise to Figure 1, other kairos techniques such as editing software and composition are used to depict the intentions. As stated above, the hashtag is Meyer 5 placed against a monochromatic purple backdrop, focusing the attention of the public to the center of the image. The color purple itself evokes a sense of wisdom or authority, thus allowing the public to regard the scientist as one of high regard, and therefore deserving of trust and respect. In addition, the use of the hashtag itself promotes the modernity of the image, as it is a commonly used symbol among the youth of today. By including such a symbol, the image ensures that not only those with stakes in stem cell research ask questions, but that the common modern citizen is attracted and quizzical as well. Each of the advertisements produced by the Americans for Cures organization implements that both contrast and mimic one another in conveying the same message. For example, both Figures 1 and 2 elicit the rhetorical appeal of pathos, yet the manner in which it is presented varies. Figure 1 relies upon the predisposition of the public to adore children, as well as the universal phenomenon of empathy towards a mother grieving for a child she cannot personally help. The stimulation of such emotions allows the public to not only to become fond of the subjects presented, but the organization which presented them (and thus their viewpoints). Conversely, Figure 2 arouses the pathos of the public through more scientific means. By including the invitation for the public to ask a certified scientist any questions regarding stem cell research, the image evokes a sense of trust within the public. This trust also banishes any wariness the questioner may have regarding false information or exploitation at the hands of a greedy researcher. Although the images vary greatly in how they address pathos, other appeals are enforced in much the same manner. Each image relies on the use of colors such as blues and purples to create feelings of security and serenity in the viewer. Thus, the viewer is more likely to trust the information presented without fear of bias or uncertainty. In addition, both images employ current editing techniques and symbols to remain current with modern expectations. Meyer 6 These techniques also increases the reliance of the public on the information presented, for it is viewed as current just based on its visual appeal. Therefore, the viewer of the images does not perceive the information as outdated and not worth their attention. This reliance on kairos is perhaps the strongest connection between the two images. Despite the constant debate surrounding the topic, organizations such as the Americans for Cures continue to express resolute support of stem cell research. These organizations not only seek to convey the medicinal benefits stem cell research may bring to the chronically ill, but also the emotional support its progression entails. Americans for Cures communicates these messages to the public through compelling advertisements that demonstrates to the public the advantages stem cell research may bring. It is the heart and mind of the public that these advertisements effect, and therefore the goal of the Americans for Cures organization is met. Works Cited Meyer 7 . Americans for Cures, americansforcures.org/photos/. Accessed 28 February 2017 Americans for Cures, americansforcures.org/photos/. Accessed 28 February 2017 Meyer 8 Langstrup, H. Patients as Users: Patient Associations and the Project-Ness of Stem Cell Science, Technology & Human Values, vol. 36, no. 4, 2010, pp. 594., doi:10.1177/0162243910368397. Accessed 28 February 2017 Lindvall, O., and I. Hyun. Innovation Versus Stem Cell Science, vol. 324, no. 5935, 2009, pp. JSTOR, doi:10.1126/science.1171749.