Daveyah Daniels Daniels 1 Professor Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 24 February 2017 The Fight Against Sexual Violence Sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse are issues which effect individuals across the United States and abroad. This abuse does not only occur within the general public, also includes the military community and prisons. One out of every six women and one out of thirty- three men have experienced an attempted or completed rape in their lifetime Facts about Sexual ). This form of violence occurs more often than some may assume, which is why it is so important to educate individuals on this crime. The Joyful Heart Foundation was created by Mariska Hargitay in 2004 After starring on Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, playing a role of a domestic violence victim, Hargitay gained an interest for helping those who have experienced domestic violence Individuals began to send Hargitay their personal stories in hopes of being supported and healed from their emotional trauma they have experienced. The emotional trauma that the victim endures may take some time to cope with. This foundation has created a Healing Program in efforts to provide their clients with the necessary wellness practices and healing techniques that focuses primarily on the physical and emotional health of the individual This program has had a positive effect on the survivors as they are able to utilize the techniques in their everyday lives. foundation also provides the proper tools for the programs on how to forgive their abuser in order to complete the healing process The mission of the Joyful Heart Foundation is to response to sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse, support healing, and end this violence Many victims are afraid to come forward Daniels 2 with their personal stories and seek help. With the use of campaigns, this stakeholder advocates for the victims of violence and abuse while educating those to further end this violence. Through rhetorical elements, the figures utilized in the sexual violence campaigns, strive to spread awareness on violence and abuse amongst their audience. Figure 1 and 2, worked together to advocate for victims of these related crimes in hopes of ending this form of violence. In Figure 1 produced by the Joyful Heart Foundation, the figure incorporates a common response of those who have known someone that has experienced violence or abuse. With this being a common reaction amongst individuals in society, the quote forces the audience to sympathize more with the victim and take time to evaluate the relationship both parties shared. Often, have a hard time connecting to what the victim experienced, due to not knowing enough information on the subject matter. While this is very common in our community, it is still important for individuals to become aware of the social aspects concerning sexual violence. Meaning, the emotional trauma a victim endures after experiences that form of abuse must be understood by others. The Joyful Heart Foundation utilizes the element ethos to establish credibility for this campaign ad (Figure 1). The famous actress Debra Messing, appears on the ad to insure the audience that if this actress agreed to be featured on the campaign ad, that this advertisement must be credible (Figure 1). It is important to establish this credibility, because the audience becomes more inclined to trust what is being presented in the advertisement. In addition to Debra Messing being featured in the image, the foundation has included their well- known logo to provide more credibility for the viewers (Figure 1). The pathos presented in Figure 1, is represented through the facial expression of the woman featured in the advertisement. The woman appears to have a stern-look; this expression provokes the audience to obey what is being said in the campaign advertisement (Figure 1). The feeling the audience gains is a feeling of guilt Daniels 3 and remorse from the individuals who may have reacted negatively towards victims of violence and abuse. There is an appeal to logos when it states on the advertisement, more excuses, no more silence, no more (Figure 1). For the audience, this appeal to logos forces individuals to reflect upon their own personal influence on the continuation of violence and abuse and what they could do differently to help towards the ending of this violence. In Figure 1, there is an element of kairos. In the advertisement, when it states, time to start a the audience feels a sense of urgency (Figure 1). Once the viewer reads this statement, the individual feels it is now important to spread awareness of domestic violence and sexual assault. The rhetorical elements implemented within this image, strengthens the Joyful Heart campaign to end sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse. As part of this campaign, the foundation advertised Figure 2 which presents a female who appears to have been abused and a finger has been placed over her mouth. This is showing the audience that victims of violence and abuse, are not always able to vocalize what they are involved in. Therefore, it is up to subjects that are close friends, or family of the victim to recognize the common signs of sexual assault, child abuse, and domestic violence. Located at the bottom of the campaign advertisement, there is a number listed for victims to contact, as well as the logo (Figure 2). Incorporating these elements into the advertisement, makes an appeal to ethos, by which allows the audience to become more receptive to calling the number that has been listed (Figure 2). The woman in the campaign advertisement appears to have been abused and expresses a feeling of numbness in her eyes (Figure 2). This implying that the subject has undergone a tremendous amount of abuse and has become dangerously accustomed to it. This appeal to pathos, immediately provokes the audience to sympathize with the victim and the viewer becomes intrigued by the advertisement (Figure 2). In addition to the facial expression, Daniels 4 there is a finger over the mouth (Figure 2). This symbolizes that the female must remain silent and not seek help from others. The audience again feels sympathy towards the victim. In figure 2, in the campaign ad it states, With this appeal to logos, viewers who are victims of violence or abuse, may feel inclined to reach out to a support group and share their personal experiences. Telling the audience to call a specific number after previously stating, this makes an appeal to kairos; individuals now feel that they must immediately contact the domestic violence and sexual assault line (Figure 2). This image reinforces the message to the audience to show compassion towards victims of these crimes and become educated on the subject in order to prevent more individuals from becoming victims, or the perpetrators. Figure 1 and Figure 2 work collectively to enforce the Joyful Heart mission to end sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse indefinitely. Both images consist of dark tones to convey their meaning. Figure 1 has a white background in contrast with the woman featured in the image in black and white. With these color choices, the attention is drawn towards the words, followed by the quote, warned (Figure 1). The quote is written in blue, this color represents sadness, which provokes the emotions towards the advertisement (Figure 1). The stakeholder, decided to have the words, written in a large font to convey the strong message of individuals in the community to not pass on judgement towards victims of this crime (Figure 1). Figure 2 takes a different approach, by using a black background to focus the attention on the woman who appears to be a victim of either sexual assault, or domestic violence. The woman is displayed in washed out tones versus vibrant, further illustrating that the victim is in an overwhelming state (Figure 2). In Figure 1 and Figure 2, the stakeholder has a woman featured in the advertisement. In doing so, both figures work to Daniels 5 reach out to women in our society versus men. Choosing to bring in an audience of women, supports the statistic, of the victims of rape and sexual assault are female, and 9% are Victims of Sexual Violence: Statistics ). Figure 2 is more effective than Figure 1, because featuring a woman who has been abused instantly grabs the attention of the audience and they become of aware of the advertisement is promoting. Conjointly, Figure 1 and 2 incorporates rhetorical elements in order to enforce the Joyful Heart mission to end sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse indefinitely. Through rhetorical elements, the figures utilized in the sexual violence campaigns, strive to spread awareness on violence and abuse amongst their audience. All men, women, and children are in risk of becoming a victim of this crime. This form of violence occurs more often than some may assume, which is why it is so important to educate individuals on this crime. The Joyful Heart Foundation, created by Mariska Hargitay in 2004, works towards transforming the response to sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse and ending this from of violence Most victims of these crimes are afraid to come forward with their personal stories and seek help. 14,000 survivors of sexual violence have been reported as being healed from the emotional trauma through the transformative programs With the use of campaigns, this stakeholder advocates for the victims of violence and abuse while educating those to further end this violence. Daniels 6 Works Cited 30 Remarkable Designs of Domestic Violence  Designrshub - Design Articles, Inspirations, Resources and Freebies. N.p., 04 Dec. 2014. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Facts about Sexual  PsycEXTRA Dataset (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. Our Impact by the Numbers -  Joyful Heart Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Mar. 2017. Our  Joyful Heart Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Victims of Sexual Violence: Statistics  Victims of Sexual Violence: Statistics RAINN. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Vukic, Tatjana, and About Tatjana Vukic. MORE Mariska Hargitay Recruits Law &  Osocio. N.p., 23 Oct. 2014. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Daniels 7 Figure 1 http://osocio.org/message/no-more-mariska-hargitay-recruits-law-order1/ Figure 2 http://designrshub.com/2012/07/domestic-violence-advertisement.html