Wylie 1 Andrew Wylie Prof. Gottlieb Comp II 25 Feb 2017 Feminism Currently, there is much debate to the central question, both of the genders There are several different answers to this question, but one specific group has their own set of beliefs and ways of viewing it. Feminist.org is a popular feminist organization that fights against the inequality of women. Feminists, as a whole, fight for the, economic, and social equality for Feminists believe that women are disadvantaged in society and look to change the way they are looked at in certain aspects. With many pressing issues, such as the wage gap and sexual assault, women feel they are oppressed and therefore, associate themselves with feminism in order to change this reality. These women feel they are immediately disadvantaged simply for being a woman. However, feminists do not just simply state they are feminists and continue to do nothing in order to fix what they see as a society. Many of these women represent themselves in all sorts of activism such as the March. There are all sorts of protests from women, and men as well, demanding things like pay for equal These women want to fix the ugly reality they feel they are currently living in. Initially, there are many issues that feminists have been fighting for decades. One such issue would be the controversial wage gap. According to the National Center for Women and Policing, the US Census Bureau has confirmed the existence of this wage gap Finds US Gender Wage Gap The cents to every argument, though, is left up to much debate. In fact, according to Forbes, the number is more around 93 cents for every dollar. Wylie 2 The wage gap is more so an earnings gap until, such as position, hours work, and major are Awful Truth Behind the Gender Pay When all these factors are taken into account, educated women working full time were paid an unexplained 7% less than their male Awful Truth Behind the Gender Pay This of course is unacceptable in the eyes of the general public, as pay should not be discriminated against just for being a woman. However, much debate remains on whether or not the wage gap even exists. Another issue that women feel they are vastly oppressed in is the area of sexual assault. Sexual assault, of course, occurs between both genders, however, women are disproportionately the victims of these sex crimes. According to an expert source on sexual assault, every one in six victims of sexual assault is a woman Yet, with how common these crimes are, only six out of one thousand perpetrators end up serving time for their crimes Sexual assault is unacceptable and feminists want these people to pay for their crimes. Because of the sudden changes in rights over the past few decades, and the way society views women in general, the use of propaganda like this has been extraordinarily effective. While women still look for true equality, there is no doubt that these images have helped this change with its use of various rhetorical strategies. Feminists will continue to use such images to further the equality of women. Indeed, in Image A, it is not initially clear what Feminist.org is trying to promote. However, after looking at all of the subtle details, it becomes more obvious. First off, the message is definitely one of unification and empowerment. There is a lot of symbolism involved in this image. Just by the use of all three characters putting their fists into the air together, it is evident these women are try to against something. In this case, they are fighting the The patriarchy is a system of government controlled by men, where men are mainly Wylie 3 the ones allowed to succeed. This form of governmental power excludes most women from moving up in society. However, the color scheme is also something to look at. The colors (or lack thereof) are bland and only in black and white. This was done purposely in order to signify that everyone could be (and should be) involved in or identify as a feminist. The reason this image lacks color is to imply that feminism is for everyone. It is not clear what gender these characters even are, further forwarding the message that feminism is inclusive, regardless of race, gender, class, etc. What makes this image reputable, though, is that it comes from a quite respectable feminist source. This organization provides evidence for most of their claims and seems to be fighting for what is right. Because this image gives the narrative that women are disadvantaged in society, and feminists are fighting in order to gain equality to men, that puts in the mind that these women are of good character and is doing the right thing. This adds more ethos to the image. These women make the audience think they are merely fighting for what is right, so they are seen as more reputable and trustworthy. Furthermore, Pathos also has a strong role in this image. In the actual image, the characters are clearly angry about something. It is evident they do not look happy, as seen by their glaring eyes and their angry faces. Also, it looks as though they are shouting at someone or something; it is possible that the characters in the image are protesting. Obviously, the emotions that this image is trying to get people to feel is anger. The image wants people to be angry about what is going on. Anger is not the only emotion, however, also, empowerment. It is likely they want people to feel positive that change is coming. The image speaks of uniting and fighting together. Though it is not written anywhere on the picture, it looks like an invitation for other women and men to join them in their fight. Another significant factor of the image to be considered, is logos. Although there is not much, the rhetorical device is still being used. In Image A they are presenting a logical message; Wylie 4 with their fists in the air and all of the women standing side by side with angry looks on their faces, it could be assumed that they are protesting or fighting for something. These people in this image happen to be fighting for the equality of women. This lack of logos badly discredits the ethos in this image. Adding in a statistic or fact would better support this image and the message presented within it. Also important, is the rhetorical device of Kairos. Kairos is vitally important in this image because feminism is largely talked about, currently. There is much debate to whether feminism is even necessary, but one thing is for sure, feminism is very relevant right now. Feminists are still out protesting and demanding equal rights, which they think they do not have. With many issues like sexual assault and the wage gap making their rounds in public discussions and debate, this image has certainly captured a hot topic. As a whole, Image A does a great job at pushing their hidden message about the fight for gender equality. In the second image, the purpose is slightly different than the first one. In the second image, it clearly shows people upset about something. Their anger is much more on the surface, and not hidden as it was in Image A. When taking a deeper look into the image, these women are fighting against, what they see as the on this is evident by their signs. Clearly these feminists feel there is a huge disadvantage to being a woman, and feel somehow wronged. It seems that they are looking to achieve some sort of equality. The overall purpose of this image is to show passionate women (or feminists) fighting for the vast inequality they feel that woman are faced with. Again, ethos in this picture comes from a respectable feminist source that accurately reports its claims by backing them up with evidence. Also, including signs such as the ones that say, the war on (Image B), makes it seem like these women are fighting for what is right. In a way, they are putting rights in the binary of: One can either be for feminism (or for rights) or are against feminism (and therefore against Wylie 5 rights). These women are fighting to stop the war on women, implying that anyone who opposes them is for the on Because this image appeals to the binary, it speaks about the seemingly bad character of these women, not giving them much ethos. Moreover, pathos also plays a big part in this picture. Clearly, the image is made to get the audience all riled up and angry, like in Image A. These women are out and protesting the inequality they feel they face, while, in the first one, the anger was much subtler. Also, the image wants to get the audience to feel connected with these people. There are a variety of different people in this image, of all sorts of genders and races. These women want them to feel like they have something in common with these people. The same message of unification in Image A is seen here again from these women. Something else that stands out is the color used in this image. There is a bright pink color used throughout the picture in order to grab the attention. The reason this picture was used instead of any other picture of protestors was because of the bright colors. The bright pink is made to initially grab the focus. Then, once they are looking at the image, they will then see the signs and the message these women are trying to push. Lastly, logos is practically non-existent. Because of this lack of logos, it desperately hurts the ethos. It would have been helpful to include some sort of statistic or fact. With all of the different aspects and messages of feminism, it would be easy to throw in a statistic about sexual assault or the wage gap. It damages the credibility with the lack of proof presented in this image. Also, it would most assuredly help the image gain more popularity if some facts were added in. Something also evident in this picture, is Kairos. Feminism is a controversial topic currently and this image has captured that controversy. Feminist.org has used this image at the appropriate time in order to push their message. Wylie 6 In conclusion, both images, though from the same feminist source, proved to push their narrative in different ways. One image showed the symbolic, passive aggressive way to fight the which the other showed the blunt protests of feminists. However, one thing that desperately needs to be strengthened in both images, is logos. This rhetorical device is lacking and, in some cases, is just not there. The addition of strong logos in both of these images would drastically make them more powerful and effective, as well as . Both images, though, showed women and men standing up against the inequality they feel that women face, and they achieved this effectively. Wylie 7 Image A Image B Wylie 8 Wylie 9 Works Cited Feminist Majority Foundation. Feminist.org. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Statistics RAINN. (2016). Web. 28 Jan. 2017 Finds US Gender Wage Gap Feminist Majority Foundation Blog. 7 Oct. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 Awful Truth Behind the Gender Pay Forbes. Forbes Magazine. 7 April 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017