McKeighan 1 Kevin McKeighan Madeline Gottlieb ENC1102 12 March 2017 The Federal Stance on Immigration The field of agriculture is arguably one of the most essential components to economy, which has led to an increase of employees who lack immigration status. Roughly half the number of agricultural jobs in the USA are fulfilled by illegal immigrants currently residing in this country (Zahniser 2012). This has caused the Federal Government to take action in order to reform the current policies to account for the growing population. In the past, there have been studies done by credible researchers that estimate the impacts on the American agriculture economy given different scenarios on immigration reform (Zanisher 2012). None of the situations came to a profitable of successful conclusion that benefited any party that holds a stake in the issue. This proves that the illegal immigrant population is so dense and so immense that the agriculture economy would diminish without it. To visualize the issue, two images that take different approaches are broken down and dissected. Image A, which pictures a group of shadow figures standing together before the American flag, represents the unity of people in this country, especially when it comes to immigration. The approach of image B is to strike the emotional side of the audience that image A might have neglected. It portrays a family of Hispanic-Americans who are holding up signs, one of which says families People are typically moved more when they can make an emotional connection to something such as image B which is why it is such an effective approach. Though both images touch on the impact of immigration reforms, they take different approaches to convey the message. Image A takes a more motivational approach whereas image B strikes an emotional approach in the audience. McKeighan 2 Image A can be dissected into many different aspects, such as color schemes, subliminal messages etc. One of the first things the audience may notice is the brick wall that the American Flag is painted over. To speculate, it could be said that the brick wall represents the sturdiness, structure and fortification of this country. One can argue that the brick wall subliminally implies that the foundation of this country is immigration. Another aspect is the size of the wall and how it seems to be smaller than the people standing before it. The way the shadows are casted upon the wall makes it seem like the people are some distance from the wall, which in turn tells the viewers that they are sizably bigger than the wall itself. This means that the people in this picture are bigger than the Federal Government and that when people stand up for a common cause, they can achieve anything. The unity of any group or organization, when motivated by something as monumental as immigration reforms, can be a very powerful thing. The last observation made about image A was how the illustrator decided to picture shadow people instead of personalizing them and identifying these individuals. This can be taken to represent the equality of all the people in this picture, as there are people of all different shapes and sizes. When it comes to conveying subliminal messages, rhetorical strategies are some of the most effective ways to break down images. Image A depicts clear signs of ethos and kairos strategies whereas image B has more characteristics of pathos and logos strategies. One example of ethos in image A is how all the shadow figures stand united in front of the American flag. This represents the character of people who are fighting for immigration reform to benefit all parties involved. Kairos also pertains to this image as immigration is a viral topic in political discussion. It is most certainly something on mind with the new change in presidency which is why the image pertains to the kairos strategy. Equality is an ongoing battle in this nation and it is because of this that one can speculate the person who made this image wanted the McKeighan 3 viewers to feel united and equal to their peers. Logos and pathos strategies are not as prevalent as the other two strategies in image A, however they are still present in the overall message. Pathos takes a role in this image in that it strikes the inner beliefs and values of the audience such as freedom and individuality. The image of the American flag represents the freedom of all people in the USA which is something very unique. If people feel their freedom is threatened, they will take action to make sure that is not the case, which is what is happening in this picture. The logos strategy is relevant in the first image because of the message it conveys. The message is that people afraid to stand up for what is right and what is just. When people put these thoughts into actions, policies get changed and people are affected, but it is not until the message gets out that this can be done. Image B, on the other hand, takes a completely different approach with how to advocate reformation in the immigration policies of the United States. When the audience sees this image, often their first reaction would be sadness and empathy for the family who are protesting the reforms. When it comes to rhetorical strategies, ethos and kairos play a prominent role in this image. The ethos or trustworthiness of this picture can be derived from the undeniable amount of families who could be affected by this issue if not already impacted. It is impossible to look past the population of illegal immigrants who reside in this nation. The kairos strategy is relevant because this image is extremely timely with so much of what is going on in American politics today. Politicians in Washington D.C. are actively working to exile thousands of illegal aliens from this country to their native land which is directly tied into image B. Image B also portrays aspects of pathos and logos as it sends a strong message through emotion. Signs of pathos can be seen in the expressions (Image B). Their sign calls the viewers to action, grabs the attention and brings more awareness to the topic. The image also strikes the logos McKeighan 4 strategy because of the message it sends; which is that when people stand up and stand together, anything is possible. These images use the same rhetorical strategies to convey a very similar message in what is a monumental issue in world. Image A is taken to send a message of unity for people to stand up for what is right not for what is easy to do whereas image B emotionally strikes the audience to do the same thing. In image B, the overwhelming sense of unity sends a strong message. One of the aspects of this image that makes it so powerful is the presence of a mother, a father and a child who is most likely too young to fully understand the gravity of the situation. It can be inferred that the mother and father represent the hard-working lower class immigrants in this country, who have worked their whole lives to build a better future for their kids. The little boy in the image can represent the innocence of those affected by this dilemma even though their family member(s) are productive members of society. Finally, the most poignant characteristic of this image is the sign that reads families It is without a doubt the center of attention in this picture and it is responsible for the emotional nature of the context. The emotions brought on by the sign, when placed right next to the child wearing a Mexico shirt is the driving force behind the emotional appeal to this image. When it comes to immigration policies in the USA, it is clear that the Federal Government intends to take action. The dilemma comes when the government must decide which reformations to make in order to abide by the constitution and also fulfill the moral values of all Americans. It can be immensely difficult to find a common ground between these two binaries, but the images presented give an accurate representation of both sides. It is important McKeighan 5 that the Federal Government consider everyone who will be affected by change in the policy and that they act accordingly. Image A: McKeighan 6 Image B: Works Cited McKeighan 7 EWIC Statement Regarding Guest Worker  EWIC - Essential Worker Immigration Coalition. N.p., 25 Mar. 2015. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Freiman, Christopher. Liberalism Or Immigration Restrictions, But Not  Journal Of Ethics & Social Philosophy 10.2 (2016): 1-22. Humanities Source. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Hirota, Hidetaka. The Moment Of Transition: State Officials, The Federal Government, And The Formation Of American Immigration  Journal Of American History 99.4 (2013): 1092-1108. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Jorgensen, Jay T. The Practical Power Of State And Local Governments To Enforce Federal Immigration  Brigham Young University Law Review 1997.4 (1997): 899. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Standing -- Federal Courts -- D.C. Circuit Demonstrates Redundancy Between The Competitor Standing Test And The Zone Of Interests  Harvard Law Review 128.6 (2015): 1850- 1859. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Zahniser, Steven, et al. Immigration Policy And Its Possible Effects On U.S. Agriculture And The Market For Hired Farm Labor: A Simulation  American Journal Of Agricultural Economics 94.2 (2012): 477-482. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.