Casaes 1 Leonardo Casaes ENC 1102 Madeline Gottlieb 3/17/2017 Save Healthy Lives; Stop Smoking Tobacco has been around for thousands of years and with, 100 million tobacco- related deaths - more than both world wars combined- during the 20 th century the number of deaths is only expected to rise to a by the end of the 21 st (NCIB). Intimidating numbers statistics such as the ones listed above fuel foundations like the Action on Smoking and Health organization (ASH) that has been avidly working since 1971 to prevent harm caused by tobacco industries. ASH is a nonprofit organization whose mission, to be a prime mover in domestic and global tobacco control through advocacy, communication, the force of and a world free of tobacco-related damage, disease and (ASH). ASH fights against big tobacco companies, as tries to stop preventable tobacco-related death, through educating the public and regulating the industry. One of the ways ASH communicates its beliefs on regulating tobacco is through ads created to catch the attention, inform the public on the dangers of tobacco, and persuade individuals to join their mission to save lives. Figures 1 and 2 were chosen by the ASH because they successfully support their goal to further regulate the tobacco industry, through the use of rhetorical appeals. Figure 1 tries to educate consumers on the severity of Tabaco-related deaths and asks for support to save millions of lives, while Figure 2 gives ASH a healthy appeal that encourages the audience to be with the ASH. Casaes 2 To begin with one may observe in Figure 1 an innocent young life directly participating in tobacco use, it then continues to comment on the millions of lives lost to it. The fist image uses a wide range of rhetorical appeals to its advantage. It directly appeals to pathos, as the image of the kid happily smoking cigarettes which kills millions of people is sure to uproot some emotion from the viewer. ASH recognizes how serious underage smoking is, are more than 150,000 new underage daily smokers in this country each roughly one-third of them will eventually die prematurely from smoking-caused (Bach). Utilizing an image of a child smoking, they bring awareness to the audience in hopes of gaining support to better control the tobacco industry. Figure 1 also uses logos as it lists troubling statistics, million deaths in 20th Century and 1 billon estimated in the 21 st (Figure 1), because the audience will support argument to better regulate tobacco, as they logically want to prevent widespread death. These statistics are backed by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) and The World Health Organization (WHO), and supply concrete data meant to galvanize people into taking preventive actions to stop tobacco-related deaths. Figure 1 also exploits Kairos by informing the reader that person dies from tobacco every 6 (ASH). Mentioning the rate of the death is expected to ignite a sense of urgency in the reader, as further regulating tobacco industry could save a life every 6 seconds. The block at the bottom of Figure 1 image uses a larger font and all capital letters to capture attention and add to the sense of urgency the last statistic brought forth. This effective exploitation of Kairos is enhanced with Figure diction. (Figure 1) allows the donator to feel that he/she could make an immediate impact and is somewhat assertive, almost pressuring them into donating. These exploitations of Kairos that are used to give the viewers a sense of urgency, help the ASH obtain assistance to reach their goal as soon as possible. While Figure 1 rely Casaes 3 much on ethos to spread its message, the large numbers mentioned and the inclusion of the young boy give credibility to message on the severity of tobacco. Increasing the trustworthiness of the information provided in Figure 1 is important for getting people to donate to ASH, as they believe by donating helping to save lives. All these rhetorical appeals used in Figure 1, give a negative perception of tobacco to convince the audience to align with view on enforcing stricter regulations on tobacco products. Making their organization seem ASH now appears to be the more natural and foundation compared to its counterpart, the tobacco industry. This gives the observer more incentive to join ASH, the side. Boosting the integrity to make them look like picture of is exactly what Figure 2 effectively does. The background picture ASH chose to brand themselves is very natural, as trying to give credibility to their statement, with Choosing to fill the landscape with green colors is no accident, symbolizes nature and (Dena), which is the message that ASH wants to send to their audience. Their background also directly contrasts with the other ads throughout the page, relating back to the first image, where dark colors are prominent, is to subconsciously influence the observer into connecting Tobacco products with dark colors that can be menacing and symbolizes death (Dena). This sharp contrast adds to ethos as it makes their brand seem more appealing and trustworthy compared to the dark tobacco ads, while simultaneously appealing to pathos as the colors connect to the viewer emotionally. This emotional connection is created to frighten the audience by associating tobacco with dark colors and death while Figure 2 directly contrasts giving ASH bright colors to associate them with life, the opposite of death. ASH constructed this juxta-position to appeal to the emotional safety. In addition, Figure 2 also makes an appeal to Kairos through diction because it adds a sense of priority using Casaes 4 the words and they even highlight in red to add emphasis. Using present tense in the add urges the reader to act now and with ASH and take to make the world healthier through tobacco regulation. ASH is encouraging the audience to join now to help their cause. Figure 2 utilizes repetition to reinforce their message of health, is repeated three times throughout Figure 2 and, proves messages are more effective when (Financial Brand). Written in the ad in a larger font is the statement with this is a direct appeal to logos because most people want to be healthy, in 2010, of Americans said they were very or fairly focused on healthy and nutritious eating, 58% said that most days they probably should be eating (Desilver). Therefore, people will side with the organization that is healthier to them which is exactly what the audience associates ASH with thanks to Figure repetition. ASH is through these visual rhetorical appeals, ASH is effectively trying to gain more members to support their cause to regulate the tobacco industry. While both images utilize the same rhetorical appeals to support goal to stop tobacco-related deaths, the appeals used, serve a different purpose for each figure. ASH, relies heavily on pathos in Figure 1, listing alarming statistics about death, death directly related to the cigarette being smoked by the child in Figure 1. This exploitation of pathos is used by ASH to scare people into action against the tobacco industry, as it connects to the audience emotions. While Figure 2 focuses primarily on ethos, as ASH promotes their brand as in hopes to gain new members to help their organization regulate the tobacco industry, by establishing a more credibility with the viewers. Interestingly both figures use color contrast to fulfill their purposes. Figure 1 is generally filled with dark colors to further frighten the observer and associate tobacco with darkness in hopes on making it more intimidating. While Figure 2 uses the light colors to make ASH seem more appealing in contrast to other ads that reference Casaes 5 tobacco. This adds to the organizations credibility, helping to convince the audience to side with ASH. These advertisements and their purposes intertwine as they both are employed to help ASH regulate the tobacco industry While ASH claims to not be anti-smoking or anti-tobacco, the ads are biased against it, this is most likely because this stance helps supports their goal to regulate. Both ads contribute to goal by bringing awareness to the casualties involved with tobacco related products while simultaneously, boosting credibility as a brand of health. With strict overseeing over the tobacco ASH hopes to prevent millions of deaths and create a world for the future. Casaes 6 Works Cited ASH Action on Smoking &  ASH. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Asma S, Song Y, Cohen J, Eriksen M, Pechacek T, Cohen N, et al. CDC Grand Rounds: global tobacco control. MMWR Morbidity and mortality weekly report. 2014;63(13):277-80. Campaign for Tobacco-Free  Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. DeSilver, Drew. on Your Table? How Diet Has Changed over the  Pew Research Center. N.p., 13 Dec. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. P., Dena. Black Meaning - Black Color  Color Psychology. Colorpsychology.org, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Say It Again: Messages Are More Effective When  The Financial Brand. N.p., 13 Nov. 2014. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Casaes 7 Figure 1 Figure 2