Ferreira 1 Joey Ferreira Professor Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102: English Composition II 21 February 2017 NCADP: Fighting Against Capital Punishment The death penalty is the highest form of criminal punishment in the United States. With the severity of executing criminals, this is a very controversial subject within the United States judicial system. Some groups and organizations believe capital punishment is a necessary component in the United States because it removes severe criminals from the society. However, some see this form of punishment as being against the rights of the criminals as human beings. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (Abolish the Death Penalty) is an organization that is against capital punishment. This group is devoted to removing capital punishment from all societies. This organization feels strongly against sponsored (Abolish the Death Penalty) and is passionate about replacing the death penalty with a system that targets the root causes of crime. Their proposition is to find the root causes of crime, which can help prevent capital offenses from reoccurring (Abolish the Death Penalty). In this sense, the NCADP believes that there is something to be learned from these criminals that can help stop future crimes. Through their advertisements, the NCADP reaches out to the public in a way that connects them to the issue. The NCADP aims to expose the side of capital punishment that most people fail to see. This organization exposes the dark side of capital punishment and shows that is must be stopped through the use of two powerful pieces of visual rhetoric. One of the goals in reaching out to the public is showing them a different perspective on the death penalty. This strategy is used to connect to the audience in a way that Ferreira 2 encourages them to join the cause against capital punishment. The NCADP does this in many ways in Image A. For instance, by having a quote from Martin Luther King Jr. saying: punishment is against the best judgement of modern criminology and, above all, against the highest expression of love in the nature of (Image A), the NCADP is targeting a very diverse audience. This powerful quote directly points out why capital punishment is wrong from an extremely influential figure which attracts individuals who respect either criminology, love and even God. The quote also offers an alternative view on capital punishment to this audience by saying that it is, in a way, against God. Overall, this quote makes the death penalty seem immoral which therefore makes the audience see joining the cause against capital punishment as the logical thing to do. This form of logos is aimed to make the audience view the cause as the right and just thing to do about this issue. The use of Dr. King and his words is also a form of ethos because he is an expert in civil rights and a highly reputable individual. When the audience sees this influential figure and his words, they can see that the NCADP has strong reasoning behind their mission to abolish capital punishment. The use of color in this image is another device that projects meaning to the audience. The black and white photograph of Dr. King is used to establish a serious tone behind the message. The color yellow is used on the logo, and it highlights key words in the quote. The words that are highlighted in yellow are punishment and the highest expression of (Image A). These are the words that the NCADP want to stress to its audience, and by having them highlighted in yellow, the audience focuses on them. The color yellow symbolizes hope which is the exact reason why the NCADP chose to use it for the important words in the quote and their logo of the color Hope is what drives people forward and it is what the NCADP needs to abolish the death penalty. These components in Image A spark Ferreira 3 emotion in the audience which encourages them to act on the issue at hand. Timeliness is another factor utilized in Image A. Referring once again to Dr. Martin Luther facial expression, there is a noticeable sense of impatience. The audience may see Dr. King presenting himself in a way that suggests that he is waiting for them to act. The use of kairos in this image pushes the audience to act upon the issue which helps the NCADP move towards their goal of removing capital punishment from society. The most powerful method of expressing their position against capital punishment is their use of human emotion in their photographs and advertisements. Through the use of pathos, the NCADP can reach out to the audience on a more personal level. In Image B, emotion is expressed in a formidable way, enticing the audience to respect and feel for the subjects in the image. Each person in Image B looks either grim, fed up, or depressed and as the audience sees the crowd of protesters standing against the death penalty, they can feel how serious they are about capital punishment. The sense of seriousness conveyed by the image presses weight on the issue at hand and helps the NCADP seem like a powerful force behind the cause. The diversity found in Image B also utilizes pathos to connect to the audience. The diverse crowd in the picture is meant to connect the audience to the cause by showing them that the death penalty is an issue that affects all people and that togetherness is key when fighting against capital punishment. On the second half of Image B, there is only one woman in a crowd who is in focus. The use of pathos is continued with the second half of Image B where a woman is shown expressing a severe sense of grief. This is meant to connect to the audience on an emotional level. Since 1976, over 1446 people have been executed in the United States by The NCADP wants to remind people that pain is still received on the other side of these executions. This pain is visible and it is implied that her pain has Ferreira 4 something to do with the death penalty, maybe she has lost a family member to execution. The fact that she is alone suggests that she does not have anyone who could be there for her, which could be due to capital punishment. This assumption causes the audience to sympathize with the woman and see the other side of the death penalty. This is the side that the NCADP wants its audience to see because it exposes the pain that comes with capital punishment. This pain is also showing the audience the direct negative effects of the death penalty. This aspect is meant to convince the audience that all of this pain is not worth putting someone to death. This is a form of logos because it shows the audience how illogical it may be to carry out capital punishment and cause this much pain in other people. The use of ethos is hard to spot, but it is present. The crowd in the upper half of Image B is facing all in the same direction. It is likely that they are all facing towards some sort of leader. This leader of this movement would be considered a figure of authority which entails that this image has a sense of credibility. This component may be discreet, but it is effective in its purpose of displaying its credibility to the audience. The sign that the man is holding in the upper half of Image B says in my This concise sign relates to kairos and stresses the urgency of the situation. Much like Image A, Image B uses facial expressions to show the audience that they are growing tired of this issue. The impatience shown on the faces makes the issue at hand an urgent matter. The NCADP needs people to act fast on capital punishment and they use this sense of urgency to convey that to the audience. The two images provided by the NCADP share the same purpose: to raise awareness about the death penalty and to encourage people to act against it. In order to project their cause to the public the NCADP must connect to their audience and through both Image A and B, emotional appeal, or pathos, is the main rhetorical strategy used. Facial expressions are the focal Ferreira 5 point of both images. Image B is showing a woman who seems to be overwhelmed by a sense of loss and Image A shows Dr. King expressing seriousness and impatience. If you view these images in this order, you could imagine Dr. King is witnessing this woman break down. By connecting these two images in this way, Dr. King can be seen as fed up with this pain and he seems to be asking the audience to act upon this issue. As for both of the images being in black and white, this aspect helps the audience focus on the images themselves and really get a grasp on the emotion the subjects are projecting. This color scheme could also relate to the racial injustice within the capital punishment system. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People stated that out of the 63 people put on death row in a specific year, 37 of them were people of color Death Penalty Fact This is another aspect of the death penalty that the NCADP wants its audience to see because it will help them gain support for their cause to abolish capital punishment. Overall, the common use of pathos between both images was the strongest similarity between them. The mission is to remove the death penalty from society through the support of the public. In order to make an impact with their cause, the NCADP strives to connect to its audience through images that they are able to relate to. In both Image A and B, the audience is invited to feel how strong of an issue the death penalty is and how much pain it causes in people. The NCADP uses these visual pieces to expose the negatives of capital punishment and to gain the support of the public. Ferreira 6 Works Cited the Death National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Mar. 2017. Bourn, Jennifer, and About Jennifer BournCreative Director Digital Strategist WordPress Meaning of The Color Yellow  Bourn Creative. N.p., 03 June 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. <http://www.bourncreative.com/meaning-of-the-color-yellow/>. Executions by  Executions by Year Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. NAACP Death Penalty Fact  NAACP. N.p., 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. January 14, 2015. Martin Luther King Jr. and The Abomination of State  Martin Luther King Jr. and The Abomination of State Executions National Coalition to. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Ferreira 7 Image A Image B