Sahadath 1 Shari Sahadath Karen Hanson ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Humane Society of the United States Against Animal Testing On Cosmetic Products Animal Testing has been a controversial issue for many years. Many organizations support the use of animal testing because it aids in the production of their cosmetic products. Most of their reasons for testing on animals are strictly for the assurance of safety on their products for human use. As much as they try their best to reduce the use of animals on cosmetic products, they do not want the risk of their products harming humans. However, just as many organizations are against the use of animals in laboratories, especially for cosmetic testing. One such organization is The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) which is a non-profit organization that fights for rights. They believe that animal testing should be terminated, as they are committed to protecting and helping animals in laboratories. The Humane Society of the United States successfully supports its argument to the public that animal testing should be prohibited through two images showing visual rhetoric linking animal testing to an increase in animal cruelty. The Humane Society of the United States contends that animal testing should be proscribed through two images that display the need for action to help animals suffering cruelty. For example, Image A shows a dog that looks undernourished and seems to have been ill-treated. Sahadath 2 This picture is urging people to take action to help animals who have experienced cruelty, to end their suffering. The Humane Society of the United States shows the dog in this picture is trapped in a cage with evidence of harm for the safety of cosmetic products. According to Megan McIntyre and Alysia Sawchyn, appeal to your sadness is one kind of appeal to (37). The rhetorical appeal of pathos, an appeal to emotion, is clearly demonstrated in this photograph. This serves a purpose to feel sympathy and makes readers want to help the dog. It is stated in the words of the picture that more needs to be done and that people should which is an example of the rhetorical appeal of kairos, an appeal to time. The dog appears to be malnourished and afraid, which is evidence that it was not fed or treated properly. The use of the rhetorical appeal of logos is shown in this image by the appearance. This image makes it seem as if the dog was a victim of testing in the laboratory. It gives readers a reason to take action to make some changes in this serious issue. In this image the first words printed are on These words are significant in demonstrating the seriousness of the issue of animal testing. In terms of validity, the rhetorical appeal of ethos is also shown as the picture was taken directly from The Humane Society of the United website. This picture is credible as it was taken specifically for this organization, and it includes that the USDA (United States Department of Agriculture) is involved in this issue, as stated in the picture Animal testing leads to the result of harmed and suffering animals. Image B urges people to A Hero by donating dollars a in order to help animals who suffer from animal testing Care According to the article published by Gregory Mone, motivation for the new rule stems in part from concerns about the ethics of testing the safety of chemicals on living The new rule being to invest in development of Sahadath 3 alternative methods to decrease animal testing (20). In this photograph, the use of the rhetorical appeal of pathos, is evident by the dismal look on the face. According to Megan McIntyre and Alysia Sawchyn, offers a way for the audience to relate to the subject through commonly held (36). This picture depicts an unhappy and petrified dog that has been rescued by the members of The Humane Society of the United States. This illustrates the plight of the dogs that have been salvaged by this organization. They need assistance from people so that animals would not have to face such cruelty. The use of the rhetorical appeal of logos is clearly shown by the disheartened dog, which shows evidence of the dog being mistreated. This serves as a purpose to get readers to feel sorry and be willing to give some sort of aid to these animals. This image is owned by this organization with proof of their name stated on it. Ethos, an appeal to credibility, is conspicuous as this picture was also taken from the website of The Humane Society of the United States. Making a donation every month can help these animals be revived from their torture. Urging the public to a monthly showing an appeal to time, is the rhetorical appeal of kairos Care These two images are the ways The Humane Society of the United States efficiently argues that animal testing should be terminated. The use of the rhetorical appeals of pathos, logos, ethos and kairos are effective in both images. According to Megan McIntyre and Alysia Sawchyn, images of caged animals hope to make you feel sad enough that you will want to donate money to their (37). This shows the effectiveness that pathos has in first image. Both images have the effect of making readers feel sorry for the dog leading them to feel a will to help these animals. Effective use of the rhetorical appeal of kairos is shown in both pictures compelling people to take action by donating money as soon as possible to help these animals experiencing cruelty. There is an effect that both images deliver to get the readers thinking of the Sahadath 4 cruelty faced by animals. The dogs in the pictures show significance as it makes an appeal to the readers to take action to help these animals. Forceful effectiveness through the use of the rhetorical appeal of logos, as it shows that animal testing is a real issue faced by many animals. The words on this image educate readers with awareness of the issue, and may also lead readers to further research on this specific topic. Lastly, ethos is active in showing credibility, leading readers to take the issue seriously without any doubts of deceit on the matter. It is evident that these images are truthful as it is stated on image A that it was taken for the organization while image B is owned by the organization. When the images are compared, image A is effective in persuading people to take action in this issue while image B is able to persuade people to donate some money for assistance with this issue. Both of these images are similar in expressing effectiveness of the message The Humane Society of the United States is trying to delineate. The Humane Society of the United States has efficaciously argued that animal testing should be forbidden through images showing the cruelty faced by animals. Both of these images highlight this serious issue by using victims such as dogs to emphasize what many animals endure. These pictures give readers a sense of the distraught these animals face daily and how much assistance is needed. According to Mone, vitro and silico testing will play a much larger part in how we assess chemicals in the (21). Alternative methods of animal testing are trying to evolve. This means that animal testing can eventually be abolished when further research is done to complete these alternative methods. In the future, The Humane Society of the United States can accomplish their goals; to cease animal testing, by continuous promotion of animal advocacy and campaigning to make animal testing illegal. It is in their best intentions to make animal testing decreased as much as possible until it becomes prohibited. Sahadath 5 Works Cited The Humane Society of the United States. N.p, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Care The Humane Society of the United States. N.p, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Pathos Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. Mone, Gregory. Models In Cosmetics Replacing Animal Communications Of The ACM 57.4 (2014): 20-21. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sahadath 6 Image A Image B