Washington 1 Karon Washington Karen Hanson Enc1102.013S17 March 8, 2017 Food & Water Watch Against Fracking Hydraulic Fracturing or is a process used by oil and gas companies to extract natural gas embedded in rock formations known as shale. The process consists of fracturing the underground rock with a pressurized liquid, that funnels the natural gas up the well and to the surface where it will be used as an energy source. The pressurized liquid used in the process contaminates drinking water and poses major health risks. The Food and Water Watch (F&WW), an environmental activist organization does not support fracking. The F&WW believes that fracking is a dangerous process that is conducive to environmental decay and therefore they want it to be banned across the world. The organization supports its goal of ceasing fracking projects by using visual rhetoric to scrutinize political figures whom are backed by the fracking industry and to inspire people to become active members of the anti-fracking movements. F&WW argues through their images that once corrupt politicians maintain office it can lead to more fracking sites in the future. For example, Image A shows Rick Perry, former Texas governor, notorious for his distaste of the U.S. Department of Energy and financial backing from oil and gas corporations. The F&WW chose to focus on Perry because he is a candidate to run the Energy department under the Trump administration According to the F&WW website, Rick Perry declared in 2011 that he wanted to eliminate the Department of Washington 2 Energy from the government agencies, and only reconsidered running the agency because of his oil and gas partners. The F&WW believes that Perry poses a major threat to the anti-fracking movement; therefore, they use images to convince the audience to deter Perry from being Secretary of Energy (How Rick Perry). Image A utilizes logos and kairos to influence the audience to speak out about position as Secretary of Energy. The image uses logos, the appeal to logic, by providing information about the funds that Perry has received from the oil and gas industry. Kairos, the appeal to timeliness, is apparent in the image because Perry was on the verge of becoming Secretary and the F&WW does not want him in office at all. The image has written in bold letters beside head that he received $14 million in campaign contributions [from the oil and gas The tone of the image is a bit cynical, because of smirk and the fact that his finger is pointing to a staggering figure of bribe money. The figure of bribe money is a sentence embellishment that amplifies the significance of the claim. According to Walter Masocha, amplification of a sentence is a schematic device used to increase the worth and comprehensibility of a sentence (Masocha). This statement of the number of funds given to Perry reveal the influence that the oil and gas corporation has in the government. The F&WW intended for their image to be intended for their image to be interpreted by ordinary citizens due to the images simplified features such as bold, enlarged text and amplified sentence. The purpose of image A is to inform the audience that Perry is in the pocket of corrupt corporations and therefore the public must apply pressure to their local senators to vote against Perry. So the action engendered from the image requires immediate action in order for it to assist the F&WW in their fight against fracking. Washington 3 Furthermore, the F&WW utilizes relatable images on their social media to further influence the general public to become involved with their movement. The F&WW posted image B on their Instagram page around mid-February with the caption The hashtag used in the mentioned caption is a trending movement for the citizens of North Dakota fighting against oil and gas corporations who are trying to desecrate their land. The organization ensures that their social media is relevant to the modern events occurring in the world. This is an appeal to kairos that conveys the constant progression and relevancy. The F&WW chose to photograph a single mother and child to trigger fear amongst the audience in hopes that the viewers will offer support to the movement. Image B contains a woman holding a sign that says, is Resist Corporate Greed & with a toddler in a stroller beside her. The idea of is is an appeal to fear because it implies that fracking will destroy life, since it contaminates water. The mother and child are also elements of pathos, because they symbolize innocence and are threatened by corrupt corporations. The audience of the image is the general public and people whom support a sustainable environment. This is apparent because of the clothing of the woman and the background. The woman is wearing casual clothing and sunglasses, which convince the audience that ordinary people are involved with the F&WW and are on the forefront of their protest. The background of the image hints that the woman is or was at a current protest, with her child. F&WW wants their viewers to be aware that involvement in their campaign does not require spiffy clothing nor does it require an individual to abandon their responsibilities. The mission is to protect the environment and ensure that everyone has access to clean drinking water. Their concern with fracking is that it destroys the environment, communities and ground water. Therefore, the goal of the F&WW is to rid the planet of practices Washington 4 such as fracking which are ruining the environement. The F&WW uses images such as image A with a logos and kairos appeal to influence citizens to become more prominent in the selection of political figures. Moreover, images such as image B use a pathos appeal with a relatable and fearful tone intended for the audience to become inspired to join the movement. The power of visual appeals has been successful in the fight against fracking. They have inspired many local activists and campaigners across the globe to stand up against fracking and have even lead to the ban of fracking in numerous communities. Even though their campaign has made significant progress, their efforts will not cease until the world is free of hazardous practices that affect food and water. Washington 5 Works Cited  Food & Water Watch, 25 Jan. 2017, http://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/about. Dept. Nominee Rick Perry: Fossil $14 Million Food &Water Watch, 24 Feb. 2017, http://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/impact/energy-dept-nominee-rick-perry- fossil-fuels-14-million-man. Gregory, K. B., R. D. Vidic, and D. A. Dzombak. Water Management Challenges Associated with the Production of Shale Gas by Hydraulic  Elements 7.3 (2011): 181-86. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Rick Perry as Energy Secretary Could Mean More Food & Water Watch, 24 Feb. 2017, https://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/news/how-rick-perry-energy-secretary- could-mean-more-fracking. Masocha, W. Rhetoric in standard setting: the case of the going-concern  Accounting, Auditing & Accountability 20.1 (2007):74. Web. Pack, Jenna. Breaking Down an Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. E-text. Urgent Case for a Ban on Food & Water Watch, 24 Feb. 2017, https://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/insight/urgent-case-ban-fracking. Washington 6 IMAGE A http://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/impact/energy-dept-nominee-rick-perry- fossil-fuels-14-million-man Washington 7 IMAGE B https://www.instagram.com/p/BQbWyQplcDy/?hl=en