1 Alissa Crotty Professor Casey Clague ENC1102 19 March 2017 US and Cuba Relations The United States and Cuba have had a tumultuous relationship for the past seven decades. From this the United States has established laws and regulations against Cuba from traveling to trade to communication with the country. As a result of this there is an abundance of material, pictures, and public service announcements (PSA) that represents both interests in this matter. The United States interests and concerns are represented through the images with their portrayal of Cuba and the abuse of human rights that are displayed and addressed in the images in order to appeal to a emotions, logic, and credibility of the organizations to have people become more educated in this subject and ultimately take action. The image of man who is lying face down and has his legs and arms tied together is an extremely powerful image. This first image is a part of a series of images that an art duo created and put around Key West in order to show the reality of Cuba for its inhabitants but put in an ironic context. The images created by these artists show desire is not only informative: not intended to say go to but if, look at the reality of the Cubans there, and of the opposition. To remind them [the that they are stepping on a ground where there are a people living in an apartheid, to show the other side of the coin, which is quite (Sahl, 2017). These images were created in response to the United States lifting the long-standing travel ban to Cuba. The image of the man is based on a real photo taken in Cuba of a man in an 2 identical scenario. The image represents the real-world conditions of human rights violations that occur and have occurred in Cuba under the totalitarian government. The image most predominantly uses the rhetorical appeal of pathos in order to evoke emotions from the reader about the injustices in Cuba. The image appeals to a emotions because a man has been tied up which leads a person to be upset or angry at the image with a feeling of almost confusion as to how a government could do this. The man in the image is Black which can allude to the rampant racism in much of Cuba. The man is facing down so that the audience cannot see his face which creates a dehumanizing effect for the man in the image. This appeals to pathos because this aspect of the image creates a sadness that so many of the people in Cuba who have human rights violations occur against them are nameless and faceless. The tagline of the image appeals to a logos as it says to Cuba via Shakira Favorite Form of Prison Torture The tagline appeals to logos because it is blatantly sarcastic and makes the audience contemplate the reality of Cuba. This irony is very effective because many travel brochures and similar items prompt tourists to visit country as in to experience it as the locals do, however in this case to experience it in that way would lead to the torture and overall prison experience that Cubans undergo when their human rights are violated. The second image of the person who was subjected to human rights violations represents the reluctance of the United States as a stakeholder in regards to the complicated nature of the United States and Cuba relations. The second image of the Cuban man elicits emotion and concern for the United States to pursue diplomatic relations with Cuba due to the image of a severely beaten man and the reference to the lack of human rights and the abundance of human rights violations that still happen in Cuba. The image was used as aid in a Senate Foreign Relations Committee meeting and it was acknowledged that of the greatest rubs 3 that we have relative to human rights issues is that we have other equities if you will, with governments that sometimes compromise our abilities [to raise rights Urged to Keep Focus on Human Rights in 2015). The image of the man is the most successful in appealing to a pathos. The face of a man who has been beaten prompts concern and even outrage in a person. The majority of the face is covered in bandages which leads people to think of how much worse it most likely is underneath the bandages. This is important because the image plays on a sympathy and natural empathy for other human beings and to see this image as a common occurrence in Cuba creates strong negative feelings towards the Cuban government. Within the image it lists, the man who was beaten, his name and profession. This primarily humanizes him and puts his situation in a more real context that helps people who are viewing this image to realize that these types of actions against the Cuban people are regular incidences in Cuba. The image also appeals to a logos. The image contains the headline that USA/Cuba Relations Violence Has To this points out and makes the logical conclusion about the United States and Cuba. Per the United Nations respect for human rights is a core purpose of the United Nations and defines its identity as an organization for people around the n.d.) and it is each duty to uphold human rights in theoir respective nation. For decades, there have been many incidences where the Cuban government has violated human rights and this behavior has carried through to present-day Cuba. The phrase used in the image appeals to a logic because it relates the essentials of the situations to what needs to happen. The image also appeals to a ethos because at the bottom of the image there is a hashtag for the movement being this gives people a place to obtain more 4 information about the movement. Typically, a hashtag would not necessarily give a movement credibility but in this instance, it does because Cuba has no freedom of the press and website creations are heavily monitored so the most efficient way for Cubans to connect, on a global stage, is to use social media. This image reflects the United interests because it simply and effectively conveys one of the largest barriers between the United States and Cuba having diplomatic and constant relations. The image of the beaten man reflects why the United States has in place an embargo on Cuba because even though they have historically come a long way, the country still has obvious problems within its government. These images both reflect the United interests and reluctance with pursuing international relations with Cuba beyond what they have already begun to establish. The delicate relationship of the two nations is reflected in these images as they produce strong and powerful emotions and thoughts about the shortcomings of the Cuban government. These two images show the nature of relations with Cuba by showing the allowances that have already been made on behalf and holistically failure to improve on the key area of human rights and the human rights violations that still frequently occur in Cuba. 5 6 Reference List Human Rights. (n.d.). Retrieved from United Nations: http://www.un.org/en/sections/priorities/human-rights/ Sahl, Z. (2017, January 19). Tourist posters that challenge image. Retrieved from Babalu Blog: http://www.babalublog.com/2017/01/19/tourist-posters- that-challenge-cubas-revolutionary-image/ US Urged to Keep Focus on Human Rights in Iran, Cuba. (2015, July 16). Retrieved from The Real Cuba: http://www.therealcuba.com/?p=691