Zaid 1 Yossef Zaid Professor Karen Hanson ENC1102.084 12 March 2017 PETA versus Animals used for entertainment Some theme parks have majestic creatures which perform magnificent feats for visitors to experience. Many people find these sights breathtaking, but many more find it blood boiling. These majestic animals are used as a source of entertainment while they suffer, and this to many people violates every law of nature. There are groups of people like People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals (PETA) who fight to bring an end to these saying that having animals do these tricks is abuse. Animals that are trained to do these tricks are often subjected to a long and usually painful process. PETA believes that animals should not be used as a form of entertainment. PETA believes the act of using animals is abusive and a violation of the natural rights they should have. PETA campaigns to make changes in the way animals are treated,and to end the abuse they believe animals are suffering from. PETA somewhat successfully shows that they are helping animals through their actions using two images to display their victories over the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, and Seaworld. PETA completely successful because of the hard to reach location of the images. If people can not find the images they can not be affected by them. PETA displays their ability to challenge large corporations and change the world through these two images by promoting their victories over these large companies. For example, this first Zaid 2 image shows a baby elephant being in how to do a certain trick. Directly underneath the image are a few words describing victory over the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus This image contains pathos, ethos, and kairos but it lacks strong logos. Each of these rhetorical appeals increases the effectiveness of the image to convey ability to make a change. Even the lack of logos increases the effectiveness slightly. To begin the strongest appeal in this image and text is pathos. Pathos is the appeal to emotion The image contains a baby elephant being tied up in an odd position with a man poking it with a metal rod. It is difficult not to feel pity for the elephant. That all in the text below the the image words like protest, cruelty, and concern are used. The use of pathos in these words invokes three emotions that increase the effectiveness of the image: sympathy towards the elephant, dislike towards the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, and respect towards PETA. These emotions would help PETA win over the trust, showing the audience how PETA is the good guy and the Ringling Bros. are the villains ). If the image had the desired effects the audience would be won over to side of the and would be more likely to support them in the future. The next appeal the image has is kairos. Kairos is the appeal to time like a call to action or a fact about history The short text under the image states that this achievement of making the Ringling Bros. stop using elephants for performances was an event 35 years in the making This makes the event feel like a historic happening, which makes it feel more important to the audience than if this fact was left out The image increases its credibility through the use of ethos, which is an appeal to authority The text under the image mentions PETA and Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus which are widely known organizations and corporations. The fact that this Zaid 3 information is coming from one large organization about another means it has to have some level of credibility because if it was found to be false PETA would lose a large amount of trust. Using the names of well known people makes it easier for those who want to know more to search for it. This leads to the lack of logos. There much information about how or why PETA made the Ringling Bros. cease their use of elephants. This is first because this is only meant to be a small summary of the fact that it happened. Secondly, not having an abundance of information allows those who are curious to look for more information and those that curious will not be held down by excess information they want. Each of these rhetorical appeals, or lack of them, enhances the effectiveness of the image. The images propose is the celebrate victory over the Ringling Bros. and make it known to the people that PETA is making a difference. The second image is of a sad looking orca whale with a short text below it stating announcement to end their orca breeding program Similar to the first image this main rhetorical appeal is pathos, but it also contains ethos,logos, and kairos. The purpose is to celebrate victory over Seaworld and inform the audience of ability to change the world. Pathos is the main rhetorical appeal, appearing in the image through the sad orca and in the text with words like intense and imprisoned. Again this image invokes feelings from the audience, sympathy for the orca in the image and all the Seaworld has in captivity, respect and praise towards PETA for these orca, and dislike towards Seaworld for these orcas in the first place. These feelings will allow the audience to trust PETA to a greater extent than they had before. The ethos used in the text below the image is small. However it adds credibility to the image by increasing its Zaid 4 trustworthiness therefore increasing effectiveness. The kairos has a similar effect as the ethos in this case. PETA mentioned this event had taken so that the audience would appreciate the time PETA spent achieving this victory. This will increase how much they like PETA, thereby increasing the effectiveness. This image has logos, which is an appeal to logic. The logos in this image includes a list of all the ways PETA campaigned to cause this event to happen. Reading this list will allow the audience to see all the planning PETA had spent doing to achieve this outcome and the logic behind their actions. This will increase the effectiveness of the image. Both of these images have similar strengths and weaknesses. They are both effective images that place the achievements of PETA on a pedestal for people to praise. The problem is that PETA is not getting the images to the targeted group. The images are hard to find if people looking for them, which decreases the effectiveness of the images by a large margin. A research paper by Davis Lance found that one of the most effective methods to get a message out to have a focused widespread message (Lance et al.). These images are focused on getting people to see that PETA is making achievements. However, if no one sees them then it matter how effective these images are because there anyone to effect. Both images made a point to try and have the audience become curious by not going into great detail. This was done to get the audience to want to look for more information. If the audience looked for further information about the Ringlings Bro. or the Seaworld event, it would cause great searches and it would circulate better on the internet via news outlets like the Broadcasting (BBC). The audience would then find what part PETA played in these events. The audience would would find the in depth detail about how PETA helped cause the collapse of the Ringlings Bros. Zaid 5 Circus Bros circus However all this effort is wasted because the location of the images do not allow for high enough traffic to cause any meaningful effects. The images are located on their website under the milestone tab, and getting to these images would take at least two minutes even if the person knew where they were This means only those who look for it or those who accidentally stumble upon it will be affected by it. This crimped the number of people who will see the image to only those who are already interested in PETA and their achievements enough to end up at that page. PETA was successful in making two images that effectively display their ability to change the world. When people see these images they will, in most cases, feel impressed by accomplishments. People would put more of their trust into PETA and believe that they will do what they say they will. This only applies to people who see these images, because their location is so obscure. Through these images PETA is trying to make people believe that one day all animals will be free, with these images they show they are taking it one solid step after another. Zaid 6 Zaid 7 Zaid 8 Works Cited Davis, A. Lance, and Robin D. Gibbin. Public Awareness Of Engineering. [Electronic . n.p.: Washington, D.C. : National Academies Press, c2002., 2002. of South Florida Libraries Catalog . Web. 26 Feb. 2017 McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. Milestones For For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals , 26 Feb. 2017, http://www.peta.org/about-peta/milestones/ Bros circus to close Show on after 146 British Broadcasting Corporation, 26 Feb. 2017,