Rising College Tuition Rates 1 Rising College Tuition Rates Nafia Ali University of South Florida Rising College Tuition Rates 2 When one thinks of college, they think of student debt, stress, and financial struggles. The constant rise of college makes it difficult for families to send their children to public colleges while private colleges are even more expensive. Elizabeth Farrell found that public college tuition prices rose 33 percent within one year, while private colleges rose 10 percent (Public Colleges Tame Price of Tuition). This rising cost contributed to costs for research, clinical practices, student residence halls, athletics, and other activities that in general produce their own (Understanding the Cost of Public Higher Education). The stakeholder that represents the students in this argument is the United States Student Association. This association stands for equal opportunities for every student that wishes to attend college. It is oldest, largest, and most inclusive national student-led and helps make the student voices heard throughout the nation. They use ads to get a message of pride of determination across with the colors, body language, and appearance evoking pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos. The United States Student Association stands for equal opportunity for education in college. They believe that education is a right that the government should provide students while maintaining its affordability. It was founded in 1978 and started being represented by multicultural groups in 1989 after Congress mandated diversity in the board of directors. It has represented equal representation ever since through the minority groups included in the association. The first picture that is being analyzed is red, white and blue and says, is a in red letters. The colors of this picture make the ad stand out a great deal. It also instigates a patriotic feel, pathos, which attracts a very prideful audience. It has a white capital building which makes one think of Washington D.C. and it associates the mind with credibility Rising College Tuition Rates 3 which is ethos. The picture shows credibility because the correlation with the government usually means an association can be trusted. It also shows that the government is involved with the associations plans and can be relied upon. In front of the capital building, there are people that have their arms up in the air. This way, it seems like they are protesting for a cause which can also evoke pathos since it involves being determined with feeling. This ad helps get across the associations thought of equal education since it shows protesting and patriotic colors. It ties in pathos and ethos because the emotional aspect in this ad contributes to the overall feeling. It makes the audience sympathetic towards the students because of them standing together as one, as well as the colors that show national pride. In the second picture, a large crowd is shown protesting on capitol hill while holding signs advocating for free college tuition. This is a common picture that they used on their website to get their message across to their viewers. There are people being represented of all races and genders, which can lend ethos to this conversation. It is ethos because it shows that many types of different people believe in the same cause. It is also seen in the picture that there are different colleges being represented in this campaign which lends ethos to the conversation as well because of the diversity around the country. Pathos is being represented in this picture because seeing students marching together can evoke a sense of unity in the audience and have sympathy for the students having to pay for tuition. It also lends a sense of pride since the students are marching in professional wear and in front of capitol hill. It shows the pride they have in their country and government when representing the nation of students. While logos is not present in this picture, the sense of pathos and ethos is still very strong. It helps get the message out correctly to the audience supporting affordable college. Rising College Tuition Rates 4 When comparing these two pictures, the message that is being portrayed in both is the same. Both images contain uses of pathos and ethos when showing the protests and emotion behind it. Pathos is strong in the first image with the colors used to write the letters of the association, while the pathos in the second image is strong because of the gathering of a large crowd in front of the capitol building. Ethos is shown in the first picture by showing the capitol building as credibility. In the second picture, the same method is used to display ethos through the capitol building. When comparing these ads to student debt, one can see that the United States Student Association is protesting for a change in the way the government handles student tuition. They stand for the government lowering college tuition in order to fundamentally make it a right for all students of America be able to attend and afford college. Rising College Tuition Rates 5 References Page Amuedo-Dorantes, C., & Sparber, C. (2014). In-state tuition for undocumented immigrants and its impact on college enrollment, tuition costs, student financial aid, and indebtedness. Regional Science And Urban Economics, 4911-24. doi:10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2014.07.010 Education is a right! (n.d.). Retrieved March 19, 2017, from http://usstudents.org/ Farrell, E. (2005). Public Colleges Tame Costs of Tuition. The Chronicle Of Higher Education, (10), Kelderman, E. (2009). Calculating the True Cost of Tuition Freezes at Public Colleges. The Chronicle Of Higher Education, (36), McDearmon, J. T. (2009). Tuition rising: Why college costs so much. International Journal Of Educational Advancement, (1), 54. McKinney, L., & Novak, H. (2015). FAFSA Filing Among First-Year College Students: Who Files on Time, Who and Why Does it Matter?. Research In Higher Education, 56(1), 1-28. doi:10.1007/s11162-014-9340-0 Rising College Tuition Rates 6