Lee 1 Analisa Lee Professor Karen Hanson Composition 1102 12 March 2017 Government Surveillance Appeals When it comes to the issue of government surveillance, people are particularly sensitive and strong minded on what they believe. Government surveillance is such a massive topic because we are finding new threats to safety and must find ways to counter it. On one side people believe we must give up everything and do whatever it takes to keep America safe, even if that means giving up our freedom. Others believe that we need to find better ways to ensure safety without giving up one of our key foundations - our freedom and privacy. Stand Against Spying (SAS) is an organization that believes the government should not have access to the personal messages or calls. Their goal is to put a stop to anything that will encourage more government surveillance, especially by the National Security Association (NSA), who are in charge of Against Spying does an excellent job in displaying their disapproval towards government surveillance through two images with visual rhetoric that coincide with their distaste toward spying and support to continuously fight for freedom. Stand Against Spying is extremely firm on ending government surveillance; they are currently trying to persuade the government to put more restrictions on the NSA. The SAS want to inform all American citizens of the potential consequences and dangers of allowing the government to spy. In image A, there is a diverse group of Americans protesting in support of Lee 2 the SAS. The diverse and multicultural protesters display that this issue is affecting everyone, no matter the skin color, and that many different ethnicities are in support. This shows the rhetorical appeal of ethos, which appeals to trustworthiness and credibility. The diverse group of people coming together enforces their goal to successfully inform all American citizens and are not biased towards one group. The symbol on the banner in the picture, which is also their logo, is an eye with a hand in the middle. This symbol also appeals to ethos because the eye and hand are representing the want to stop government surveillance. It appeals to the credibility and honesty of the SAS. Additionally, the SAS also stand firmly with the Fourth Amendment and do not want to stray from it. The Fourth Amendment states, right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be (U.S. Const. Amend. IV, sec. 1.). In image B, the protesters have these words painted big and bold on their banners. This is an appeal to logos, which appeals to logic and facts. The Fourth Amendment essentially says that we have the right to our own things and personal property. America has been living off of this principle since 1787 and the SAS do not want to stray from this. They do a successful job in displaying logos by using the Amendment that supports their cause taken from the U.S. Constitution. Stand Against Spying encourages acting immediately. They believe we need to at quickly and efficiently to decrease government surveillance. They show this in image A because these people are protesting. This applies to the rhetorical appeal of kairos, which appeals to timeliness. Lee 3 According to Allyson Hoffman and Alysia Sawchyn, is causing someone (a member of your audience) to take action through the power of argument or 41). The image makes the viewer want to react. It can encourage people to want to get up and protest alongside the protesters in the picture because they see they are not alone. Image B also shows protesting, further encouraging people to act quickly against the government. I think the images used by SAS do a good job in displaying kairos, because protesting is very relevant in government issues and kairos is proven to be effective in political campaigns. Depending on the audience, however, can affect the way the picture is interpreted and how they feel about it. Both images do a good job in displaying pathos, which appeals to emotion. If the viewer does not agree with the SAS, they can feel outraged and aggravated that there is so many people protesting. However, if the viewer agrees with what the SAS are doing, they can feel uplifted and empowered that there are people out there that are doing something about what they believe is a problem. Stand Against goal is, create public pressure on individual members of Congress and the president to take significant steps to reform NSA spying . . They did a successful job in demonstrating their goal through the two images. By using real people with a diverse background, at a recent protest rally, allows the images to display all the rhetoric appeals. Both the pictures highlight the importance of needing to come together and stand up against their cause. The Stand Against Spying organization hopes to put an end to government surveillance and maintain our freedom and privacy. In 2014 they put on an event called The Day We Fight Back and inspired people to demand a real surveillance reform. It 89,000 phone calls and over 500,000 emails to Congress in a single day Little Lee 4 They continue to work and hope for more impact and change towards the government and achieve their goal. Lee 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41-46. E-text. Little Against Spying. N.d. 26 Feb. 2017. https://standagainstspying.org/about/ Goals For This Against Spying. N.d. 26 Feb. 2017 https://standagainstspying.org/about/ U.S. Constitution. Amend. IV, Sec. 1. Lee 6 Image A https://standagainstspying.org/about/ Image B https://standagainstspying.org/about/