Uhl 1 Maxwell Uhl ENC1102 Karen Hanson March 12 2017 GMO: Labeling It (final draft project 2) Genetically modified organisms have been used in food products for more than a decade, and have seen their fair share of scrutiny, and advancements. One issue in regards to their use has become particularly important, namely the labeling of such products. Two advertisement images were made by a certain group who supports GMO labeling and were found on their website which appear to show different arguments that the fight for labelling is both contentious, and rather important to the general public. Image A reports on the numbers of people who support their to and seems to evoke a sense of national unity in support of labelling. Image B shows what appears to be a simulacrum of a news article on a paper whose title is is fighting your right to and which shows which companies partook in legal battle over a certain law which would require GMO labeling in a certain state. The Just Label It project, who believes that it is the right of every person to know whether they are eating and desire to label products with them, has made two ads which I believe successfully enumerate and elucidate their stake in the issue. Their pro-labeling position seems to be successfully supported by the images, however hard to find those images were. The first image, image A, has a certain set of features seen therein which relate to certain rhetorical appeals and to the organizations goals. The image, with a blue background, includes a number of numerical facts about GMO labeling support which are arranged in the shape of the United States. These numerical facts include statements such as of Americans want Uhl 2 20,000 supporters per it states that of 90% of and 93% of democrats say countries mandate labelling of and than 1,000,000 Americans have called on the FDA to label it time they among a few others. On the very top are the words, in bold and all capitals WANTS The qualities of the image can be analyzed for their effects on an audience and relate to rhetorical appeals of a seemingly fallacious ethos, a somewhat convincing pathos and logos, and no use of kairos. As described by Emily Lane et al., in the E-text of Rhetoric Really Matters is the way of establishing trust with his or her (20) One would see the use of majority opinions used throughout the image. For example in when it states of or or of 90% of want one could call this a successful appeal or a fallacious appeal. What the group wants is GMO labeling, and if they are to present that issue to government officials, constituency numbers might be a very convincing factor. However, if image authors are merely implying that people agree therefor it is a good idea to label they may be committing a bandwagon fallacy. Appeals to public opinion and the shape of the United States may also be seen in the light of pathos. Emily Lane states once more, in the same book that may want to think of pathos as which pertains to the experience of or sensitivity toward (22). A sense of unity can be seen as an emotional state. National unity, in this circumstance, is the emotional state in question. The image is shaped like the US and includes small stick figures interspersed between the numbers. While these two appeals are a tad tenuous but report well on the organizations stake, they are most primarily based on numbers. And numbers are an appeal to logic. Logos, Emily Lane et al. says, may want to think of logos as because logos Uhl 3 appeals to logic and (23) The numbers simply hold the rest of the appeals together and give logical credence to the statement at the top of the page WANT The numerical data in the shape of the US are evidences of that statement and are successful appeals to logos and work well in the framework of the Just Label It projects Narrative. To prove a point about the convincing power of public opinion Jon Agnone, in the Oxford Journals, wrote an article titled Social Forces, which states scholars theorize that social movements directly affect public policy, others point to public opinion as the key to legislative (1594). However successful the other appeals are, there seems to be a very weak element of Kairos, which, as Emily Lane et al. states may want to think of kairos as the type of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right (25). One numerical fact listed in the image is million equals someone speaking out to support GMO labeling every 30 seconds for an entire This statement seem to make very much sense, in regards to any of the appeals, even though the authors seem to have wanted it to be an appeal to timeliness. One might think that that fact weakens their argument. While image A relates to public support of GMO labeling, image B relates to companies fighting against GMO labeling policy. This can be seen in the qualities seen in the image, which has the following description. The image shows what appears to be a stack of posters lying on a wooden background. The posters have a title which reads presents Fighting your Right to below that is a short article framing device which reads on spenders. It goes on the explain that chemical and food companies spent millions of dollars to fight proposition 37, which it says was a required GMO labeling law. Below th explanation are a list of chemical and food companies in order of how much they spent, with the biggest spenders highlighted, Monsanto and Dupont who, respectively, spent 8.1 and 5.4 Uhl 4 million dollars in some way or another which is not directly explained. Further down the list are a number of other chemical and food company names with their respective dollar amount spent on fighting Further down one would see an explained acronym and below that, the source of the numbers and data they obtained, which is the California Secretary of State with the date November 2012 there beside. In the top right, one finds a circled text, saying label it headlines September These qualities have an effect on the viewer and relate to the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, unlike the previous image. Ethos, the appeal to credibility, can be garnered from the use of the Just Label It logo and the use of a credible source of data, the California Secretary of State. Pathos can be understood from the tone of the title is fighting your right to The word implies a battle, which may invoke a sense of personal attack or danger. This sense of danger relates to the subject of and their safety, which the authors of the text might find supports their goals. In the abstract of an article titled Food Policy, authors Marco Costanigro and Jason L. Lusk state, has been suggested that the adoption of mandatory labeling for genetically engineered food might send a signal to consumers that foods produced with biotechnology are unsafe or should be avoided. To date, however, there is little empirical evidence to substantiate this (259-267). This information is a bit of a behind the scenes of the reason companies fought this bill so hard, and the article cited seems to suggest that the companies do not have a full understanding of the facts of the issue, further cementing the image pointing out these companies for fighting so hard. A viewer armed with these facts would find the position of the Just label It project very reasonable. Logos in the image is seen as the clear way they set up a question and an answer. is fighting your right to has its clear answer in the lower portion of the image, where each company is listed and Uhl 5 the amount that they spent to This question answer form of logic can be very convincing, especially in the frame of the pathos of a personal attack. Kairos is not fully developed, but more can be seen with a deeper look into the text of the image. The bill that was was fought in November of 2012, and the top right portion of the article states that the image was made around September of 2013, when the law was still fresh in the governmental process. By this means the article itself can be understood as timely. While the two images have several flaws, they seem for very concisely state the issues of the topic of labeling The for GMO labeling and its effects on and for the public are contentious, but seem to play right into the hands of the Just Label It project. There images make clear how the public agrees and that that should drive policy change. They make it clear that the biggest fighters of that policy change are large food companies, one of which, Monsanto, has a very public stigma already, whether a person knows about stake in GMOs or not. The Just Label It project seems to have made a pair of very convincing images to support their stake in the argument of mandatory GMO labeling. Uhl 6 Image A http://www.justlabelit.org/one-million-strong-record-breaking-comments-delivered-to-fda-to-label-ge- foods/ Uhl 7 Image B http://www.justlabelit.org/right-to-know-center/labeling-opponents/ Uhl 8 Works cited Agnone, Jon. Public Opinion: The Policy Impact of the U.S. Environmental Social Forces, vol. 85, no. 4, 2007, pp. Costanigro, Marco and Jayson L. Lusk. The Signaling Effect of Mandatory Labels on Genetically Engineered  Food Policy, vol. 49, no. Part 1, 01 Dec. 2014, pp. 259- 267. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.foodpol.2014.08.005. Lane, Emily et al. The Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: Xanadu, 2016. 20-26. E-text.