Rudderham 1 Stephen Rudderham Dr. Karen Hanson ENC1102 2-21-17 Outsourcing Rhetorical Analysis Outsourcing has become an important issue in globalizing business world. Outsourcing is process of externalizing tasks and services previously performed in-house, to outside (Jenster 147). Many organizations have stressed their opposition to the issue, stating that it is unethical and harsh on the workers in foreign countries to have to craft clothing and other items while being paid minimally. However, organizations like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce support the use of outsourcing in order for businesses to create greater profits. They argue that by producing more jobs abroad it will in return create more domestic jobs U.S. Chamber of This organization claims that increasing business abroad will raise the global economy and in return raise the economy in the United States. In order to show the belief they have, the Chamber of Commerce uses images to effectively persuade their audience into believing what they stand for as well. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce supports the argument of outsourcing through two images using visual rhetoric that show U.S. businesses branching out into other countries. The two images that the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have selected to go along with articles and papers they have published are rhetorically successful in allowing the audience to understand their point before viewing any more than just the image. Rudderham 2 Outsourcing provides the world of the employed labor (Bardhan). Due to this fact, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce believes that it opens up and improves the world economy. The two images displayed play an important role in demonstrated the positive aspects to outsourcing. Both of these images have American colors which gives the viewer an emotion of national pride, as well as showing the authority that the U.S. presents in the world. These two images show logos and ethos. If they were to select different colors it would not make as much sense when dealing with American business and people. Less emotion would go into the viewing of the article and no sense of pride would be pre-established just from a quick glance at the image. Also, the authority figure that the U.S. presents in the world would be nonexistent. If people feel that a top organization in the U.S. are being supported by the government then they are more likely to give the topic a chance. If the colors were different and an eagle was not on one as well as the American flag on the other, then people viewing the image would not understand the purpose that is being portrayed. Outsourcing will continue to be a controversial topic between business people and human rights activist. But, in using these rhetorical appeals related to the images the U.S. Chamber of Commerce has shown why they believe outsourcing is supporting the American people and economy. The first image shows an American flag with the stripes separating from the ends and becoming tangled up with each other. There are also 51 stars on this flag. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce uses this image in order to promote American businesses outsourcing their products to different countries. The American flag makes the audience feel trusting of the image because it an important national symbol. This is used to provide ethos or, way of providing trust with his or her (McIntyre 20), because it shows the relationship the Rudderham 3 viewer has with the flag. As Americans, people respect the flag as a symbol of America. This allows the audience to feel like the image is trustworthy and providing an accurate message. Looking more closely into the flag, the stripes are protruding out and entangling each other far away from where the flag normally would stop. Now, because this image is in support of outsourcing, the stripes show logos and the logic that American businesses should spread out and reach past where they are normally supposed to operate. The stripes indicate that American businesses are moving to other countries and connecting with the governments there. They are being entangled in the globalizing world. This image shows 51 stars on the flag which is also an appeal to logos, because it is evidence without proving emotion. The 51 stars represents the future and that America is a growing place. Other nations can help the U.S. and provide them with support for the businesses. Lastly, the number and words, 2017 The State of American Regulations, represents kairos because the events and issue are current with this year. This shows that American businesses can get caught up with regulations but, when outsourcing is the concern they follow the rules. The second image shows the crest of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce presented in an article about employee benefits of outsourcing. This image is supposed to make the reader feel safe and unjudged when discussing the controversial topic of outsourcing. Pathos or the appeal to emotion is demonstrated from this image. When discussing controversial topics people often take a defensive approach in order to not offend anyone. A crest with an eagle and the colors of the U.S. on allows the people reading the article attached to this image to feel more comfortable discussing this topic. The colors of the crest are also red, white and blue with an eagle which again represents America and bring unity to the viewers. This shows ethos because Rudderham 4 it is an image that shows authority. It is trying to show the audience that America as a whole is in support of the purpose of the image. In this case, it is showing the American citizens are in support of outsourcing. Logos is shown in image B as well because of the words in the crest. It says, Spirit of and, U.S. Chamber of These two phrases placed on the image shows the viewer the reason behind the article and can formulate ideas about what it will be about. They know that this organization will support commerce and the businesses that are trying to outsource their products. The Chamber of Commerce will continue to use rhetorically appealing images to provide support of their opinions. In the future, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce will continue to show why outsourcing can be beneficial to the people of their nation and other nations. In years to come human resources and IT outsourcing will have a larger part in outsourcing (Kakabadse 184). Some reasons that they believe this is that it can boost the economy of both nations and give more jobs to the nation they go in to. It will require a partnership and alliances as well as improved relationships between the company and worker (Kakabadse 188). Again, this will open up more jobs in countries abroad. Also, because they are working and interacting with customers the workers must provide the correct information and be polite about it. This will force the company to support its workers and keep them happy. The open opportunity that outsourcing provides makes businesses support what the Chamber of Commerce is doing. Eventually they may be able to find a solution to allow the open opportunity in all countries without the criticism of people in opposition of outsourcing. Rudderham 5 Image A Image B Rudderham 6 Works Cited About the U.S.  U.S. Chamber of Commerce. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Bardhan, Ashok, and Cynthia A. Kroll. The new wave of  (2003). Jenster, Per V., and Henrik Stener Pedersen. Outsourcing--facts and  Strategic Change 9.3 (2000): 147. Kakabadse, Andrew, and Nada Kakabadse. Outsourcing: current and future  Thunderbird international business review 47.2 (2005): 183-188. McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text.