Omar Ajlouni Ajlouni 1 Ms.Gottlieb ENC 1102 March 1st, 2017 The Legal Drinking Age The laws regarding consumption of alcohol differ from country to country, and for the most part, the culture within each society dictates these rules. Most countries allow for the consumption between the age eighteen and twenty-one, with some exceptions at the age of sixteen. The stake- holder called New Health Advisor believes that the drinking age should not be lowered, for, it will harm young adults more than it will benefit them. The organizations main goal and mission is to provide aid to people, in order to live healthier lives through the use of professional knowledge One of their most significant discussions is the legal drinking age. The NHA has depicted its concerns through two images, both of which are clear illustrations of the consequences of lower- ing the drinking age. In addition, the rhetorical appeals are clearly a prominent factor when attempt- ing to exploit the message. They believe that lowering the drinking age will cause more issues than resolve, for, lowering the drinking age will could possibly cause more illicit drug use, also, will increase drunk driving related accidents. As a result, the organization shines light on the medical, social, and emotion issues that come with lowering the drinking age. The NHA illustrates its concern for the lowering the drinking age by using two images, the first of which is a man holding an alcoholic beverage while speeding through a tunnel. This image was used by the stakeholder to express one of the consequences of lowering the drinking age. Which is Ajlouni 2 that by lowering the drinking age, young adults are more prone to being involved in drinking and driving incidents. According to the NHA, Statistics show that higher legal drink age plays a role in lowering rates of traffic accidents. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), the current drinking age limit lowered the number of traffic accidents for teens (between 18 and 20 years of age) by thirteen percent ( The rhetorical appeals associated with this image are methods to illicit an emotional response from an audience, Which is pathos. This increase the effectiveness of the stakeholders message. Furthermore, the stakeholder uses the image to depict that lowering the drinking age will increase the likelihood of teenagers taking part in irresponsible activities. The image also promotes the feeling of fear and empathy, which is logos. The act of drinking and driving is a fear shared by most people and the stakeholder believes that by lowering the drinking age more incidents of drunk driving will occur, and since the main target is parents, seeing this image will promote the fear of their safety. The image stirs up these images from the rhetorical appeals associated with it. This image can stir up the emotions of people who have been affected by drunk driving, such as family members of people who have died or been in- jured in car crashes. This is specifically illustrated by the lights in the background that indicate the driver is speeding and the alcoholic beverage in his hand. In addition, the image implies that this is an illogical thing to do because of the risk to their health because of drunk driving. This is illustrat- ed by the driver holding a drink whilst driving. Also, the image illustrates timelessness because they are on the road implying that they may be running out of time since they are risking their life by drinking and driving. This increases the fear, associated with this image.Ultimately, it will lead the audience to feel a stronger connection to the image, and the emotions associated with it.This will aid in spreading the organisations message.The final rhetorical appeal is ethos, it is the appeal to Ajlouni 3 credibility.This is usually associated with quotations from the stakeholder. Unfortunately, the stake- holder does not present any of these in his images. Another significant issue associated with lowering the drinking age is the possibility of promoting illicit drug use in young adults. The NHA believes that alcohol and drug abuse are direct- ly correlated, according to the NHA, a study from the Journal of Studies of Alcohol and Drugs, it was mentioned that teenagers who start drinking early in their lives are more likely to take illicit drugs as well. Lowering MLDA 21 would allow more teenagers to try drinking and this might en- courage them to try other drugs as well These concerns are illustrated by the image the stakeholder has provided. It is an hand holding pills, whilst a half empty bottle of liquor lays there next to a sign with written on it. The rhetorical appeals associated with this image are what truly promotes the empathetic reaction from an audience. The image would stir up emotions in peo- ple who have a history either with drug use, or people affected by others drug use could be emo- tionally appealed the image. This is pathos,furthermore, this is depicted by the half empty bottle and the pills placed above the note (Image 2). It would stir up emotion because the hand in the image shows that the person is struggling with these substances. Also, this image implies that by lowering the drinking age would promote illicit drug use because alcohol is a gateway drug. Fur- thermore, this is illustrated by the half empty bottle next to the handful of pills. In addition, the use of the word would indicate that the person is in a dire situation and is in need of assis- tance.Thus, it would cause somewhat of a panic or allow the audience to empathize with the person in the image. Logos is illustrated in this image from the general state of the individual in the image (Image 2).Furthermore, the hand holding the pills seems to be weak, indicating that it is illogical to take drugs and alcohol simultaneously.Another prominent aspect in this image is kairos, the appeal Ajlouni 4 to timeliness. The dimmed lights , in the corners of the image, illustrate timeliness because the in- dicting a darkness closing in. Which is an indication of time ending, with regards to this image, that life could be ending. This will aid in spreading the stakeholders message, because it brings up fearful emotions.These emotions will hopefully amen people realise the risks associated with drugs and alcohol.Similar to the first image, this image does have ethos, the appeal to credibility.- For, the stakeholder has not added any sort of credibility to his image. When viewing both images next to each other, there are obvious ways that they differ and show similarities. The first image actually illustrates the process of drinking and driving,which in- dicates that the first image illustrates the process of doing harm. Whilst, the second image seems to depict the consequence of lowering the drinking age, the harm has already been done. Another sig- nificant difference is that the second image uses actual words, whereas the first image does not. The use of words is based on what kind of message the stakeholder is trying to get across. Another dif- ference is between image 1 and 2 is the use of color. the first image, has much vibrant colours, such as bright red. this is meant instigate fear. However, the second image has a more diverse array of colours, this is to illustrate the diversity of drugs and alcohol available.There are also similarities between these images, both of these images portray an intoxicated individual. In addition, both im- ages do not really focus on the importance of color, rather the main focus is the circumstance and scenario in which an individual is put in. The stakeholder believes that by lowering the drinking age, young adults will be negatively impacted. This concern is shown clearly from the rhetorical appeals associated with the two images, provided by the stakeholder. By analyzing the key elements of the images, it is clear that the main message that the stakeholder attempts to express is that by lowering the drinking age, young adults are more prone to drunk driving related accidents.in addition, by lowering the drinking age, it Ajlouni 5 would promote more illicit drug use. This is illustrated through the rhetorical appeals associated with the images. Ajlouni 6 Works Cited Alcohol Use, Illicit Drug Use, and Road  Banner Image. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Jean.yoder.ctr. Drunk  NHTSA. N.p., 28 Feb. 2017. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. New Health  New Health Advisor - New Health Advisor for Daily Health Care. N.p., n.d. ,Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Image 1: ! Image 2: !