Montes 1 Robert Montes Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 19 February 2017 CAPA Images The on going issue of College Athlete Players Association (CAPA) and NCAA arguing on whether Student-Athletes should be paid has yet to be resolved. CAPA was founded to fight for the rights that they feel NCAA Student-Athletes should have. CAPA was founded by former Student-Athletes who went through the daily struggles of dealing these issues. The mission statement for CAPA is, with evolving NCAA regulations or future legal mandates, increasing athletic scholarships and allowing players to receive compensation for commercial CAPA uses many advertisements to help push their goals and values; this is done within the advertisements by the use of rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. CAPA uses real life images to show the criminality that the NCAA gets away with year after year in order to help CAPA get their mission statement across to society. CAPA use many different strategies to help get their goal, to allow Student- Athletes to receive compensation, across to people everywhere. Some of these strategies include seminars or rallies but the most important one is the use of advertisements. Both advertisements, Image 1 and Image 2, use rhetorical appeals, such as logos and kairos, effectively to persuade the audience into believing what CAPA wants is the right thing. In the first image, logos are used through organization and easy to understand statistics. Organization is key in this image because it helps the audience easily understand the Montes 2 issues that are being presented. The image consists of two green bubbles with statistics inside of them, one of the statistics is representing the group of College football coaches and the other is for the College Football players. These statistics are implying that college coaches which coach these players, technically making them part of the same team, make a lot of money compared to the zero dollars combined that student-athletes make. Image 1 also implements kairos; it does so by stating that the statistics of coaches making Fifty- Six million dollars and the Student-Athletes making zero dollars was the salary from only the last year. Another way that image 1 uses logos is in the way that it uses color to show that the two groups are separated but also have something in common, they both are apart of the same team technically. Image 1 uses a lot of logos to gets its point across, the first use of logos is in the top of the picture it states $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes. Under the guise of (Image 2.) In this quotation, logos is used in the way that it is emphasizing the words college the image wants the audience to know that the NCAA is doing wrong by not allowing Student- Athletes to be compensated. The image is hitting on one of main issues that is has with the NCAA. Also, the man that is doing the robbing is supposed to be part of the NCAA, this is another use of logos within image 2. This use of the man being part of the NCAA is the main focus of this image. Kairos is also present in image two but not as much as logos. Kairos, however, is present by the timeliness of the image. The image is taken perfectly as the man in the suit is escaping the scene after robbing the Student- Athletes. Both these images are connected within Logos and Kairos because they both are for the side that Student-Athletes should receive compensation. The image happen to Montes 3 express their feelings in different ways as image 2 seems to be much more harsh than image 1, but the main point for both these images is still the same. Although the images seem to have used many logos and kairos appeals to help get their point across, they both also use pathos and ethos to help their point even more. Image 1 uses pathos in attempt to have the audience pity the Student-Athletes. It does this by showing two statistics, one which states that the to college coaches made a combined 53.4 Million dollars last year and that all college football players last year made a combine 0 dollars. This use of pathos wants to make the audience have hatred toward the NCAA for letting this happen. Ethos is also presented in the image because the image wants to make the audience feel that it is morally wrong what the NCAA is doing. The statistics are shown to explain that Student-Athletes making zero dollars throughout the year and then their own coaches, who are part of the same team, make a combined 53.4 million dollars. In image 2 there are also many ways that pathos and ethos are used to make the audience believe that NCAA not allowing Student-Athletes to receive compensation is wrong. In image 2, pathos is used in the way of fear. You can see in image two that the man committing the robbery of student athletes is wearing a ski mask. A ski mask is used to bring fear in the audience; it wants the audience to feel the NCAA, the man attempting the robbery, is a very bad and scary thing. Ethos is also used within image 2 to make the audience feel that the NCAA not allowing Student-Athletes to receive is morally wrong. Image 2 wants to make it seem as the NCAA is completely robbing the young Student-Athletes of what they deserve. It emphasizes on the words by making it red, the image is trying to show that the NCAA makes so much profit off of these Student-Athletes but still wont give them any sort of compensation Montes 4 because they are flat out selfish. Both these images are connected through Pathos and ethos because they are both out on the Internet for the same cause. That cause is to help people see that what CAPA wants is right and what the NCAA does is wrong, Student- Athletes should receive compensation and NCAA needs to stop hiding behind Amateurism. CAPA has been effectively trying to help Student-Athletes get what they deserve from the NCAA for putting their bodies at risk every day. CAPA believes that there is no reason why NCAA should not allow Student-Athletes to receive compensation and the two images in this essay help to prove that point. The rhetorical appeals used within the images such as logos, kairos, pathos and ethos help make a strong case that what CAPA believes is the right thing in this on going argument between CAPA and the NCAA. Montes 5 Image 1 CA0-jumbo.jpg Image 2 2013/6-Billion-Heist- ashx?h=280&w=270&hash=B32B7A53839B20814BE9844336B951461D27875F Montes 6 Works Cited NCAA.  NCAA. NCAA, n.d. Web. <NCAA.org/amateurism>. Huma, Ramogi. Why doing it  Collegeathletesplayersassociation. N.p., n.d. Web. <collegeathletespa.org>. Bilas, Jay. 7 common sense reasons why college athletes should be  Complex Sports. Ed. Maurice Peebles. N.p., 03 Dec. 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Thelin, John R. Heres why we shouldnt pay college  Time. College Sports, 1 Mar. 2016. Web. Rose, Jalen. Paid College Athletes: A reasonable compromise  The Huffington Post. N.p., 25 May 2011. Web.