Dyal 1 Shawn Dyal Gottlieb ENC 1102 23 February 2017 College Athletes Wanting to Be Paid and Have Rights The idea of paying college athletes is not a new concept. This problem has been occurring for a few years with the growing discrepancy between the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and student-athletes, especially concerning college football players. College football players generate a majority of the money that the NCAA makes from games and merchandise. College athletes as a whole generate around $11 billion for the NCAA and college football players are the athletes that make the most of the $11 billion, while not earning any of it Vs. The major issue is that the NCAA views the college sports as an amateur sport. By the NCAA guidelines, collegiate athletes are considered amateurs and will not receive compensation for playing a college sport. College athletes, particularly football players, think that they deserve rights and payment for all the money they generate for the NCAA and their respective universities Vs. NCAA). Student athletes are unable to form their own union to defend themselves which has led to the extended delay of not receiving any payment for playing sports N.L.R.B. Rejects Northwestern Football Union ). Without a union to share how student-athletes, and in particular football players, cartoonist have created works that elicit the argument that college football players have. Today, college football players believe that they are being mistreated and that there should be a change, which can be implied from the images. The two images show how college football players feel through uses of visual rhetoric. Dyal 2 College football players argue for the idea that they should receive payment and rights, which is seen through the means of different images. For example, the logic that is implied in Figure 1 shows an old man, which represents universities, holding a piggy bank, which represents NCAA profits, walking away from football players who believe they are entitled to the profits. The man representing the universities is seen telling the players that they already know the rules; the rule being that they only carry the pigskin. This idea leads to the players thinking that this means the players should receive the profits because of what is represented. Footballs have been referred to as pigskin, implied with the piggy bank, leads to the athletes thinking they should be holding onto pigskin which would be the piggy bank. This shows the reasoning from football players thinking they deserve to be paid. The idea of payment is also seen with money spilling out of the piggy bank, which represents NCAA profits, spilling out, shows that there is extra money that could be used to pay the players. This is meant to show that the NCAA is making so much money that they do not use it effectively and is theoretically wasted when it could have a better use. In Figure 2, the logic in the image is seen with how the players are being treated. They are rowing a boat, the boat representing the NCAA, and the captain of the boat representing the coach. The coach is reminding the players what their right is, their rights being to make the NCAA money. This is seen with the dialogue of the coach being shown, which backs the idea that players are not treated fairly. This reasoning supports the argument of mistreatment because to others they are seen as a money-making machine. The players are working for the NCAA and their only right is to make money for the NCAA. The players are not receiving credit. This idea can be compared to Christopher Columbus discovering America in that, the coach is Columbus who receives the credit for discovering America while the crew, the players, were the backbone of the expedition and this trip was for Dyal 3 Spain, and Spain is symbolized as the NCAA name as the name of the ship. The players who are rowing the boat are like the crew of the ship, their only goal is to row the boat, they did all the hard work but do not receive credit. Their only right is to work to benefit a higher authority. The two Figures relate in that both show how players are treated unfairly in that they do not receive any money that they make for the NCAA through the direct lead of the coaches from the universities. With logic seen in both images, the credibility backs the logic in the two images. The credibility in Figure one is seen with the NCAA and universities being clearly defined with labels on the respective symbol. The credibility of the players being football players is seen with them wearing the respective football equipment and being seen as a team with more than one player standing together in shock of what the universities say to the players. The credibility in Figure 2 is similar to Figure 1. The NCAA is clearly defined as being the ship, the ship is who is benefiting the most while the players put in the work. The captain of the ship, which represents a football coach, is implied as being the leader of the men rowing the boat because the men rowing the boats are wearing football helmets, further supporting the idea they are football players, meaning the captain the ship is the coach. The two images relate in that both enhance the credibility of what the images are trying to show, the unfair treatment that college football players receive, through the direct labeling of each party in the images which provides credibility to each party to further support them, the athletes, and harm the others, the NCAA and coaches. The similarities, in logic, in both images are seen with what is implied from the different meanings of particular items in the image, like the meaning of pigskin and a piggybank shown. This further validates football argument that they should be paid because of what pigskin means in sports terms and why football players should be holding the pigskin, the piggy Dyal 4 bank, instead of the NCAA and universities. The credibility and logic in the two images build a strong foundation for what the football players are arguing. The two images show how college football players are not being treated fairly. Both images have a sense of timing to them, in terms of what they represent and when they were made, which adds importance to the argument as well as the authors purpose to create an emotion from the audience when the images are seen. The emotions that the first Figure is trying to evoke in the viewer is that the universities and NCAA are criminals, in the idea that they are taking money from football players when they are the one who make the money. The authors intentions are to sympathize with the players in Figure one because the players receiving any money, especially when there seems to be enough money to be paid to them from the money spilling out of the piggy bank, representing excess NCAA profits. The appeal to emotions is important because the audience is supposed to see how money is being wasted when it could be used to pay athletes that do not receive any payment. The idea that all audiences can see this image implies that this can lead to spectators not wanting to support the NCAA which would take away from their profits, which can hurt the players. However, others can see the unfairness and decide to act upon it. In Figure 2, the main intentions of the image are also to sympathize with the football players. The football players are seen as the power and strength of the boat while not receiving any rights for all the work they are doing. They are not treated fairly even though they put in all the hard work that is needed to make the NCAA prosper, this being seen with keeping the boat moving. The audience is supposed to feel bad for the players because they are not treated fairly and make the NCAA seen as the enemy because they do not treat the players with the respect they deserve for making the NCAA money. This is meant make the audience feel sad that the players work hard for no benefits or equality which can bring back Dyal 5 ideas of slavery and other times where people were not treated like they should. The images below provide the ability to show that there is an opportune moment for the players to benefit. Both images come months before the rejection was made for the idea of Northwestern Football players wanting to unionize Rejects Northwestern Football Union The dates of both images being in articles in April (Figure 1) and May (Figure 2) of 2015, with the decision being made in August of 2015 as seen with the dates of the respective article titles. The importance that now is the time to act on something is seen with the heightened push to show that the NCAA and universities are not fair to their players in that there is excess money, seen with money falling from the piggy bank in Figure 1, that could be used to pay football players. This image is creating a sense urgency to benefit the players in hopes of them being paid. The state of urgency coming from the idea that money should not be wasted, but rather put to good use when so many people struggle with not having enough money. Figure 2, being made before August of 2015 shows how football players have been the power house that fuels the NCAA with the work done. The work being done leads to the NCAA benefiting monetarily, but the work also being done without rights to the players. The importance of time in this image is that the players have an opportune moment to change course to benefit them but the problem is they do not have rights that could help them make a change. However, Figure 2 also shows that players are in a continuous problem with working for the NCAA and not receiving rights with the image of the boat being rowed but the destination is not in sight, implying that the problem of players not being paid or having rights is continuous. Both images relate to the idea that there is an opportune time to make a change with being created in hopes that a change to benefit them would occur, however that did not happen. The two images relate to each other, in the present, in that there is still time to act to make a change to benefit them so that they can receive payment Dyal 6 and also gain rights. This is seen with excess profits spilling from the NCAA that could be used to benefit players and the idea of rights occurring with the implication of an end occurring because the idea that a ship is sailing to a destination, but the length it takes to get there is dependent on many factors. However, as mentioned before, the second image implies that this is an ongoing problem that does not have the solution being in the near future. The first image is more effective, in supporting the football arguments because the image explicitly shows that the NCAA is losing money, and the lost money could be used to pay football players. In conclusion, the two images below are meant to show how college football players are not receiving payment and rights for the money that they generate for the NCAA, when there is an excess amount of money, NCAA profits, that can be used to pay football players. This is also seen with players having their rights taken from them by being told what their main right is to do, which is to make the NCAA money. Both represent the idea that college football players are having things taken from them, whether it is money or rights. What is seen in the images was created through the authors use of different visual rhetoric techniques that all favor the players and create a negative portrayal of the NCAA and universities. Dyal 7 Figure 1 Figure 2 Dyal 8 Works Cited  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. NCAA, 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/amateurism>. Anderson. Football players rowing a boat and being told what to do by the coach, who is the captain of the boat. Digital image. Should College Athletes Be Paid? N.p., 30 Mar. 2014. Web. 16 Feb. 20. <http://wwhspawprint.com/445/opinion/add-a-story-to-your- site/#prettyPhoto>. Reos , Adam. Political Comic: Paying Athletes . Digital image. Paying College Athletes. N.p., 15 Apr. 2015. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. <https://comm398oblogproject.wordpress.com/>. Sheetz A. Student-Athletes vs. NCAA. Brooklyn Law Review [serial on the (2016, Winter2016), [cited February 26, 81(2): 865-894. Available from: Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Strauss, Ben. N.L.R.B. Rejects Northwestern Football Union  The New York Times. The New York Times, 17 Aug. 2015. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <https://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/18/sports/ncaafootball/nlrb-says-northwestern- football-players-cannot-unionize.html>.