Chao Ma Ma 1 Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 15 Mar 2017 Child Abuse Parents, children, family: when these words first come to a mind, the thought should always be pleasant. In addition, scientists also firmly believe that the childhood experience is an important factor that will influence the rest of an life. According to the Minnesota Longitudinal Study of Risk and Adaptation: type of emotional support that a child receives during the first three and a half years has an effect on education, social life and romantic relationships even 20 or 30 years (Lee Raby 12). This study shows how early childhood experience is important to develop the many aspects of an individual. Those children who have a happy childhood will be across various time intervals (Lee Raby 12). However, there are a lot of children who cannot live this way in their childhood. The two attached images are made from a worldwide child protection organization named UNICEF who fought over 70 years against child abuse (UNICEF). mission is to defend the rights of every child and explore work to children care (UNICEF). In respect of child abuse, UNICEF is trying to put the hidden issue of child abuse in the spotlight. The UNICEF website states, all have a responsibility to the invisible, from governments enacting and enforcing laws to prohibit violence against children, to private citizens refusing to be silent when they witness or suspect (UNICEF). By showing child abuse propaganda, UNICEF focuses on the influence of rhetorical appeals and how these appeals drive audiences to move a certain way. These two images used typical child abuse cases, either child abuse in the home or child trafficking, to show how innocent children are suffering from abuse in multiple ways. UNICEF therefore works with many companies on a number of issues by strengthening the child protection system (UNICEF). Furthermore, in these two images, two children are both suffering from abuse and UNICEF uses their helplessness to move people to combat child abuse. All of Ma 2 these rhetorical appeals are used for telling a truth, which is that the weakest children have faced the greatest challenges and UNICEF can provide professional and organized help to these children. The first image shows a child staring at the audience with innocent eyes. Her face takes up the majority of this picture but her facial expression is complicated to read. The words shows that she is the one who is being trafficked. Her innocent eyes are trying to tell the audience about her story but tears in her eyes also prevent this. The contrast between her beautiful eyes and rough facial skin gives audience a sense of uncomfortableness. The advertiser can use this trafficked image to draw the attention easily and make the audience to think more about this girl. Furthermore, the usage of color is part of Pathos. For example, the image of the girl is printed in black and white and it can provide a stronger emotional connection to the subject (David 1). With color absent, the distraction of other colors no longer affects the facial expression of this girl. The advertiser wants the audience to pay more attention to her facial expression and her situation. Moreover, the blue color stands for UNICEF and it is created to give the audience a better visual, because the advertiser wants to impress the audience deeply. All these Pathos are used to give people a sense of sympathy. The first image also used a lot of words to explain the situation. On the contrary, the girl is just staring at the audience and is not saying anything. The contrast between the words and eye contact makes the audience wonder about the girl and think about more about her. All of these can be considered as Logos because the advertiser gives a lot of clues to drive the audience to think about how poor she is, therefore audience have to take action to help her. There are also some big numbers used in this image. For example, the number than 5 (Image One) children being trafficked is given to shock the audience. They believe in (Image One) is their future aim. All of these serve Ma 3 for the Logos which can extend the thought and impress them deeply. For the Image One, this poster shows the contact number and website of the organization. The audience can easily access and test the credibility. The sentence to get more (Image One) also shows how this organization wants people to join in. The logo of the organization was placed on the top of the image which is the secondary eye-catching position. All of these can be considered as evidence of their credibility and the advertiser wants people to trust how influential and professional this organization is. At last, the advertiser also used Karios in the first image, the sentence right here in the United (Image One) gives people a sense of urgency. Because it was published in the United States, the target audience is the American people living in the United States. Everyone who sees this image will want to take action because it is happening right now and they can easily get access to their website so Karios works perfectly in this image. All of these factors ask the audience to take action: this girl is waiting for the audience to rescue her. The second image (Image Two) shows a child peacefully sleeping in his bed while the living room light creeps underneath the door. The audience should notice that he has built a wall of toys against the door. This wall may give him a sense of security. There is no doubt that this child is also under the threat of potential abuse. The wall made by toys gives the audience a sense of sympathy. It tells the audience that child abuse could happen at any time and that the child cannot do anything when it does happen. The Pathos can be found from the comparison between the different colors. Most of the colors here are dark but the light and toys are colorful. The colorful toys represent the innocence of children and his little rebellion. Compared to the parents, these toys are so weak and useless therefore, the audience is led to think that this child is a victim of abuse. The advertiser emphasizes the contrast of different colors to show the Ma 4 relationship between the child and his parents in which case, the child is always weaker and results in being hurt. In addition to this, logos can be found in the usage of light. The light outside the room is turned on and his parent may be having a quarrel outside. The comparison between the sleeping child and quarreling parents gives the audience a sense of uneasiness. Nobody wants to get interrupted while sleeping but the only thing this child can do is to use his toys to block the door. The advertiser used this image to show how powerless the child is and push the audience to action. logo is placed in the right corner. It gives the audience a symbol of authority that represents this organization. Because there is an earth in the logo, the audience will think about how influential this organization is. On the door is the website of this organization. This not only gives the audience a useful way to help the children but also gives them a way to test the authority of this organization. For Image Two, Karios can be found in the words that the advertiser used. The sentence on the door you fight child abuse, who (Image Two) gives people a sense of urgency. The advertiser wants the audience take action right now and the sleeping boy cannot do anything about it so the participation of the audience is necessary. These two images are both from UNICEF and they used similar rhetorical strategies to show the issue to the public. For example, using the image of a child is a direct way to draw the attention of the audience. They also used some keywords to give the audience some background information on child abuse. Once the audience has interest in these images, the keywords also push the audience to move forward to understand more about child abuse. That is why the contact number and website are provided right after these keywords. Lastly, the audience are more likely to call the number or browse the website for more information. So these two images are quite effective in persuading the audience. Pathos is used to give a sense of sympathy and Ma 5 call the audience to action. Blocking the door with toys and holding back tears have nothing to do with the situation. Therefore, the audience will be more aware of how these children are helpless and desperate. The home has become a strange place to them, where one child wants to leave and the other dreams to arrive. So Logos is used to show the audience the results of child abuse. In addition, the words on the images also state how urgent it is. According to a statement from the United Nations: year, between 500 million and 1.5 billion children worldwide endure some form of So these two images provided both a contact number and website to give the audience an easy way to access more information, as well as show their credibility. The advertiser used four different rhetorical appeals to show how weak these children are towards their parents and persuade the audience to act because these children cannot figure it out by themselves. They are both from the UNICEF but show different aspects of child abuse, it also reminds the audience that there are multiple ways to hurt children and that physical violence is just one of them. These two images can deter child abusers because somebody is watching for them and more and more people are getting engaged in this organization. Ma 6 Image One: Ma 7 Image Two: Ma 8 Works Cited Geffin David, Why Still Important to Shoot In Black And White. 2 Dec. 2014. https://fstoppers.com/education/why-its-still-important-shoot-black-and-white-48141 Raby, K. L., Roisman, G. I., Fraley, R. C. and Simpson, J. A.. The Enduring Predictive Significance of Early Maternal Sensitivity: Social and Academic Competence Through Age 32 Years. United Nations, Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Violence against Children. a World Free From Violence: Global Survey on Violence Against October, 2013. UNICEF. What we do. UNICEF. https://www.unicef.org/ 15 Mar. 2017.