Barnett 1 Payton Barnett Sarah Basil English Composition II March 10 2017 The World Wildlife Fund Deforestation Advertisements Forests cover 31% of the land surface and are filled with a variety of life including many species of animals and plants (Earth Policy Institute indicators). These plants, including trees, create oxygen that we rely on for life, but the equivalent of 48 football fields of forests are lost every minute, according to the World Wildlife overview on deforestation. The World Wildlife (WWF) mission is to nature and reduce the most pressing threats to the diversity of life on (WWF home). The WWF works on achieving this goal by organizing their work into six areas, one of which is forests, and influencing funding and policies regarding forest protection. They help to create multi-million dollar funds to manage forests designated as protected. The WWF is known for creative advertisements that draw attention to how we treat our environment. The two images analyzed both focus on deforestation, they both are meant to induce fear and alert the audience to what is happening to forests. While these images play heavily on pathos, the website, which is in the caption of one of the images, is full of information regarding our environment. The World Wildlife Fund uses these rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to spread awareness and call the audience to action in order to save forests. Ethos is referred to as the ethical appeal, meaning this rhetorical device aims to convince an audience of the credibility or character, as well as play to the moral principles of the viewer. In the first image, where a forest is arranged in the shape of human lungs, there is more Barnett 2 of an appeal to the moral principles of the viewer than of the credibility. An audience would see this image and not be able to morally support deforestation because it harms not only forests but also people. There is also the logo in the bottom right corner, which falls under ethos because the WWF is seen as a trustworthy company by the majority of people since it was first established in 1961 (WWF history). In the second image, which shows a domino like effect of falling trees and a single person standing at both the beginning and end, the logo of the WWF is also present in the bottom right corner. This image also appeals to ethics in the sense that the viewer could make the connection that chopping down trees will eventually hurt this person. This organization has been completing projects for over 50 years and is extremely successful and recognizable, they do not need to establish as much credibility as other brands might. Logos is the appeal to logic, and it aims to convince an audience by the use or logic of reason. In both images the audience has to identify the logic on their own, it is not explicitly pointed out to them. For example, in the first image the logical tones stem from the photo itself, where the trees are arranged in the shape of a pair of lungs, which humans have and use to breathe, and the fact that humans use plants and trees that create oxygen to breathe. This progression from recognizing that people have lungs and need trees, then seeing the trees arranged as lungs and part of the lunge have been removed and the area has turned brown due to deforestation is what the audience is meant to understand. Going further, this degradation of human body parts leads to a fearful thought process where the audience realizes that without trees not only will the environment not be healthy, but the people will not be healthy either. Logically people want to keep all their body parts and stay healthy, so this advertisement spurs audiences to take deforestation personally. In the second image, there is a similar progression of Barnett 3 logic, from the single human cutting down the first tree which leads to the second and so on, until the last tree seems to land on the person. Logically audiences are meant to infer that the action of cutting down the first tree will lead to pain and misery for this person, who is a stand in for humanity, in the end with the domino effect of trees and the final tree being extremely close to landing on this person. These logical though are not introduced with any words, and the audience is meant to see these advertisements and consider them thoughtfully. Pathos is the emotional appeal, and the aim of pathos is to persuade an audience by appealing to the emotions. Pathos is arguably the most prominent rhetorical appeal in these advertisements. Together with the previously mentioned logos and the logical progression of thought, the first image is meant to evoke fear in the audience. This image shows that without trees and forests, humans will die and that is meant to be a scary thought because of the increasing amount of deforestation. The color scheme in this image is vibrant, white clouds above and a lush green forest below, except for the bottom right section of the lungs where deforestation has removed the trees and left the remaining area a sickly brown color, which is strikingly different from the surrounding green. The words on the bottom right of this image, too also offer a sense of fear because quite a large amount of lung is missing from this photo, and it is terrifying to think that this deforestation and degradation could possibly get any worse. In the second image, many of the same emotions come into play. The last tree falling onto this person is a sort of karma effect; this person who cut the first tree is directly responsibly for the second tree falling and the third and so on until the last tree. And this last tree will be the one to kill this person who represents humanity. This person is a symbol, which Carl Jung defined as term, a name, or even a picture that may be familiar in daily life, yet that possesses specific connotations in addition to its conventional and obvious (Imagery). Barnett 4 By this definition, this human is familiar in every day life, but in this advertisement they mean more than just one person. They represent humanity because they are alone and they are human, they possess specific connotations, the fact that deforestation will kill us, that human in their daily life do not usually possess. The color scheme in the second image is different than the first; this person and the trees are on a completely white background, drawing focus immediately to the ring of destruction. The falling trees are meant to catch the eyes and follow each tree to the next until they see the culprit who started this all: a single person. In comparison to the first image, the second image has no caption besides the logo in the bottom right corner, and leaves the audience to make their own conclusion instead of giving them one to work off of. Both images are meant to cause fear or panic and outrage in people, hoping to call everyone who sees these advertisements to action in order to lessen deforestation and the devastating effects on not only the environment but also humanity. Kairos, the last rhetorical appeal, is an appeal to timeliness. The first image shows the strongest appeal to timeliness because of the caption in the bottom right corner next to the title or the organization and a website link. This caption reads, too What this advertisement hopes to accomplish is a call to action, the WWF wants to people to take up in arms and not stand by when it comes to deforestation. Even without the caption, the image itself also suggests this because of the slow destruction of the lung shape and how it seems this removal of trees has been happening for quite some times and it will soon consume the entire pair of lungs, thus killing us. The second image has no caption, but still has a strong sense of kairos. The last tree has not fallen onto the person yet and there is still time to save them. This image wants the audience to feel as is there is still something they can do in order to save not only the person that the tree is falling onto, but also the forest itself. Barnett 5 The World Wildlife Fund uses several rhetorical devices in their advertisements such as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. In two specific images pictured below, all rhetorical devices were used. Pathos and kairos, appeals to emotion and appeals to timeliness respectively, were two very strong devices in these ads that called audiences to action by means of instilling fear in them. Ethos and logos, ethics and logic respectively, were also used well considering the World Wildlife Fund is seen as a trustworthy institute already and there is a strong logical progression of thought linked to these images. All in all, the World Wildlife Fund brings attention to and informs audiences of how our forests are slowly declining, prompting audiences into action. Barnett 6 Barnett 7 Works Cited Adams, Emily E. Earth Policy Institute. Rutgers University, 31 August 2012. Web. 10 March 2017. of Ads of the World. Mediabistro Holdings, 2017. Web. 10 March 2017. Clark, Andrea. Short Guide to Imagery, Symbolism, and Figurative Imagery. Austin Community College. Web. 10 March 2017. WWF. World Wildlife Fund, 2017. Web. 10 March 2017. Ads of the World. Mediabistro Holdings, 2017. Web. 10 March 2017. WWF. World Wildlife Fund. 2017. Web. 10 March 2017.