Penland 1 Ryan Penland Professor Sarah Basil English 1102 11 March 17 Persuading Technology with Imagery Technology is available to anyone all over the world, and provides ample amounts of information for the average citizen to learn about any subject they need. The International Society of Technology (ISTE) sets the goal of allowing technology to reach to anyone and everyone, in order to spread awareness of what technology has to offer in terms of educating people. To represent this, there are a couple of images that the ISTE uses to show this love for education and connections through technology that will be analyzed in this essay. The first image that is shown shows the quote who learn together, change the world This quote is a great example for the ISTE to show that they are trying to achieve a better world for everyone through the uses of technology, promoting the success of future generations. This image has the ability to be analyzed using many of the different rhetorical appeals, as there are many messages that the details of the image show to the audience. The second image is a simpler image, as it promotes what the ISTE is, and what they want to accomplish. The image is very basic, but when picked apart can reveal many interesting details as well as the many different appeals that it might show towards its audience. This image shows that the world can be connected through the limits of technology, and that the ISTE wants to change the world for the better through the use of this technology. The images chosen are great examples of what the ISTE is founded on, and they have plenty of rhetorical appeal to them and can be further analyzed as we delve deeper into their meanings and appeals to the audience. Penland 2 The goals of the International Society of Technology are seen within the first image boldly. There is plenty of detail in this first image that use different rhetorical appeals in order to aid in achieving the goal of giving powerful tools allowing them to take charge of their ISTE 3). Spreading awareness of technology has made such a positive impact on the society and education of the United States that their goal is being achieved on a bigger scale every day. Many teachers have reported that students show a much more powerful motivation to succeed by utilizing their computation skills (Edutopia, 6) There also has been reports that students are more likely to stay engaged and learn in the classrooms when technology has been involved in the curriculum, and it has brought down behavioral problems (International, 9). This first image is represented well by using various colors, fonts, designs, or context clues in order to grab attention to the meaning of the image. The image that is being analyzed provides a quote laid over a green and blue background. The quote ideas spread, education is has a strong connection to the rhetorical appeal pathos. The way the text pops out of the background shows pathos by giving people the thought of education transforming society, has a very strong emotional appeal to the audience. The image also uses the color green very boldly. Green can be seen by many as a way to show success and positive vibes, giving people the joyful emotions 4). This image can also connect to the rhetorical appeal of Ethos. Ethos is present in the way the organization places their label in the bottom right corner of the screen, providing credibility to the image and what it stands for. The color blue is also used in this image, and blue often represents loyalty, trust, and strength 4). The organization does have a sense of credibility, as technology is definitely connecting students to the power of their education. Logos is shown in the image through the designer trying to get the audience to think after reading the phrase. What the designer of the Penland 3 image wants people to think is about how much they can transform education by promoting new ideas. a very logical statement because it leaves people with the simple idea that education really can be renovated through the use of new ideas such as technology. Kairos has a very minimal appeal to the image, but is still relevant. In the bottom left of the image, there is a hashtag that says which can relate to a sense of timeliness as the image is referring to an event going on. It wants the audience to participate in the limited event by interacting with them on social media and promoting the ideas they spread. Relating to the image, there is also the use of different colors that could influence the way the audience reacts to the image. Education is spread through the use of ideas, and using the rhetorical appeals in the image, I feel that the ISTE has stuck to their mission by applying pathos and ethos very strongly to assert their passion for the end goal. The second image that will be analyzed is a simple image of the organization, and it strongly references pathos. The image is a bold and colored text of the ISTE organization acronym, colored in green and blue. Underneath the image is are the phrases learning. Connected This strongly references the rhetorical appeal of pathos as it appeals to the emotions by referencing a connection between people in the world. It tries to make a statement by saying their technology influence has been connected the world through the use of the internet and its available resources. Connecting people to each other can have a huge appeal to the emotions as you could connect to loved ones and learn so many interesting things online. Ethos has an approach here by giving credibility to the organization with the use of the trademark and restricted logos following the organization name, and the slogan respectively. This tells the audience that the organization is credible enough to have their property protected, and that shows that there is a layer of importance to what they have to say. There definitely Penland 4 a sense of logos in this image, as again there is no persuasion to the audience by any means. Kairos is also not visible in the image, as there is also no call to action, or requirement for the immediate time. The colors green and blue yet again make an appearance in this image, following the same purpose as the previous image. Green is used to show that the organization is trying to spread positivity, and blue is showing that there is a layer of trust that can be formed 4). This image most prominently shows that the ISTE is available to connect everyone to not only technology, but each other. It shows that the ISTE is founded on connecting people and finding ways to influence the use of technology, by showing the limits of the education that can be taken advantage of, and the way that it connects everyone in the world to the same system in everyday life. The ISTE successfully advertises what they want to accomplish in this image by appealing to their credibility and giving the audience an emotional appeal through the use of strong quotes that show the audience their dedication to their mission statement. In conclusion, the International Society of Technology is an organization based on providing connection between people and technology through the use of education. There are images that the organization has used to influence the reader using the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. Each of the images provide the logo as well as a quote or slogan that is meant to connect the audience emotionally. In both images there are colors seen that influence the light of positivity, trust, loyalty, and credibility. These colors provide an extra barrier of attention for the audience, as it helps aid the rhetorical appeals that are shown in the images analyzed. The ISTE ultimately wants to get the word out that they want to help bring education through technology to a different level by providing a common ground for people to interact and learn about it. By doing this, many people every day can learn the limits of Penland 5 the technology around us and take advantage of the information and connections to others that it provides. The mission statement will hold true until the dream has been met, and that is to achieve the goal of giving powerful tools allowing them to take charge of their ISTE Story, 3). Penland 6 Works Cited Edutopia. Why Integrate Technology into the Curriculum?: The Reasons Are  Edutopia. N.p., 17 Mar. 2008. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. International, SRI. Effects of Technology on Classrooms and  Archived: Effects of Technology on Classrooms and Students. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The ISTE Story. (2016). Retrieved February 12, 2017, from https://www.iste.org/about/iste-story  The Meaning of Colors. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Penland 7