Prophilien 1 Wodelin Prophilien Sarah Basil ENC 1102 23 February 2017 One Breath Away The tobacco industry has suffered severe hardships in its development, facing many stakeholders that are against its products, and what they stand for. The reason for negativity around the tobacco industry is because the severe negative health effects that tobacco products such as cigarettes have towards their users. The products that the tobacco industry produces are known to be incredibly addicting, bad for your health, and may cause different types of cancers. The question is where did this general notion come from. Most likely these notions may have come from the stakeholder the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in which their motto is 24/7: Saving Lives, Protecting (CDC). The CDC feels like tobacco products are violating their motto, by promoting products that are known to have severe health consequences all for profit. They are a government endorse agency and the way they try to reduce the amount of tobacco products being sold specifically cigarettes is by running anti- cigarette ads. The ads that they use are very memorable and recognizable included are the two that are appealing because of their use of the rhetorical appeals. By using the rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos and Kairos, they are able to persuade non-smokers to not touch cigarettes or other products, and able to convince tobacco users to call for help to quit. Starting with Pathos, the use of emotional appeal to convince the audience. Both images, use pathos to convince the audience that smoking cigarettes is bad. Just by looking at any of these Prophilien 2 images, the consequences are made clear with the effects that comes with it. In which, image 1 shows the consequence of smoking cigarette is heart surgery, because Roosevelt suffered a heart attack at the tender age of 45. Using pathos, this image shows that anyone can suffer a heart attack at the age of 45, and the ad is instilling fear and worry into the audience whether or not they smoke cigarette will cause them to have heart attack, then a great possibility of heart surgery. Image 2 like image 1 shows the great consequences that comes with smoking cigarettes. This image portrays Brandon at the age of 31 to show that he had his legs amputated due to a disease that cigarettes had a part in causing. By showing these graphic images to the audience, it shows that this can happen to anyone, if they either continually using cigarettes or start using cigarettes. The use of the rhetorical appeal of pathos is very convincing in which by appealing to someone emotionally might work better because the images leave a long-lasting memory of what can happen. Moreover, the use of ethos was used in these ads by the CDC. Ethos is the credibility of information or images. In both images, they included the websites that the audience can go too if they need more information or if they need help to quit smoking. In the first image the website is while on the second image the link is Also, the name of the CDC is very well known because they are a government agency and are usually dependable with health news. By having the CDC name and the website the audience can use to get help establishes ethos within the images. Also, because both websites are established as trustworthy because it is a government sponsored linked and most people would agree that the government is trustworthy on some aspects. Another example of ethos that both advertisements use the phone number of By having the phone number on the advertisement, it shows that they are confident enough to show that they have methods to help anyone quit smoking. Prophilien 3 By having the rhetorical appeal of ethos in these advertisement, the CDC is making the audience trust in them as an organization, so their messages can be better received because of these concepts. Another rhetorical appeal that this advertisement included was Logos. logic like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Writtingcommons). The images use of logos in the first image is implying that do not be like me and smoke and have heart surgery, and the second one is saying do not be like me and smoke and get Buergers disease, to then have your legs amputated at the age of 31. The second image contains more logical appeal; in the text box, it says causes immediate damage to your which most of the audience would read it and be like if it causes immediate damage to my body then smoking something that should be played with. Going back to the image 1, a logical appeal that stood out from the image was the clever word play that the text has with the image, in which your heart a appeals to logically because it is keeping you functioning. With these logical appeals to this advertisement some members of the audience would think twice before messing with cigarettes, and again by doing these ads the CDC is helping decrease the number of customers that the industry has. The last rhetorical appeal that both images is the use of Kairos. Kairos is the rhetorical appeal to time. These advertisements both have instances where they use Kairos. In which both advertisements contain the phone number where it says Quit which is implying act now you have much time before you have a heart disease that causes you to get open heart surgery, or act now before you or someone you know lose your legs do to smoking cigarettes. The advertisement is making the call a life or death situation. The second advertisement contains more Kairos in which it says, extra time to put on your which is implying if the audience Prophilien 4 act now they or someone they know can save their legs before amputation be different from Brandon and keep your legs before it is too late. Lastly, something that both images have that can relate to Kairos is that by stating the ages, the advertisement implies that you can be either 31 or 51, smoking cigarettes can affect your health in more than one way. By the CDC using the rhetorical appeal Kairos, it causes a level of urgency that the other rhetorical appeals do not command from the audience. By using the rhetorical appeals such as logos, ethos, pathos and Kairos. The CDC campaign ads 100,000 U.S. smokers are expected to stay quit for good because of the (USAtoday). This means that the ads that the CDC are using are doing their jobs because the number of smokers has been decreasing, which means that this is bringing the CDC closer to achieving their goals of decreasing the amount of people that the tobacco industry is affecting. By using these great advertisement, the CDC has basically save thousands of lives or have helps to save thousands of lives. To conclude, the rhetorical appeals of pathos, ethos, logos, and Kairos were used very proficiently for these advertisement, in which the advertisement jobs were to push people away from smoking and these ads performed very well by using these rhetorical appeals. Prophilien 5 Prophilien 6 Prophilien 7 Work Cited  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 21 Feb. 2017. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Emily Lane, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Emily Lane, Jessica McKee, and Megan  Writing Commons. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Koch, Wendy. Scary anti-smoking ads prompt 100,000-plus to kick  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 09 Sept. 2013. Web. 23 Feb. 2017.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 23 Feb. 2017.