Higgins 1 Maddie Higgins Professor Gottlieb 3/20/17 ENC 1102 Marine Litter Affecting Wildlife Littering is a serious environmental health issue, not only affecting the lives of animals, but also humankind as well. A single fragment of trash thrown carelessly on the land or in the water can do a great deal of harm. The stakeholder represented is the conservationist group, Greenpeace, whose goal is to protect ocean life. Greenpeace made the statement, oceans are the life support system for our planet, providing 97 percent of the livable habitat and a home to more than 700,000 Our Greenpeace urges people to recognize that a healthy ocean will lead to a higher quality of life for humans because half the oxygen inhaled is created from these oceans. Therefore, the organization does not stand for litter, or any type of waste material, to be discarded needlessly. Greenpeace wants to save what is left of the marine life population, and prevent more ocean pollution from occurring in the future since the ocean also brings delight and food to many people Our The opinion is represented in both photos, included below, since they each signify damage done to animals by debris in the ocean. Trash is only one type of ocean pollutant; oil spills account for a portion of the total pollution, as well, which are represented in Figure 2 Ocean This organization wants people to stop carelessly throwing garbage into the oceans and realize the harmful effects pollutants have on the living marine life. The goal of Greenpeace in advertising is to grab and hold the attention of the outside world using all possible rhetorical appeals, thereby creating an awareness of the severity of ocean pollution today. Higgins 2 Figure 1 is an extremely revealing photograph. It does not contain many words, but the image speaks volumes. What should appear as a stream of fish incorporates trash instead, including all types of bottles from glass to plastic. It is intended to capture the emotion of the viewer. The observer immediately recognizes that the ocean should not contain schools of trash, therefore, the image serves as a visual reminder that littering is not acceptable and in fact, is harmful. The picture provides a representation of what the ocean will look like if pollution continues to worsen; eventually there will be no fish but trash instead. This problem should appeal to the logical side of mankind since it is simple to understand. Further, because there is a wide range of the types of trash represented that people toss into the ocean, more people may see themselves in the picture. For example, an individual may never drink from a glass bottle, but he or she may instead use plastic. That individual may deeply consider where he or she discards that plastic bottle the next time it is thrown away because of the emotional impact this picture has made. On the photo, there are words printed that say, greatest wonder of the sea is that still (Figure 1). These words may conjure a sense of empathy and guilt within the observer; emotions that the Greenpeace organization hopes to utilize to create action. The members of Greenpeace already know it is amazing the sea is still functioning at all, but they need everyone to join in the crusade to keep the oceans healthy. In this image, the emphasis is on the pathos created from the litter that is meant to look like a school of fish. The trash has literally replaced the fish foreshadowing that waste may be all that is left unless something is done to change human behavior. This image will grab emotions and attention and create a sense of empathy for the fish foreshadowing that will hopefully prompt the viewers to act responsibly. Greenpeace further hopes to create a sense of urgency regarding the proper disposal of plastic because it takes about 400 years to disintegrate. Sadly, even after 400 years plastic can Higgins 3 continue to exist as something called which are nearly impossible to see, so it ends up found in the stomachs of many fish (Mechanics). Because so much of this debris is consumed by marine life, there are no actual fish shown in Figure 1 to represent how direly it affects them. The picture also contains more subtle messages through the use of color. For example, the blue color of the sea in the background ranges from light to dark. There is a stream of light coming into the sea which appears to be aimed towards the only thing alive: an orange sea plant. This plant is the only natural object that belongs in the ocean and there are no fish to live around it. On closer examination of the picture, it becomes extremely dark in color towards the bottom of the sea in the picture and the plants on the ground appear gloomy and almost dead. This again represents that most of the wildlife that did exist is now dead and gone including all plants, except for one. Finally, there is a link to the website of the stakeholder on Image One, showing that it is a credible organization that can be easily accessed at any time. This brings a sense of comfort to the viewers because they can trust that it is a reliable picture from a true stakeholder in the issue. Figure 2 also involves marine life, but it shows the impact that debris on the land can have on animals as well. It is an advertisement for a national cleanup day that is organized by the stakeholder. This advertisement is credible because people can look up the event and investigate what it is all about. At first glance, this image illustrates what one would assume is a turtle. But in looking closer, there is only a turtle head and arms with a tire for the body. The turtle looks like it is being crushed by the tire that does not belong there, thereby representing how litter is overpowering existing marine life. There is also a glistening, rainbow color coming off the tire and the sand surrounding the turtle, which looks as if it is oil that has leaked onto the beach and into the water. Greenpeace wants viewers to realize that oil is another kind of waste that may not Higgins 4 be considered but in the end, it harms the environment when not properly contained. In this case, oil spills are equivalent to trash. The logical side of this picture is the fact that the tire is on top of the turtle instead of the shell that is supposed to be there. Many people will notice the tire and realize the issue at hand. Both the tire overpowering the turtle and the oil surrounding it are meant to draw on human emotion creating empathy for these animals and hopefully prompting people to think before carelessly littering the oceans and beaches in the future. The title at the top of the photograph states, Species of the California which supports the fact that the tire and oil in the image are the trash which is overpowering the wildlife (Muzaurieta). Further, the beach does not look like a nice venue; it is a dark brown color with rocks in the sand adding to the sadness. Brown is an earthy color so the beach represents the earth beneath the trash; pointing to the fact that there is still a natural earth underneath all the debris that should not be forgotten. The that are mentioned refers to the turtle with the tire as a shell because that is something that no one has seen before, or wants to see in the future. The fact that the tire is overwhelming and almost subduing the turtle illustrates and illuminates not only the major detriments these pieces of trash can be to animals, but also the logical effects it has on the environment surrounding the marine life as a whole. Both images rally around the same issue: eliminating pollution in an attempt to promote environmental wellness for all beings. These two pictures combined clarify the purpose and goals of the Greenpeace organization through all four rhetorical appeals. Greenpeace advocates for the preservation of the environment which includes the ocean and surrounding land. Their point of view is clear in the images presented because both show a part of the sea or wildlife population replaced by trash representing the direct impact litter and pollution continue to have Higgins 5 on the environment. Both illustrations aim to grab the same human emotion: empathy for the animals in hopes that people will realize how their actions are effecting the marine life population. Also, both images create a sense of urgency for people to step up and act now to solve this problem before it is too late. By showing the trash turning into the stream of fish and the tire that has become the shell, people will realize they need to step up and do something right in that moment to fix this problem providing a perfect example of Kairos. The crisis will not go away on its own, it needs attention from the human population since they are the main cause. These two photographs equally grab attention, mainly by catching their emotions. No one likes to see animals being harmed in any way, so are excellent at establishing a need for action. Animals are often viewed as a step down from humans, so if pollution can affect animal populations so intensely, it is common sense to think it will eventually affect the human population as well. Bcause it is the humans who cause the environmental issue, it must be mankind who stops it. Littering affects the wildlife population in more ways than one. As shown in these two images through all four rhetorical appeals, it has an impact on both marine life in water and on land because littering does not just happen in one place. Greenpeace is an organization that works to raise awareness for ocean pollution and how to prevent it. Through using certain rhetorical strategies, these two photos represent two situations where trash has effected the ocean life, but there are still many more. Once people become more aware of their surroundings and where they throw their trash, ocean pollution has the possibility of decreasing a bit. Overall, these two images represent the effects of littering on the marine wildlife in and out of the ocean. Higgins 6 Figure 1 Figure 2 Higgins 7 Works Cited Litter - Pervading the  World Ocean Review. World Ocean Review, n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Muzaurieta, Annie Bell, and Thomas Klenck. 11 Powerful Environmental  Popular Mechanics. N.p., 24 Oct. 2008. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Muzaurieta, Annie Bell, and Thomas Klenck. 11 Powerful Environmental  Popular Mechanics. N.p., 24 Oct. 2008. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Preventing Ocean  Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Protecting Our  Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Ssaxon. Visual Environmental  Pghenvironmental. WorldPress.com, 16 May 2013. Web. 17 Feb. 2017.