Novack 1 Seton Novack Ms. Gottlieb ENC1102 27 February 2017 GMO FREE USA GMO Free USA is an organization whose goal is to promote awareness about the dangers of genetically modified organisms Genetically modified organisms are chemicals used in foods to help them grow bigger and last longer. These chemicals pose potential risks to humans if not regulated. GMO Free USA states: Free mission is to harness independent science and agroecological concepts to advocate for clean and healthy food and ecological (Our Missoin). The goal of GMO Free USA is to increase awareness of the impacts of and promote proper labeling of foods containing Currently, GMO labeling is not required of food companies and most people are not aware of the damages they can cause if they are not regulated. While GMO Free USA would like to see a complete shift in sustainable farming techniques, GMO labeling and awareness is what they are currently focusing on. are still relatively new to farming and the long-term effects of injecting these genetically modified organisms have not been studied. In their advertisements, GMO Free USA uses images featuring babies and young children, along with facts and statistics about the use of in baby food are used to appeal to the emotions of the audience and to drive home the point that can affect loved ones. Through various uses of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, GMO Free USA spreads and promotes awareness of the dangers of the use of genetically modified organisms in everyday foods. Novack 2 GMO Free USA focuses on the potential allergens that are in and if not labeled properly, can cause severe allergic reactions. Image A features a baby being fed a bottle, with bold text at the top stating: Dear! Will I Have (Image A). The baby was used to appeal to the emotions because a baby represents vulnerability and innocence. The audience is put in a position of responsibility for this baby because there is no adult figure in this scene and is intended to feel guilty that this safety and health is being put at risk because of potential allergens that are contained in the soy used in popular baby formulas. This is called pathos: is a method of convincing people with an argument drawn out through an emotional The baby is surrounded in white blankets which represents innocence and purity, the message this image is trying to get across is that people are polluting their bodies with harmful and unnatural chemicals. The blue font of the text represents the earth and how using can be extremely harmful to the environment, the use of blue in the text was to subtly make the audience be aware of the environmental effects. Blue is typically representative of the ocean and environment so by adding that color into the image, it makes the audience think of the environmental effects of Also, included in Image A, is a statistic at the bottom of the image about in baby food that states: uses GMO soy in its conventional formulas that include a soy allergen that is 41% identical to the same allergen in the peanut (Image A). This appeals to the senses of logic because it is backing up the message with facts from their website. This images focuses heavily on the appeals to emotion and logic by eliciting an emotional response from the audience and then presenting the facts associated with their cause. The audience can also tell that this is coming from a credible organization because the logos of GMO Free USA and GMO Free Canada, along with the link to their official website and social media pages. This image does not contain Kairos, which hurts Novack 3 the message that the image is trying to convey. Since this is a pressing issue, this image would be much more effective if there was an appeal to timeliness. Overall, the image conveys the message very well through strong elements of logos, pathos and ethos. GMO Free USA advocates for more studies to be done on the long term effects of because currently there are no tests on the long term impacts can have on humans. This image features a baby with a quote from a scientist about At the top of the image there is bold text that reads: Came to be Accepted with No Safety The quote is introduced by: attitude of industry and government officials in 1988 the quote that follows is: the American people want progress, they are going to have to be the Guinea pigs Biologist Phillip (Image B). This image is in all black and white except for the eyes, which are bright blue. This was done to draw focus there and make people realize that affect everyone. Placing a baby on the image appeals to the emotions because when they see it they will relate it back to their own children. This image also makes the audience think twice about the scientific community in the started to come about in the late and was backed by the scientific community. These claims about and how they are safe are outdated and is making people question the authority of that biologist and it enhances the authority of GMO Free USA. This image also includes the GMO Free USA logo along with the GMO Free Canada logo. The goal of this image is to get people thinking critically about the food industry that relies on and studies funded by the food industry. There is a slight appeal to Kairos in this image because it is showing how long have been in place, other than that there is not much Kairos. This is detrimental to the message the image is trying to convey because this is a pressing issue and there is not much attention to how fast this issue is growing. This quote also appeals to the sense of logic because it Novack 4 is unethical for a scientist to say something like this, so the logical response would be to think twice about the food industry and its motives. Including this quote in the image makes people think more critically about the food industry. These two images share similarities in their message and their content. Both images feature babies, which appeal to the emotions. The babies put the audience is a place of responsibility and it makes the audience feel protective over the baby. The text on both of the images suggests that the babies are in a position of danger and the audience is responsible to protect them. It also makes the audience aware of what they are feeding their families. These images both include statistics or quotes form credible sources. This appeals to the sense of logic and makes the audience think critically about genetically modified organisms. The audience knows that these images are coming from credible sources because both images include the GMO Free USA and GMO Free Canada logos at the bottom of the images. This ensures that these organizations support the message that these images are sending. They also include the links to their website and Facebook page. GMO Free USA is an organization that advocates for the proper labeling and elimination of genetically modified organisms. The images produced by GMO Free USA include strong elements of pathos, ethos, and logos. Overall, these images are the strongest in pathos, evoking strong emotional responses through the use of babies in their images. Both of these images also include statistics and quotes that appeal to logic, and include their logo and website to let the audience know that this is coming from a credible source. Novack 5 Image A  GMO Free USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Image B Novack 6 Works Cited Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.  GMO Free USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Novack 7  GMO Free USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.