Krieman 1 Julia Krieman Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102.015 26 February 2017 Catholic Relief Effective Advertising Catholic Relief Services is a nonprofit charity that collects donations to bring aid to people in need in other countries. According to their website, Relief Services eases suffering and provides assistance to people in need in more than 100 countries, without regard to race, religion or CRS works in faith to help others in need; they describe this on their website further: Catholic Relief Services is a manifestation of love for our brothers and sisters around the globe by the Catholic community of the United States. We protect, defend and advance human life around the world by directly meeting basic needs and advocating solutions to injustice. CRS is a pro-life organization dedicated to preserving the sacredness and dignity of human life from conception to natural death This organization provides services based on the teachings of the Catholic Church. All of their efforts are aligned with Catholic doctrine and work to protect human life at all stages. The main mission of this charity is that in action provides CRS is free from tax in the United States which allows ninety three percent of their donation based income to be used directly through charity in other countries. The remaining seven percent of the income goes to fundraising, awareness, management, and general expenses The goal of Catholic Relief Services is to obtain peace in and between all countries and to help people who are in the most need of aid. CRS uses specific advertising techniques to get their message Krieman 2 across to their audience. Catholic Relief Services advertises using the rhetorical appeals which in turn encourages their audience to donate time and money to help their cause. In Image 1, CRS is asking viewers to donate money in the Liturgical Season of Lent through their project, Rice (Image 1). This advertisement depicts a little boy who is laughing with a bowl of rice in his hands. This image urges a viewer to donate because it shows that Operation Rice Bowl is truly helping people and making their lives better and happier. This appeal to the emotions is effective in that, Catholic Relief Services connects the reader to people like the little boy shown in this advertisement. CRS uses the rhetorical strategy, logos, when they provide the audience with the image of the little boy smiling. The viewer can see that what Catholic Relief Services does is effectively helping people around the world. The reader can see that their money would go to good use if they decided to donate. CRS also provides social media links and links to their websites so that the viewer can easily become involved. This insures they have easy access to the donation portal. These links are appeals to the logic because it makes the task of donating easier. The reader can see that it is logical to donate because the various links provided in this image are direct routes to the donation portal. The reader will not waste any of their time trying to find out how to donate because it is provided so clearly in Image 1. CRS also provides social media links and web addresses so that the viewer can easily become involved and gain knowledge on the organization. These is a way of giving the advertisement credibility because it shows that there is a place where the reader can learn more about the organization. The CRS Rice Bowl logo further gives the advertisement credibility because the reader can see that this is a real organization that is backed by the Catholic Church. The Operation Rice Bowl logo also provides credibility to the specific project that CRS is trying to raise money for. This logo makes the advertisement Krieman 3 credible because the reader knows it is a well-planned and organized charity. The motto appeals to logic because the reader can see that CRS puts faith into action to create results. The reader is assured that their money will be going straight to helping people through CRS, putting the Catholic faith into action through charitable works. In Image 1, the CRS mission statement, action. appeals to the logic because it gives them an idea of what CRS does and how they apply their work. Kairos can be seen in Image 1 because Catholic Relief Services is collecting donations during the Lenten Liturgical Season. This give the reader an idea of when they should make their donations. Catholic Relief Services uses the Catholic faith to connect the Season of Lent to sacrifice and giving for the good of others. By using rhetorical appeals, CRS is effective in urging their audience to donate during Lent so that people who are hungry in impoverished countries will be able to have food. Image 2 depicts a little boy that looks as if he is sad and dirty. His eyes look watery, like he may be about to cry. He is wearing red clothing which could show the viewer that he is hungry because red is usually associated with hunger. To Catholics, the color red represents the Holy Spirit, showing the viewer that this little boy has the Holy Spirit in him just like everyone else. This common ground could cause the reader to donate and urge the reader to help in some way. The statistic in Image 2 uses the rhetorical strategies logos and kairos to make a statement to the audience that will encourage them to help in any way they can. The statistic shows how critical it is to end child labor, specifically, Syrian refugees. Knowing the severity of this matter is effective because it will push the reader to help. The image appeals to the emotions because they can see in the image that the little boy seems sad. This connects the reader to the little boy emotionally. This is effective on the part of Catholic Relief Services because they know more people will donate if they feel connected to the little boy in the image. CRS is also Krieman 4 effective in appealing to the logic of the audience by using the statistic. The statistic shows the reader that this issue is real because there is statistical proof. Because of the large amount of refugees in need, the reader can see how much help and donations CRS needs. They reader will then feel that through Catholic Relief Services they can help children like this little boy. CRS is providing an easy and credible way for the reader to help in ending this issue. The statistic also provides a sense of urgency amongst the audience, appealing to timeliness, because the reader can see that this is an issue that needs to be fixed as soon as possible. CRS shows the audience that they can change the reality of this social issue by donating their time and money. The CRS logo and the photographer name give the advertisement credibility because the reader can see that CRS has service groups working in other countries that are providing relief. The reader can see exactly where the photo is coming from and they know that the advertisement has a connection to a well-known and recognized charity. Image 2, is effective in using rhetorical strategies to encourage the audience to donate to Catholic Relief Services. Both of these images are urging the audience to make a difference in the lives of people who need it by either donating or getting involved in the mission of CRS through charitable works like mission trips and prayer. The images are effective in getting their point across with the use of pathos, the appeal to emotion. Image 1 uses it in a way that will make the reader want to donate to make people in similar situations to the little boy happy like he is in the image. In Image 2, the reader is encouraged to donate because they feel they need to help children in similar situations to the little boy who looks sad in this image because of child labor amongst Syrian refugees. Image 2 could be seen as more effective because it appeals to the emotions of the reader in way that would make them understand the severity and urgency of the issue. This image appeals to the emotions more so because the little boy looks sad. The reader Krieman 5 might feel compassion for this little boy because he looks sad and in need of aid. In both images, CRS is successful in showing the high demand for their services which would encourage their readers to donate. The main mission of CRS is to provide service for people in other countries who are impoverished or in need relief after a tragic and fatal event. Their advertisements use ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to appeal to the readers ethics, logic, emotions, and the time in which they are viewing the advertisement. The advertisements are effective in encouraging viewers to donate their time and money to the less fortunate in other countries. Krieman 6 Image 1 Image 2 Krieman 7 Works Cited  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Faith in Action Leads to Results. Dir. Most Reverend Paul S. Coakley. Perf. Monsignor Brian Bransfield, Archbishop Paul S. Coakley, Bishop Gerald F. Kicanas, Cardinal Timothy N. Dolan, Bishop Robert N. Lynch. Faith in Action Leads to Results. Catholic Relief Services, 6 June 2014. Web.  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Mission  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, 01 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Tarling, Sam. CRS. N.d. Catholic Relief Services, Syria. CRS. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Operation Rice Bowl. N.d. Catholic Relief Services, Laos. CRS Rice Bowl. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.