Bianco 1 Richelle Bianco Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Citizens Against Spouse Abuse Citizens Against Spouse Abuse (CASA) is a nonprofit organization that gives those being abused opportunity to start anew. Founded by Sr. Margaret Freeman in 1977, he created it as a: Free Clinic providing emergency housing for up to 8 domestic violence survivors at a and with help from surrounding communities, CASA can now provide shelter and service to over 100 victims at a time with safe stations in every state Their goal is: raise our voices against violence through advocacy, empowerment and social while they hope that one day the world will be free from domestic abuse Not only does CASA focus on those being abused, they try to prevent it from ever happening: children in Pinellas County schools have participated in Peacemaker anti-bullying and personal safety The organization heavily relies on advertisements to conveys their goals through portrayal of Pathos, Ethos, Kairos and Logos. Figure 1, although simply expressed, portrays vivid emotion to the viewer. The appeal to emotion is described as Pathos: is a method of convincing people with an argument drawn out through an emotional the organization does this by using symbolism throughout both images. Automatically, the viewer feels a sense of distress, due to the melancholy colors and overall dreariness of the image. While the advertisement may seem like an unreasonable way to depict spouse abuse, the picture relies heavily on symbolism to Bianco 2 convey a message. The focus of the picture displays three shoes, a male pair and one distinct woman shoe (Figure 1). The right shoe of the male pair is crushing the female shoe, displayed almost as if there is an invisible foot in the male shoe. Since Figure 1 is used to bring awareness to abuse, the male shoe stepping on the women shoe symbolizes a man beating a woman. He has complete control over her and therefore can force himself to beat her. The contrast between the male shoe being dirty with mud and the female shoe being white, the onlooker acknowledges there is a difference between the two shoes. In literature, white is commonly associated with: virginity, suggesting that the creator of this advertisement sees women as pure and innocent beings of The Color In comparison to the male shoe, which is the color grey and scuffed with mud, indicating that the male wearing the shoe is dirty. According to Jennifer Bourn, grey is considered an color; the fact that his shoe color is a dull grey, the viewer can infer that the male feels little emotion while beating his wife of The Color The white shoe is being stained with mud by the unclean shoe, symbolizing not only the bruises that he might leave on her, but that her purity and innocence is ruined. CASA demonstrates symbolism to provide their thoughts on how they view abuse, specifically towards women. Another contrast of colors is the background being slightly blurred out while the two dominant shoes have a shadow of light casted onto them. This gives hint to some light on the and one is forced to address the image in front of them. Even though the background is blurred, one can still see other shoes. These other shoes are positioned away from the incident, and can be illustrated as those that turn to neglect the signs of abuse. The left shoe is arranged between the shoes in the background and the right shoe, indicating he has two personalities: one he chooses to show to those around him, and one he presents to his wife. Also, since shoes are mainly found in a closet, the phrase, Bianco 3 it in the comes into play; though because the closet door is open, and the shoes are placed outside the room, one can infer that this is an issue that needs to be brought to attention and not ignored. These subtle details propel the viewer to feel a sense of helplessness and disgust that one cannot protect the woman shoe. goal of displaying Pathos is to disturb the viewer in hopes that will make them become aware of the horrors of abuse. To demonstrate authority, name and organizational logo, a butterfly, is displayed in the bottom right corner of the advertisement. These authoritative gestures apply to Ethos: is means convincing others through the credibility of a (Literary and are justified when the organization states their name and hotline number. Underneath the photograph in both Figure 1 and Figure 2, and to the left of their logo, is one of mission statements and a 24/7 abuse hotline number. In their mission statement: abuse strips your dignity, your hope and your life. The pain only measured in bruises and marks. We know. been there. And we know how to get are a free and confidential assistance program run by, and for, victims of domestic they suggest that they have and how to get (Figure 1). The viewer realizes that because the organization is run by people who have been abused, there is a sense of security and experience associated with the organization. This promotes credibility, because the viewer gains insightful information about the organization as well as knowledge that it truly exists. CASA hopes their mission statement will allow those that are abused to feel more comfortable calling the hotline number because those answering the phones will relate to those calling. Lastly, these images demonstrate Kairos: refers to making exactly the right statement at exactly the right CASA does this by inserting important statements onto their advertisements that bring awareness to abuse. To assert timeliness and urgency, the artist captions the image with the slogan: he controls your Bianco 4 life, no longer your (Figure 1). With this statement, CASA creates a sense of desperation for the one being abused. The viewer feels urgency to contact CASA and seek help if being abused, in fear that they need to escape their current living situation. Figure 1 does not provide the rhetorical strategy Logos, the appeal to logic is In contrast to Figure 1, Figure 2 displays two mugs in a cupboard. One mug signifies a male, while the other signifies a viewer can conclude this due to the words written on one and written on the other (Figure 2). Although there are other items in the cabinet, the eyes focus on the two mugs, specifically the mug with a heaping crack in the side. This coffee cup is not as pristine as counterpart, and is placed a few feet back from the other mug-- indicating that the male in this household is dominant over the female in all ways. The fact the woman cup is cracked proves that whomever has touched it, clearly mishandled it. These cracks symbolize physical and emotional abuse towards women in a household setting. When abused, not only is the person left with bruises and scars, but their emotional cognitive abilities are impacted: the course of an abusive relationship a perpetrator will use both physical and non-physical forms of abuse to blame and control their victims. The effects of these forms of abuse is reflected in their thoughts, emotions, and behaviours. They begin to doubt their own worth (thoughts), feel depressed and anxious (emotions), and either become abusive themselves, or withdraw from the relationship and the world entirely Cognitive-Behavioural Interventions with Victims of ). The artist purposely portrayed the situation with cups to demonstrate how spouse abuse can happen anywhere- including in the presence of own home. This makes the viewer consider whether it is something happening in their house. Since the cups are specifically labelled Mom and Dad, instead of generalized (i.e. Mr. and Mrs.), the viewer relates the objects to his/her life Bianco 5 and personalizes the situation, making the image emanate a sense of empathy. As the viewer takes this all in, there is a feeling of needing to fix the mug. As seen within Figure 1, CASA believes women should be protected, and utilize the cracks in the mug to symbolize the torment abuse causes. The image appeals to authoritativeness, Ethos, the same way as Figure 1. The organizational logo and motto are placed within the image to demonstrate credibility, along with their hotline number. This number is added onto each image to provide the viewer with knowledge of the accountability and prove to the onlooker that CASA can be reached easily. As in Figure 1, this image also appeals to Kairos. The same slogan: he controls your life, no longer your is used at the bottom of the advertisement, tempting the viewer to gain control of his/ her life again. The viewer knows they could gain control again if they called hotline number and reported their abuse. CASA uses this slogan in both images to advocate the criticality of the issue. Figure 2 does not propose Logos within the image. Despite Figure 1 and Figure 2 being different images, they have similarities that define their uniqueness. Both images attract the viewer with an allurement to modernism. The items displayed correlate to modern society. They are convenient components of a everyday life regardless of religion, race or lifestyle. Since these items are so common and have no boundaries among cultures or societies, the viewer realizes that abuse should be viewed the same way. The modern productivity of the items reiterates that spouse abuse is a current issue. Both images rely heavily on Pathos, Ethos and Kairos to express their passion on ending domestic abuse, though they lack the appeal of Logos, better known as: device that includes any content in an argument that is meant to appeal to is To justify a point that portrays logic, CASA could have provided a statistic on how many women are abused Bianco 6 by their spouses or how many women the organization has protected. This would strengthen the credibility of the advertisements as well. Although both images address spousal abuse, Figure 2 provides a better appeal to connect with its viewers. By labeling the cups and the advertiser associates with its observers on a personal level. The observer is able to feel attached to the image and convey empathy, realizing it could be their parents. Although Figure 1 is powerful, the image creates the impression of sympathy, and the viewer can address the situation though cannot relate personally. Through the application of pathos, ethos, logos and Kairos, Citizens Against Spouse Abuse demonstrate their concerns and reach out to those struggling within their relationship. The images provide powerful reasons to end spouse abuse while satisfying their commitment to eventually end corruption within a home. Bianco 7 Works Cited About  CASA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Amaral, Richard. Cognitive-Behavioural Interventions with Victims of  Knowledge For Growth. N.p., 04 Apr. 2011. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Bourn, Jennifer. Meaning of The Color White  Bourn Creative. N.p., 03 June 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Bourn, Jennifer, Rick Tompkins, and Tracy Taub. Meaning of The Color  Bourn Creative. N.p., 03 June 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Literary  Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Most Creative Ads Series: Domestic  Design Inspiration. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. What Is Logos? Definition, Examples of Logos in  Writing Explained. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Bianco 8 Figure 1: Most Creative Ads Series: Domestic  Design Inspiration. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Bianco 9 Figure 2: Most Creative Ads Series: Domestic  Design Inspiration. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.