Giang 1 Helen Giang Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Saving the Earth One Ad at a Time BUND Friends of the Earth is an organization located primarily in Germany; for several years they have been strong believers in protecting the environment and rights. With approximately 480,000 members and supporters, BUND creates ponds, look after and take care of protected areas, plant hedges and fight for the preservation of valuable natural areas throughout the country of the Earth Over the course of the years, BUND has made it their priority to help with sustaining transportation, fighting nuclear power and improving nature protection are known as a non-partisan and non- religious grass root organization also known as a small organization that grew larger and is more well with some local branches dating back to of the Earth BUND has created a large number of ads to spread the awareness of what is happening in the environment because their vision for the future involves sustaining political approach, ensuring the rights of children and people who are living in the global of this they have united about 30 national organizations with thousands of local groups. The goal for their ads is to on most urgent environmental and social and promote solutions that will assist in these issues happening of the Earth Image 1, created by BUND, depicts a helpless sea lion being crushed by the hands of a clock. The colors and shading used in this image create urgency, leading the audience to the Giang 2 conclusion that they must act fast before time runs out. The focus is a giant clock with a sea lion wedge between the hour hand and the second hand. The sea lion has a painful facial expression, almost as if he was screaming out in pain (Image 1). Depicting an animal in pain, crying out for help is an example of use of pathos, trying to convince the audience to join their side, because of an appeal to their emotions with the use of a hurting animal Logos, The sea lion is shades of gray with dark red blood dripping from it, the color gray was chosen to show life being drained from the animal with every ticking second. This bleeding animal is being flatten by an item that was made by man and like this sea lion, other animals are suffering and dying. This tragic cycle is perpetuated by mankind and their trend to multiply and exhaust environments, including resources and life in those environments. The idea that only sea lions are at risk is small-minded, because modern day humans create enormous amounts of pollution and are destroying animal and plant habitats alike much faster than they can be replenished, leading to the urgency BUND tries to convey. Above the logo, is a quote that states, 60 seconds a species dies (Image 1). Adding a time to this statement creates a sense of pressure and seriousness to the is an example of kairos as well as logos. The quote is representative of kairos because it refers to the urgency of taking action championed by BUND, and the quote is logos because it gives specific numbers relating to the rate of extinction for all species of life. The quote emphasizes the importance of acting hastily because with time passing, a species will die. The clock is approximately five minutes until 12 this represents a full turn or cycle, tying the 60 quote to the clock. Relating to the rhetorical appeal of ethos, or credibility, the image utilizes the BUND logo watermark in the upper right hand corner of the image to show that BUND is responsible for and likely proud of the images they present, and are willing and ready to put their name on an image Logos, Overall, the rhetorical Giang 3 appeals used in image 1 are effective in translating the message BUND wants the audience to take away from the image, which is that it is important to act fast and save the species of life we still have left on our planet. Image 2 presents the idea that it is important to keep a healthy balance with nature. The logo is presented in the lower right corner of the image. In addition to the logo, there is a website provided for the viewers, creating a sense of ethos. ad encourages the viewers to join their organization, showing that they are to be trust because they would not ask members to join if they were not a worthwhile and credible cause. Now looking at the whole image, one could see there is a sign that says Nature in (Image 2). This quote creates a sense of urgency, an example of kairos. If something is not done as quickly as possible, then the hierarchy of animals will tumble down and get hurt or possibly death. The quote on the sign also has a connection to the rhetorical appeal of logos, because it is logical to keep a healthy balance with nature. At first look the image might look silly or light-hearted, however, after looking closer at the image one could see the severity of the situation. This idea relates to the rhetorical appeal of pathos, as the viewer can see that the expressions of the animals supporting the others are exasperated and tired. Looking at the elephant, the largest of the animals, who holds up eleven animals standing only on two legs. At first the elephant looks like it is laughing but with further observation, it is clear the elephant has on a concerned face. As the audience analyzes image 2 further, they may notice the lifeless background, which consist of thick heavy clouds and straw yellow grass representing lifelessness. These elements of the image are not obvious at first glance, but underlie the message attempting to be communicated through the image, which is that the balance between nature is precarious and should be maintained. Giang 4 Even though both Image 1 and 2 induce a lot of emotion, Image 1 does a more adequate job at exposing the concerns on environmental issues. While looking at Image 2, many of the viewers may find the ad almost humorous because of the several events happening at once (Image 2). At first glance, the viewers may have their attention drawn to the largest animal there, the elephant, who has its mouth open almost as if it was laughing. However, if the viewers were to look closely at the eyes, it changes the whole facial reaction. The facial expression seems to be more in pain rather than laughing. As the viewers further look at image 2, they would begin to notice at the very bottom is a turtle looking up at the arrangement of animals on top of it with a concerned look. This does not have a clear and straight forward message like image 1 does. Image 1 consists of mainly different shades of gray and a small-scale of red; red is known to be an eye-catching color which makes the viewers drawn to the darken red blood being depleted from the wailing sea lion. The red hue, again hooks the viewers on the ticking hand and the open month; this color builds up a feeling of urgency. It is clear to see Image 1 is talking about the importance of time and how it could determine life or death of a species, by the use of color. Both Image 1 and 2 were carefully constructed to target the viewers and their way of thinking. The use of pathos, logos, ethos and kairos was aimed to help the viewers realize they need to act as quickly as possible, if not, time would start running out for helpless animals. Each ad made, has the goal of keeping these animals safe by promoting awareness and solutions. Giang 5 Works Cited Foeeurope. Bund Umwelt und Naturschutz  Friends of the Earth Europe. N.p., Feb. 2012. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Friends of the  Friends of the Earth. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and  Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and Examples. N.p., 2015. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Identidad  Pinterest. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Munro, Brett. ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS in  ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS in ADVERTISING. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Giang 6 Image 1 Image 2