Crawford 1 Chloe Crawford Professor Missler 3/16/17 ENC 1102 Appealing for Freedom PETA (People for the ethical treatment of animals) is an organization that has spent thirty-seven years dedicated to establishing, and defending the rights for all animals. opening statement and main principle is that are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other on the other hand have been an attraction since 1897, when the first zoo opened and now have spread to over 10,000 zoos worldwide. attract the public by the experience and sight of their exotic animals that they hold captive every day. Small confined spaces that is now the home and fate for most zoo animals. PETA is against and has created many adds that deal with the concerns for zoo animals. These ads contain rhetorical appeals including pathos, ethos, karios, and logos which all help promote their organization, their purpose, and their fight for zoo animals. The first PETA ad displays pathos, by provoking emotion onto the viewer. Looking at the ad you see a man in a small confined space which creates an unsettling feeling for this different perspective of humans in cages. By PETA making the viewer see this from two different sides by having a human in a cage rather than an animal, it creates a sense of guilt for the animals who are in cages. Then the sign at the bottoms right-hand corner says TO RELATE TO THEIR FATE: SAY NO TO creates a sense of sympathy, and compassion for zoo animals. Fate is a strong word, and mostly used for happy stories or happy ending, and seeing Crawford 2 this picture and reading the sign zoo animals fate a happy story or ending. Which creates compassion for these animals who have control for their lives or their situation. Relating to their fate of being in cages or captivated to confined areas for their rest of our lives is something that thought of, however once viewed from a different perspective of humans in the cages it provides a different outlook, and evokes sympathy for zoo animals. This ad appeals to ethos by being credible. The man in the cage is Pragyan Ojha, he is the latest celebrity who is in support of PETA. By having their organizations logo on the bottom of the sign it also displays credibility. Pathos and ethos the only rhetorical appeals that this ad displays. This ad appeals to karios by the certain words that PETA used in this ad. By relating to their fate, it does provoke urgency in acting fast to help zoo animals. Also the sign, has a red background and has white letters. Red is the prominent color on the sign, and red relates a lot to timeliness. The color red displays a sense of caution, importance, urgency. An example is a stop sign which is the color red. When a driver sees this sign they need to stop. By stopping it provides people to stop and think, which is how this sign and color appeal to karios. Lastly logos, this ad appeals to logos because of Pragyan Ojha the celebrity in this ad. He is famous for being an international cricketer who plays for Bengal for cricketing. PETA has created a huge support system that includes some celebrities on their team as well to promote their organization, and the growth of it as well. The next PETA ad displays all rhetorical appeals as well. This ad displays pathos by the sign positioned at the bottom of the picture saying EVEN THE WILDEST ANIMALS BELONG IN THE Those words are saying that humans are the wildest animals. Which creates a sense of disgust, since humans put a negative connotation with the word animal when Crawford 3 compared to humans. This ad appeals to ethos by having a human painted as the cheetah. Looking at the ad clear that a human is painted as the cheetah which provides credibility into the message that this ad is trying to convey. This ad appeals to karios by the colors in the sign. The white background catches the attention since the other colors displayed in the ad are dark. The words are all capitalized which displays PETA trying to shout their message to all the viewers. According to Alice Robb have long used capital letters to set apart and convey its Which is what the sign is displaying the importance of their mission and message so people can act fast to their mission. This ad appeals to logos by the message this ad is provoking. The message is that not even the wildest animals (humans) belong in the zoo. So not only do regular wild animals belong in a zoo but the wildest animals humans belong their either. Both images created a different perspective and outlook that humans seen nor thought of concerning the topic of zoo animals. By viewing humans in a cage it displays how inhuman it is for humans and animals. ads have displayed how to relate to the reality and fate for all animals in zoos. By both ads using rhetorical appeals including pathos, ethos, karios, and logos it helps convey their message, promote their organization, and lastly help save all captivated zoo animals. Crawford 4 Works Cited N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.bing.com/cr?IG=161AA5EF4B5347EFA0B0C6AEF2C3856E&CID=1404858D96 UZDHM&v=1&r=http%3a%2f%2fwww.news18.com%2fnews%2findia%2fsnapshot-cricketer- pragyan-ojha-is-petas-face-for-its-anti-zoo-campaign-670788.html&p=DevEx,5034.1>. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://static.ibnlive.in.com/pix/slideshow/01-2008/bollywood-goes- Robb, Alice. How Capital Letters Became Internet Code for  New Republic. N.p., 17 Apr. 2014. Web. 16 Mar. 2017. <https://newrepublic.com/article/117390/netiquette- capitalization-how-caps-became-code-yelling>. Zoos: Pitiful  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Mar. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/animals-used-entertainment- factsheets/zoos-pitiful-prisons/>. Crawford 5 Crawford 6 Crawford 7