Malanga 1 Malanga 2 Daniel Malanga Professor Ryan ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Project 2: Pro-Life People that take a stand for Pro-life laws and regulations are people that believe abortion is an inhumane and unfair act of violence. The National Right to Life organization are all examples of these people. The NRLC fights to end the legalization of abortion and educate people about why they consider abortion to be murder. Through all four rhetorical appeals in their advertisements, the National Right to Life Organization successfully supports their claim that the developing baby in its womb is human life and should be treated as such. In the first advertisement, the NRLC is attempting to persuade the viewer that abortion is inhumane because the developing baby in the womb does not have a voice to be heard, which therefore makes it unethical and unfair to end his life. The NRLC is most likely targeting a younger age group in this ad for educational purposes, as they try to educate the youth of why unborn babies should be considered life. Having AT in all capital letters and a large font size gives the advertisement a very dramatic tone and attracts the attention immediately. The NRLC often supports their claims with factual evidence involving an unborn babies developmental process. waves can be detected as early as 40 days after (nrlc.org 1). This quote is another example of the evidence used to support their viewpoint. These graphic aspects help accomplish their mission to convince the audience that unborn children deserve the same rights as living humans. Malanga 3 The rhetorical appeal in the first advertisement is mainly the pathos and kairos and logos appeals. The pathos appeal in this advertisement is seen with the babies being shown in a sympathetic and heart touching manner. The middle image shows a baby with large and innocent eyes with a helpless look on his face. This can appeal to viewers emotionally because they feel sympathy and sadness for the baby, which could make people question whether abortion should be legal. The saying you be a voice for the appeals to viewers in the logos appeal. Although the reaction of an audience be predicted, people are expected to think about how babies truly have a say in whether they will be terminated before birth after reading that statement. This will most likely make some think about whether it is fair to abort a baby based off only the decision. reality is that in our country, a mother will make the final decision if that baby lives or (Parke 1). This image also incorporates the kairos appeal. The kairos appeal is shown in the saying AT because life is one of the most timed things on earth. When readers will read that saying, they may consider that life is short and that they want to be a part of making it even shorter for an unborn baby. These appeals are all seen in the advertisement clearly and are utilized to convince their viewers that unborn babies should rightfully be considered life. The second mission is to convince viewers to look at unborn babies as a life with potential, instead of a potential for life. The NRLC is emphasizing that an unborn baby should be considered life, and that it has potential to do great things. Using an image of an unborn baby in his womb with clearly visible and developed human attributes helps viewers believe unborn children to be human life. The ultimate goal of the National Right to Life Committee is to restore legal protection to innocent human (National Right to Life Committee Biography 1). The ad is most likely targeting the same group as the first ad, which is Malanga 4 the youth. Another targeted group for both ads would be women in prime children bearing age. The NRLC wants to convince every mother to give birth to their baby and that is what these advertisements help do with their intense words and images. The tone of this ad is dramatic like the first ad, but in a subtler way. The background color being blue brings more of a peaceful dramatic tone, as opposed to the first ad which had red, implying an urgent or panicked dramatic tone. These visual aspects come into play when considering how the viewers will react to the advertisement. The second advertisement incorporates the pathos, kairos and ethos appeals. The pathos is shown through the image of the fetus in the womb. Seeing a developing baby with its growing human characteristics can make audiences emotional due to its delicate state. human argument gives the right to life to the unborn from the very earliest stage of development - the moment when the egg is (Potential Human, Potential Rights 1). The kairos appeal is seen in the same way as the first advertisement, with the word being integrated. The ethos appeal is seen in that the NRLC company logo in in large font with the organization website next to it. Also, the fact that the NRLC is the only company involved in the advertising, it brings attention and publicity to them. These three appeals tie together to make an effective and supportive advertisement. These two advertisements can effectively portray the mission of the NRLC and what they stand for as an organization. Both ads use a lot of pathos through their imagery of the babies in a delicate state which results in sympathetic thinking from the audience. This promotes the importance of unborn babies and their need for someone to speak on their behalf. They take different approaches in their effectiveness as the first advertisement uses an emergency type approach, and the second ad takes a more serene approach. However, even with these different Malanga 5 approaches they both maintain a dramatic and thought provoking tone. Both ads are successful forms of support for their company and beliefs. These two advertisements used all four rhetorical appeals to persuade their audience to believe that developing fetus should be considered human life and preserved accordingly. Both advertisements do a worthy job of conveying the mission and message that the National Right to Life organization strives for. When observing these advertisements, take the time to think about where you stand on the rights of unborn children. Malanga 6 Work Cited BBC - Ethics - Abortion: Potential Human, Potential  BBC News. BBC, 2014. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. National Right to Life Committee (NRLC)  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., 02 June 2010. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Parke June 20, 2013 , 09:35am, Caleb. A Voice for the Voiceless: Pleading the Case for Babies with a 90% Chance of Being  Live Action News. N.p., 19 June 2013. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. The Oldest & Largest Pro-life  National Right to Life. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017.