Moir 1 Alexandra Moir ENC 1102.044 Allison Missler 26 February 2017 Save the Everglades The Everglades Foundation is a nonprofit environmental organization whose goal is to restore the Greater Everglades ecosystem to a state in which allows clean water to flow naturally (Everglades Foundation). This organization was founded in 1993 by a group of outdoor enthusiasts, with a mission to restore and protect the everglades, after finding that a great amount of individuals depended on it economically and recreationally. Through legal actions, scientific research and conservational partnerships, the Everglades Foundation has been able to sustainably care for one of the most unique ecosystems on the Earth (Everglades Foundation). In the first image, the organization wants its audience to contribute to the cause through their most recent campaign. In the second image, the organization wants to inform its audience about a method of water storage in the Everglades and why they believe it is the best one to execute. This organization promotes itself using rhetorical devices in their images to effectively spread information about the state of the everglades and give the opportunity its audience to contribute to their cause. The first image addresses the audience about the Everglades educational campaign to educate to the public on the state of the everglades. It shows a grown man wearing sunglasses outside pointing towards the water, as if he is observing its quality. Over this image, in blue and green text, reads and then in white text below reads Moir 2 At the bottom of the page, in white text, it says us in standing resolute for Everglades by making a contribution The colors within the text, blue and green, symbolize the sky or deep sea on a clear and vegetation, grass, (Oxford English Dictionary), respectively, in the everglades, which grabs the attention and helps them connect the image at hand to the everglades ecosystem. The symbolism of the second set of texts within the image is represented within its color as well. In advertising, the use of white for text color is often associated with charitability and cleanliness (Color Wheel Pro). By asking the audience to donate in this text color can also allow for the subconscious connection between donating money and the cause to clean the Everglades. This color scheme is reoccurring throughout their entire website. The hashtags used in the text on top of the image, and appeal to kairos. In order for an image to effectively carry out its goal, it must be appropriate and relatable to that time period, and use of the hashtag is very common in everyday life, especially on social media sites such as Twitter and Instagram (University of Louisville). Hashtags allow individuals to enter directly into the conversation on social media, and with the use of this communication method allows them to not only relate and display their information to society, but also allow others to partake in to conversation. The image also demonstrates pathos through the text by requesting its audience to donate in order to save portraying that concern, not just those who are directly affected by its degrading condition. The second image depicts how the Everglades Foundation believes that the Southern Storage method is the best way to solve water crisis. It displays a map of southern Florida on the right-hand side, focusing on the location of Lake Okeechobee, how its water flows out of it Moir 3 currently, and the direction of water flow in the future if their plan is implemented. This part of the image also possesses information on the numerous waterbodies and pathways that the water currently takes, such as estuaries and the Florida Bay, along with the logo in the bottom right hand corner. The text on the left-hand side of the image gives information to why the organization believes this is such a great notion. The color scheme for this representation is blue, green and white, similar to the image previously discussed. This image uses all four rhetorical appeals to educate the reader about this method of water movement. In the first text on the left hand side, Storage is the Best Answer to Current Water two rhetorical appeals are effectively used to further the goal of this image. First, the word appeals to pathos, by depicting that this method is the highest excellence; surpassing all others in (Oxford English Dictionary) compared to other methods when used to solve water crisis. Second, the word appeals to kairos, illustrating that the water crisis being discussed is modern and timely, allowing the audience to understand that what is going on is important to society. Below this sentence are two sets of percentages demonstrating the water volume differences in the Northern Reservoir and the Southern Reservoir. These percentages appeal to logos, because of the use of numerical data to support a claim (University of Louisville). At the bottom, right-hand side of the image is the logo, which gives credibility to the image since the organization is a research-based, non-profit environmental organization that focuses on the well-being of the everglades, especially the water flow. The two rhetorical devices, logos and ethos, work well together since if an organization is an expert in their field and a credible group, then they will more than likely demonstrate those characteristics through fact sharing and information about their selected area of focus (Monamars). The color scheme for the presentation of information is Moir 4 similar to the one previously discussed and symbolizes the same ideas, nature, the sea and the sky, allow of which are found within the Greater Everglades Ecosystem. These two images both possess smaller goals to advance different agendas within the organization, such as education and donations. The first image uses rhetorical devices in a way to convince the audience to make a contribution towards the organization in order to save the everglades. The second image uses similar rhetorical devices to educate the audience on a method of water movement that would benefit not only the environment but also the Florida population and economy. Together, these two images help further the Everglades goal of preserving and glorifying the everglades because the images provide the attention needed for the audience to get involved. Moir 5 Works Cited Best, adj., n.1, and adv. : Oxford English Dictionary  Oxford English Dictionary . Oxford University Press, n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. <http://www.oed.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/view/Entry/18180?rskey=ZXNla6&result=2&i sAdvanced=false#eid>. Blue, adj. and n. : Oxford English Dictionary  Oxford English Dictionary . Oxford University Press, n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. <http://www.oed.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/view/Entry/20577?rskey=fIuAg0&result=1&is Advanced=false#eid>. Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Evergladesfoundation.org.  Everglades Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Green, adj. and n.1 : Oxford English Dictionary  Oxford English Dictionary . Oxford University Press, n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. <http://www.oed.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/view/Entry/81167?rskey=TN5PP7&result=2&i sAdvanced=false#eid>. Logos, Ethos, Pathos,  University of Louisville. University Writing Center, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https://louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/handouts-and- resources/handouts-1/logos-ethos-pathos-kairos>. Monamars . Identifying the rhetorical tools of ethos,  LinkedIn SlideShare. N.p., 10 July 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Moir 6