Hill 1 Cameron Hill Prof. Alison Missler ENC1102 7 March 2017 Leading The Way To Ban Lead One organization fighting for environmental justice is the Center for Biological Diversity, who backs up their fight with research, science, and appealing images. Although the organization covers almost every topic that relates to the environment, one specific topic that has come up more recently is the use of lead in outdoor products, such as bullets. The organization tries to convince its audience to avoid lead bullets by creating images that depict a dark future if the trend is not to stop. The Center for Biological Diversity presents appeals of credibility, logic, emotion, and the use of time through its images in hopes to gain the support of its audience. The first image that the Center for Biological Diversity uses is a computer generated graphic design that seems rather simple at first, but once explored, reveals detail. By using a graphic design, the Center for Biological Diversity is able to add text, shapes, and figures to create a larger image that pertains to all of the following appeals; Ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. First, the image shows ethos by placing the name in clear letters on the top-middle portion of the design. Elena Popan, of the Salem Press Encyclopedia states that in short, expresses what people and communities are in their deepest By placing the name in that particular spot, and by using white lettering, the name stands out and is easy to read. Relating to the above quote, the viewers of this image are able to see the building blocks of what this organization believes in. The audience can also tell that the Hill 2 organization is straightforward, and is not trying to hide behind anything. Due to the bright and nature colors, the audience gets a sense of welcoming. Colored pictures are used much more often than black and white pictures in marketing because they result in many more positive appeals to customers and audiences (Greenleaf 241-257). This image also appeals to pathos, which considers an emotional experience from the viewer when viewed. In the image, the frog appears to be happy with his eyes open and a grin on his/her face. The frog is in its natural color and seems to be looking out past the viewer. By using these specific details, the Center for Biological Diversity is able to create an emotional connection between the audience and the frog, which is a part of the environment. Further, if the frog, which lives in the environment were to be harmed by lead, the audience may feel a sense of sadness. By creating a connection between the audience and the frog, the Center for Biological Diversity is able to gain support from the audience. In the bottom of the photo, the phrase life is is used. The logic, or logos, behind this is; Obviously life is good so nobody should do anything that would harm life, which includes using lead bullets. Not only does it make the viewer think about the consequences of lead, but it also speaks against any environmental contamination. It makes the audience question why lead products would be used if life is so valuable. Finally, the last appeal that is in this design is Kairos. Kairos may not be the strongest appeal in this image, but it can be discovered. The image is saying that if contamination, like lead, is not stopped soon, life will become worse. If the use of lead is not stopped, living animals like the frog depicted in the photo will be harmed. It is trying to make the audience take an immediate stance against contamination, like lead. Hill 3 The second image is of high resolution, and seems to have been taken while the bullet was in motion. By using a high resolution photo, the center for Biological Diversity provides the audience with more detail. More details can possibly lead to more appeals. In the second image, Ethos seems to be missing. However, where ethos lacks, pathos makes up for it with emotional appeals. At the first glance, the bullet appears to be flying through the air as if it has just been shot. This not only gives the picture more life, but it also helps grab the attention. Contrary, if the bullet were to be motionless, there be as much of an effect. Because the bullet is moving, the bullet appears to be alive and containing a purpose. The purpose, projected by the image, is to destroy whatever may be in front of it, including the environment. Supporting the bullet is the text that reads How many times should a bullet What this means is that even after directly killing an animal when the bullet strikes, it also kills secondary animals that may eat the remaining pieces of that bullet when it breaks apart. This question does a great job grabbing the attention and acknowledging the seriousness of the situation. After viewing the image for some more time in greater detail, the audience can notice markings upon the bullet. These markings on the bullet are formed when the bullet passes through the barrel of a gun. This represents the origin of the bullet, or in the case for the lead bullet debate, the origin of the problem. Because the Center for Biological Diversity used a detailed image that allows the audience to see those markings, the audience can feel a sense of orientation, or direction to the problem. The picture infers that every problem has a source, and that the audience can help fight back against that certain source. In addition to pathos, logos is directly hit upon. The logic in the picture is a connection to the bullet and where it is going; The lead bullet is flying through the air, therefore it will harm Hill 4 something. The two proposition are: The bullet is flying, something will be harmed. Two propositions can be related in a number of ways which allows the viewer to decide what is happening (Ungvarsky Overview). What this really means is that the viewer can interpret their own logical connection within the photograph. In this case, most viewers will associate the flying bullet to damage. The Center for Biological Diversity however referring to what the bullet will strike, but to what affects the lead bullet has on the environment after it is fired. Because lead is bad for the environment, simply being present is a problem in of itself. FInally, Kairos is observed directly by the audience by the text in which is presented. The text makes the audience feel that for every second that lead bullets exist, they are killing more of the environment. The text is demanding that the audience stand up and help fight against lead bullets. Overall, the Center for Biological Diversity does a tremendous job depicting emotion, logic, and the urgency to take a stand through their images below. Both images depict an underlying message that insists the Center for Biological commitment to fighting lead bullets. That message, is that together with the Center for Biological Diversity, viewers can help make a difference. Hill 5 Hill 6 Works Cited Frier, Scott. Many Times Should a Bullet for Biological Diversity , Center for Biological Diversity, Accessed 6 Mar. 2017. Krishna, Aradhna. Marketing. [Electronic : Research on the Sensuality of Products . New York : Routledge, c2010., 2010. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t 00847a&AN=usflc.034679043&site=eds-live. for Center for Biological for Biological Diversity , Center for Biological Diversity, www.biologicaldiversity.org/. Accessed 6 Mar. 2017. Mirocha, Anna, editor. for Biological Diversity , Center for Biological Diversity, www.biologicaldiversity.org/. Accessed 6 Mar. 2017. Popan, Elena, MA.  Press Encyclopedia , January. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx Ungvarsky, Janine. Logic of  Press Encyclopedia , January. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=er