Morgan Craig Professor Ryan ENC 1102 The Pro-Life Action League strives to save the lives of fetuses. As an anti-abortion organization, the PLAL exist to save children through non-violent direct (Pro- Life Action League). The PLAL protest pro-abortion organizations such as Planned Parenthood. In the two images presented below the Pro-Life Action League speaks out against Planned Parenthood. These advertisements effectively advocate for action, and participation in the mission to save unborn babies and refute Planned Parenthood. Image 1 combines logos and pathos to refute Planned Parenthood and kairos to present the Pro-Life Action mission to encourage action. The logos is established through the statement Parenthood Sells Baby The PLAL uses this statement to educate others on the actions that make Planned Parenthood unworthy of their support. In addition to the statement, the figure of the baby with dollar signs also creates dislike. The figure of the baby with dollar signs on it creates a sense of pathos. The figure makes the baby look more like an item for sale than a human being. The combination of the statement and figure accomplish the Pro-Life Action goal of refuting pro-abortion organizations like Planned Parenthood. The advertisement also accomplishes the goal of encouraging action. According to author Kate Smith, the color pink can encourage action and confidence (Smith). The pink background is used to promote action and support for the Pro-Life Action League. The statement, figure, and background all successfully come together to promote the mission to refute Planned Parenthood and encourage action and support for its cause. Image 2 effectively combines kairos and ethos to promote the non-violent, anti- abortion mission and encourage action. kairos is established via the statement This sense of urgency represents the Pro-Life Action goal of generating action and participation. In addition to encouraging immediate action, Image 2 also includes the goal of eliminating support for Planned Parenthood. The sign in the image serves as an example of the nonviolent protest that the Pro-life Action League coordinate. The image combines two of the goals to promote their underlining mission to arouse non-violent action against pro-abortion organizations and ultimately unborn Lastly, the ad uses ethos to establish the credibility of the Pro-Life Action League. According to the article Persuasion and the Internet, credibility equals increased persuasiveness of the advertisement (Daniel Pine). The name on the image makes the call to action and urgency more appealing and encouraging. The creation of urgency combined with credibility successfully reflects the goals of the Pro-Life Action League. Both Image 1 and Image 2 are clear reflections of the values of the Pro-Life Action League. Together the two images successfully reflect the identity of the organization. The PLAL cleverly used different strategies to promote the same message in both images. They show strong opposition for Planned Parenthood in a clear and direct way. Wile image I uses logos to create dislike for Planned Parenthood, Image 2 uses kairos to call the audience to action and defund Planned Parenthood. In addition to promoting anti-abortion, activism is very important to the PLAL, their website even includes a link to an actions archive where viewers can learn how to get involved in pro-life activities. The images do a great job encouraging action in different and creative ways. While image 2 uses the rhetorical appeal of kairos to promote action, Image 1 uses a visual appeal to encourage action. In both Image 1 and Image 2 the Pro-Life Action League has successfully used different rhetorical strategies to reflect its identity and promote its cause. References Daniel Pine, Michael Sedoti, Tezra Warren. Credibility. n.d. March 2017. Pro-Life Action League. 2017. March 2017. Smith, Kate. Sensational Color. 17 October 2016. March 2017.