1 Project 2: How effective are these images? Project 2: How effective are these images? Rebecca Blackler University of South Florida 2 Project 2: How effective are these images? Whether it is Middle school or High School, they both allow anyone to gain a good education, however, sometimes schools guarantee this just by students attending school. Students have to be willing to learn as well. Dress codes have always been a problem. Schools are either too strict on students or students abuse the dress code to their advantage. The National School Board Association (NSBA) believes that education for children must be top priority as well as having academic success in public schools (National School Board Association, 2017). The NSBA wants to support students and ensure equity and access among each individual student (National School Board Association, 2017). The images which the NSBA uses has multiple components including the use of color, statistics, and the want to create action by convincing their audience that school uniforms do help students when focusing with their work. The first image has two girls in the picture. They are both young school girls who are in the same uniform. They are sitting down, presuming outside due to the brick work in the background, while reading books and smiling. At the bottom of the picture there is a statistic stating: of parents observed that their kids focus more in school after wearing school By having this statistic, logo is created. Parents want their children to focus while at school so having this statement helps assure them that uniforms really do help. The writing is in white, therefore, it stands out from the background making it easy for the reader to see. Not only is it white but the font style is more childish which helps with the tone. They state that 44% of parents saw a difference in their children which is a rather large number. Since it is so close to fifty percent it makes their argument more convincing. If the number was extremely high then it could come across to the reader as fake or wrong. The picture comes across as quite believable to the audience. This can also be created by pathos, since the lighting is bright due to the sun shining on them it makes the tone of the photo 3 Project 2: How effective are these images? positive. The girls seem to be enjoying their books, therefore, convincing the audience that the picture portrays happiness. Happiness is caused within the reader because the facial expressions are positive with convincing smiles. Kara Morker (2001) states that warm, genuine smile communicates feelings that words alone cannot Smiles are also normally seen as contagious, therefore, since the girls are smiling, viewers should want to too.The girls are the key focus in the picture as the background is blurred and they take up the whole photo. By doing this their school uniform takes up the center of the frame. The uniform looks good on the children which helps convince the reader that not only will they be beneficial for learning but they will also look good too. The uniform comes across as very simple but still smart looking for younger children. It looks comfortable so not restricted from movement. They are simple collared shirts with pinafores which means that they require a lot of time to put on. The statistic allows people to ponder about school uniforms and think about how beneficial they really are. In this situation, Kairos is helped by the use of logos and pathos which were previously mentioned. They look as if they are able to concentrate on their reading which relates to the statistic which is provided below. Kairos is an appeal which convinces the public to go out and do something. It is important for an image to include this appeal otherwise the image do a good job at convincing their audience. The students in this picture come across as very well-mannered while focusing on their education. Therefore, it could be argued that Kairos is created due to the outcome of the statistic given along with the happy attitude the children are giving off. It could also inspire people to look good when they leave the house, they see how these students look good in professional attire and therefore they would want to follow. In an article it stated that just by students wearing a uniform they become more disciplined and less likely to commit crimes, 4 Project 2: How effective are these images? therefore, focusing more on the school work and their education (Wilken and Aardt, 2012). Schools need to adapt their dress code or think about wanting to implement a school uniform if it meant helping students with their education. However, this appeal the most convincing or used as much compared to Logos and Pathos. The second picture which is used as a counterargument is adapted from the keep calm and carry on posters which were used in Great Britain during World War II. It is a well-known poster, therefore, creating ethics. This poster used against school uniforms says calm and say no to school The writing is in solid, white capital letters on a red background. It is very common to see the original phrase adapted and placed on objects. Even though the poster gets straight to the point for saying no to school uniform it still lacks in other appeals. Therefore, it a very convincing to the viewer. The picture portray anything to do with Logos, pathos, or Kairos. It could be argued that some may come into play a little, like the use of red as the background. However, not enough to prove effective on a viewer. To improve they could have made the words to school larger than the words keep calm so it would stand out more. Originally during the war the government wanted to public to keep calm, however, in this argument saying no to school uniforms is more important. Logos is very important when it comes to convincing an audience. The use of statistics and facts help persuade someone over another idea. This picture being used hold anything accountable as logos. Therefore, they should completely change the photo. If they wanted to add more appeals to the picture then it would be better just to make a new one as it would destroy the original look of the picture used in the war. 5 Project 2: How effective are these images? The first image which was used proves to be more effective compared to the second due to the appeals which were used. School uniforms prove to be beneficial by convincing the public through statistics and the layout of the photo. The image creates a happy tone by the use of the girls used due to them smiling while reading books. On the other hand, the second photo does a poor job at getting their audience to say no to school uniforms. It is just a demand but since there anything supporting the claim people are more likely going to ignore it. The first image has a lot more components involved compared to the second. The two pictures oppose the each views, however, the image trying to convince people that school uniforms are good is a lot more successful. 6 Project 2: How effective are these images? References National School Boards Association. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2017, from https://www.nsba.org/ Top Dentist. (2001). Retrieved March 19, 2017, from http://www.clarkdentalgroup.com/learning-center/cosmetic-dentistry/what-does-your- smile-say-about-you/ Wilken, I., & Aardt, A. V. (2012). School Uniforms: Tradition, benefit or predicament? Education as Change, 16(1), 159-184. doi:10.1080/16823206.2012.692211 7 Project 2: How effective are these images?