Andujar 1 Adrian Andujar Instructor Karen Hanson ENC 1102 March 1st 2017 Project 2 Final Draft: The Entertainment Consumers Association (ECA) is a nonprofit organization that speaks for the gaming community. This organization was founded in July of 2006, in the attempt of making the voices of gamers around the world heard. To do so, the founder of the Entertainment Consumers Association, Hal Halpin formed a committee of fifteen people in order to create a company that would empower the voices of gamers around the world. The association uses images to depict the common misconceptions of video games on their official website as well as various social media platforms such as Twitter. The two images that represent the stakeholder have one thing in common and that is that they were both created to show the audience that video games do not make people violent. Both these images use pathos and logos to persuade their audience into getting interested in the topic. The first image presented was created by the Entertainment Consumers Association and was sent out by their official Twitter page. This image was directed towards the gaming audience as it affects the gaming community more than any other. This image appeals to both pathos and logos as it deals with both sarcasm and factual evidence. Logos could possibly make the audience realize through sarcasm how ludicrous it is to believe that violent video games do indeed cause violence. The first image shows someone holding an ak47 with the Pols- Tame bloodlust in video and has a hidden sarcastic message in the picture. When looking at the first image, two video games on the top left corner shown. Both games, Halo 4 and Call of Andujar 2 Duty Black Ops 2 are almost unrealistic. One game is about pixelated aliens and the other is about people fighting each other with jetpacks. Both games have nearly unimaginable genres that could not influence people to go to the real world and create crime. There is plenty of scientific evidence that backs up the statements that video games have no influence in a behavior. In the first article, which is shown in the first image, there is a statement that says, research and international and domestic crime data all point towards the same conclusion. Entertainment does not cause violent behavior in the real (Sandoval, Friedman, & Hutchinson, 2013). There is a large amount of scientific research that proves that video games have no correlation to real world violence or crime in general. The second image presented is a tad blander but has the same effect as the first image. Since the second image only contains words, it has more of a concrete statement than the previous image. This image mainly uses the rhetorical strategy pathos. With the vibrant colors a strange text format, and eerie effects, this image is trying to pull the emotional aspect from the audience. The blood that makes up the word causes the audience to get a dark feeling in the pit of their stomachs; this picture depicts one main point and that is that people that play video games, believe that video games cause violence. With multiple scientific studies backing up the claim that video games cause no real-world violence, those who are aware of the nature of these video games have come to realize the falsities of these claims. But since video games are perceived as violent from spectators, they know the actual side effects of video games as they only watch and not play. To truly understand the side effects of video games, people would have to put multiple hours into the video game, but people are not motivated to do that therefore they only judge what they see. The second image really points that out as it basically Andujar 3 says that video games are a perception of violence. Since the game is shown as violent, some believe it makes people violent, which is not true. The Entertainment Consumers Association wants to be rid of the mentality that video games cause violence and they are doing so with the use and explanation of these images. A U.S. study conducted over multiple years led by psychologist Christopher Ferguson proved no correlation between video game and real world violence (Vincent). But with a mentality so popular, it would take years of research and the use of more strong images on their multiple social media platforms and website to finally convince people that video games are not harmful. On the road to doing that, the Entertainment Consumers Association helps create legislative laws that ban mature content for people under the age of 18 years old. This will help stop parents from thinking that video game violence stems from a young age and give people that are the eighteen and older the right to purchase mature content. Another thing the Entertainment Consumers Association is doing to help get rid of the common violence mentality is by raising awareness for research. In 2009, former president of the United States Barack Obama proposed a proposition to congress to fund 10 million dollars into research on video game violence but was ultimately denied. This is where the Entertainment Consumers Association comes in and raises money towards research and advocacy through the use of these images that can help back up the statement that video game violence does not correlate to real world violence. In conclusion, these two images created by the Entertainment Consumers Association try to help take down the mentality of video game violence leading to real world violence. The two images use rhetorical strategies to make the audience aware of the topic and most importantly contribute to the cause. Pathos is used in the images to invoke certain emotions and logos for logical reasoning but both are used to raise awareness. Video games will only get more popular as Andujar 4 time passes by and that means the mentality that video games are violent will also continue to be present within certain people. The only way to stop this is by getting interested and helping the cause by donating to research. Andujar 5 Works Cited Bingham, John. Study Finds No Evidence Violent Video Games Make Children  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 12 Mar. 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Vincent, James. Long-term US study finds no links between violent video games and youth  The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media, 10 Nov. 2014. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Edgar Sandoval, Dan Friedman, Bill Hutchinson. (ECA). are not the 19 Mar. 2013, 10:30 a.m. Tweet.