Arnold 1 Amanda Arnold Karen Hanson ENC 1102 22 February 2017 Labor Unions Many organizations support labor unions because they are supposed to support workers and are beneficial to the union workers. According to Union Plus a labor union is organization of workers dedicated to protecting interests and improving wages, hours and working conditions for (How do Unions Work?). Labor unions can bring higher pay, employee benefits, and acts as a voice for the workers. However, some organizations are worried that the unions are not being completely fair and not upholding certain standards. Some members believe that are more powerful than employers and leaders are more interested in what benefits themselves than in what benefits union (Kochan). While unions can have great effects for the workers in them, there also may be many hidden problems within unions that are not always exposed. The Center for Union Facts which a nonprofit organization that fights for transparency and accountability in labor The Center for Union The Center for Union Facts works almost against the unions but still works to help the workers be treated fairly. The organization is not against unions but it is against the corruption from the leaders of the unions. The Center for Union Facts effectively makes its argument that labor unions are not completely fair and are corrupted by their leaders through two separate visuals that show the connection between unions and corruption. Arnold 2 The first image is targeted towards any person that has anything to do with unions, whether it be someone in a union or someone thinking about joining a union. This image uses pathos to make people feel upset or angry about the workers not easily having the ability to leave the union. In this first image there are multiple roaches on the page and a picture of a roach trap. There is a question on the image that says, is a union like a roach with the answer being getting in is the easy In this image The Center for Union Facts is using the roach trap to represent a union and the roaches to represent the workers in the union. The Center for Union Facts wants this image to be seen by the people whose goal for the unions to be fair and it be as easy to leave as it is to get into one. Unions are supposed to help the lives of the workers in them, not make it harder for them. The image creates the feeling of empathy towards the workers in the unions. According to, Emily Lane, et al., pathos refers to the of or sensitivity toward (Lane, Emily, et al.). It is obvious to see that the image is trying to make people feel remorseful for the union members be relating the workers to roaches. The text, Bugs is Fine. Trapping People is a shocking phrase because it puts in perspective how the workers are basically being trapped into staying in unions like they are roaches being trapped. The audience viewing this image also should feel disgust when viewing this image. There are multiple roaches displayed in the image and it also shows a roach being trapped in a box to die. The trap has the words, Union largely displayed on it. This image is trying to give the idea that the roaches are the union workers. The image also asks the question is a union like a roach and then answers the question by saying, getting in is the easy This image uses mainly pathos as a rhetoric appeal by using a roach trap to represent unions and roaches to represent the workers of unions. There is also a touch of the appeal to ethos in this image. According to Emily Lane, et al, ethos is an to Arnold 3 (27). In the bottom right hand corner of the image is a box that gives credibility to the Center for Union Facts as well as gives a location to find more information on the topic. This shows credibility for the image and where to check it. The second image, image 2, uses an illustration of a large hand punching down a small person. The image says, Unions are Fighting for with the word crossed out meaning the unions are not fighting for them they are fighting against them. From image 2 the audience should feel furious and angered that the union leaders are fighting against its own members. The image shows a huge hand punching a tiny man and this represents the leader fighting the members. The leader is represented by the large punching hand while the members are represented by the tiny man. There are also some statements from the Center for Union Facts that talk about union leaders being corrupt and not treating their workers fairly. This image, like the first image shows pathos as a rhetorical appeal. The background of the image shows different kinds of structures that could be homes of unions, it looks as if one is some sort of plant or factory and the other is a building possibly a school. The image shows that the unions and the leaders of the unions are no longer helping and celebrating the workers. Now it is all about the leaders. The images incorporates the text, now Unions vs. and gives reasons that back up that initial statement. The statements that back up the initial statement, like leaders use members money on their own political is an example of logos. According to Emily Lane, et al, logos is an appeal to logic and reasoning (23). The Center for Union Facts is giving logical reasoning to how the union leaders are fighting their members. The Center for Union Facts uses both logos and pathos as rhetoric appeals to the image of the fighting hand. Taking everything into account, the Center for Union Facts is against corruption and ill- treatment of workers in unions by union leaders. The organization employees who elect Arnold 4 to join a union, as well as the right of employees to remain or become non-union without the Center for Union The two images used from this organization both support the beliefs the Center for Union Facts by using the same and different rhetorical appeals. Both images used the appeal of pathos which makes the targeted audience feel some kind of emotion. This is an important appeal to use when it comes to an issue that uses recognition to help the people that are affected by it. Both of these images give the impression that in the future the Center for Union Facts would like to see the workers with more rights and the way they are treated to be improved. It appears that the organizations goals point toward the workers being the in a happier position within the unions. Image 1 Arnold 5 Letter.jpg Image 2 https://www.unionfacts.com/article/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/CUF-Labor-Day-USA-Today- Color.jpg Arnold 6 Works Cited The Center for Union The Center for Union Facts. 24 Jan. 2017. https://www.unionfacts.com/article/about-us/ Big Unions Are Fighting US. Digital image. The Center for Union Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. do Unions Union Plus. 19 Feb. 2017. https://www.unionplus.org/page/how-do- unions-work Kochan, Thomas A. How American Workers View Labor  Monthly Labor Review, vol. 102, no. 4, Apr. 1979, p. 23. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=bah&AN=5991555&site=eds-live. Lane, Emily, et al. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-26. E-text. Union Facts Roach Motel. Digital image. The Center for Union Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.