Paul Curry Professor Karen Hanson CURRY1 ENC-1102 11 March 2017 C.C.A. Visual Rhetorics A rhetorical appeal is what a rhetorician uses to engage their audience (Lane 18). The visual rhetorics known as ethos, logos, and pathos are utilized to a vast extent with Corrections Corporation of two images that stood out as the purpose on their website. These visual rhetorics allow C.C.A. to get their personal goal and message across to the audience, which is to supply safe, acceptable, and affordable services to correctional facilities. The first image is an inmate sharing a warming conversation with a security guard at a prison C.C.A. provides resources for and the second is inmates in an education setting that C.C.A. has helped provide. These two images tap into the different senses and would perhaps change their ways of thinking. Both images indeed lack the visual rhetoric known as kairos because they do not necessarily illustrate a timeline. As stated before image one is of an inmate and C.C.A. employee chatting as if it was a place more casual and relaxed than a prison. The inmate and guard both appear to be satisfied. This C.C.A. president Damon Hilinger states that overcrowded facilities, skyrocketing taxpayer costs and inmates struggling to break the cycle of crime, corrections systems across America face serious (About Us) As seen the image does in-fact give a clear representation of how their have benefited the inmates, the guards, and the prisons as a whole. This image illustrates the visual rhetoric known as ethos which is most commonly referred to as credibility because the audience notices that there are real inmates, real guards, and based of the surroundings they can tell this is taking place in a real prison. The credibility allows the audience to accept the fact that the smiles on their faces are real. The inmate is talking to a member of C.C.A. and looks to be satisfied with the work that they have been doing for the CURRY2 inmates residing prison. The next visual rhetoric that is noticed immediately is pathos. Pathos appeals to the audiences emotions and this image does an amazing job illustrating the rhetoric. This image allows the audience to feel a since of joy knowing that the prisoners being antagonized and treated poorly as most commonly seen in movies and on TV. A study done by scientist studying schizophrenia and the result was that the main effect of emotion was driven by better classification accuracy for happy faces compared to angry (Linden 997-1002). The facial expression of happiness allows the audience to significantly have a positive feeling about C.C.A. rather than negative. This image also allows the audience to feel a sense of security of where their tax money is going to. Noticing the surprisingly clean and comforting prison it shows that their money is not going to waste. Lastly, logos is very much seen in this image as well. As known most individuals have the perception that inmates are and they hate the guards and want to hurt them. The audience may believe that CCA helps the prisoners their urges and they provide an environment that prisoners would like more than other prisons. Image 2 also includes the use of the three rhetorical appeals known as ethos, logos, and pathos but in a different way. In image two the audience notices the men being educated in a classroom. This classroom appears to be very well managed and it appears to be an environment with lots of resources. Per website the C.C.A. states that partners with community organizations to provide learning opportunities and resources for offenders. Ranging from Adult Basic Education to attainment of advanced degrees, academic programs at CCA facilities follow industry and state education department best practices. Our offerings meet inmates where they are in their academic progression. This is especially important when considering that some newly incarcerated individuals may have limited formal (About Us) This short paragraph CURRY3 taken from their website shows that they indeed do care about inmates education and they do provide the resources for the education to happen. Looking at image two the audience can tell that the men seen in the image are inmates because of their jumpsuits and even by looking at the doors to enter and exit the classroom, these visual clues relate to the visual rhetoric known as ethos. Next, the image provides a sense of comfort because the audience can in fact tell that the men are being educated and treated with respect. They are not locked in chains and there are no guards visible in the picture, which leads individuals to believe they are being treated with respect in a sterile environment. The visual rhetoric seen from these cues is known as pathos. The second image causes the audience to go from the perception that the CCA provide education to proving that they indeed help provide education for the inmates. This is known as logos and it is seen strongly in this image. The image allows the audience to see what is going on in the education center and causes them to feel a different way about the acts than they did before. Both image one and image two relate well to each other and contain the same rhetorical appeals in very similar ways. Both images illustrate ethos but they are perceived in different ways. For the first image the audience notices the appeal ethos by the C.C.A. patch on the shirt and by the prison itself. The second image has no employees and it necessarily show the prison but provides just as much credibility because of the other visual aspects such as the classroom and the inmates themselves. Both images also share the rhetorical appeal known as pathos. Pathos is noticed more in the first image compared to the second image because the second image lacks the facial expressions shown by the first image while the inmate talks to the CCA employee. Both images do in fact appeal to the sense of joy because the audience knows their tax money is going to a cause where the inmates are not treated like and CURRY4 the employees are treated with much respect and are in a comfortable environment because of the resources the CCA has provided. Lastly, logos seems to be noticed much better in the second image better than then first. The first image does indeed change opinions about how the prisoners feel, look, but it does not change perceptions as well as the second image. The second image shows that education in prisons funded by the CCA is well mandated and they provide teachers and helpful resources for education. Although both images take place in the same environment the way people interpret them are very different but somewhat appealing. The CCA provides a sense of joy, comfort and security through images. These images appeal to the visual rhetorics ethos, logos and pathos as stated before. The funding helps prisoners and prisons complete the tasks needed in a well-respected manner. These two images aid to the audiences thinking of prisons through their visual cues that tap into emotion, their credibility, and the way the allow people to gain a new perception of private prisons as a whole. CURRY5 Linden, Stefanie C., Margaret C. Jackson, Leena Subramanian, Claudia Wolf, Paul Green, David Healy, and David E.J. Linden. Emotional, cognition Interactions in Schizophrenia: Implicit and Explicit Effects of Facial Expression. Neuropsychologia 48.4 (2010): 997-1002. Web. Who We  Corrections Corporation of America. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://www.cca.com/who-we-are>. Lane, Emily, Lee, Kendra, Mckee, Jessica, Mclyntre, Megan and Pantelides, Kate. Rhetoric Matters: The Rhetorical Appeals. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 18. E-Text.