Anel Orynbayeva Karen Hanson ENC1102 2/21/17 Project 2 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is a agency that conducts and supports health promotion, prevention and preparedness activities in the United States with the goal of improving overall public health. Established in 1946 and based in Atlanta, the CDC is managed by the Department of Health and Human Services (SearchHealthIT). laboratories routinely work with some of the most deadly germs in the world identifying health threats and conducting vital public health research. CDC constantly develops and reviews extensive laboratory guidelines and procedures to protect both the public and laboratory (About CDC). They stand for health and clean environment. They investigate different kind of diseases that put people in danger, and different reasons that can pollute the environment. They use a wide range of electronic tools as well as physical to help people discover if they have any disease and also suggest help and guide them through the process of recovery. CDC has a lot of departments, each of them is responsible for different fields. One of them deals specifically with the harm of electronic cigarettes, which is called National Youth Tobacco Survey (NYTS). They make researches on how electronic cigarettes harm health as well as the environment. Even though electronic cigarettes are believed to be safer that regular cigarettes, CDC states that electronic cigarettes still contain chemicals that harm health and the environment. On their website they use different images showing the harm of electronic cigarettes to attract attention. Both images state that the big current issue with electronic cigarettes is the youth using it in big amounts. They show that the harm of electronic cigarettes rises with the rise of electronic cigarette advertisement. Image A shows how many children were affected by electronic cigarettes advertisement in different public locations: retail stores, Internet, TV/movies, magazines/newspapers. The research that is illustrated on the image shows that the amount of children affected by electronic cigarettes advertisement in retail stores is 14.4 million. The amount of children affected by electronic cigarettes advertisement in the Internet is 10.5 million. The amount of children affected by electronic cigarettes advertisement on the TV and in movies is 9.6 million. The amount of children affected by electronic cigarettes advertisement in magazines/newspapers is 8 million. This data shows us that a huge amount of children is being affected by electronic cigarettes advertisement in a various public locations that children attend often. Using these logos appeals the authors of this advertisement want people to be impressed by the relatively big numbers and the locations that happen to be normal places that children avoid going to. The NYTS is using logos by using the numbers from their research on the image. Logos is an appeal to logic. It can be statistics, causal statements, relevant examples or other evidence. NYTS also is using kairos because these images as well as researches were made in 2014, which is considered as a recent research and shows that the issue is current and still exists and needs to be solved. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness that can include calls to the use of deadlines or goals, references to or impending doom. NYTS uses ethos by using its own name, because it is a credible department of organization, also it uses ethos by referring to CDC, which is a credible organization. Ethos is an appeal to credibility, when an author is persuading an audience that he/she is a credible source, has an experience in what he/she is talking about. It can be used in different varieties like instinct authority, borrowed credibility, or that makes (explaining something complicated with easier words). Pathos is an appeal to emotion, when an author is manipulating emotions in his/her own aims. In this image there was no pathos elements found, the image only uses logos, kairos and pathos. The image B also uses research data, numbers but in a form of a graph that shows the connection between the money that is being spent on electronic cigarettes advertisements and the amount of children being affected. The timeline goes from 2011 until 2014. It is clearly seen on the image that the more money was spent on electronic cigarette advertisements, the more children were affected by it and started using electronic cigarettes. The image B uses logos by showing numbers from their research, which show that in 2011 electronic cigarette companies increased their inputs in their advertisements by 10 000 dollars, while the amount of children being affected by it increased by 1 %. In 2012, the amount of money spent on electronic cigarettes advertisement increased by 20 000 dollars, the amount of children being affected by it increased by 2 %. In 2013, the amount of money spent on electronic cigarettes advertisement went up by 80 000 dollars, while the amount of children being affected by it increased by 3 %. In 2014, the amount of money increased by 100 000 dollars, while the amount of children being affected by it increased by 8 %. The numbers show us two things that are supposed to make the audience think about an issue. The first one is that there is a correlation between money spent on advertisement and number of children being affected, which means that the issue can be solved or at least be improved by cutting the budget of electronic cigarettes advertisement. The second thing is that year after year electronic cigarettes companies only increase the input to advertisement, the amount of money spent on advertisement remain same and decrease, which is supposed to scare the audience by making them realize that the companies know the effect of their advertisements and they only intend to increase this effect. The image uses kairos showing the timeline from 2011 through 2014, which makes this issue current and relevant. The image uses ethos by using NYTS research, which is a credible department of a credible CDC organization. The image use pathos elements. Both images use the same rhetorical elements: logos, kairos, ethos. Both images use them in a very effective way, but it would have been more effective if they used pathos. Work Cited Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 21 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Dai, Hongying and Jianqiang Hao. Exposure to Advertisements and Susceptibility to Electronic cigarette Use among  Journal of Adolescent Health, no. 6, 2016, p. 620. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jadohealth.2016.06.013. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Stone, Marilyn A. and John Desmond. Fundamentals of Marketing. Routledge, 2007. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=nlebk&AN=184366&site=eds-live.