Doran 1 Grace Doran Alison Missler ENC1102 16 March, 2017 FCPC: Using Appeals to Gain Allies College campuses have become much more progressive in recent years. When universities were first established in the United States, most were occupied only by white males, and minority groups had little to no representation. Now, college campuses all across America contain a variety of clubs and organizations that allow students from all backgrounds to share similar passions and participate in social movements. In the state of Florida, Florida Collegiate Pride Coalition is an organization that advocates for LGBT student rights. Their goal is to foster personal and professional growth of LGBTQ To promote their message that LGBT students deserve the same rights as any other group, the organization displays images on their website that utilize visual rhetoric. One of the images that evokes pathos and ethos is of beach chairs gathered together on a white sand beach. The chairs are each a bold color of the rainbow, symbolizing LGBT people in Florida. Another image that evokes ethos, logos, and kairos is a logo with the state of Florida and the name displayed on the top. Underneath the state is a rainbow. These images each use pathos, ethos, logos, or kairos to bring the attention to the organization and convince viewers to feel passionate about LGBT collegiate student rights. The Florida Collegiate Pride Coalition was founded in 2003 during an activist conference at the University of Central Florida. At this time, the ideas and goals of FCPC were just Doran 2 beginning to surface in the United States as well as Florida. Historically, the LGBT community has faced major discrimination in multiple areas of society, including on the collegiate level. Rather than attempting to fix this issue from a general perspective, FCPC believes that spreading their message across college campuses will be the most effective way for their cause to gain momentum (floridacollegiatepride.org). After all, colleges and universities are full of students who are developed enough to comprehend social issues, yet be open to change. One of the ways FCPC attempted to draw attention to LGBT social issues was by asking Florida universities to include more LGBT literature in their libraries. In 2012, the University of South Florida made it their goal to include these reading materials at their institution. According to Matt Knight, the university, intended to concentrate on collecting materials that documented LGBT history, culture, politics, community relations, and public health in the Tampa Bay (2). The university made it a mission to include these books in order to educate their students on LGBT history and current social challenges. Due to the efforts of FCPC, hundreds of LGBT books are now available at the University of South Florida as well as other Florida Universities. In order to reach out to universities that have not yet implemented these changes, FCPC utilizes visual appeals in the images on their website to convince viewers to join in their mission. The first image on the FCPC website evokes pathos from the audience due to the relative isolation of the chairs on the beach. From the rainbow colors of the chairs, it is clear that they symbolize the LGBT students. The white sand beach on which the chairs are placed represents the state of Florida. The beach is empty with the exception of the chairs, which are grouped together despite the spacious beach. With this visual of isolation, FCPC is using pathos to make the audience feel empathy for these Floridian LGBT students in how they are shunned from Doran 3 society. Not only are the chairs isolated, but the fact that they all chose to sit together is emphasizing that these students feel as though they rely on each other. Aside from the chair spacing, color plays a role in utilizing pathos as well. This image is showing the audience how the LGBT students are a united and diverse group. Every chair is painted a bold, unique color, similar to how the LGBT students are each unique individuals. When united, the chairs form a rainbow color, which shows that not only does the unification of the students create a visually appealing display, it creates a display that attracts attention. The visual attention that the chairs are attracting is a metaphor for the public attention that FCPC is attracting with their organization. In addition to pathos, ethos is another rhetorical strategy present in the first image. FCPC represents and is made up of LGBT collegiate students, so this convinces viewers that this organization is qualified to display the feelings and social standing of the group. As an organization that advocates for LGBT rights, FCPC is likely going to have an understanding of the LGBT perspective. This makes the emotional appeals in the image of the chairs on the beach more convincing. Having this credibility is essential in order for FCPC to spread their message to audiences. Had the image been displayed by a group that was not directly connected to LGBT students, the emotional appeals would not have been as potent. The second image displayed on the website demonstrates ethos and logos from the title displayed across the top. The image is one of the emblems for FCPC, and it displays an outline of the state of Florida with the words Collegiate Pride written across the top, and a rainbow is stretched out underneath the state. Ethos is used in this logo because the name gives it credibility. The word is the most compelling because it Doran 4 implies that FCPC is composed of highly educated individuals. Knowing that the members of FCPC are educated makes the audience confident that the claims are credible. Additionally, logos is utilized through the title because the term implies that the institution consists of scholars, and thus persuades the audience through the logical reasoning that scholars will support a reasonable cause. Another rhetorical strategy that is used in the second image is kairos. At the bottom of the emblem is a rainbow that appears to be rushing through the state of Florida much like a river. The way in which the rainbow is surging through the state may be a symbol of how the LGBT movement is surging through Florida (Wright 50). The visual of the rainbow cascading into Florida presents the audience with kairos, or timeliness, by making them feel as though the LGBT movement in the state is quickly progressing, and it is time to give LGBT university students the same civil liberties as ordinary students. All of the rhetorical strategies utilized in the various images on the Florida Collegiate Pride Coalition website have the fundamental goal of influencing audiences to support mission. The organization wants to create a safe and comfortable learning environment for LGBT collegiate students in Florida, and in order to do so they want to make their institution known and convince people to believe their mission is noble. Both of the images on the FCPC website have the potential to accomplish this goal as the rhetorical appeals are executed in a convincing manner. Although FCPC has been successful in reforming Florida universities since it was founded in 2003, the emerging art of graphic design has given them another potential outlet for spreading their cause. If they continue to employ visual appeals as they have done so far, FCPC will steadily improve the learning environment of LGBT college students. Doran 5 https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=images&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&v ed=0ahUKEwi2l56P36nSAhWKOiYKHbUDDtwQjRwIBw&url=https%3A%2F%2Fallevents.i n%2Fdeland%2F14th-annual-fl-collegiate-pride-coalition-fcpc-conference%2F21748470867804 https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=images&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&v ed=0ahUKEwiB-r6f36nSAhUJKyYKHa4qDV0QjRwIBw&url=https%3A%2F%2Fplus.google. 1A&ust=1488060389746077 Doran 6 Works Cited Knight, Matt. From Gay Surfers to Old Lesbians Organizing for Change: Developing an LGBT Initiative at a State University in  (2016). is Florida Collegiate Pride FCPC. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Wright, Tiffany E. LGBT perceptions of school  Delta 91.8 (2010): 49-53.