Gregg 1 Samantha Gregg Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 25 February 2017 UNICEF and Their Use of Advertisements The United Nations International Fund, also known as UNCEF, is a nonprofit organization dedicated to protecting and helping children from all around the world. Their mission statement states that, is mandated by the United Nations General Assembly to advocate for the protection of rights, to help meet their basic needs and to expand their opportunities to reach their full Mission Their dedication to helping children has led UNICEF to break off into serving many different purposes in 190 countries and territories around the world. branches are dedicated to Child Protection and Social Inclusion, Child Survival, Education, Emergencies and Humanitarian Action, and Gender Equality. In regards to education, purpose states that, believes that quality education is a right for all children, whether in the developing world or amidst conflict and What We advertisements communicate the themes portrayed within each branch of UNICEF by using different rhetorical appeals. Two specific figures advertised by UNICEF deal with education in areas where education is not seen as crucial to children, ultimately striving to improve their futures. Gregg 2 In Figures 1 and 2, the rhetorical appeal, ethos, is apparent in many ways. Ethos, the appeal to ethics or credibility, can be seen in both images by the UNICEF logo in the bottom right hand corner. The UNICEF logo establishes credibility because over the years, UNICEF has done many things to improve lives around the world such as donate money, build schools, and provide teachers. Because of these actions, the viewers of these advertisements have a sense of trust in UNICEF because the audience knows that UNICEF is working towards a better tomorrow. Therefore, that is why the makers of the advertisement included the UNICEF logo in the image so that the viewer has a sense of trust in UNICEF. Ethos is important in images because without it, an audience may not believe the advertisement because they need to establish a sense of trust with the organization, which is why organizations include their logo in advertisements. Logos, a rhetorical appeal to reason or logic, is also seen in the figures. In Figure 1, the statistic brings awareness to the millions of children who do not attend school or get an education, which is a guaranteed right for all children. The statistic makes the audience feel a sense of sympathy for the kids not getting an education because that could mean they are not being able to choose what they want to do with their life and what they want to become. Statistics are important in advertisements because they make the audience believe what the advertiser is portraying because it is backed by In Figure 2, the slogan used is an example of logos because it seems like an (Hoffman and Wiggs 9). As stated by Hoffman and Wiggs, an unstated assumption is something the audience believes to be universally true without providing any evidence. This is seen in Figure 2 because it is universally accepted that societies that value education tend to be more productive and successful. The slogan in Figure 2 also could lead the audience to believe that the girl in the image is going to Gregg 3 become a teacher once she is finished with school because she is working at a blackboard, like a teacher would be doing in a classroom. The ethos and logos used in these two images push the audience to understand the importance of education in society and make the audience want to help UNICEF with their goal of creating a better tomorrow for children around the world. Similarities can be drawn from both images regarding ethos and logos. In regards to ethos, both images contain the UNICEF logo to prove that the images come from credible sources and in regards to logos, both of the images use slogans to get across the point that education is a right that all children have and should be given the opportunity to utilize. Figures 1 and 2 both also exemplify Pathos and Kairos, different rhetorical appeals that deal with emotion and timeliness. In both images, the use of young, ethnic, cheerful girls is an appeal to emotion, also known as pathos. Per Hoffman and Wiggs, appeal to emotion, or is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect to the (Hoffman and Wiggs 37). The use of smiling, young girls demonstrates their innocence and sense of happiness when learning, which helps prove argument that education is needed to enhance lives and futures. Without education, UNICEF wants the audience to think that children would not be happy because education opens many more job opportunities for children than if they chose not to attend school. Diversity in these images is also important because it shows that UNICEF helps countries all over the world, not just one specific country. Pathos is important to consider in advertisements because as stated by American psychologist, William James, emotions always immediately subject to reason, but they are always immediately subject to What is Pathos and Why is it Critical for ). Kairos, an appeal to timeliness can be seen in Figure 1 because of the Gregg 4 statistic used. The statistic makes the audience realize just how urgent a change needs to occur within education across the globe. Once the audience reads the statistic on the image, the audience could feel empowered to donate or maybe even volunteer with UNICEF to prepare children for their future. In Figure 2, Kairos can also be seen because of the slogan. The slogan make the audience recognize just how powerful education can be, because it has the power to change an entire nation. So, the audience feels the need to help make sure that every child does get an education so they can help to change the world. Kairos is important in advertisements because it makes the audience feel like they must act right away to help make a difference. Kairos is used in images because organizations want to make the audience feel a sense of urgency to bring about change. In these images, specifically, UNICEF wants the audience to recognize the severity of children not getting an education. These images are similar in regards to pathos because they both use young girls to make the reader feel as though they are responsible for changing the girls lives. The images are also similar in regards to Kairos because the text used on the image is a call to action for the audience to make an immediate change so that societies who do not value education, realize just how important education is. Common ground shared between these images shows that UNICEF employs certain techniques so that the audience is empowered to make a change. Rhetorical appeals in advertisements are useful in persuading an audience to accomplish what the organization is promoting. Along with persuading an audience, rhetorical appeals also hope to get the audience to support their viewpoint. advertisements effectively use rhetorical appeals to gain support from people around the world, in all of their separate branches. Gregg 5 Figure 1: Figure 2: Gregg 6 Works Cited African Child Day. Digital image. UNICEF. N.p., 2015. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. The International Day of the Girl. Digital image. UNICEF. N.p., 12 July 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. UNICEF  Home UNICEF. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. What is Pathos and Why is it Critical for  Six Minutes. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.