Kang, 1 Xinyu Kang Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 March 3 rd , 2017 Outline I. Introduction My topic is oil pollution brought bad influence to ocean environment. I summarized four source about oil pollution. The first one mainly talked about whether marine birds were seriously affected by oil spill and evaluated whether the impact of oil spills can be restored(Wiens, Thomas, Robert, Stephen and Gregory 828-839). The second one discussed the hazards and impacts of BP oil spill on human society and the environment. And this event became one of the most devastating environmental disasters in American history((McCauley 54-56). The third one focused on some reasons that lead to oil spills and pollution(Farrington 3-13). The last one is how the cleanup of oil pollution influence the ocean environment (Kauble 9-12) . According to the studies have been conducted from 2000 to 2010, researchers focus on how does oil pollution effect on the health of seabird and human. On the other side, the studies were conducted in 2010 to 2015 focus on how oil pollution changes the marine environment. II. Early research 2000-2010 A. 1 st source title: A Canonical Correspondence Analysis of the Effects of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill on Marine Birds 1. spill had major, immediate effects on marine birds and their (829) Kang, 2 2. impacts to avian habitats were probably greatest within the Sound, where the spill originated, and oiling of shorelines was (829) B. 2 nd source title: Environments and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our Health? 1. McCauley said that the subsequent months it has become one of the most devastating man-made environmental disasters in our Exxon Valdez oil spill of 2. expects to see a resurfacing of stress-related symptoms in this population after the new trauma of the BP oil spill... and initial anecdotal reports indicate increases in post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, domestic violence, and alcohol use in affected (55). Transaction: those study focused on finding out how oil pollution influence the biology aspect, including seabirds and humans. III. Late research 2010-2015 A. 3 rd source title: Oil Pollution In the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil Spil 1. The author wrote that article reports on the prevalence of oil pollution in the marine environment in the US in 2. is important to consider such large spills as objectively as practicable within the context of the inputs of petroleum (oil and gas) to the marine (6) B. 4th source title: Oil Spill Cleanup 1. The chemistry element of oil and oil cleanup influence the environment of the ocean 2. The future influence of cleansers can not be detected and expected Kang, 3 Transaction: those two studies show that the oil pollution influence the environment, including the cleanup. IV. Conclusion The earlier studies focused on understanding how oil spill influence biology. One article introduced how oil spill influence habitats and the variety of marine, while the other talked about how the problem influenced health. However, the later studies tried to understand the what will oil pollution influence the environment, and what will be the further effects which are caused by the oil pollution. It is obvious that those two periods studies focus on different aspect, but both are persuading people to protect the environment and stop oil pollution. Oil Pollution Influence the Lives and Environment The oil spill has become an important industry because of huge demands of oil. However, when the amount of demand has been increased, the mistakes and accidents which happen during the oil spill also have increased. The marine environment has been polluted, while the lives which rely on marine also be influenced by the oil pollution, such as the seabird cannot fly because their fur gets sticky oil, and the fishes cannot breath when the oil float on the surface and cut the oxygen. Because the results which are caused by oil pollution are different and be understood with the development of science further and further, researchers have focused on different aspects of oil pollution. Some of the scientists would like to know the influences to lives which are caused by oil pollution, while others would like to learn how does the oil pollution influence the environment. According to the studies have Kang, 4 been conducted from 2000 to 2010, researchers focus on how does oil pollution effect on the health of seabird and human. On the other side, the studies were conducted in 2010 to 2015 focus on how oil pollution changes the marine environment. In the earlier ten years, scientist or researchers were more interested in finding out why people have to do something to protect the environment form the harmfulness of oil pollution in animals and human aspects. Wiens, Thomas, Robert, and Stephen (828) discussed how oil pollution influences the living of marine birds. They introduced that: ...the spill had major, immediate effects on marine birds and their habitats... total bird mortality in the hundreds of thousands... but impacts to avian habitats were probably greatest within the Sound, where the spill originated, and oiling of shorelines was (Wiener et al. 829). They claimed that the oil pollution decreased the areas of their habitats which forced them to gather in a small area which causes hunger problems and reduce the number of seabirds (830). The research also stated that the noise of oil spill made the seabird leave their habitat and caused more problems (830). Because the oil pollution and the oil spill cause difficulties to living, including reducing their habitats and making too much noise to live around the oil field, the biological balance which is associated seabirds also have been influenced. When the seabird cannot live in the habitats that they usually live, they have to share a small area together which cause the lack of foods, and finally, the amount of seabirds has been reduced, and the variety of nature also decreases. Furthermore, the article of McCauley introduced how health was influenced by the oil pollution. McCauley introduced chemistry which was used to clean oil influenced the health of workers and people who lived nearby. Workers not only suffered the short-term Kang, 5 harms that they were easy to have headaches and skin problems which were caused by the chemistry but also might have the long-term sickness which has not be proved yet because there were a few studies have conducted for following the effects (54). She also claimed that: expects to see a resurfacing of stress-related symptoms in this population after the new trauma of the BP oil spill... and initial anecdotal reports indicate increases in post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, domestic violence, and alcohol use in affected (55). The residents who lived next to the BP oil spills and the workers who worked for clean the polluted marine and coasts both suffered from a stressful psychological problems which was a long-term illness that would influence the health of people long time. According to those two articles, it is not difficult to find out they both focus on the influences of biology; one research studied about the seabird while another studied about human. They both found that oil pollution is associated with lives because it ruined the habitats of seabirds and made people sick. In the later five research, scientists and researchers focused on finding how to solve the oil pollution and tried to solve the problem. The article written by Farrington introduced the effects and facts of the oil spill to readers that he was concerned about the future of marine which has been polluted by oil spill seriously. He said: is important to consider such large spills as objectively as practicable within the context of the inputs of petroleum (oil and gas) to the marine (6). There were a lot of ocean areas and coast has been influenced by the oil spill that the chemistry of oil and cleaners destroyed the environment. The data of the quality of the water in different sea areas which obtained were worse than the areas without oil spills which showed that the oil spill influenced the quality Kang, 6 of water and the environments which were nearby the oil spills. Also, the article of Kauble which discussed how to clean the pulled ocean areas claimed that the chemistry of cleaning the ocean had not taken experiments. Although those chemicals methods have cleaned up the polluted currently, there was no person could promise those methods would not influence the ocean environment and made worse effects to the environment in the future. Studies of the side-effects of using cleansers to clean the ocean are necessary to be conducted and be followed up. The human cannot be irresponsible to the environment and only focus on the current effects of pollution. Both of articles talked about the influences of the oil spill and showed the concerns about the future influences of oil cleanup. In Conclusion, the earlier studies focused on understanding how oil spill influence biology. One article introduced how oil spill influence habitats and the variety of marine, while the other talked about how the problem influenced health. However, the later studies tried to understand the what will oil pollution influence the environment, and what will be the further effects which are caused by the oil pollution. It is obvious that those two periods studies focus on different aspect, but both are persuading people to protect the environment and stop oil pollution. (Word count 1157) Kang, 7 Work Cited Farrington, John W. Pollution In the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil Environment, vol. 56, no. 4, 2013, pp. 3-13. McCauley, Linda A. and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our American Journal Of Nursing, vol.110, no.9, 2010, pp. 54-56. Kauble, Christena A. Spill Science Activities, Vol. 48, no.1, 2011, pp. 9-12. Wiens, John A. Crist, Thomas O. Day, Robert H. Murphy, Stephen M. Hayward, Gregory D. Canonical Correspondence Analysis of the Effects of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill on Marine Ecological Applications, Vol. 11, no. 3, 2001, pp.828-839.