Victoria Hardman Instructor: Mark Nusspickel ENC1101.901517 March 5, 2017 Will You Overcome Your Social Location, or Will You Fall Victim to It? play the most substantial role in the development of a child starting from the early days of adolescence to their adult lives because children learn emotional cues, language, intuitive thought, nutrition, hygiene and more from the actions their parents exhibit around them. Children who are born to teenage mothers, raised by single parents, and or live in low income to deep poverty are at risk of poor aftereffects. Along with parents, a social and physical environment have an effect on their health. Being able to live in an environment that is safe and where you can participate in healthy social relationships can have a very positive effect on the mental health of a human being, teaches the community to live cohesively, and teaches people how to treat one another. But what is the difference between two separate children who grew up with an equal amount of risk factors who grew up to be completely different members of society? How much of a role does social location, during the developmental early life, play into the outcome of a human being? Therefore, in order to best answer this question, multiple interviews were performed. One interview was with identical twins who are in two completely different places in their lives, based on similar circumstances that they chose to deal with differently. My other interview was with another friend of mine who checks off almost every risk factor found on the National Center for Children in Poverty calculator, but succumb to his environment. In the book, The Other Wes Moore, both boys grew up just a few doors down from each other and experienced very similar life obstacles, but ended up in completely different places as adults. Both did not have a father figure growing up, both boys lived in very rural neighborhoods filled with crime and drug activity, but one Wes mother sent him to a military school while the other continued being involved in the drug game. During one of their visits in jail, the imprisoned Wes Moore stated everything you told me, both of us did some pretty wrong things when we were younger. And both of us had second chances. But if the situation or the context where you make the decisions change, the second chances mean too much, The type of person that one turns out to be is because of the path they choose to take. Even though some have to work harder to become successful, they are the only ones who can get them there. They are also the person can get them into trouble and who allows themselves to become poor products of their environment. People try to constantly remind others that its where you came from and to never forget it when you become successful. But more important to remind yourself where you are and all the hard work you put in to get there. During the interviews with Bailey and Afton Ott, many issues they aware they had come up. The biggest one being the topic of their dad leaving their mother. Both were asked is your separation effecting statement was my dad told me he was leaving, I wanted absolutely nothing to do with him. I was disgusted by him. It took me months until I was able to speak to him again. But when I did he told me his side of the story and I started to look at my mother differently. He deal with her constant self-loathing anymore, and now I either. Every time I go home I see it in Afton more and more and I am embarrassed by What Bailey consider was the impact of her moving away for college so soon after their dad had left. Now it was only Afton left to take care of their mother. response to the question was I had realized that my mom and dad were splitting up, and my dad was moving in with his new girlfriend, I what anything to do with him. How could he leave my mom? I began to look at all men differently. I hated them but I also continued to search for something to fill the void from him leaving in each relationship afterword. When I would get into a relationship, I put little effort into them because I figured they would leave no matter what. This caused me to hate myself and when I turned to cheap wine and Afton is currently dealing with legal issues which were brought on by a weekend binge of alcohol and drugs that led to blacking out at a casino, and assaulting a police officer. She still remember everything that happened that night. No one can tell you who you are going to become in life. No one can get you where you want to go. You are the sole reason for why you develop into the person who end up being. Although someone who comes from a more rural area with poor school systems, at or below the poverty line, born to teen parents, etc., will have a harder time not succumbing to their environment, not impossible. simply mind over matter. There will always be people who fall in the cracks, but instead of putting them into the growing statistics, more programs should be put into place, better education should be easily available for all children, and parents should be able to provide stability for their family.