Daniel Garcia Professor Nusspickel Enc 1101 2/19/2017 Garcia 1 Overwhelming Student Debt A college education is important and many believe that receiving a higher education will bring a good life and financial stability. However, some college graduates are having difficulties managing and paying off student loan debt. Supporting themselves, their families, and accomplishing future goals becomes difficult when they have accumulated a massive amount of debt. Student loan debt is truly horrifying and is a huge burden on college graduates especially when your only given a six-month grace period, before having to start paying off the debt. The cost of education has greatly increased the past decade. Student loan debt has reached an astounding 1.4 trillion dollars collectively, and is starting to become an even bigger problem (Christina Beck). Students who are deemed fit for loans are given an unnecessary large amount, which entices them to spend the money unwisely causing the debt to grow even more. Many college graduates suffer from a large amount of student debt and it effects the way they live. Important life decisions such as owning homes, and starting families are put on hold because of the burden these student debts put on them. Dreams that many graduates hoped to fulfill come true. With that, how much influence does a student debt have in their lives? College tuition can be extremely costly and is a reason as to why college graduates suffer from massive amounts of student debt after graduation. Early studies done in the years 2000- 2010 show that the reason behind excessive amounts of student debt comes from the price of tuition, and the price differences between public and private universities. According to Wilson Robin often, the problem among students who go heavily into debt is that they are determined to attend their dream college, no matter the (Wilson, 1). Choosing which colleges to apply for is a very crucial decision for a young individual to make. However, for Garcia 2 some that college might put a strain in future financial decisions such as buying homes, and starting families because of the debt being accumulated throughout ones college career. As Robin stated these young individuals realize the predicament they put themselves in by attending prestigious private universities. The cost of private universities is well over the cost of going to your local state university. Students in the year 2007 who graduated from the University of New York borrowed an average of $33,637 dollars (Wilson, 1). As opposed to attending a local state university which will cost significantly less since monthly expenses such as rent, and food would be removed from the equation. A crucial mistake many students make according to author Mark Nadler is that students do not make a comparison between how much they intend to take out for loans to the amount they will make starting out in their career (Nadler, 51). It is always important for a student to not borrow more than what ones starting salary would be. This rule is also known as golden (Nadler, 51). Although tuition cost is a big reason as to why student loan debts are high. Recent studies between the years 2010 to 2017 show that a major reason students tend to graduate with high amounts of debt is because they borrow more than they need, and lack a financial understanding in general. College students tend to borrow an entire amount that loan distributers offer which puts students in a big hole. According to authors, James, and Melissa they say do not need to borrow all the money available. If possible, students should borrow only what they need to cover tuition, books, and fees, and pay living expenses with income earned by working part time or applying for a work study program as part of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (Sullivan, Towell, 2). Basically college students are taking loans that amount to more than what the tuition cost, and spend it on other expenses such as rent, food, and leisurely things. Although those three things I just mentioned are important those expenses should be paid for Garcia 3 using other means. On top of spending needlessly students fail to utilize important resources available to them such as financial budgeting and guidance. Almost all universities have resources students can use to help budget their college expenses. However, many fail to utilize these resources available to them. These resources are available to us because a part of our tuition. Campuses usually offer financial counseling to those who have no knowledge in budgeting money. After graduation, many graduates have a difficult time achieving goals they set for themselves. One goal being able to buy a home. Decisions like buying a house get put on hold because of the financial burden graduates deal with. Author Clarence Rose says spite of the relatively low current level of home mortgage interest rates, home buying activity among college graduates under age 35 is at the lowest level in (Rose, 1). Young adults are starting to lose the ability to buy homes because of their outstanding student loan debt. By being in debt it is also difficult for students to be candidates for financial help when purchasing homes. Student loan debt as you can see has been a problem among graduates. Although research on the topic has changed slightly throughout the years, all the reasons from early to now contribute to the reason why student loan debt remains high for many. These main reasons being, the cost of tuition, the college one decides to attend whether it be a private or public university, the amount one decides to borrow from loan distributers, and the failure to use campus resources in which helps students manage and budget their money. Because of these reasons college graduates find it difficult to be able to buy homes and accomplish other goals. Student loan debt has influenced the lives of many college graduates, and will continue to do so. Garcia 4 Bibliography .Christina Beck, Staff. Average student loan debt increases  Christian Science Monitor 19 Oct. 2016: N.PAG. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. This article talks about the increase in student loan debt, and how it has reached an astounding 1.4 trillion dollars. It focuses on how graduating students are having to postpone important life decisions such as having families or owning a house because of these debts. This article also discusses ways in which students should go about using these loans to decrease the amount in which they need to payback. It discusses how more information should be provided to the student to give a better understanding of how loans work and how it would affect them later on after graduation. It also states that in 2015 there was a record high average of $30,100 in student debt according to a study done by the institute for college access and success. This article would be great for my essay because it discusses how it effects college graduates directly. I can use this information for my body portion of my essay which talks about how it is difficult for graduates to achieve crucial goals such as buying a house. Its great because it also talks about how big of a problem student debt has become and stated previously how its accumulated over a trillion dollars. It directly addresses my research question in that it clearly shows how students are effected by these loans after graduation. Author Christina Beck graduated from Principia college, with a major in History. Garcia 5 Sullivan, James, and Melissa Towell. Student Loans: What You Need To Know Before  Journal Of Accountancy 223.1 (2017): 49-52. Business Source Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The reason I choose this as another one of my resources is because it gives great insight on how to manage the loans that are granted to you before starting college. It gives information that I wish I was aware of during the beginning stages of my college career. It shows which loans give lower interest rates, and how to plan your money accordingly to reduce the amount of needless spending. It gives information to graduating students about how to pay back loans and what is needed from us the students to have a less stressful time after graduation. This article would be great to use throughout my essay because it discusses all the ways in which students can avoid being in such a sticky situation after graduating. It gives advice as to which loans to take on and which give low interest rates. It discusses how easily it is to miss use your loans and how to avoid that. Authors, James Sullivan is a board member of consumer debt counselors Inc., and Melissa Towel is a student loan counselor for consumer debt counselors Inc. Rose, Clarence C. Overcoming The Obstacles Student Debt Presents To The Ability To Buy A  Journal Of Financial Service Professionals 70.5 (2016): 72-80. Business Source Premier. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Garcia 6 The article is about how its difficult for people with student debt to qualify for home mortgage financing. It discusses how been very little home buying activity among college graduates under the age of 35 in the past decade. It says having a high amount of monthly debt to pay compared to gross monthly income can have a negative effect on an credit report, credit score, and the ability to get certain types of future financing. This article would be great for my paper because I can discuss how easily it is to be denied financial help to purchase a home. It discusses who among college graduates usually qualify for home mortgage insurance and why it is they qualify. It gives me insight on how one is able to qualify for these financial loans. It also goes on about how to prevent future issues regarding mortgage financing, and how one can start to repair their credit to apply for these loans. Author Clarence Ross Is a professor of finance at Radford University in Virginia. He has published many articles about financial investment for retirement, and real-estate mortgage finance. His work has been cited in very popular journals, and magazines such as, The Wall Street journal, and Money Magazine. Wilson, Robin. A Lifetime Of Student Debt? Not  The Chronicle Of Higher Education 37 (2009): Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. The article is about how students reach high amount of debt, and how it is possible to overcome these large amounts of debt. It talks about a major reason as to why debt amount is so high , and that reason being the school one attends. It is true that my debt as a USF student would be significantly less than that of a student who goes to New York. The more prestigious the school the more expensive. We also need to take into account the cost of living in certain states. The main focus of this article is borrowing money to higher your education is a good thing, and Garcia 7 student loans can easily be paid back with smart decisions and the fact that you typically get a decent salary with a degree. This article would be great for my essay because it discusses ways in which students who struggle with debts can alleviate their debts by simply making smart decisions and working. I can use this as a counter argument for my main topics. It gives insight for me personally because I am currently affected by these debts. It is also great because my paper is about the struggles students face after graduating, and this article touches on both how a graduate can become successful and live a stress free life, and how easily some student can face difficult situations if not careful with financial borrowing. Author Robin Wilson is a reporter for the Chronical of higher education. She graduated from College of Wooster in Ohio. She had won an award for her reporting on college faculty. Burd, Stephen. Most Graduates Repaying Student Loans Have Manageable Debt, Report  The Chronicle Of Higher Education 16 (2001): Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article states that student loan debt is manageable if treated correctly. That college graduates are usually more than capable of paying of loans received throughout their college career. However, there is also a part in the article in which college graduates discuss how this is not the case for a majority of people who attend college. The article states how the median student debt is about fifteen grand and can be paid off in a period of ten years. It talks about how the reason debt is so high is because the amount of money being distributed to students is more than they need. Jacqueline King goes on saying how higher education is a great investment. The articles also discuss how we ignore the fact that many students drop out of college which makes it difficult for them to pay back these loans. Garcia 8 The reason I choose this article however, short it gives students opinions and how paying back loans are not as easy as it seems because it take certain cases into consideration. For example, what about college drop outs? How are they supposed to deal with these ridiculous amounts of debt that schools impose on us when they receive the degrees they need to get a decent salary. I would like to use this article to discuss how not all students have the ability to pay off student loans so easily. Author Stephen Burd is a senior policy analyst for the New America Foundations policy program. He is also a editor of Higher Ed Watch, a blog focused on higher education policy. Nadler, Mark. Helping New Grads Understand Student Loan Repayment Options Can Aid Retirement Planning  23.11 (2009): 51-52. AgeLine. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This paper is about how graduates can receive help for loan trouble. It discusses the resources available to you as a graduate to help understand what it means to repay your loans. It talks about the steps needed to recover from such a large amount of debt and how to go about this quickly to live a less stressful life. He discusses how students fail to compare how much they will make in the future and how much the cost of their education will be. He also states how students violate this which is to not borrow more than what your starting salary will be. He also mentions how there are jobs that actually offer student loan forgiveness plans, which young graduates should seek out. I think an article like this would be vital to my paper because it discusses options graduates and students can take to make life easier when it comes to debt. Students realize Garcia 9 the amount of information and resources there are to help them overcome these large amounts of debt. It talks about another important aspect of borrowing money which is interest rates. Interest rates are so important when It comes to borrowing money because this interest can grow exponentially throughout your college career. Students and graduates realize the amount of help they can receive during and after school to help manage loans taken. The problem is that they seek the help because its not a mandatory thing. Mark Nadler is a economist, and professor at Ashland University in Ohio. He is a part of The Financial Education Co. and president of Vincuro, a financial firm.