Alasadi !1 Zayd Alasadi Gottlieb Composition II March 17, 2017 Modes of Persuasion picture is worth a thousand is a longstanding English idiom portraying that even though images are frozen objects, they can still have as much or even more meaning behind them than a lengthy description. In terms of advertisements, the same holds true. Figure A and Figure B are two of the many advertisements used by the Organic Consumers Organization, or OCA. The OCA claims that biotech companies, such as Monsanto, are responsible for harming health by creating toxins during the GMO process. To further their agenda of getting their message out to as many people as possible, the OCA creates advertisements, such as Figures A and B, that contain certain modes of persuasion. Ethos is used in both figures to appeal to the targeted ethics; this helps the OCA make their advertisement more credible. The organization also uses pathos in their advertisements to appeal to the emotion. Therefore, both figures help in making people feel a certain way instead of just being a boring and plain set of words on a picture. Logos is implemented in the advertisements to persuade the audience by means of reason and logic. Furthermore, kairos is used to add a sense of timelines to the cause. The integration of all four of these modes of persuasion play a big role in the overall goal. Without these persuasion methods, the advertisements would not be nearly as effective as they are. OCA is an organization that encourages society to consume food through organic Alasadi !2 methods instead of food altered by modern day biotechnology. It claims that biotech companies create products that are directly connected to harming health. They believe that: increase the risk of allergies, kidney and liver disease, ADHA, cancer, infertility, chronic immune disorders and (OCA 3). The organization is adamant on implementing a definite ban on all biotech companies involved in producing GMOs; they want to do this in order to further their agenda of promoting the consumption of organic food. Although the OCA does not deny the fact that GMOs accelerate food production, the organization does not comply with the notion that biotechnology makes food production more efficient. This is because they believe that: yields are not greatly improved while consumers get no benefits and are all but forced to eat foods with uncertain long-term health (OCA 1). The company has conducted studies that show: are more susceptible to developing diseases such as cancer if they consume more GMOs than organic (OCA 1). Their studies have led them to strategize a campaign against almost all biotech companies relevant to their task at hand. In order to conduct their campaign as effectively as possible, the OCA has created and used a multitude of advertisements such as the ones shown in Figures A and B. These advertisements contain certain modes of persuasion to better connect to their targeted audience. Although both Figure A and Figure B have the same ultimate goal, they achieve this goal in different ways. Figure A is an image of a green substance being poured on a half-peeled banana. The green color is significant to how the advertisement uses an appeal to ethics as a method of persuasion. This is because it is the same color as the logo on the bottom right corner of the image. The fact that the same color scheme was used to link the two parts of the image is an example of how the advertisement is using ethos to make the audience notice the logo. Alasadi !3 Without the logo, the advertisement would not have any credibility to it. Figure A also appeals to the targeted emotion. For example, the caption at the top of the image include the words: to a grocery store near (Figure A). These words invoke a sense of personal harm to the audience because it makes them feel as if they are being directly affected by the production of GMOs in their food. Further examination of the image reveals that the background is dark, putting an emphasis on how evil the biotech companies really are. Pathos is also represented in Figure A by the dirty glassware containing the green substance. The dirtiness helps make the audience believe that GMOs contaminate the food we eat. Similarly to Figure A, Figure B also displays a logo on the top right corner of the image, which presents the audience with the option to investigate on their own whether or not the source is credible. Figure B further displays ethos by using corn as their crop of choice. According to the USDA: is the most widely produced feed grain in the United (USDA 1). Figure B also appeals to the targeted emotion in multiple ways. The words and to (Figure B) used in the image exhibit an uncomfortable and eerie connotation. Furthermore, the smoke coming out of the glassware in Figure B emphasizes the detrimental affects GMOs have on food. The fact that all of the food altering strategies are occurring under ground hints to the audience that the biotech companies may be wanting to hide this from the consumers, making the viewers of this image feel betrayed or feel as if they are being lied to. Finally, the play on words presented in the form of: helps the creators of the image convince the audience that GMOs are a major problem. Logos and kairos are also methods of persuasion that specifically appeal to logic and timeliness, respectively. To help the audience further understand the purpose behind the images, Alasadi !4 both Figures use these appeals. Figure A uses the word (Figure A) at the top of the advertisement; the reason for this is to involve the audience directly in the overall problem. In doing this, the advertisement convinces the audience to act against the use of GMOs because it affects them personally. Another example of logos in Figure A is the light being shed on the banana. This represents how the issue of GMOs is not getting enough attention, therefore making the audience feel obligated to advocate for this cause. The words to a grocery store near (Figure A) not only appeal to emotion, but also to timeliness. It creates a sense of urgency within the audience because if they take action fast enough, GMOs will contaminate the stores they shop at. Figure B contains a normal-looking farm, which represents logos. The normal-looking farm was chosen to convince their audience to question everything about the food industry, even if it may seem as if nothing is wrong. Furthermore, the chemicals being connected to the roots in the image notions that GMOs are the root of the whole problem. Kairos is represented in Figure B as well. The acronym stands for the words My creating a sense of urgency among the targeted audience. Deeper examination shows that most of the picture is made up of the corn crop itself. Therefore, because crops grow, the audience may interpret the problem of GMOs as a one. The biggest appeal to timeliness in Figure B is the phrase this the end of real Reading the phrase prompts the audience to do something about GMOs before the problem gets out of hand. The biggest similarity between the two images is that they both focus less on the appeals to logic and timelines then the appeals to ethics and emotion. This shows that the OCA definitely wanted to tap into soft side when displaying the advertisements. Both images use specific words or phrases to make their advertisement have a deeper Alasadi !5 meaning. While Figure A takes more of the color scheme route to further their agenda, Figure B tends to use a play on words more. These two methods are both effective in helping the creators of the images persuade their targeted audiences. The biggest similarity between the two images is that they both focus less on the appeals to logic and timelines than the appeals to ethics and emotion. This shows that the OCA definitely wanted to tap into soft side when displaying the advertisements. Therefore, while both images employ more ethos and pathos than logos and kairos, Figure A focuses more on imagery while Figure B focuses more on its play on words. At face value, advertisements have the purpose of convincing a distinct audience to do something specific. However, what separates a good advertisement from an exceptional one is the methods of persuasion that are used and how effectively they are used. The OCA is an organization that fights against the use of GMOs by using exceptional advertisements to get society on their side of the GMO debate. Figures A and B are two prominent examples of how the use of certain modes of persuasion can make all the difference. The Figures display multiple variations of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to appeal to their audiences at different angles. Most importantly, it is the synchronization of all four of these persuasion strategies that make the advertisements work as effectively as they do. Alasadi !6 Figure A ! Figure B ! Alasadi !7 Works Cited  USDA ERS - Crops. N.p., 22 Aug. 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Front  Organic Consumers Association Campaigning for Health, Justice, Sustainability, Peace, and Democracy. OCA, 11 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. YourDictionary. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and  YourDictionary. N.p., 21 June 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.