Korpela 1 Kelly Korpela Ms. Gottlieb ENC 1102-015 23 February 2017 MADD- Caring Mothers and Advocates Mothers Against Drunk Driving, also known as MADD, is a nonprofit organization that was founded in 1980. MADD promotes safety behind the wheel and enlightens teens about the harsh reality of alcohol consumption. Likewise, MADD brings awareness to the dangers that result from driving under the influence. MADD was inspired by a tragedy involving a 13-year- old girl who passed away from a drunk driver who got behind the wheel. During this time, the driver faced minimum punishment, because drunk driving was rarely a prosecuted crime. The mother of the young girl, Candy Lightner, founded the organization and played a key role in the 1984 National Minimum Drinking Act under President Ronald Reagan. President Reagan signed the law reducing the federal highway grants to any state who fails to raise its drinking age to twenty-one Analysis of the National Minimum Drinking Age MADD supports the Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA) to remain at twenty-one years old as well as the prevention of underage drinking. mission statement is: end drunk driving, help fight drugged driving, support the victims of these violent crimes, and prevent underage MADD aids families and increases public awareness on the issue of drinking and driving through visual advertisements that depict the dangers when teens get behind the wheel while intoxicated. advertisements have effectively voiced their concerns and goals onto the public and youth. Essentially, the two images support the claim that Mothers Korpela 2 Against Drunk Driving advocates aiding victims that have been affected by those under the influence of alcohol and drugs. Mothers Against Drunk Driving promotes alcohol awareness and the risks that drunk driving causes. In Figure 1, MADD is discussing the hazards of driving while intoxicated. When the audience first views the image, their attention is directed toward the silhouette in the background. The background shadow does not reflect what the young lady is actually doing. As the teenaged girl drinks from a bright green beer bottle she is holding a pair of car keys; however, the shadow reflects a gun pointed in her mouth. This reflection represents the dangers of a weapon which is just as threatening as drinking and driving. The color green from the beer bottle has a strong correlation to safety. The color green represents life and is associated with the meaning of growth; however, the color also can represent greed which is represented in the ad and is the complete opposite of safe Meaning: Meaning of The Color The advertisement is aimed at teens who may irresponsibly drink before they get behind the wheel. There is a play on words in the image when the advertisement says: and driving casts a dark (Figure 1). Within the image, there are multiple forms of rhetoric appeals. For instance, the appeal to emotion, also known as pathos, comes from the wordplay the advertisement employs. The represents the gun pointed in the mouth signifying what drinking and driving can do to a person. The gun represents a weapon and while the girl puts the weapon in her mouth she symbolizes the weapon is equivalent to drinking while driving. The dark colors used in the ad and the word usage alludes the reader to feel despair and afraid for the life. Along with the appeal to emotions, the ad also has multiple forms of logos or the appeal to logic. It is clear that a gun is an extremely dangerous weapon. As the young lady in the image is drinking from a bright green colored beer bottle whiling holding a Korpela 3 pair of keys represents a dangerous weapon such as a gun. Both the gun pointed in the mouth and the idea she will be driving while intoxicated have negative connotations meaning that drunk driving can lead to death. The MADD logo is on the bottom right-hand side of the image giving the advertisement credibility, which is also known as the ethos appeal. The logo backs up the points made in the advertisement and provides justification and allows the audience to trust what MADD is stating. As the young girl is chugging down her beer while holding a pair of keys in her hand allowing the audience to believe she may be intoxicated while driving. Driving while intoxicated is extremely dangerous and the gun signifies that risk. The image could have used more kairos, the appeal to timeliness, to better the image in a fast approaching issue that one drink can make in a life. By incorporating the urgency of claim against drunk driving would better the argument and the advertisement. In the same way Figure 1 addresses the issue of drinking and driving, the second figure does the same. Focusing on the second figure, the advertisement is addressed to young teens. The ad reads cans are recyclable. Sixteen-year-olds (Figure 2). The image is aimed at young teens because it directly speaks about sixteen-year-olds. The background of the image is a crushed beer can with reddish, orange light reflected on it. This reddish, orange light gives off the impression that it is fire reflected on the crushed can. Perhaps the advertisement is trying to portray a bonfire happening where it is common to find teens drinking at. The background is dark and out of focus, allowing the attention to emphasizing the text. The text has a powerful meaning behind it saying that the beer cans can be given new life after being disposed of, but the lives of young teens cannot. The text is a powerful appeal to emotion, or pathos, as it carries immense emotional connotations. The audience is able to ponder the idea that a beer can could be recycled and used again while the consumers who underage drink and drive can be Korpela 4 killed because of it. On the bottom of the image is the MADD logo along with a hotline phone number. The phone number has replacing the last seven number, making the phone number easier for the viewers to remember. The MADD logo appeals to credibility because it justifies the slogan and meaning behind the advertisement. The advertisement likewise has an appeal to logic. The ad is acknowledging the notion that driving intoxicated could cause serious tragedies such as death. The audience can guess the ad is speaking about death because it compares teens to recycled cans. If Figure 2, just like Figure 1, used more of kairos appeal, it would better the image by illustrating the fast approaching issue drinking and driving causes. Mothers Against Drunk Driving use common themes and appeals within their advertisements. For instance, both images carry a strong sense of pathos, the appeal to emotion, through the usage of language, color scheme, and images. The play on words in both images and meaning behind the text overwhelms the audience with the tragic realities of drinking and driving. Using the slogan: and driving casts a dark (Figure 1) and cans are recyclable. Sixteen-year-olds (Figure 2) in the advertisements, voices the matter at hand. The underlying meaning behind the images and the text gives a great sense of feeling and an essential meaning of emotions. In addition, the MADD logo placed in both advertisements contribute to the credibility, or ethos, of the image. While Figure 1 and Figure 2 both use a well- crafted approach to the logos appeal there could be more within the advertisement to perfect the logic and clear reasoning for the argument. Without overwhelming both images, perhaps MADD could have inserted statistics or numbers in the ad illustrating how many teens die per year because of alcohol-related car crashes which can lead to fatalities. Furthermore, the ads are effective at aiming their target audience through the use of rhetoric appeals allowing the audience to stop and think before they operate any motor vehicle while under the influence of Korpela 5 drugs and alcohol. MADD uses colors, shadows, font, text, and their logo to compel their audience to think, feel, and trust their opinion. Essentially, MADD could have used more of the kairos appeal to perfect their arguments; however, the usage of pathos, ethos, and logos was able to get the job done. The safety of teens and young adults is one of the most valuable missions of all. Alcohol has taken thousands of lives and left many forever altered in the last decade. Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) have been fighting to protect future lives and aid families that have been affected by the tragedy of being intoxicated behind the wheel. Discussing the dangers of alcohol in high schools and colleges around the United States will optimistically save lives. Using strong images and messages such as the two figures will potentially influence young teens who may not think before getting behind the wheel while under the influence. Essentially, MADD teaches about the dangers of alcohol and the serious consequences that are a result of drinking and driving. Exposing youth to these dangers via advertisements and images such as these will, in time, save the next generation. Korpela 6 Works Cited Bourn, Jennifer, and About Jennifer BournCreative Director Digital Strategist WordPress Evangelist Probably a Sith... Her Passion Brings Forth Intuitive Design Solutions. As Founder of Bourn Creative, Jennifer Is an Award-winning Designer Who Has Been Working in the Desig. Meaning of The Color Green  Bourn Creative. N.p., 03 June 2016. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. Drink Beer and Steer (with Images)  Storify. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Legislative Analysis of the National Minimum Drinking Age  National Youth Rights Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. MADD Ad Campaign  9 Lives Design. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Madd. Mothers Against Drunk  MADD. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Korpela 7 Figure 1 Figure 2