Cummings 1 Annie Cummings Pearlstone ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Childhood Obesity Prevention Campaign Images Childhood obesity has been an ongoing epidemic for quite some time now. Childhood obesity is a serious medical condition that occurs when a child is above the normal weight for his or her age and height. Many campaigns have been promoted across the country supporting childhood obesity prevention in order to reduce obesity rates and to ensure children are developing into more healthy and nutritional eating habits. The former first lady Michelle Obama founded the Move Campaign, and this purpose is to solve the nationwide epidemic of childhood obesity within a generation. Through the two campaign images factual information, colorful details and strong emphasis, the intended audience can see that the former first lady Michelle Move Campaign applies the three rhetorical appeals in order to promote awareness for childhood obesity prevention. The first image from the Move Campaign portrays healthy eating habits by using a variety of brightly colored stamps with the purpose of showing people, especially kids, what healthy diets consist of. This image is able to appeal to the reader with logic. This form of rhetorical appeal is called logos. Elements of logos are shown throughout the ad such as where the food plate is shown and is divided up into multiple nutrition portions. This is displayed so that the audience is shown what specific nutrients you should be putting in not only a diet, but the diet as well. The phrase plate for also portrays an important message to not overfeed your children. Not only are that, but the other two messages that are important to on as well as the cups of water a The audience may not be Cummings 2 aware of this important information and with it displayed in this image, they may be able to take this information and put it to good use with their children. Another rhetorical appeal that is displayed in this image is ethos. For one thing, the image is an ad for the Move Campaign, so the information displayed on the ad is accurate. That conclusion is brought upon because the purpose is to promote healthy eating in order to reduce childhood obesity. The message towards the bottom of the ad conveys a persuasive message towards the audience to get them motivated to end childhood obesity and bring about awareness towards the epidemic. The intended audience for the first image is the general public, because the Move ultimate goal is to greatly reduce childhood obesity rates and to establish a healthy and nutritional diet for children and adolescents. The image provides several different nutritional facts that are important to a overall diet. The audience is both the children and the because the adults have a big say in what goes in their diet. Yet, the child is targeted in this image as well because they are the ones who need to be informed as they are growing up what they should be including in their everyday diets. With the image illustrating healthy eating tips and facts, the parents and their children will become more aware of the importance of eating healthy and maintaining a nutritional lifestyle. The second image from the Move Campaign illustrates a kid reaching for unhealthy food on the plate which illustrates how a parent can have a strong impact on the way they consume food. In other words, the child in the image shown has a healthy meal in front of him but chooses to reach for the plate instead because that adult has a much more appetizing, yet unhealthy, plate. This could have an overall negative impact on a diet if their parents continue to show bad examples of diets through unhealthy eating lifestyles. If the parent were to have a healthy plate identical to that of the then the kid would not have Cummings 3 had a reason to reach over for the plate, therefore, been more likely to consume their healthy plate. This image, along with the first image, uses multiple rhetorical appeals. One of those appeals that is illustrated in this image is ethos. a big specific design element that establishes credibility and trust, and that the website that is displayed on the bottom of the image letsmove.gov for more information) This gives the reader the impression that all of the information given in the image is true and if the reader wants to learn more about what this campaign has to offer and their goal, then he/she should go visit the website for further information on childhood obesity. Furthermore, the Move logo on the bottom right side of the image also shows the reader that this image pertains specifically to the Move Campaign with the logo shown. Another appeal in this image is pathos which appeals to the reader emotionally. One specific feeling the audience can get from this image is feeling a little sad. That is because the child is reaching towards the plate of unhealthy food rather than consuming the healthy, nutritional food right in front of him. Not only that, but the dark colors in the image give off a very gloomy affect towards the audience. This photo contains a dark brown background and the only little color that is used in the photo is the food on the plate as well as the This may be so that the reader will be drawn to the main aspect of this photo which is the kid reaching for the unhealthy food, rather than the nutritional fruit in front of him/her. Furthermore, logos is also illustrated in this image in several ways. Logos is being shown when the message about reaching for the right food is being displayed. Some parents may not see this, therefore whoever created this image was trying to display this message so that parents and children are fully aware of this pattern. If parents are aware of their children following in their unhealthy eating habits, then they will be more likely to stop their bad habits in order to ensure healthy eating habit for their children. Cummings 4 For the second image, the target audience is the general public as well. This image speaks to not only children, but adults as well. because parents will better understand the importance of providing a good example to their children by what they consume in their diet. This image shows that if parents continue eat unhealthy items in front of their children, then their children will most likely follow in their non-nutritional footsteps. However, if parents begin to develop a habit of eating healthier throughout their day and maintain a fit lifestyle then their children would be more prone to following the same healthy habits. All in all, the Move Campaign has successfully achieved its goal so far of promoting healthy eating and living styles for children and adolescents around the nation. The images colors and details within the picture capture how important it truly is to develop a healthy lifestyle of eating nutritional foods by including all important nutrients within your diet. Cummings 5 Works Cited Archuleta, Nadia. The Three Pillars of Persuasion: Ethos, Logos, Pathos. 2016 May 14. Web. 23 Feb 2017. Move Campaign. Move to Raise a Healthier Generation of Kids. 2010. Web. 23 Feb 2017. Thompson, Krissah. A healthful legacy: Michelle Obama looks to the future of 3 May 2015. Web. 23 Feb 2017. Cummings 6 Cummings 7