Vieira 1 Alexandra Vieira Professor Gottlieb ENC1102 1 March 2017 No More: Awareness and Engagement The campaign was launched in 2013, establishing its goal to bring awareness to domestic abuse and sexual assault and is most well-known for its many partnerships with large organizations and celebrity supporters. The initiative of the campaign is to not only bring awareness to both issues, but also to help end acts of sexual and domestic violence. The organization defines domestic violence as, pattern of behavior used to establish power and control over another person through fear and intimidation, often including the threat or use of The organization further defines sexual assault as, crime motivated by a need to control, humiliate and harm. Perpetrators use sexual assault as a weapon to hurt and dominate others. Sexual assault is forced or coerced sexual contact without consent. Consent is the presence of a clear yes, not the absence of a The definition of both terms are crucial in developing a campaign that appeals to the audience and can; therefore, successfully promote social reform. The definitions of both issues are made clear and consistent according to the researcher, Basile: a consistent definition helps in determining the magnitude of sexual violence and aids in comparing the problem across allows researchers to measure risk and protective factors for victimization in a uniform (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). The campaign targets people of all ages through the visual and rhetorical appeals presented in their advertisements. Though many advocacy groups, universities, and celebrities support the campaign; the campaigns major leader is the U.S. Department of Justice. The campaign was cofounded by public/private partnership, Vieira 2 and is considered a campaign not owned by one sole organization. It is a movement created to help stop the shaming and silencing of victims, destroy barriers set up by stigmas, and taking action to stop domestic violence and sexual assault. The campaign took root with Law and Order: Mariska Joyful Heart Foundation. The advertisements created by the campaign are impactful and very much necessary for the promotion of the campaigns overall message, in a visually rhetorical format. The visual rhetoric of Figure 1 is placed in accordance with the purpose to address the reality of domestic and sexual abuse towards and among men. The image has a statement placed in the middle of the advertisement that has a written stereotype that many people use to justify or rationalize the manipulation of male victims when it comes to sexual abuse. The statement, he fight (Figure 1) carries the stigma that men are strong and; therefore, are not able to be taken advantage of. It is a that many may try to use in order to, further bring shame to male victims and can even silence them from reporting and addressing such experiences with others. The appeal to logos is that no person is responsible or should be to blame for why they were assaulted, no matter the gender, race, age, or sexual orientation. Underneath the statement, a statistic regarding how many men are forced into doing sexual acts in their childhood is made. It states, in 6 men have had unwanted or abusive sexual experiences in childhood. If you or someone you care about needs help, please visit The statistic is intended to counteract the earlier statement regarding why the male victim did not fight back. The statistic now gives the viewer a greater understanding of how often such occurrences regarding sexual abuse and domestic violence there are against men and how illogical the prior assumption is. The appeal to ethos, which is being established in Figure 1, is the statistic and a website that is placed in the very middle of the poster. Statistics create an Vieira 3 appeal to credibility to the person seeing the poster. Most statistics are recognized as being truthful and accurate, because of the logical fallacy that all researchers must be telling the truth with their research. It can be presumed that statistics are even backed by a credible source such as a researcher or organization. The color of the text is black and the background is white, but like scholarly articles and newspapers, the color helps to address important information, the viewer can assume that the issue addressed, is of great importance also. The image of the celebrity in the poster is also in black and white, which makes the topic seem more serious than if it was in highlighted and bright colors. This seriousness can in turn make the creator of the poster more of a credible source. The colors black and white create a feeling of sadness and appeal to the feeling (pathos) of empathy for the victims suffering abuse. In Figure 1, the question, he fight (Figure 1) argues with the statistics proving that sometimes even fighting cannot stop the attacker from having committed the heinous act against the victim. In the statistic on the poster, in 6 men have had unwanted or abusive sexual experiences in (Figure 1) suggests men can be victimized at such a young age and are not capable of controlling what happens to them. Both posters create feelings of sympathy for the victims but also a newfound will to take a stand against domestic violence and sexual abuse of all persons. The appeal to timeliness in Figure 1is to be assumed within the sentence, you or someone you care about needs help, please visit (Figure 1). The sentence provides a sense of urgency and appeals to the reader, that time is of the essence and that change is necessary. The purpose of Figure 2 targets a broader audience. Rather than explicitly addressing male victims, it concerns those that are victims and those who are not. Another logical fallacy, never going to fix (Figure 2) is placed at the top of the campaign ad. Some use the Vieira 4 statement too express, why even bringing the topic into campaigns and television will not change anything. With accordance of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, efforts should ultimately decrease the number of individuals who perpetrate sexual violence and the number of individuals who are victims. Many prevention approaches aim to reduce risk factors and promote protective factors for sexual Violence: Prevention This further supports the stress on making awareness of both issues the milestone for preventing those issues to continue happening in the future. A statement was placed next to the actress in the middle of the poster that states, violence and sexual assault are preventable. It is time we all speak out to end this violence. No more excuses. No more silence. No more Like the previous advertisement, the statement stresses the importance of openly taking a stand when he/she or someone he/she knows has been domestically or sexually abused. The quote, appeals to the logic that the only way social reform can take place is to actively participate in ending such social injustices. It provides an initiative for all people to speak out and actively take a stand so that abuse can be prevented and for abusers to be punished for their crimes. The rhetorical strategies in the advertisements aim to influence the readers to want to be advocates for their cause. In Figure 2, violence and sexual assault are preventable. It is time we all speak out to end this violence. No more excuses. No more silence. No more (Figure 2) this statement appeals to the feelings of wanting to take authority and standing up for a change. It also brings the audience to feel sympathy for the victims rather than to victim blame. Other feelings expressed are feelings of empowerment and awareness. The figure has the statement, more excuses. No more silence. No more also emphasizes that time is of the essence and that people need to start taking action as soon as possible The Vieira 5 line before that is highlighted blue also pushes the viewer to act fast or else nothing will change. In Figure 2, two sources are listed in the bottom left corner, which was intended to appeal to the credibility. The appeal to Kairos (timeliness) is also present in their text by urging readers to visit their website. Both contributors to the campaign are organizations. The first contributor listed, being the Joyful Heart Foundation, and the second being the Entertainment Industry Foundation. The purpose of listing the website for the campaign at the bottom of the poster is to; also evoke credibility, because readers can see the cause and research for themselves. All the rhetorical appeals set out to affect the thoughts on the issue and response to offenders and victims. The boldest words on both posters are the statement and title, These two words together create a sense of urgency and call for an emergence of change. The first figure gives a website as a source in case in someone is seeking help. In both images, the in and the statements underneath are colored blue. Blue in business is associated with the feeling that the viewer can trust the advertiser. The color blue can also represent honesty, reliability, one-to-one communication, and wisdom. The rest of the text on the posters is black on a white background. This allows the reader to feel like it is standard text but important. The celebrities placed on the poster are also, colored in black/grey/white; this gives the viewer a feeling of seriousness and intensity (The Meaning of Colors). The words, are bolded and contrasting shades of blue. The creator of the poster wanted to emphasize the importance of saying no and declaring an end to domestic violence and sexual abuse. Both the questions in the posters give the reader something to think about and draw their own conclusions. mission statement, is to unite victims and to help establish awareness about sexual abuse and domestic violence. The definitions for both terms are necessary to create a clear Vieira 6 understanding of both crimes. The rhetoric and visual appeals used by the stakeholder in both Figure 1 and Figure 2, are used to establish a certain emotion and response from the audience. Works Cited Basile KC, Smith SG, Breiding MJ, Black MC, Mahendra RR. Sexual Violence Surveillance: Uniform Definitions and Recommended Data Elements, Version 2.0. Atlanta, GA: National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 2014. Know the  NOMORE.org Together we can end domestic violence and sexual assault. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Parker, Raetta.  The Meaning of Colors. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. /meaningofcolors.htm>. Sexual Violence: Prevention  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 07 June 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Vieira 7 Figure 1: Vieira 8 Figure 2: