Kago 1 John Kago Mark Nusspickel Composition 1 February 26, 2017 Outline China Pollution Affecting The World. The information of the world population been affected by the china pollution has changed through out the years. Current research shows China taking action with conserving the environment. The different sources through out the year provide information with same topic but with different topics changing through out the year. A. Precautions in protecting the environment. which provides a large amount of official development assistance (ODA), has conducted training courses on climate change and replaced obsolete generating equipment in developing countries in burden arising from power B. Global Climate Change And Health environmental protection agencies and public health agencies in efforts to limit pollution emissions in winter and to reduce the winter time exposure to C. Climate change summit and the Paris climate (Anthony 49) in this summit the world trade organization (WTO) made china the factory, this means that China has the biggest factories with a huge number of low wage employees and so many different machines in the factories Kago 2 D. Toxic Chemicals And Health intake more food, air, and water per pound than adults, and thus have greater exposures to toxic chemicals for their body weight. In addition, their metabolic pathways are immature, their early developmental processes are easily disrupted, and they have more time to develop chronic diseases than do adults (Landrigan and Goldman Kago 3 The information of the world population been affected by the china pollution has changed through out the years. Current research shows China taking action with conserving the environment. The different sources through out the year provide information with different topics changing through out the year. How the different topics have changed in the late 2000 and early 2017. If the topics research has stayed the same or they have changed. Since pollution has been a problem through out the years till now, a lot of the topics are been discussed but in early 2017 is more of the government getting involved with other countries in helping each other reduce pollution. Precautions On Protecting The Environment. Before 2010 research shows that the government was taking precautions in protecting the environment through various ways such as the machines used in the factories. This improvements and changes that were happening in the factories were the low-income countries since a lot of companies will plant their factories there since cheaper for them. Just as stated in the article which provides a large amount of official development assistance (ODA), has conducted training courses on climate change and replaced obsolete generating equipment in developing countries in burden arising from power (Yasuhiro) this quote states that in the early years of 2000 japan had introduced training courses for climate change and the invention of new technologies. Global Climate Change And Health. Through out the early years of 2010 the research articles state that the death rate of humans was increasing due to pollution. The population in the countries been affected with pollution especially in low-income countries were due to mortality effect. The Kago 4 mortality effect was the wave of pollution affecting people whose health was still at risk but still end up passing away to early. As stated in the article environmental protection agencies and public health agencies in efforts to limit pollution emissions in winter and to reduce the winter time exposure to (Zhengmin) this quote sates that there were agencies that deal with limiting the pollution emissions to help the society. Climate Change Summit. In the recent years of 2017 the climate has always still been an issue. Through the research article in some countries such as china have taken measure to join climate summit and team up with other countries to conserve the environment. As stated in the article it was a and the Paris climate (Anthony 49) in this summit the world trade organization (WTO) made china the factory, this means that China has the biggest factories with a huge number of low wage employees and so many different machines in the factories. Since they have these big factories they all pollute the environment producing a lot of carbon, so they had to focus on trying to improve the machines to release less carbon into the atmosphere. So the summit was held together with Paris was for the transfer of technology that would be used in the factories. During these early years of 2017 they focused more on the technology to be used to reduce emission. This research shows that the topics discussed in 2010 are totally different from what is discussed in 2017. Toxic Chemicals And Health Before 2017 the research for pollution was more on not just health in general but focused on health. health has been a factor to look at in countries Kago 5 with high carbon emission or pollution in general. In this research they look at health in low-income countries. This is because low-income countries children are more vulnerable to diseases because of lack of nutrition and also access in clean water. Because of the factories some dispose the waste into the ocean or sea, which some house or places in town use the sea as a source of water and end up getting sick. intake more food, air, and water per pound than adults, and thus have greater exposures to toxic chemicals for their body weight. In addition, their metabolic pathways are immature, their early developmental processes are easily disrupted, and they have more time to develop chronic diseases than do adults (Landrigan and Goldman (William) as stated in the research it means that children are more important that adults into caring about their health. Because as described children take in more food air and water than adults. Since this are the factors that are more polluted it becomes very important. Throughout the early years of 2010 and 2017 there has been a slight change on the topics that are researched on some of the articles. The changes that happen is about health it is still talked about in both the sources of 2010 and 2017, but it has been specified more in 2017. The other topics are totally different been spoken, feel like in the early 2010 there was more of change in climate and solution countries should make to make less pollution. While in early 2017, they talk more on the agreements with other countries in reducing emission of carbon and the technology to use in factories for less emission. Kago 6 Cited Page. LI, ANTHONY H. F. Hopes Of Limiting Global Warming? China And The Paris Agreement On Climate  China Perspectives 1 (2016): 49-54. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Qian, Zhengmin, Hung-Mo Lin, and Walter F. Stewart. Seasonal Pattern Of The Acute Mortality Effects Of Air  Journal Of The Air & Waste Management Association (Air & Waste Management Association) 60.4 (2010): 481-488. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Suk, William A., et al. Environmental Pollution: An Under-Recognized Threat To Health, Especially In Low- And Middle-Income  Environmental Health Perspectives 124.3 (2016): A41-A45. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Takarada, Yasuhiro. Transboundary Pollution And The Welfare Effects Of Technology  Journal Of Economics 85.3 (2005): 251-275. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.