Nyberg 1 Charles Nyberg Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 15 March 2017 Pictures and Shots of Vaccinations People across the world receive vaccinations to protect themselves from common illnesses, or more rare, but deadly, diseases. In places where health care is poor, less money is placed into immunizing children and adults. One group has been responsible for decades in providing this necessary care to all who need vaccinations. The World Health Organization (WHO) is a global organization that cares for the health of all individuals. Their goal includes helping any government that works to improve the health of their people. They also try to expand the health of everyone in the world no matter the country or place WHO ultimately tries to lower the death rate and increase the life expectancy of all people using one of many significant ways: vaccinations. They have been working, since the origin of the organization in 1948, for over 60 years to help increase the quality of life to over 150 different countries in the world. WHO states that vaccinations themselves are: of the most cost-effective health investments, with proven strategies that make it accessible to even the most hard-to-reach and vulnerable Immunizations are distributed to as many third world vaccines and health care are less possible. Every year they save between 2 and 3 million lives overall because of vaccinations, WHO states The World Health Organization aids in other ways to improve the life of individuals with poor health, even so, the best way to increase the life expectancy is by vaccinating and doing so at young ages. Most third world countries are very willing to accept the immunizations; in first world countries, where harsh diseases and infections are less prevalent, vaccinations are performed Nyberg 2 somewhat less, or chosen not to be done at all. WHO has been doing promotions and campaigns for decades to try and increase the overall number of people who receive vaccinations. Outbreaks and the spread of disease can be prevented when all people in the world are immunized. Images and promotions by WHO help to increase the number of people who immunize themselves and their children. Two specific images created by the World Health Organization both support their ultimate goal of immunizing all people while varying in the ways that message is conveyed. Images created and distributed by the World Health Organization try to inspire and push people to immunize their children. Both Figures 1 and 2 sponsor immunizations and advocate for people to receive them. They show an appeal to authority because in both images the emblem of WHO is displayed. In Figure 1, it is in the top left corner and in Figure 2, it is in the bottom right circle. The emblem of the whole organization is a world with the Rod of image most often associated with health and front (Figure 1, Figure 2). Showing that the images were made and distributed by WHO increases the credibility and reliability of their argument. Any organization that has been working towards a goal for over 60 years has current prestige in the world and credibility in their goal. Figure 1 has the color blue in it, which is the color most often used by the World Health Organization; on their website and in everything they publish, they use the color blue (Figure 1). Blue can be associated most often, with trust and dignity Color Theory in The second image uses blue for the circles as well, especially for the circle with the WHO emblem (Figure 2). Connecting the color blue constantly within both images to the organization and what blue symbolizes, helps to enforce the objective of WHO. The first image is a poster from World Immunization Week 2016. Figure 1 speaks to the world to increase the amount of vaccinations done in a set week. The image states, in the imperative form, to close the immunization gap, meaning to have as many people and children Nyberg 3 vaccinated in the world as possible. If the title was not a command, it would not bring about a need to do anything during this designated week; across the world, the time is spent promoting and performing vaccinations for children and adults. The use of words and campaign format is an appeal to timeliness, or kairos, because it is for a set time period and the statement on the poster is commanding the reader to do something now. As stated by Hoffman and Sawchyn, is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (41). Figure 2 appeals to kairos in a similar way as well because it is a poster for World Health Day 1977. This image intended to inform parents and families to become immunized and to have their children immunized specifically on that World Health Day. The main words on the second image are also set in the imperative form, saying, and protect your (Figure 2). Overall, between the two images, kairos is since the start of the World Health Organization in 1948 to organization has been encouraging people across the world to become immunized. Since the first and second images have been created decades apart from each other, this also appeals to the ethos of the argument WHO presents. The need for vaccinations has been a prominent issue since the start of the organization and even more since the to today. The first image appeals to the world overall in contrast to the second being directed towards parents specifically. The different colors in the Figure 2 could be aimed at trying to catch the attention of a younger audience. Parents and their children would probably rather look at the different circles of color than the more modest format of Figure 1. The World Health Organization, nonetheless in their appeal to ethos, has many different audiences that they are capable of reaching out to; whether it is the world or a smaller group like families. Other aspects of the images can be analyzed further like the design as well as the appeals to logic and emotion. Nyberg 4 Two more aspects of these two images that can be explored are the appeals to logos and pathos. Logos is also known as appealing to logic. Lane et al, describe it as: consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (32). Both images have included logos to assist in their intentions. In Figure 1, one obvious appeal to logic is the website provided at the top right of the poster (Figure 1). The World Health Organization is giving a source of information about their argument and about vaccinations in general to support their objective. If someone looks at the poster, with the website included, they are able to see information and the evidence they utilized in creating this worldwide immunization week. The other image, Figure 2, uses less source based information, however, it appeals to logos by the design of the poster itself. Different circles have been painted in various colors (Figure 2). These different colors can symbolize the many different countries and people that the World Health Organization would like to reach out and help. Also, logos can be applied to how not every circle has a face, meaning that not every child in the world is vaccinated yet. One interesting point to look at in the image is the smiles themselves. It can appear that the mouths are like checkmarks and show that those children have been checked off the list of needing immunization (Figure 2). All that the World Health Organization needs and wants to do, is put a check for every child in the world who is immunized, or better yet put a smile on all of their faces. With these smiles, comes the call to emotion, or pathos. A large organization, like WHO, would not want to immediately scare anyone with images of death or other problems with unvaccinated children, yet, in Figure 1, they show a subtle and desperate need to help vaccinate children. The title of the poster, the Immunization pairs with the image of two hands one large and one small, reaching out for each other (Figure 1). Showing that these hands have not yet reached each other can symbolize need for the viewer to help the and give the assistance that child Nyberg 5 needs. Seeing children without proper care can be showing a hand, which could be reaching be a call to emotion. Emotion as defined by the Oxford English Dictionary is, strong mental or instinctive feeling, as pleasure, grief, hope, fear, etc., deriving esp. from circumstances, mood, or relationship with If WHO can get the viewer to become that person reaching out, then they are able to call on the emotions of that person to do what they can to help. Figure 2, in appealing to pathos, draws on the colors used in the poster. The many different vibrant colors used can bring a variety of emotions to the surface when looking at the image. In contrast, the gray background can make the reader think about the need for vaccinations to save children from either death or disease; both are dark ways of living a life. The faces on some of the circles have smiles, which can show that being vaccinated is a happy thing and that those kids are happy to be vaccinated. Both images together share and differ in their appeals to logos and pathos. In Figure 1, there are only two and there is evidence for the world immunization week and immunizations for everyone in the website provided. Conversely, Figure 2 does not provide any direct evidence to support the need to immunize child, but does include many diverse colors that call on different emotions. Both images convey different messages of emotional appeal. In the first image, it calls on the viewer to help those who cannot help themselves, while the second image is more personal to help make own child happy and healthy with immunizing them. Both images were used to get the message that vaccinations are necessary and are quite beneficial for life. Each were matter what they may have lacked in rhetorical campaigns and others external sources to better influence the audience towards immunizations. Nyberg 6 Vaccination is seen as easy and something that is beneficial to all. As displayed in the two posters, the World Health Organization wants everyone to vaccinate themselves and specifically their children. While the first figure spoke about closing the immunization gap and making sure more and more people are fully vaccinated, the second figure was more personal and directed towards the parents. Both images provided detail and appealed to different rhetorical strategies in getting the same message across. Vaccinations can be seen as just a simple shot or an easy way to save a life, own or a Nyberg 7 Figure 1 World Immunization Week 2016. Digital image. World Health Organization. WHO, 2016. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. Nyberg 8 Figure 2 Immunize and Protect Your Child: World Health Day 1977. Digital image. U.S. National Library of Medicine. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. Nyberg 9 Works Cited Emotion,  OED Online. Oxford University Press, March 2017. Web. 15 March 2017. Hoffman, Allyson and Sawchyn, Alysia. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41. E-text. Lane, Emily, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32. E-text. See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. QSX Software Group, n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 01 March 2017.