Zakhary 1 Mina Zakhary Professor Alisson Missler ENC 1102 16 March 2017 EnrollAmerica: Vision for health coverage Many organizations have been created and established for the purpose of helping and working to progress on a certain and specific issue or topic. A major issue within the United States is healthcare. Healthcare in America is proven to be lacking when compared to the healthcare system of other countries (Anderson et al. 90). However, there are multiple organizations that were created to help facilitate healthcare system. EnrollAmerica is an organization that was developed to help and provide American citizens with health and premium coverage. EnrollAmerica has been the leading health care enrollment organization. They carry out numerous goals and aspects of providing quality and affordable healthcare plans. Their main goal, or mission statement, is to maximize the number of American citizens who are uninsured, or are not covered, to acquire and retain health coverage. Since the Affordable Care Act (ACA) took effect, EnrollAmerica has made it their first priority in reaching out to communities to enroll citizens for programs, education, and other vital informative programs to help as many as possible in acquiring health coverage. They have been providing outreach through many forms of content in the media, such as advertisements and posters. EnrollAmerica has depicted rhetorical appeals in these ads to reach out to multiple communities. Granted that the healthcare system in other countries surpass that of the United States, EnrollAmerica strives to make a difference by enabling American citizens to enroll in health coverage. The purpose of each image is to provide a sense of comfort for those who are not Zakhary 2 insured and show them that it is possible to attain health coverage while showing that help is there. The images support the fact that everyone needs health insurance and that there are no excuses. They want you to get insurance to be in a better place when it comes to family and loved-ones and/or pets. Elements of ethos are visible in both picture advertisements. The image needs to be effective in getting people to look into EnrollAmerica, therefore showing a sense of credibility and authority. For both advertisements, there is the EnrollAmerica logo at the corners of the pictures (Image 1 & 2). This shows credibility because it means that these advertisements are coming directly from EnrollAmerica and the AdCouncil. Proving that these advertisements are coming directly from the source, allows people to check website and information directly, especially those who do not have health coverage. Another area where ethos can be discovered is in the text, what you could qualify for at as this allows a direct link to their website assuring their credibility and role in providing health coverage (Image 2). Another factor in determining their credibility is the reputation they have built since they have been a productive organization since 2011. In addition, Elements of pathos are also visible in both advertisement posters. The use of a common house pet provides a sense of pathos because mostly everyone is fond of pets and pets are seen as a source of enlightenment and a companion as seen in Image 1 (Miltiades et al.). Humans associate house pets with love and care. With this in mind, there lies text reading, you really love me as much as you say, get yourself health insurance (Image 1). The use of first person allows the reader to directly empathize with the cat. This makes people feel a sense of empathy towards the cat because the cat, or EnrollAmerica, wants the reader to take care Zakhary 3 of their own health care first in order to take care of others or the cat in this scenario. Also, in the second advertisement poster, the color palette of the picture is mostly blue with text reading never get This statement emphasizes how many Americans do not have health coverage because they simply do not think they need it when this is clearly a false method of thinking. In addition, there lies a bandage over the word symbolizing that people do get sick and the Band-Aid is used to heal wounds or recover and is an easy way to fix an injury. This Band-Aid symbolizes health coverage towards American citizens as it states all need health insurance, and you could get help paying for (Image 2). Also, the color blue is associated with sadness or feeling down and possible depression. According to a study on color hues being associated with moods, it shows that when people think of the color blue they identify it with moments of sadness, or times that were intense and stressful (Wexner 433). This is effective in the advertisement poster because it gives the feel that without health coverage, life is sad and This shows how EnrollAmerica is trying to convince people to try to make an effort towards potential health coverage. To continue, elements of logos is not necessarily shown because for the most part, Americans presume that health coverage is a vital thing to have and many Americans do have it. However, in one of the advertisement posters it states take care of us pets. Now our turn to take care of (Image 1). This shows logos because it is logical for humans to take care of themselves more since they take care of their pets so often. This statement can be taken into deeper meaning, since humans take care of their, EnrollAmerica wants to do the same for humans and aid as many as possible. Another rhetorical appeal visible in both advertisement posters is Kairos as both show a sense of timeliness. In the first advertisement it states yourself health insurance Zakhary 4 (Image 1). By saying this shows that the organization wants people to enroll and get health coverage as soon as possible, so by saying the readers automatically identify that they should go look into EnrollAmerica or as soon as possible. Furthermore, in the second advertisement poster, it states up and pick a plan by February showing emphasis on the date by bolding the text (Image 2). This shows a sense of Kairos and timeliness because they want readers to sign up and see available plans as soon as possible and by providing a date, this forces the reader to try to go to the website and check as soon as possible, thus showing Kairos. Ultimately, being that healthcare system is worst when compared to countries around the globe, for example Canada, there are still organizations determined in making a difference based on this issue. EnrollAmerica uses multiple methods of showing rhetorical appeals throughout their advertisement posters and pictures. Whether it is through ethos, pathos, logos, or Kairos, they are able to clearly establish connections with viewers and readers across the nation. In doing so, EnrollAmerica is capable of making a difference to enable American citizens for a chance of health coverage. So, granted that the healthcare system in other countries are far more superior than that of the United States, EnrollAmerica strives in making a difference in enrolling American citizens to retain health coverage. Zakhary 5 Image 1 Image 2 Zakhary 6 Works Cited Anderson, Gerard F., et al. the prices, stupid: why the United States is so different from other  Health Affairs 22.3 (2003): 89-105. Image 1. Care EnrollAmerica.org. EnrollAmerica. N.p, n.d. Image 2. Never get Multivu.com. EnrollAmerica. N.p, n.d. Miltiades, Helen, and Juliette Shearer. Attachment to pet dogs and depression in rural older  24.2 (2011): 147-154. Wexner, Lois B. The degree to which colors (hues) are associated with  Journal of applied psychology 38.6 (1954): 432.