Mendez 1 Fresa Mendez Nusspickel ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Ending Death Penalty The death penalty, a form of execution, is a capital crime punishment that criminals receive. It has been illegalized in some states of the United States, but it is sadly still legal in most states. Lethal injections, electrocutions, gas chambers, firing squads, and hangings are the five different ways the death penalty can be put to use according to the Death Penalty Information Center (DPIC). Now a days, it is is easy to assume that since people choose what form of execution they will choose it is not as horrible of a crime, but nothing can make this sane. Everything about the death penalty is inhumane, and it is unbelievable to think that at this modern age, something as cruel as the death penalty is still enforced in more than half of the states in the United States. It is true that there have been crimes that deserve the most horrible punishment, and this could be a reason as in why people are for the penalty, but there should not be any doubts in why the death penalty should be completely abolished. The death penalty is the most cruel punishment and it is time for everyone to realize that it is not making our society any better and that there is always another option. There have been many arguments, good and bad, for whether the death penalty should be completely abolished; yet a solution to this problem has yet to be reached. Throughout the years, the view on the death penalty has slightly changed. Before 2010, the death penalty has become illegal in sixteen states. After 2010, it has only been made illegal in Mendez 2 four states. The views from before are definitely different from now, and it is because of past actions that the death penalty is not as useful as before. period from 1900 to 1950 represented the most prolific use of the death penalty in our history for any comparable period of and it is because the mindset from olden days is much different from the modern age one. Everyone knows that people learn from mistakes made in the past, and this is no exception. The death penalty is now less cruel than it was before, but it has still yet to be completely abolished which raises serious questions about humanity. Way before 2010, executions were so bad that there was a court case in where it was announced that penalty is in violation of the constitutional rights Americans have, but this case was later dismissed and execution resumed once again. Although the death penalty is not used as it was before, it is still extremely corrupted. In the book, Essential Issues That Affect Our Freedom, Ron Paul, the author, speaks on how corrupted the death penalty and makes different points on how congress tricks people into thinking it is not inhumane. people when guilty are rarely found guilty and in contrast to poor people or even black people who are most likely to be sentenced to death. death penalty remains one of the most controversial issues in the United States. Its proponents claim many things in their defense of its continued application. For example, they claim that it deters crime, that death by lethal injection is painless and humane, that it is racially neutral, and that it provides closure to families of the Johnson) say in the book Top Ten Death Penalty Myths. Every single thing listed there has been proven wrong, and it is something not many people seem to be aware of. White people have been let off the death penalty far more often than any African American ever has. In this book, the author has Mendez 3 seen and contacted families that have been on the other end and it truly does not bring the it should be bringing. People that are for the death penalty also make points that do not seem to make much sense. Lastly, the ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union) has proven that lethal injections are in fact painful even when it is said to be otherwise. Feser spoke, reserve the death penalty in the United States for the most heinous murders and the most brutal and conscienceless murderers. This is not, as some critics argue, a kind of state-run lottery that randomly chooses an unlucky few for the ultimate penalty from among all those convicted of It is easy to think that people who have committed murders deserve to die as revenge but this could not be more wrong. Humans were not assigned the power to end an life, and when they do they end up in jail. The death penalty is taking somebody life, yet they do not seem to get in trouble for it. There is truly not one safe way to kill someone, so humans should not take it upon themselves to try and keep reinforcing this punishment. Every there is about the death penalty can be in fact proven wrong. There is no doubt that the death penalty is corrupted and unfair, and there is truly no good coming from it. It is not affecting live in a good way, and it should be completely abolished. The death penalty is the most cruel punishment and it is time for everyone to realize that it is not making our society any better and that there is always another option. It does not matter how many arguments about this topic could be made, it always end up being the same conclusion. The death penalty is cruel and inhumane, and it should be illegal everywhere. Mendez 4 Work Cited Dieter, Richard. Views on The Death Penalty in the United States. Choice Reviews Online, 07 Oct. 2007. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Gerber, Rudolph J., and John M. Johnson. Top Ten Death Penalty Myths : The Politics Of Crime Control . Westport, Conn: Greenwood Publishing Group, 2007. Collection (EBSCOhost) . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. States With and Without the Death  With and Without the Death Penalty Death Penalty Information Center . N.p., 9 Nov. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Capital Punishment Civil Liberties Union . ACLU, 2015. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Top 10 Pros and Cons - Death Penalty -  the Death Penalty Be - - Allowed? N.p., 9 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Paul, Ron. defined: 50 essential issues that affect our freedom . New York: Grand Central Pub., 2010. Print.