Donovan 1 John Donovan Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102.023 3/12/17 Project 2: Intermediate Draft Since the days of sending our men and woman to battle began, more and more discoveries show how it can be a great struggle to try and readjust back into civilian life. Many men and woman who come back from war are at risk of developing PTSD or post-traumatic stress disorder. This is a condition that can persistently stress ones mental and emotional self due to being exposed to certain events that have caused psychological shock. Some results of having PTSD can be disturbed sleep, constant vivid recall of a traumatic experience, and dulled responses to others and the outside world (National). The PTSD Foundation of America is a non-profit organization dedicated to mentoring veterans and their families who suffer from PTSD. They believe it is our duty as Americans to help these warriors adjust to finding their new normal (Our Mission). To perform this duty, the PTSD foundation of America uses the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, and pathos by including specific color schemes and phrases in the images to help push for public support and awareness in the battle to beat post-traumatic stress disorder. The PTSD foundation of America includes ethos in both of the images selected to help further their fight against PTSD. Ethos is the common practice of trying to deliver a message by appealing to a ethics by having a credible messenger (YourDictionary). In the first image, ethos is visible in the manner that the name of this credible foundation is clearly displayed in the center of the image. By displaying their well-respected name right in the middle, they increase their overall credibility of their image. The same tactic is used in the Donovan 2 second image. They realize to appeal to ethos, their Foundations name should be placed front and center on the image. If these two images did not include the words Foundation of the viewer might not recognize how important these images are and will not seek to make a difference or seek to learn more about those suffering from this condition. Just like ethos, both images presented by the PTSD Foundation of America adequately display the rhetorical appeal of pathos to try and better their argument in the fight against PTSD. Pathos is an appeal to emotion, and is a way of convincing an audience of an argument by creating an emotional response (YourDictionary). Pathos can be seen specifically in the first image in the patriotic color scheme, along with the image of the shield to increase this patriotic look. This look of national-pride shows outsiders looking in that this is a American foundation and tries to increase their feel/obligation to learn and to help those who suffer from PTSD. The term patriot is not limited only to those who have served in the military. Many people in the civilian world are also patriots and will have feelings evoked by this American look the image has and will recognize that this can be their way of serving their country. In the second image, while they do not use patriotic colors, they include a star as another representation of the stars and stripes. They also use specific words to try and trigger a optimism to make them feel they can make a difference. They use the terms and which gives a feeling that no one is alone. Without the inclusion of these words, someone may look at the image and think this seems like a good cause, I cannot do anything to help fix this problem, I am only one This is the reason the developers of the image were sure to include specific attributes in the image that will appear to pathos. The PTSD Foundation of America strengthens their message and fight against PTSD by including the rhetorical appeal of logos in their images. The last rhetorical appeal used while Donovan 3 creating these images was logos. Logos is a rhetorical appeal that appeals to a logic to tries to convince them to do something through reasoning (YourDictionary). While the second image does not have any characteristics that are made to appeal to a logic, the first image does have one specific characteristic. This logical characteristic is the inclusion of the phrase hope and healing for the unseen wounds of This phrase provides a brief description of what PTSD in a way that everyone can understand. Everyone knows that war can cause many injuries to a human so its showing how this is a specific, unseen injury that cannot be looked past. It provides a statement assuring that by following up on this image, you can provide the hope and healing that these veterans need to overcome PTSD. This logical definition of PTSD and proof that you can truly make a difference is why this image can be considered using the logos appeal. Without the logical appeal this phrase gives, the viewer may feel lost on what PTSD is and what to do next to help heal anyone. PTSD is a traumatic issue in America. It is seen that almost 30% of veterans come home to suffer from PTSD (NIH MedlinePlus). This has led to an average of 20 veterans committing suicide each and every day (Times). That is why the PTSD foundation has been created to try and bring a voice to the problem. They have found great success in doing this through Images that can grab attention through the rhetorical appeals and can make a push for public support and awareness in the battle to beat post-traumatic stress disorder. Donovan 4 Donovan 5 Work Cited National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. NIH MedlinePlus the  Feature: Post Traumatic Stres Disorder PTSD: A Growing Epidemic / Neuroscience and PTSD Treatments. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Our  PTSD Foundation of America Combat Trauma Support Groups, Camp Hope Houston, Warrior Shield Fort Hood, Shield Radio. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Times, Military. New VA Study Finds 20 Veterans Commit Suicide Each  Military Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. YourDictionary. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and  YourDictionary. N.p., 21 June 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.