DeLisle 1 Lexi DeLisle Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 2.21.2017 The Non-GMO Project GMO, or genetically modified organism, is a plant, animal, microorganism or other organism whose genetic makeup has been modified using recombinant DNA (What is GMO). The use of has become a highly controversial issue with much debate on whether should be used or not. The Non-GMO Project is an organization that is to preserving and building sources of non-GMO products, educating consumers, and providing verified non-GMO (Mission). As the Non-GMO Project organization hopes to reach out to consumers and show their stance on why should not be used and the harm coming from them, they put out images to communicate their message to parents and those trying to build a healthier future for themselves. The Non-GMO Project conveys their message of the importance of non-GMO goods through advertising that uses emotion provoking wording, healthy and whole foods, and children that create a relationship between the image and the viewer. The first image of the girl holding the sign next to the cutting board appeals to elements of pathos, logos, and ethos and puts emphasis on the goal of persuading the public to go against the use of Pathos uses emotions and deep beliefs to draw the reader into the image (Docimo and Littlehale). By using words to portray the idea that GMO contaminated foods lead to cancer and unhealthy futures, it scares the reader and provokes unpleasant emotions DeLisle 2 of worry and concern. As the reader feels this sense of worry about their future and future medical problems they might have from eating GMO contaminated foods, the Non-GMO Project reaches their goal of informing the public on what can happen as they use and purchase foods containing these genetically modified organisms The image also uses logos to the impact pathos has on the (Docimo and Litthale). The image plays to the rational mindset of the viewer as they show that GMO processed foods are not and lead to unhealthy futures. Being rational is described as or exercising reason, sound judgement, or good (Dictionary.com). By seeing this image, a person will feel the need to eat the real, non- GMO foods, for the reason of a healthy future. The reasoning presented in this image is also supported through the use of ethos. Presenting themselves as a trustworthy, credible organization through the use of their official logo, a viewer feels like this organization understands what their message is regarding and is more likely to trust the reasons and feelings they portray in their advertisements. This logo represents the effort put in by this organization to showcase their knowledge and credibility as they are recognizable by their logo throughout the nation. This image from the Non- GMO Project creates an overall feeling of worry over an unhealthy future and trust in choosing non-GMO, whole, real foods. The second image from the Non-GMO Project presents elements of ethos, logos, and pathos through the use of a child sitting in healthy vegetables portraying their message of the good behind non-GMO use. This organization wants the viewer to feel confident in believing what is being said through the image and want the viewers trust, so the organization uses the appeal of ethos which the credibility of the speaker or (Docimo and Littlehale). Ethos is used in this image by presenting their official Non-GMO certified seal located on products along with their official website. By presenting this information and official seal, it portrays the DeLisle 3 fact that this organization understands the issue they are presenting images about. The website being listed on the image also gives the viewer a place to go online and see what exactly the organization is, what the Non- GMO Project has to say about and the organizations posted facts and research. A viewer will trust what message this image is getting across as they can see it coming from a trustworthy, credible source that allows them to see the research and facts for themselves. The image portrays a feeling of care and nurture as the viewer sees a joyful baby. By seeing such a happy, healthy baby, a viewer will want to keep this baby happy and healthy by feeding them the foods supported by this organization. These feelings created in the viewer are created through the use of pathos and then supported through the use of elements of logos. By appealing to the reasoning that depending on what we feed children, we could potentially harm or affect the lives of an innocent child, a viewer will reason with themselves that they should choose the non-GMO foods and buy foods with the non-GMO certified seal. A baby sitting joyfully in healthy, whole, non-GMO certified foods creates a sense of nurture in the viewer and reasoning for why they should buy the non-GMO foods. These two images are directed towards parents and people who want to create a healthier life for themselves. These audiences are reached through using the elements of ethos, logos, and pathos. Parents feel like these images and ideas can be trusted as this organization showcases their official and recognizable seal, website, and logo. Also, people wishing to create a healthier life for themselves will trust that this organization is steering them in the right way to create this improved life. Elements of pathos appeal to the parents as they feel nurturing towards the innocent child and feel like they need to create a healthy lifestyle for the child by choosing the non-GMO foods. The people working towards a healthier lifestyle will feel connected to the images and scared by the idea of cancer risks and health scares from choosing GMO DeLisle 4 contaminated foods. Pathos creates a strong emotion in the audiences viewing the images and draws them in to the message that the organization is getting across. These feelings are then supported in each viewer as the company uses elements of logos. Through the logic and reasoning portrayed by the organization, choices the viewer feels more confident in their product choices as they choose the non-GMO foods promoted by these advertisements. These two images depict the message the Non-GMO Project has of showing consumers why they should choose non-GMO foods. This organization has a goal of showing that the foods contaminated through the use of lead to unhealthy, concerning, and unsustainable futures. This goal is reached as the organization creates feelings in the viewer, creating a relationship to the image, and then supports the feelings presented by presenting rationality to why they should feel that way. The organization then has the viewer trust them and their message by providing their official logo and website to show that they understand the topic and message at hand. The Non-GMO Project successfully presents their message and goal to viewers and reaches each viewer emotionally, ethically, and logically. DeLisle 5 Advertisement 1 DeLisle 6 Advertisement 2 DeLisle 7 DeLisle 8 Works Cited The Non-GMO Project. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.  Dictionary.com Unabridged. Random House, Inc. 22 Feb. 2017. is Non- GMO Project. 2016. Web. 21 Feb. 2017.