Loos 1 Megan Loos Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 3/12/17 Animal Testing Animal testing is something that has been controversial for many years; people cannot seem to come to terms on if animals should be allowed rights or if they should just continue to be objects for the testing of products. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is one of the largest animal rights of more than 5 million people. They focus on animal abuse within the food industry, clothing trade, lab testing, and the entertainment industry. main goal is to policymakers and the public about animal abuse and promote kind treatment of About The two ads PETA uses to go against animal testing features two different nude with a bunny and one bloody and harmed. The ads also use animals, word choice, color and facts to pull their general to take a stand against animal testing. These three techniques and symbols help show different rhetoric techniques like the use of pathos which is the appeal to emotion, the use of ethos which is the appeal to ethics and logos which is the appeal to logic. Peta uses these techniques overall to draw their audience in, in the hopes that anyone will stand up to make a change for the suffering animals. In the first advertisement, the model Jessica-Jane Clement and the used to show different elements of pathos, ethos, and logos to help draw in target audience. The use of a celebrity would be an example of ethos because since she is well known and her name is written on the ad, it gives credibility. Jessica-Jane Clement is an English actress Loos 2 and popular model even states that she is sentimental about and that girls ask her about different cosmetics and which ones they should so she feels she is in a powerful position to let people know animal testing is not okay, especially for beauty products (Elisa). A lot of the younger generations and even some of the older generations look up to celebrities and want to be like them, so whoever looks up to her or sees her as beautiful might decide that they want to believe in whatever she does, in this case that would be standing against animal testing. It also lets the audience see that an important person to our society believes in the rights of animals, which helps to give credibility to the ad. The bunny in this ad would be an element of pathos; nobody wants to see a cute bunny being harmed. PETA uses this to force the audience to sympathize with the bunny and they name the bunny, Sammy, so that it gives it more human qualities and makes it more people friendly. A pet with a name is usually pet, so to imagine something so personal being abused makes the audience want to stand with PETA and stand for the rights of animals. The word is also an example of pathos because the word suffer always rubs wrongly on people. Nobody wants to suffer or wants to see someone else suffer so PETA uses this word to show to the audience that it is wrong to also force an animal to suffer for the sake of our beauty products. Continuing from that, the statement delay the EU cosmetics test would be an example of logos. This statement provides information to the audience that there is some sort of ban in the process and since they include the name of the ban this help people to search more about it if they agree with the ad. This ad also does not include what the EU ban is, they just say the name. This forces the audience to wonder what the ban is, which could possibly lead to the audience researching or asking about the ban, which would furthermore spread the word of the ban to get others to stand for rights. Loos 3 In the second ad, this portrays a much darker side of animal testing than the first because it shows the blood and the harm that can be caused physically to animals. The example of ethos is actually the same as the first though. The use of the celebrity Dave Navarro shows the audience that someone important within our society believes animal testing is wrong, and this can lead to others following in his footsteps. Dave Navarro is a guitarist and famous rock star who uses many products to fulfill his rocker look and body art. PETA actually uses numerous amounts of celebrities within their ads because people look up to them so much and want to be like them. The graphic use of the blood on his eye shows the brutal truth of what animal testing does. Animal testing does not just consist of a bunny wearing eyeshadow, it is much more painful and dark than that. PETA also includes the statement used for painful and deadly product tests are poisoned, blinded, and killed. Please choose only cruelty-free (Peta2). This statement would be an example of pathos because it informs the audience of what horrible things can happen to the animals during testing and leaves the audience feeling upset and sad that these actions happen. This statement could also be an example of logos to because it informs the audience of things that they maybe did not know were happening. The audience learns from this that the animals being tested on can be killed, poisoned and blinded just for the sake of our products; these facts might lead the audience to research more of what can happen to animals in detail and maybe even what they can do to make a change. For both ads the target audience would be the general public. PETA is searching for anyone and everyone who can help save the animals from the dangers of testing. job is to inform everyone of what is going on and to hope that everyone can donate or make a change. The ads focus attention towards kids by using the bunny which can easily catch a attention and the colors of blue and pink. The nakedness of the woman can also attract attention towards Loos 4 teenagers and adults because these age groups tend to be more hormonal. The darker ad is meant more for adults since it shows the more graphic and bloody side to animal testing. The darker ad with Dave Navarro also appeals more to adults because it includes the facts and reality of animal testing. It does not show just a cute bunny like the first would attract more kids. Even though the second ad is darker though, it can still attract kids because maybe the dark truth of it will hit kids harder since they sometimes tend to be more empathetic than adults. Kids and adults can all assist in some way as long they will take a stand and voice their opinion which is why both of these ads really focus on everyone. PETA believes that animals are in need of our help and should no longer receive the pain and suffering they do for the sake of our products. Both ads use celebrities, word choice, and some sort of sympathizing image to draw the general public in and inform them about the dangers of animal testing. Resulting from these ads, PETA hopes people will learn from them and continue to research and help until animals have completely earned their rights. Loos 5 Loos 6 Loos 7 Works Cited Peta. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Allen, Elisa. Clement: No Bunny Should Suffer for PetaUK. 2012. Web. 12 Mar. 2017 Fenwick, Annabel. Cruelty-free Cosmetics Daily Mail. 30 Jun. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Navarro: Stop Testing Cosmetics on Peta. Web. 12 Mar. 2017 Staff, Peta2. Navarro is Cruelty Peta2. PETA. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017