Magliola 1 Fiorenza Magliola Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 10 March 2017 #HeForShe Best known for her role in Harry Potter, Emma Watson is a firm believer in Human rights, specifically on rights. In fact, she has been a spokesperson for the HeforShe campaign started by UN Women in 2014 Our ). The HeForShe campaign supports both males and females who have been victims of any sexual discrimination. The first picture, depicting Rosie the Riveter, has a very powerful and feministic air to it and the other, it portrays Emma Watson, as one of the leaders of the campaign, in an empowering way which attracts the reader with her gaze. By examining the campaign images, one can see that the campaign uses many different kinds of appeals, such as pathos and ethos, to raise awareness of the importance of standing united and inspires the viewer to support the campaign. The first image refers to Rosie the  the iconic poster from 1943 to boost morale and promote feminism and other issues during that time. Even though this picture was not made directly by the campaign, it has the hashtag in bold and bright pink to draw attention to it. The women in the picture, like Rosie, is showing off her strength, but keeping a feminine look. This appeals to pathos because there are many stereotypes where women are supposed to be weak, but pretty. In this image, the woman is strong but still keeps a very feminine look. She is also wearing heart glasses, probably being a substitute to the bandana in the 1943 poster. Magliola 2 Besides the Rosie the  look, the image has written words that strengthen the idea of freedom of expression Everyone should feel free to  is written across the picture and ended with an exclamation mark to emphasize importance or urgency. This sentence uses pathos to get the reader to think about the importance of freedom of being oneself. Near the message, the illustrator signed their name and added the hashtag to refer to the campaign. This is a use of Ethos to secure credibility. The goal of this image is to get someone interested in the campaign, but also to inspire people, especially women, to be whoever they want no matter their gender. The intended audience would be anyone who has ever felt oppressed, male or female. This image does a good job using pathos and ethos to convey the message of the campaign in a clear and inspiring way. In this picture, they have a beautiful drawing of Emma Watson who is giving the impression of gazing at the viewer, and as previously mentioned, Emma Watson is a critical figure in the HeForShe campaign. Using pathos, this picture tries to deliver the feelings that Emma Watson has to the viewers. Her face does not show fear or sadness, but rather it gives a sense of empowerment, and that passes on to the viewer. Also, because of the words that are written on the back of her coat, it is almost like she is talking to the viewer. Across her jacket, the words communicate the inspiration and goals. The first line is: Feminism is not here to dictate  This is a reference to the idea that feminists are sometimes violent and uncivilized. This immediately gets the attention of the reader and appeals to pathos since the bold and underlined words imply certainty and strong emotions. The following sentences are, Feminism is not here to dictate to you. not prescriptive; not dogmatic. All we are here to do is give you a choice. If you want to run for President, you can. If Magliola 3 you wonderful,  This is one of the most important parts of the image because using pathos to build up emotion. These words rely on past experiences to create a sort of inspiration. Every person has felt, at one point or another, that they cannot do something. These words encourage the viewer that they can do anything they want no matter their gender. The next few lines make all the difference in the message that the picture is trying to convey. They are, Gender equality is your issue too. Both men and women should feel free to feel strong. All we are here to do is to give you a  These last few lines correctly represent the message that the campaign is trying to communicate. Here, the illustrator uses pathos and the word to make the picture connect with the viewer. It made it seem that the picture, or Emma Watson, talks to the audience. It is very potent because it makes it appear that the Emma Watson is talking directly to the public which makes a bigger impact than would without it. In the very far right corner, the HeForShe campaign symbol stands out. The symbol is both the female and the male gender symbols combined symbolizing standing together united and ...dynamic shape and strong contrast remind us possible when unique individuals stand together for the benefit of all Our  It is a powerful symbol that embodies the idea and goals of the campaign. In the image, it appeals to ethos as it is the logo. Overall, the picture relies on Emma look and empowering message on the back of the jacket to communicate a critical message of standing united. The campaign is intended for any woman or child and urging them to stand united. The use of the writing and the colors convey the importance of the situation and the urgency for change. The image does a good job conveying the message of the campaign. Magliola 4 Both images do a fantastic job communicating the messages of the campaign. The first one uses Rosie the  to describe freedom of being oneself without shame. It also sends a message of women empowerment. The second picture uses the Emma Watson, a well-known and leading spokesperson to spread a message of being whatever one wants to be without sexual discrimination. Both images use appeals of ethos and pathos to communicate a very powerful message, and they both do it beautifully. Magliola 5 Works Cited Condotta, Josephine. #HeForShe Be Strong Josephine  Condotta . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Our  HeforShe. UN Women , n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Our  HeforShe. UN Women , n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Magliola 6 Magliola 7