Sabek 1 Loren Sabek Adam Phillips ENC1102 11 March 2017 Guns: Forestall the Victimized Firearms are a fundamental part of the United history. In 1791, the Second Amendment was ratified to the constitution as right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be Later in 1871, The National Rifle Association was formed by Union Army veterans Colonel William C. Church and General George Wingate. For the most part, the NRA had focused on safety education, training, and shooting for recreation until 1977 -- the primary focus today is fighting for constitutional rights to own and use guns. For campaigning purposes, the NRA uses visual tactics to attract the attention on why guns are vital within our country. For example, the campaigns involve the usage of self-defense as something that requires a gun especially when it comes to a woman defending herself. Image A is captioned raise a in bold white followed by a woman practicing shooting in the background. Image B contains a blurred picture of a woman raped and beaten followed by a comparison of the estimated time it would have taken police to stop a rape versus the time it would have taken for the rapist to complete their task. Both images are supported by the National Rifle Association and support women defending themselves instead of being victims. This stakeholder communicates its perspective through visual rhetoric that represents the support of the Second freedom to own a firearm through images that convey pathos and logos. There are multiple rhetoric appeals within Image A, but the most influential is pathos. Sabek 2 Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that stimulates a strong emotional reaction from the audience. This image kindles a feeling of determination and strength especially for women. Women are normally looked upon as defenseless and unable to protect themselves in times of danger. This campaigning ad would provide women with the mentality that they can handle guns just as well as men can. According to the findings done by Harvard Injury Control Research Center to study American beliefs in relation to gun ownership, percent of American women own a gun. But nearly three times as many men own guns as women (Deprang, Emily. and The fact that such a large gender gap regarding the ownership of guns is staggering. It is this way because in proportion to the studies previously mentioned it was also exceptionally rare for a woman to need to use a gun to protect herself. Since the targeted audience are women, they would be inspired by another female practicing the usage of a gun, especially with the text in large white bold letters saying raise a Following along the lines of pathos promoting an eruption of emotional reaction from the first image, image B is very effective in arousing anger and exasperation. There has been an increase in the rise of popular consciousness regarding rape. The idea of rape has brought millions together in union to prevent it from occurring at all costs. Not only would this image be supported by the National Rifle Association but also feminist groups, victims of rape and domestic abuse, and much more. Corresponding to a study done to examine the cause of shootings, a majority were found to be in the name of self-defense. confronted with an armed assailant, you prefer to have a gun, too? This argument is supported, in some cases, by real-life evidence. In some cases, a good guy with a gun has indeed stopped a bad guy with a (Hallman, Ben. Why The NRA Is Winning The Gun In image B, the face is blurred out but there is a major focus on the eyes. This adds to the effect pathos Sabek 3 has on the image because eyes seek out emotions. The gruesome bloodied eye and the smudged dark eye makeup raises multiple questions as to what happened to her and evokes a feeling of anger. Below this illustration a presentation of what the police estimated time of arrival would have been, which is 10 minutes after the rapist had finished. In a smaller print, it says get 10 minutes to Women are beginning to see the importance of guns and the right to defend themselves when it comes to situations like the one shown in Image B. Both images revoke the idea of women being victimized using pathos to reach their sentimental values. Another rhetorical appeal within these campaign ads is logos which clarifies an argument as well as the evidence of logic and reasoning for the audience. Image A provides a straight- forward presentation where the determination and focus on her shooting in the image goes hand-in-and with the text, prevailing that she will not be a victim. Plenty of women as well as men today care deeply about their Second Amendment rights and willing to give up the freedom to their constitutional rights for a government that works in spite of the people. Recently, women have taken action and 18 percent of the general population of women have become more interested in owning a gun in the last five years. a very good chance your next target will be armed, trained, and ready to exercise her right to choose her life over warns Dana Loesch, a conservative talk-show host and longtime NRA proponent. This would create a logical argument and have the audience thinking, why risk being victimized when one could defend themselves by keeping a gun around. In addition to this perspective, image B presents a strong argument by providing the comparison between the estimated time take the police to arrive and stop the rape and the time take the rapist to be done. The overcoming of rape culture today generates a sense of tension and anger around this image since rape is now Sabek 4 more than ever being perceived as brutal and wrong.. The flow of the argument continues further below to a fine print that says National Rifle Association believes in the rights of self- defense and if you do too, please support us by becoming a Not only has the image provided logical reasoning as to why self-defense is crucial and the consequences of having to wait for the aid of others, but also information on why joining the organization would make a difference. Although these images were introduced to serve individual purposes, both persuade the audience that women can prevent persecution by arming themselves using the rhetoric appeals logos and pathos. Image A does so by giving women confidence in carrying and practicing using a firearm, and image B presents a female who was a victim of a crime she could have solely prevented. Defending oneself when in a life-threatening situation should be main priority. Especially when it is the right of every person to carry firearms to protect and shield themselves to possible threats or attacks by any person, group, or even by its own government -- an argument depicted itself through the works of logos. Protecting oneself is a main proponent of the National Rifle beliefs. When seen from a different perspective, such as guns preventing rape or empowering a woman to defend herself, firearms can have a completely different and much more positive connotation. Sabek 5 Works Cited Landsbaum, Claire. Ad Claims Is Owning a The Cut. 13 July 2016. National Rifle Association brief history of the Deprang, Emily. and Maire Claire, Hearst Communications, 2017. Hallman, Ben. Why The NRA Is Winning The Gun The Huffington Post, 14 February 2017. The U.S Constitutional Bill of Rights: The Second Amendment