1 Daniel Harley Campbell English Composition II 13 February, 2017 Electrical power over the past few decades have turned more into an essential resource for the community rather than a business good to provide. Because of this dependence on electrical energy, some organizations are trying to generate their power as efficiently as possible, but only a few are accepting their responsibility to also keep the Earth healthy as they produce more energy. Shell, though a top global energy provider that mostly processes natural gas and other fossil fuels, recognizes its capabilities and contributions to better the Earth and lessen pollution. From this, Shell often advertises their plan for a more efficient and greener energized future, like in Image 1 and Image 2. In the first advertisement, the use of size comparisons to relate the CO2 figures with a real-life setting is an example of how Shell begins to use rhetorical devices such as Logos and Kairos. In the second advertisement, Shell then uses more rhetorical devices, like Ethos and Pathos, by depicting a and future once the audience joins and develops with Shell. From this, Shell, a global energy provider, is using both of these advertisements to persuade their audience of energy consumers using Pathos, Ethos, Logos, and Kairos to have them act now to further educate themselves on this issue of greener energy and to then join Shell in its actions towards a better future. In contrast with previous decades, average Americans are not only using more electricity, but are also becoming more economically and environmentally aware as to how the almost 2 30000 Wh of electricity they consume per day is being generated (U.S. Energy Information Administration). With this, it is understandable why many of these electrical energy providers focus on their production efficiency so that they can keep up and continue profiting from this increasing demand. But the methods in which the companies pursue their goals in increasing production are where some consumers are swayed to instead use another energy services. As 97% of climate scientists, who are actively publishing research on climate fluctuations, report that climate change is not only man-made but should also be addressed as a global crisis, many energy consumers are persuaded against using energy that does not help to better our planet away from fatale pollutants produced from power plants (Tenenbaum, Laura). Shell recognizes this correlation between consumers and the promise of a future, which they then use to their advantage with advertisements for new customers. As the analysis continues into both of the images presented, this dream of a better future is a recurring theme to entice the audience to join and use Shell energy. The main subject in the first advertisement, and the one the grabs the most attention, is the big red ball. But why is this image so eye catching? And what does it serve in support of the purpose for Shell? Along with the use of Ethos in logo/motto appearing in the bottom right corner, it is used again with the color of the ball. Red is one of brand colors and, with Ethos, establishes a connection between all of the wonders the red ball encapsulates and the company Shell. These wonders can then be answered when the audience continues down a trail of Kairos. As the audience begins to read the few text on the ad for more information on the red ball, it ends with Find out how Shell plans to capture CO2 at  and a link for people to follow. This language urges the audience, now captivated by the astonishing 3 and questionable visuals of the red ball, to follow the link for answers for this ad. If they go now with the timely quews of Kairos, the audience would never know why or what Shell will do. Another reason why this advertisement is so eye catching is because of the shock value presented by the size comparison between the red ball and the town square it is in. As suggested in the text, the red ball illustrates, based on sheer volume, how much CO2 could potentially be captured by Shell every hour. This technique plays along with Logos. It is hard to inform an audience on the true scale of which research has calculated to be the impact of CO2 build up since the average person does not think in terms of large measurements in their day to day life. So this ad uses Logos to illustrates the large volume of CO2 to a comprehensible ball that can then be contrasted to the size of other figures that people are more familiar with in their day to day lives. Once this size comparison is experienced, Pathos comes in by the astonishment of the truth. This eye popping, jaw dropping, curiosity enticing image excites and may even wake up the audience to become more interested as to what Shell has to say with this advertisement. This ending purpose is also very similar to that of second image. second advertisement is a little more metaphorical than the first, which focused more on researched size comparisons. Instead, it illustrates a simple landscape with eco-friendly energy sources. Playing onto Ethos again, the logo and motto are presented to build credibility for itself. Yet as the audience begins understanding the connection to the text, use of Logos then presents itself. The mentioned is depicted by the solar panels on the field and wind turbines in the sky since no other energy generating mechanisms are shown (although the word being included does hint at the fact the these greener energy sources would be used along side exciting natural gas processes). This is 4 supported through Logos because, in 2015, electricity generated by wind energy avoided 132 million metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2), which is the equivalent of reducing power-sector CO2 emissions by 6% while avoiding the consumption of over 73 billion gallons of water (U.S. Wind Industry Fourth Quarter 2016 Market Report). The text also provides more Logos as it creates a general causality that will result in results. But the results that are desired can, as the ad continues, only be fulfilled with commitment. By saying Shell is committed to creating a brighter energy future for  Shell is using Ethos techniques when they address themselves as the one you need to depend on for energy and assurance that everything will be okay because you are now with them. This feeling of security with the audience joining the choice of energy providers is continued with use of Pathos by relating the text  to being  and therefore making the customers feel proud to have a  resource with Shell. All these shifts of perspective from the use of rhetorical devices pushes the audience to think more of the future the further they understand the ad. More so than the first advertisement, this image uses Kairos to persuade the action in the present to alline more with what is in the ad and their goals for a future, therefore presenting Shell as a way now to better yourself in the future. Though Shell is a major energy provider around the word and prides itself most from its innovation in generating energy from natural gas, both of these advertisements suggest that they are now going to to advancing their ways more towards greener energy sources (Transforming natural gas). As supported with the first analysis in use of Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos; this stakeholder recognizes its capabilities to combating the issue of pollution due to the production of electricity. The second image was then broken down into its rhetorical 5 devices to support the greater contributions Shell plans to make in creating a brighter future for its community. All together, both ads were used to persuade the audience of energy consumers with Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos to have them act now to join Shell so that they can further educate themselves on this issue of the need for greener energy and to create a better future for all. Word: 1357 6 Work Cited 1. U.S. Energy Information Administration. Independent Statistics & Analysis, 18 October. 2016, , Accessed: 25 February, 2017. 2. Tenenbaum, Laura. consensus: climate is warming. Earth Science Communications Team, 28 January. . Accessed: 25 February, 2017 3. Wind Industry Fourth Quarter 2016 Market American Wind Energy Association. N. 11, 2017. . Accessed: 25 February, 2017 4. Transforming natural gas . Shell, 2016, . Accessed January 29, 2017. 7 Image 1: Image 2: