Grajales 1 Angelica Grajales ENC 1102 Professor Hernandez March 15, 2017 Disease There are more than 5 million Americans living with disease. This disease the sixth most common cause of death in the United (Newswire). Millions of people are suffering from this disease and do much about it but thankfully most of them have support from their families and people who love them. There are people who suffer from the disease and do not have any support group. There are many organizations that provide services to families dealing with the disease to better help them cope; one of those organizations is the Foundation of America (AFA). The AFA is an organization that helps the people dealing with the disease and help their families. The mission of the AFA is provide optimal care and services to individuals confronting dementia, and to their caregivers and families through their member organizations dedicated to improving quality of Foundation of America ). The advertisements used by the organization use the rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos in order to ensure people that they are there to provide the best care and support the families going through this difficult time and give the patients the proper treatment they deserve. The AFA wants to prove to their audience that they truly care about every single one of their patients. They do that by appealing to pathos in their advertisements. Pathos is the way an image evokes emotion and the first image does this in an effective way. The first image provides Grajales 2 the option to donate and shows a heart with the logo from the organization and two hands cupped together are holding that heart. By having option to donate and using the hands holding the heart it shows the organization cares for the wellbeing and will do what they can to give their patients the best care possible. Having color in an image is a powerful tool because it can change the mood and finding the right color is key to having the audience interpret the image how the organization wants them too (Kaminska). The first image uses the color teal in the background to be sympathetic towards the audience and Alzheimer patients because teal is the universal color for It proves that they understand the meaning of and want to help. Image two provides a figure of a head with the words trying to hovering over the brain. Having the words rearranged around the image is referred to as typography which is great for enhancing a theme and demonstrating emotions (Schneider). By using that specific typography in that particular way, it shows one of the depressing effects of which is the person seem to remember anything, their thoughts are not in their head. The text, together with the head exemplifies the effect the disease has on the brain and proves that the organization wants to help the people dealing with it. Both images provide the website at the bottom of the advertisement along with their logo which adds to their credibility. By providing the link they appeal to ethos, the credibility of information, and provide a way for the audience to search for further information and verification. In addition to providing the website image one also provides their toll-free hotline in case the audience wants to donate or gather more information. Also, the background of the image is in teal which is the color for and brings forth to light that the organization is all about treating thus improving their credibility. By providing this information the audience trust the organization and makes them seem more trustworthy. Grajales 3 Without logic and reasoning most organizations would not be able to grab the attention of their audience with their ads. Logic and reasoning is what is known as logos and the AFA implements this appeal into their advertisements. The first image displays three words big and bold in red which directly grabs the attention of the audience and makes it easier and more logical to them. It displays the key words care, which is exemplifying what the AFA is all about. They research or help patients without funds and donations help fund their toll-free helpline with counseling and resources. Having these words in red can represent the color of a heart, by using colorful and artistic text they are evoking a great advertisement tool and catching the attention of their audience thus showing logic (Schneider). The second image is just as logical. The image provides a head as the center and focus of the ad, there is no face just an outline of a head and surrounding the head are a bunch of words, sentences, and phrases all clustered together and the main point is the sentence trying to hovering right over where the brain should be. In the disease brain cells are degenerating and dying, destroying memory and other important mental functions. Therefore, having thoughts clustered together and trying to remember certain things is the main effect of disease thus proving the ad to be logical to the audience. As previously stated is the sixth most common cause of death and unfortunately this deadly disease has no cure. Overtime people with the disease lose their memory more and more and makes it harder for them to communicate with others, thus limiting the time families have with each other. This aspect of time refers to the rhetorical appeal Kairos which both images use very well. Image one provides information to donate which refers to the fact that the more research they can do, the faster they might be able to gain new information about the disease and be able to help patients more quickly. The second image provides different Grajales 4 thoughts and phrases which resembles the fact that the disease causes you to have confused thoughts and proves that the more time that goes by, the more they tend to forget. disease is not something to just brush off the shoulder, it is a serious illness that effects a lot of people. Because there is no cure, people who have the disease are forced to suffer through the mental and physical pain, as well as their families. A person that they once knew who had so much joy can barely remember who they are now. For that reason, the AFA is there to give the proper care to these patients and give them the proper treatment as well as helping the families cope and making them more aware of By providing advertisements that use the appeals pathos, logos, ethos, and Kairos, the AFA is able to effectively persuade their audience that they are an organization that cares. Grajales 5 Image 1 Image 2 Grajales 6 Works Cited Foundation of America . n.d. 29 January 2017. Kaminska, Paula. Blur Group. 14 october 2014. 24 february 2017. NEWSWIRE, GLOBE. Landmarks Around the World Turn Teal for Awareness. n.d. 29 January 2017. Schneider, Erika. Outbrain. 16 September 2014. 24 february 2017.