Taylor 1 Reef Taylor ENC 1102 Ms. Allison 16 March 2017 REEF-torical Appeals Reef Environmental Education Foundation (REEF) is a grass-roots organization that seeks to conserve marine ecosystems by educating, enlisting and enabling divers and other marine enthusiasts to become active ocean stewards and citizen  (REEF.org). Their main goal is to raise awareness about local issues that threaten the marine ecosystem through education. Throughout their entire website are images promoting donations and classes one can take part in to learn more about marine ecosystems in state waters. One of which pertains to the invasive Lionfish species that has been found to desecrate local waterways and threaten the survival of nearby fisheries. In the image, the REEF announces there is an upcoming class to hear about the invasion from a world-renowned expert, Dr. Stephanie Green (REEF.org). However, the meetings are not free, and the organization must pay for the classes as well as research projects that are conducted. To continue working towards the REEF mission REEF request donations and sponsorships depicted by posters and flyers. One of the more recent flyers portrays a group of kids on a field trip with REEF and contained a bold font overlay expressing Donate, Protect and  Through images like these the REEF organization is able to promote their cause to educate and protect by demonstrating the rhetorical appeals with-in each image in order to gain the attention of those who would not normally invest in a matter such as a Lionfish invasion (Lionfish Information and Resources). Taylor 2 The first image found on the REEF website shows a Lionfish on a dark red background with a sidebar containing information about the time, place, topic, and keynote speaker that will be at the meeting. Lionfish are an invasive species that REEF works to remove from waterways due to their detrimental eating habits (Lionfish Information and Resources). REEF is more likely to gain viewers and attendees to the meeting where Dr. Green will be speaking if REEF includes rhetorical appeals in the promotional items such as flyers. The flyer lets the reader know when and where the meeting will take place for the guest speaker to educate the public on issues concerning the lionfish invasion. Giving information about ethos the viewer can see that REEF is a reputable organization and that the meeting will contain credible information about the lionfish invasion in Florida. The photo of the lionfish also contains the name so that readers see that REEF knows who the photographer is instead of just adding a Google photo to a flyer and not giving valid credit where credit is due. Lionfish are a very dangerous creature with barbs that can inflict a very painful response if they penetrate the skin. However many people may not know that nor understand that the lionfish is invasive. But the visual of the fish most commonly will invoke a pathos like response of fear and anger with the vibrant red black and white coloring that has shown to promote anger and fear responses from viewers (Hemphill 270). Also, the body of the lionfish is covered in sharp barbs with horns on its head that resemble the devil. The name lion-fish and the resemblance to the devil most commonly will also promote a distaste towards the creature and inherently will bring more attendees to the meeting. At the meeting, one may learn more about the habits of the species, ways in which they can be controlled, and the plan Florida has in moving forward with these intruders (Hemphill 265). Although this meeting does not take place whenever someone would like to attend, there is a specific time and place where Dr. Green will Taylor 3 be giving the speech with REEF, and by including Kairos on the flyer, the organization motivates viewers to attend and to participate during a time where they will gain valuable information. When all three of these aspects are taken into account, the viewers is more likely to see a logical connection between attending this meeting and understanding more about this species and REEF, since the species is new to this area and the invasion is only recently becoming a problem (Hines 1285). Another image found on the REEF website frames a group of young children on a boat holding the REEF.org logo flag. The image has an imprint of a slogan that states Donate, Protect &  along with another REEF.org logo depicted in the top left corner of the image. The image asks for donations to protect and inspire, and one would be more likely to donate to a cause when the marketing item contains rhetorical appeals. In this image, REEF uses ethos, pathos, and kairos in the image to higher energy there chances for donations from viewers. The image depicts the children on a boat, and with REEF being a marine based organization it would be the most logical thing to show children in a marine environment holding a flag of the organization. The holding of the flag in the image shows viewers that the children in the photo support REEF rather than being a random group of kids who may never have heard of REEF. And for those viewers that may have trouble reading the ruffled flag in the image, there is a digital logo included in the upper left-hand corner of the image. Viewers may experience a feeling of emotion when seeing the kids because children are also most commonly recognized as a symbol of innocence, hope, and the future of our civilization. And when depicted in an image that requests donations to protect and inspire the viewer is most likely guided to relate the slogan with protecting the marine environment and inspiring the children. Because the Children are viewed as the future and to save the future many believe in acting now, REEF can depict Kairos Taylor 4 and motivate viewers to donate sooner rather than later because of a feeling that time is running out for the salvation of the next generations environment (Hemphill 257). The REEF organization is comprised of fishermen, divers, and environmental conservationists who work together to improve marine ecosystem conditions by supporting research and educating those who have a direct impact on the marine environment in Florida (REEF.org). The organization strives to protect the marine ecosystem in Florida and ensure there is a future for the next generation. Through ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos REEF are able to increase odds that promotional items such as flyers and other images will be effective in their mission to raise awareness about environmental issues and conservation movements. Two images found on the REEF website depict rhetorical appeals with background colors, word fonts, credible images and credible people. By REEF using promotional items with rhetorical appeals, they are more likely to see viewers motivated to join the cause. The first image selected from the website used dates and times with emotional photos and credible sources to allow the reader a logical reason to attend the REEF meeting. The second image however used mainly pathos type responses with Kairos appeals to bring viewers to donate to REEF before the environment is so far destroyed that future generations will not know the same planet their parents knew. Booth images in fact demonstrated ethos by giving credible sources for all images and showing support for the REEF, allowing for viewers to see REEF as a trustworthy organization. Taylor 5 Work Cited: Lionfish Information and  Reef Environmental Education Foundation (REEF). N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. US Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Why are lionfish a threat to Atlantic Ocean  Why are lionfish a threat to Atlantic Ocean fish? N.p., 01 June 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Hines, Andrew, et al. Reconstructing the lionfish invasion: insights into Greater Caribbean  Journal of Biogeography 38.7 (2011): 1281-1293. Hemphill, Michael. A note on  The Journal of genetic psychology 157.3 (1996): 275-280.