Allyssa Baker Sarah Roth English Comp 1 March 26, 2017 How the conversation about social medias impact on elections has changed A whole world of information is now easily accessible at our fingertips. Whether we want to look at facts and statistics pertaining to our potential presidents or just look up funny president memes, the conversation about social medias presence in politics has changed in many ways over the years. People rely more on the internet to learn new information about candidates and policies than rely on television news. It has made a large impact in recent years on younger voters as well as becoming a platform that information is easily shared and obtained. The conversation has changed over recent years with how people share their political opinions on social media and how the public began using social media to learn and engage in discussions about the election. With all the positive, there is also a largely negative discussion based around the false information that becomes available. Investigating deeper the impact that social media has on elections and the access to information will shed light on both the positive and negative contributions it has made, as well as how it has influenced past elections compared to the most recent. As new technology, has been introduced over the years, we have created a space on the internet that those feel they can freely share information and opinions. Per the Praeger Handbook of Political Campaigning in the United States, campaigning for political elections emerged in 1996, and campaign websites were the dominant digital technology of As well as being utilized differently over the years been a largely used device in targeting specific audiences of voters. Over the past few decades it has starkly transitioned how people access their new and information. Instead of desk computers for families, people now have personal laptops. Allyssa Baker Sarah Roth English Comp 1 March 26, 2017 Not only has how we gain access to information changed but how much information is easily accessible at our fingertips. The conversation of technologies impact has changed over time by giving the candidates a voice in not only conventions and rallied they hold but as well as giving them a platform to speak directly to potential voters. This has changed the conversation in a positive way, a wide variety audience uses social media. Over the years as it grew in popularity we began to see its impact on elections, we saw candidates using their social media accounts to post about policies and events taking place, giving the people a direct line to all the happenings in an election. According to to Watch as the Digital Side of the U.S. Presidential Campaigns by Sophie- Charlotte Moatti year, candidates who have put mobile technology to good use have been able to save significant time and money getting in front of Explaining how the conversation has changed pertaining to the use of technology in elections. Technological advances are changing the way we voice our political opinion. From something that was almost taboo years ago, to now something that is often discussed on all social media platforms. It has changed the way we view and talk about politics. Michael Scherer with Time states to a Pew study, 14% of American adults used their cell phones in that year to tell others they had voted, and 12% of adults used phones to keep up with political As well as stating Obama campaign has deployed a new program, Quick Donate, that allows people to give repeat donations by simply sending the number of dollars by text The conversation of using tactics as such to reach a wider audience of voters has changed over time by being something considered more positive now, compared to earlier years when technology first began expanding. Allyssa Baker Sarah Roth English Comp 1 March 26, 2017 The topic of technologies impact and how the conversation pertaining to elections has changed is one that has been ongoing since the era of technology began. As Sunham Hong and Daniel Nadler begin to explain in The use of social media by 2012 presidential candidates and its impact on candidate salience, some early political observers argued that radio, newsreels, and television communications were transforming election campaigns, other early social scientists tended to downplay these Going on to show that this is a slightly differed in opinion topic. That it is not standard to one cause and effect but that as the technology expands and differs so will its effect on elections and science and politics. When discussing technology and the conversation over time it has had pertaining to elections it is an ever-changing conversation. As the world becomes more technologically advanced in the future we will see more changes on how it effects elections and how a candidacy may run. I think years from now we will see more social media impact of politics and elections than ever before, and that the conversation will continue to evolve and change. Allyssa Baker Sarah Roth English Comp 1 March 26, 2017 Citations Moatti, Sophie-Charlotte. 3 Things to Watch as the Digital Side of the U.S. Presidential Campaigns  Harvard Business Review. N.p., 15 July 2016. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Scherer, Michael. Elections Will Never Be The  Time. Time Inc., 27 Aug. 2012. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. ABC-CLIO. Prager Handbook of Political Campaigning in the United  William L. Benoit, Editor - Praeger. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Which candidates do the public discuss online in an election campaign?: The use of social media by 2012 presidential candidates and its impact on candidate  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017.