Graham 1 Jack E. Graham, III Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102.088S17 22 February 2017 U.S. Nuclear Power: One Step Closer to an Environmental Disaster The environment in the United States is in major trouble due to the effects of carbon emissions and rising population. As pointed out by Sergio Zubelzu, an electrical engineer and the mechanical engineering professor at the Nebrija University, import infrastructure services (gas, electricity and water, i.e.) necessaries for industrial production and household (Zubelzu and Alvarez). The statement is saying that for something as simple as filling a glass of water helps to contribute to carbon emissions. So, nuclear power came into the spotlight because it produces little carbon emissions while being able to provide energy to new Americans every day. There is a problem with nuclear power, however, that be overlooked and that there is a considerable risk to the environment. The risks of nuclear power are that if a nuclear meltdown were to occur, it can lead to mutations and death to an environment that will take years to be able to fully recover from. This is where the non-profit organization, Greenpeace-USA, comes in with the mission of creating a better environment in the United States for future generations to enjoy. They believe that nuclear power poses too high of a risk to the environment and that nuclear power simply needs to fizzle out of existence (Greenpeace-USA). After the environmental disasters that occurred after Chernobyl and Fukushima, it helps to reinforce the idea that nuclear power is too dangerous and risky for the Graham 2 environment. One of the goals for Greenpeace-USA is to go out to remind and inform the public about those risks and try to persuade them to stop supporting nuclear power in the United States. They endorse this idea by creating advertisements through the internet, using the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to be able to warn people about the risks of mutation and death associated with nuclear power. Ethos is the way in which the image tries to establish credibility for the organization. In both images, you see the symbol of used to show their support for the advertisement. Greenpeace has been around since 1971 and one of the things they are known for is the distribution of information to the public. They are known for finding credible and known information to better inform the public about the environment. Also, with each image they are presenting factual information about the risks of nuclear power. In the first image, they provide credibility in the fact that too much radiation absorbed can lead to possible mutations in the environment. In the second image, they provide credibility as well about a known fact that receiving large amounts of radiation can lead to death and affect generations of a family. Pathos is the way in which an image will try to elicit a certain emotional response to it. In both images Greenpeace-USA utilizes pathos well. In the first image, it depicts what looks like an ordinary stuffed bunny surrounded by the various shades of red, orange, and yellow. However, on a closer inspection of the image does one realize that the stuffed bunny is far from ordinary. Instead of the stuffed bunny having just two ears, it actually has four years. This image plays on multiple feelings that the audience can experience. With the varying shades of red, orange and yellow throughout the image, it may cause the audience too elicit the feeling of Graham 3 anger. The anger could be over the fact that because of nuclear power, something as innocent as a bunny can be affected from the radiation and mutate into something unnatural. The statement on the advertisement, and your children can get used to this, but you have also can play on the feeling of anger and to fight back to ensure that unnatural mutations to the environment occur due to nuclear power (Andone). The image of the mutated stuffed bunny could also elicit the feeling of sadness to the audience. This feeling of sadness may come from the audience thinking back on their own childhood and remember that a normal stuffed bunny is only supposed to have two ears on it. This helps to support goal about informing the public about the risk of mutation caused by nuclear power. In the second image, it may strike some audience a bit harder than the first image. In the second image, it depicts colorful Russian doll coffins placed next to each other on a gray background. The audience may also realize that the Russian doll coffins have the same flower in the center of the coffin, however, each coffin has a different flower closer to their face. This may lead the audience to realize this is supposed to represent the generations of one family. Where it starts at the grandparents and ends all the way down to the great-great grandchildren of the one family. With the colorful Russian doll coffins, they represent the deaths of those affected from the radiation of Chernobyl, which it may elicit the feelings of sorrow and grief. The sorrow and grief are for the loss of each beautiful life and generations affected from the effects of nuclear power. The statement of can also elicit the feelings of grief and sorrow as well (Padilla). The audience can think back on just how many lives were lost and will be lost due to the nuclear meltdown in Chernobyl. Approximately, about 62,500 lives will be lost over the next 70 years due to cancer, which was brought on from the effects of Graham 4 radiation at Chernobyl Then, with the monotone gray color for the entire picture, it may elicit the feeling of seriousness and focus as well. The seriousness and focus being on what happened at Chernobyl and what it did to the people. With the audience focused on what nuclear power can do, it may help deter the audience from supporting nuclear power. This helps to promote belief that nuclear power is just too dangerous for the environment and informing the public about it. Logos is the way an image tries to bring out logic or to present information to the audience. Greenpeace-USA uses this appeal very well to make the audience more aware of the risks in nuclear power in both images. In the first image, the information they are presenting the risk of mutations to the environment from nuclear power. It appeals to the audience to either remind or to inform the audience about the risk of mutation to the environment. Also, with their statement referring to the family, it presents the fact and the awareness that these mutations only affect the wildlife, but it will affect their families as well. As pointed out by Dr. Howard Weinberg, an environmental sciences and engineering professor at the University of North Carolina, unexpectedly high (sevenfold) increase in the number of new bands in CA (Weinberg). The author is saying that children, conceived from parents affected by the radiation from Chernobyl, were found to have their DNA mutated in comparison to normal children. It helps to reinforce the goal of Greenpeace-USA to inform the public about the risks of nuclear power. In the second image, the information that is presented is the possible long term effects, such as causing cancer and mutation, which will eventuality lead to death when dealing with nuclear power. The use of the Russian doll coffins helps to inform the audience that nuclear power will lead to the death of not just one person, but to an Graham 5 entire generation of a family. It may make the audience want to help and ensure that their family become wiped out by nuclear power. This helps to reinforce mission to warn and make aware to the public about the risks of nuclear power. Kairos is the images attempt to feel the effect of timeliness. Greenpeace-USA this well to engage the audience in both of their images too elicit the feeling of something has to be done. In the first image, with the statement and your children can get used to this, but you have (Andone), making a call to action towards the audience. This statement, paired with the image of the mutated bunny, can elicit the feeling of something has to be done now, to prevent the creation of mutated bunnies or the family from being affected by nuclear power by saying no to it. In the second image, with the simple statement of (Padilla), giving off a sense of something must be done now before this happens again. It draws on the audience to stop supporting nuclear power now to prevent further loss of life in the future. Both of these images aid in mission to better the environment by shutting down support for nuclear power. Jasmina Vujic, a professor at the University of California Berkley that holds a Ph.D. in nuclear science, points out that power is the only baseload electricity source that could effectively replace fossil-burning plants and help in reduction of global warming (Vujic, Antic, and Vukmirovic). Even though nuclear power does bring in good benefits, it poses a great risk to the environment. That is why Greenpeace-USA goes out and informs the public about the risks of mutation and death due to the effects of nuclear power. They want to ensure that there is a better and greener environment for generations to come without taking such a major risk to the environment. By creating advertisements using the rhetorical appeals of Graham 6 ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, Greenpeace-USA is being able to inform the public about the risks with nuclear power while being able to reduce the support for it. The advertisements produced by Greenpeace-USA may allow the U.S. to take one step away from an environmental disaster ever occurring. (word count: 1640) Graham 7 First Image: Graham 8 Second Image: Graham 9 Work Cited Andone, Virgiliu.  Coloribus.com. Greenpeace Anti-nuclear Campaign, Mar. 2009. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <https://www.coloribus.com/adsarchive/prints/anti- nuclearcampaign-bunny-13071455/>. Branka, et al. Chernobyl and Fukushima Nuclear Accidents: What Have We Learned and What Have We  Nuklearni akcidenti u i smo a Vojnosanitetski Pregled: Military Medical & Pharmaceutical Journal of Serbia, vol. 73, no. 5, May 2016, pp. 484-490. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2298/VSP160317061D.  Greenpeace USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Padilla, Manuel.  Coloribus.com. Greenpeace Anti-nuclear Campaign, Jan. 2002. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <https://www.coloribus.com/adsarchive/prints/anti-nuclear- campaign-matrioshkas-coffins-3789105/>. Vujic, Jasmina, Dragoljub P. Antic, and Zorka Vukmirovic. Environmental Impact And Cost Analysis Of Coal Versus Nuclear Power: The U.S.  Energy 1 (2012): 31. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Sept. 2016. Weinberg, H. Sh., et al. Very High Mutation Rate in Offspring of Chernobyl Accident Graham 10  Proceedings: Biological Sciences, no. 1471, 2001, p. 1001. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db= edsjsr&AN=edsjsr.3067526&site=eds-live. Zubelzu, Sergio1, sergio.zubelzu@upm.es, and Roberto2, ralvarez@nebrija.es A Simplified Method To Assess The Influence Of The Power Generation Mix In Urban Carbon  Energy 115.(2016): 875-887. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 22 Feb. 2017.