Weber 1 Olivia Weber Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 National College Athletic Association Images A major stakeholder among the world of college athletics is the National College Athletic Association(NCAA). The NCAA is the organization that sets all rules and regulations for college The Official Site of the The NCAA is here to protect college athletes. The NCAA has core values that all of their rules and regulations are based off of. These core values include things such as holding a high level of both integrity and sportsmanship, pursuing excellence in academics, and respect for The Official Site of the ). Their main goals are based upon the following topics, athletics experience, college academics experience, recruitment, health and well-being, time commitments and on-campus The NCAA uses images on their website to portray these values. By examining both images, we can see the use of diversity and unity by the NCAA to convey a message of achievement to student athletes. The first image from the NCAA portrays a line of faceless individuals all linking hands and several hoisting NCAA championship trophies. The overall goal of this image is to make the audience understand that no matter what gender, nationality or ethnicity you are, as a team everyone can come together and win. Along with this, the image is trying to portray a sense, that this is what the NCAA stands for. This image can become effective to the viewer because it can hold credibility. This appeal is called and Wiggs,18). This image is credible Weber 2 because six members in this picture are together raising the official NCAA championships trophies. This provides credibility because although the trophies do not have details on them and are not specified, they are very recognizable to many people in the sports world. This image can also appeal the emotions. This rhetoric appeal is called and Wiggs,20). The emotion that the audience could feel is unification. They can feel unified because everyone in the photo is holding hands and portraying themselves as a team. Unification can also be felt because in the picture there are many ethnicities and it can show the audience that no-one is left out or discriminated against creating a unified front. The last rhetoric appeal that this photo can appeal to is logos. Logos is the appeal to logic and tends to make the audience think about something in a new and Wiggs,21). This photo can do that because often times, an audience can think of a college sports team that is not diverse and only one type of person but this photo can show the audience and bring them a new perspective on that matter. They can now understand from this photo that among a winning team, there are many different nationalities and that together, they can win a championship. The intended audience of this image could be two groups of people. The first could be the students themselves. When students are in high school looking to pursue their future as a college athlete, many look at the website for further information. This image would then be seen by them and give them a sense that this could be a possibility for them, winning a trophy. On top of having a team that is diverse, inclusive and unified. The second possible audience could be these students parents. Often times, parents are also concerned about their future and does research to better understand the organization they will be apart of. When browsing the Weber 3 website, they will come upon this image. This image can then tell the parent that while their child is on the team, they will never be excluded. The second image is also found on the official NCAA website. The overall goal of this photo is to show the academic side of college athletes. This shows that students can work together to help each other to become the best students possible. This also shows the large emphasis on academics and not just sports. This image is also sending a message of diversity to its viewers. The students in the image are not just one gender or nationality, they are mixed to show a sense of diversity. This photo does have one aspect of credibility which is under the rhetorical appeal of and Wiggs,18). If you look closely in the corner of the photo, you see a backpack. On the front of this backpack is a school logo. This is credible because it is the official school logo along with the sport that athlete plays. This photo also plays to the emotions. This rhetorical appeal is and Wiggs,20). This image is supposed to evoke a happy emotion of the viewer. The audience is supposed to be happy because the athletes are diverse and the NCAA is therefore not limiting who they allow to play. Secondly, the audience is happy because the students are dedicated to their work and are helping each other. The last appeal that occurs in this image is logos. This appeal is supposed to give the audience new and Wiggs,21). This gives you the information that student athletes are not actually all about their sport but are also about their school work. The audience would then look at this photo and think to themselves that because of this one photo almost all student athletes are dedicated to their school work and also help each other when studying. Weber 4 The intended audience for this image could be several audiences. The first could the athletes themselves. When looking on the website the potential or current athletes could see that being an athlete is not just games or practices, it also can include studying with your fellow players. The next intended audience could be the parents looking for their children and understanding that their children will also be focuses on their education. The last potential audience could be the general public. The NCAA wants to portray to the public that their student athletes are not just athletes but also are hardworking students. The NCAA also often puts a large emphasis on education so by having this photo, that exact sentiment could be portrayed to the public. In conclusion, the NCAA has properly conveyed their message of diversity and achievement through these images. The first image does show by showing a triumphant, unified team of all nationalities winning championships together. The second images does so by showing diverse students studying together and giving the sense that together they can study and achieve. The organization has portrayed these images and emotions to the correct audiences and has delivered the correct emotions that they set out to portray. Image 1: Weber 5 Image 2: Weber 6 Weber 7 Work Cited Dthomas. NCAA GOALS  - The Official Site of the NCAA . N.p., 11 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Matters:Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text The Official Site of the  - The Official Site of the NCAA . N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. .