Shaw 1 Cassandra Shaw ENC 1102 Professor Hernandez 15 March 2017 Train a Dog Save a Warrior Train a Dog Save a Warrior (TADSAW) is an organization that trains medical service dogs for veterans who are suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Their mission is to train these dogs and give them to veterans and/or their families to improve their lives, free of charge. It takes them between fifteen to twenty-five weeks to train the service dogs. The first phase is all about training the dogs and teaching them the necessary skills needed to pass the AKC Canine Good Citizenship course. After that the dogs are taken to public dog friendly locations to train the dogs around people. Once the trainer is confident in the social abilities and progress, they then begin to train the dogs in public areas that are restricted to service dogs only. Image one is a picture of a human hand on rested on top of a paw with written in bold letters above. Beneath the hand and paw is the words Lives in bold and blue letters. Image two is a picture of a couple medical service dogs with a group of people wearing TADSAW shirts with a TADSAW banner in the background. Both of the images use trust, emotion, logic, and timelessness to demonstrate ethos, pathos, logos, karios, and the organizations mission statement of wanting to improve the quality of life for veterans suffering from PTSD. Shaw 2 Both of the Train a Dog Save a Warrior images have qualities that appeal to the viewers and make them want to believe in and trust this organization. The first image demonstrates ethos in multiple ways. One being the paw holding the hand because it demonstrates a bond has been formed between the two. Also, the image contains the words lives and this shows that this organization cares about veterans and their well-being. This image displays that there is a formed bond and loyalty between the veteran and the dog and gains the trust of the audience by displaying the consideration for veteran lives. Since the organization shows they care about veterans and the audience is seeing firsthand the bond between the service dogs and the veterans, it allows TADSAW to earn the trust of the audience and prove their credibility. The same goes for the second image of the veterans smiling with their dogs. The picture also has a TADSAW banner in the background displaying the same lives in bold blue letters. Basically, this picture is giving proof that the organization cares and has a desire to help veterans just as veterans have done their share helping others. Just like the first image this is motivating the viewers to trust and rely on the organization. In the first image of the dog and human, you can see the human is in uniform and has served our country/still is serving our country. With the uniform in the picture it makes it clear that this image is about a veteran that has possibly fought in a war. That is a strong idea that is being brought into the mind. Now the idea of war and what happens at war and the results and effects of war on the veteran. This immediately appeals to the emotions because now they are thinking about how this person served for the U.S.A. and what they may have been through. As well as, what they could be going through after the fact because of the effects the war could have had on them. All of this makes the viewers feel for the person in this picture and appeals to their emotions. Similarly, the second image is also demonstrating the love Shaw 3 between the service dog and veteran. The people in this image ae wearing TADSAW shirts and supporting the organization. This shows the audience that these people may have experienced traumatic events and may be suffering from PTSD and TADSAW could be the ones helping them overcome their struggles. Also, including the dogs in the picture appeals to peoples emotions. Both image one and two are able to make the audience actually feel the love that is being shown between the animals and humans in these pictures. While the first image may appeal to the feelings and gain their trust, there is not as much in the picture that is able to appeal to their logic and reasoning. However, the image does contain website where the viewer can then go read and learn more about the organization, including how they work and what their mission statement is. This allows the viewers to have a better understanding of how Train a Dog Save a Warrior works. Also, the picture has Live on the bottom, which is a strong statement because veterans have done so much for this country. suffering from PTSD have to deal with things like severe anxiety, fear, flashbacks, mistrust, insomnia and, emotional detachment. This a lot for veterans to deal with especially after everything they have sacrificed for this country. The second image appeals more to the logic and reasoning of the audience simply because the people are all wearing TADSAW shirts and cuddled up with dogs. Another key piece of this image is the banner in the background that contains their website. Both images are able to appeal to the logic and reasoning of the viewers because of the website being in the image and the portrayal of patriotism. Displaying the website allows the audience to take it into their own hands and do more research on the organization. Out of the two images representing the organization Train a Dog Save a Warrior, the first image does a really good job demonstrating the urgency of this matter. The image portrays love, Shaw 2 companionship, and trust between the human and animal. This proves that the quality of the veteran suffering from port-traumatic stress disorder has had the quality of their live improved because of the love and support this medical service dog has been able to bring to their lives. This image is also appeals to timelessness because it demonstrates the everlasting bond. Just like image one, the second image shows the bond between the people and their dogs. The relationship formed between them is timeless and everlasting and it is portrayed very well in both of these images. Both of the images represent the mission of the organization Train a Dog Save a Warrior. They display their support of veterans and appeal to the emotion with their use of dogs and the patriotism in the images. The images both have rhetorical appeal, they appeal in the same way and in different ways for others. Images one and two both demonstrate that the organization TADSAW can be trusted. Both of the images are also able to make the viewers feel something, like the love shared between the dog and the human. The first and second appeal to reasoning with their ability to show their support of veterans. Image one demonstrates both urgency and timelessness while image two demonstrates timelessness very effectively. Images one and two not only appeal to emotion and trust as well as effectively demonstrate the organizations mission statement of wanting to improve the quality of life for veterans suffering from PTSD. 1) Shaw 3 2) Work Cited Shaw 2  TADSAW. TADSAW, 2016. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Post-Traumatic Stress  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Post Traumatic Stress Disorder  Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) - Brain Injury Resource BrainLine.org. WETA, 2014. Web. 8 Feb. 2017.