Rodrigo Caldas Prof. Uddin ENC 1101 03/10/2017 1 P a g e Afghanistan War, to be continued? There is a United Nations Security Council political debate on how to proceed regarding the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan. The U.S. military sent troops in to Afghanistan before the 2003 Iraq War and stayed long after U.S. troops were withdrawn from Iraq. Most U.S. troops have withdrawn from Afghanistan; however, this was done without a complete resolution to the power struggle in the country. In assessing many sources, the discussion between scholars has shifted focus in time from the gruesome actions during the war to the positive impact of humanitarian aid during the war. In the early years of the Afghanistan war, scholars opposed the seemingly unending conflict. Many scholars demonstrated their opposition by shining a negative light on the actions of the government. Professor Ved Nanda from Evans University is one of these scholars. Professor Nanda attacks President George W. address to the country prior to the invasion of Iraq with his entry to the Denver Journal of International Law & Policy in 2004, titled and Preventive use of He isolates and emphasizes the terms the president uses, to the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, President George W. Bush had clearly stated the U.S. resolve to take preemptive and even preventive action, if (8) and Bush used the term but the essence of the address was that the United States would be ready to take preventive action, if (8). By bringing attention to the terms preventive action, meaning to take military action against offenders before they have the chance to act against the U.S., and preemptive action, meaning to take military action against offenders before they can complete a specific mission, Nanda tries to bring attention to the way things are handled in Afghanistan. Nanda uses the presidential address to focus public attention on the lengths the government is willing to go in fighting the war on terror and the lack of restriction of acceptable tactics used by the U.S. military in Afghanistan. Rodrigo Caldas 2 P a g e Scholars like Nanda are plentiful in the early years of the war on terror, they all have the same views and use the same events to show their discontent with the way the U.S. military is conducting themselves. Nanda highlights the biggest know offences committed in Afghanistan. continues over the U.S. executive, legislative, and judicial responses to the terrorist attacks of 9/11, and the U.S.-led military action in Afghanistan and then in Iraq. So too does the criticism of the treatment of detainees in Guantanamo Bay and the Abu Ghraib prison, the use of interrogation techniques, and the U.S. ambivalence regarding the application of international humanitarian law, especially the Geneva Conventions, and of international human rights law to those detained pursuant to the war on (15). With this passage, Nanda puts into question the U.S. actions to achieve justice for the terrorist attacks of 9/11. He lists the issues that have arisen from misconduct of U.S. military and lack of oversight from the U.S. government. Dr. David Forsythe from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln focuses on the same issues in his entry to the Journal of Human Rights in 2008, titled United States and International Humanitarian He states Guantanamo, by late 2002 harsh conditions and abusive interrogation were part of a conscious policy implemented by regular military personnel at a regular military (Forsythe 30). Dr. Forsythe uses the term to explicitly affirm that the U.S. military did not take the mentioned actions by accident. Dr. Forsythe continues with. police were instructed to the prisoners for military intelligence; the latter being instructed to use various abusive (30). Using these comments from actual military police and confidential intelligence sources, Dr. Forsythe demonstrates that the procedures the military personnel take came from specific orders as opposed to decisions they made of their own volition. In addition to the military shortcomings, Dr. Forsythe also analyses the part the CIA played in mistreatment of detainees. Dr. Forsythe asserts, spring 2002 the CIA began to hold another set of prisoners, presumably value in secret (30). The term value refers to suspects that may have Rodrigo Caldas 3 P a g e valuable information on the activities of terrorists, however, holding them in secret sites means that the CIA has complete autonomy on how to treat the detainees and what methods can be used to extract the desired information. He explains: evidence suggests that at least some of the perhaps one hundred detainees held from time to time in these black sites were subjected to exposure to extremes of heat and cold, sleep deprivation, and other forms of coercive interrogation . . . in both Afghanistan from late 2001 and Iraq from spring 2003, where one finds armed conflict and for a time occupation in the legal sense, again there is much circumstantial evidence of a pattern of harsh detention conditions and abusive interrogation in military and CIA (Forsythe 30). These actions taken by the U.S. military and CIA are greatly frowned upn by the general American public. Comparable to Professor Nanda, Dr. Forsythe also insists on listing specific examples of poor treatment of detainees to get the attention of the people. Dr. Forsythe comments Ghraib represented perfect of negative factors that combined to produce the equivalent of the My Lai violation of human rights and humanitarian standards so shocking that, when brought to public attention, it eventually helped to produce important (30). The My Lai massacre refers to the Vietnam war when U.S. soldiers executed over 500 unarmed civilians. By associating the two, Dr. Forsythe hopes to generate as big an outrage from the events of Abu Ghraib as the My Lai massacre had in hopes that it will also lead to drastic change in policy. Once the U.S. Government made the decision to withdraw troops from Afghanistan in 2011, the focus of scholars shifted completely away from highlighting the atrocities that occurred to emphasizing the humanitarian relief efforts and the aid provided to civilians on the ground in Afghanistan. NATO oversaw most humanitarian aid missions, so they also made it a point to publicize their accomplishments. NATO explicitly defines their involvement in the war, mission was to enable the Afghan authorities to provide effective security across the country and ensure that it would never again Rodrigo Caldas 4 P a g e be a safe haven for terrorists. [International Security Assistance ISAF helped build the capacity of the Afghan national security (1). Once the primary goal of ending the U.S. lead occupation of Afghanistan started, most scholars made a point of showing the silver lining of the events of the war on terror. Like many scholars, Mrs. Haysom and her research associate Mrs. Jackson jumped on the bandwagon with their entry to the Stability: International Journal of Security and Development, in 2013, titled International Journal of Security and They emphasize, affairs teams hired private contractors to execute the work, which included the construction of schools, clinics, wells, and other small projects intended to establish good relations with Afghans and collect (5). Good relation programs where ongoing throughout the war effort, however it only became news worthy after the U.S. government issued the withdrawal order. The rules of engagement in most areas of Afghanistan included criteria that began with minimal use of force, and cultural advisors were employed to map the origins and dynamics of local conflicts and help develop stabilization approaches, with limited use of force and only on the basis of concrete (Haysom and Jackson 5-6). These facts are ignored until it is popular to state them. Haysom continue s by relaying, part of a approach, derived in part from British strategy against communist insurgents in Malaya in the 1950s and adapted by the US in Iraq, civilian officials were meant to assist in the phase by supporting governance and service provision once areas had been of insurgents by the (9). Although the term is only the build part is focused on. Now the issues that come with the clear and the hold pieces of the strategy are almost to taboo to mention. This theme reserved for general scholars, NATO has its own website with articles written by world reporters that follow, if not lead, the movement of displaying all the good that came from the war on terror conducted in Afghanistan. On the NATO website in the article titled and the idea is reinforced, helped create a secure environment for improving governance and socio- Rodrigo Caldas 5 P a g e economic development, which are important conditions for sustainable (2). No longer is the force required in the process of creating a the only point of discussion. The article goes on with listing the accomplishments with a date stamp: 2002: The US military starts setting up Provincial Reconstruction Teams (PRTs) in Afghanistan first in Gardez, then Bamiyan, Kunduz, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kandahar and Herat to coordinate redevelopment with UN agencies and non-governmental organizations. Some of these PRTs are later taken over by NATO member and partner countries 1 January 2015: The Resolute Support Mission (RSM) is launched to continue to provide training, advice and assistance to the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces(ANDSF) (NATO 11). These types of events take center stage with the intent of softening the blow caused by the initial berating of military action throughout the war on terror in Afghanistan. A complete directional shift is evident across the timeline. In the initial years of the war against terror in Afghanistan, the American people were outraged and could not justify why the U.S. Government sent so many of their children to die in a foreign country. This is reflected in the works of scholars in that timeframe. The scrutiny was high and every tool was used to push the Government to bring American troops home. Once the government withdrew most troops from Afghanistan, the American people in general could not answer the question did we do in To answer this question, scholars focused on humanitarian aid. They listed some of the accomplishments of infrastructure and security measures employed to support the people of Afghanistan, these where called victories in the battle for hearts and However, if these are put on a scale to compare with all the lives lost in the process, was it worth it? Rodrigo Caldas 6 P a g e Works Cited Forsythe, David P. The United States And International Humanitarian  Journal Of Human Rights 7.1 (2008): 25-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Haysom, Simone, and Ashley Jackson. International Journal of Security and Stability: International Journal of Security and Development, 6 Aug. 2013, dx.doi.org/10.5334/sta.by. Accessed 10 Feb. 2017. Nanda, Ved P. Preemptive And Preventive Use Of Force, Collective Security, And Human  Denver Journal Of International Law & Policy 33.1 (2004): 7-15. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. and NATO, 13 Oct. 2016, Accessed 28 Feb. 2017.