Quirk 1 Travis Quirk Ms. Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Rhetorical Images on Gun Control One of the most active organizations on the issue of gun control is the National Rifle Association (NRA). The NRA wants to protect the second amendment rights of law abiding Americans. The second amendment reads A well-regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be  (U.S. Const. Am. 2). Everyone has heard the slogan: guns kill people, people kill people, and the NRA is a strong believer in this. One of the ways that the NRA convinces people to join their cause is with persuasive images. The NRA uses multiple applications of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in their images to convince people to join their cause, and protect the second amendment. The NRA is a pro-gun association that is devoted to firearms and hunting safety, to enhance marksmanship skills of those participating in the shooting sports, and to educate the general public about firearms in their historic, technological and artistic (NRA). The organization was first established in 1871 by Union veterans with the goal to promote and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific . After World War II the NRA changed its focus to the education, and training of the hunting community (NRA). While the organization is still not in favor of background checks for gun sales, they do not oppose it as much as they did in the past. They even gave support to a deal that would increase the penalties Quirk 2 for illegal gun sales, and trafficking. The NRA also support heavy penalties on instances of gun violence, but they take a strong stance on blaming the person not the weapon (Grant 1). The NRA like all other organizations is devoted to promoting their cause. They do this in many ways such as holding rallies, lobbying congress, and advertising. One of the methods the NRA uses in its attempts to gain support is by using persuasive imagery. These images come in a variety of forms often they are quoting the second amendment, promoting the idea that citizens need guns to protect themselves by posing questions (directly or indirectly), or praising politicians that are for their cause, or criticizing those who are against it. One of the images that the NRA produced indirectly poses a question, this image was taken from a YouTube video published by the NRA. The images is a picture of a door that is slightly cracked, and shows a blurred figure on the other side of it, who is presumably trying to come in the door. The image is dark to show that it is night. There are no lights on in the house, which would lead to the belief that people inside are sleeping. In large, bold text the message reads HAVE A RIGHT TO PROTECT YOUR This image indirectly asks the audience; would they do if someone broke into their home? Would they want a There are multiple rhetorical appeals used in this image. The most used appeal is that of pathos. Pathos is an appeal to the emotions of the audience. It is supposed to make the audience feel a certain way. The image is supposed to scare the audience. The darkness of the image is supposed to make the audience think of when they are sleeping, and that when they are sleeping they are basically helpless. No one likes to feel helpless. The blurriness of the assumed intruder is to show the audience that they know what could be on the other side of the door. Is it one unarmed man? Is it three? Is it a group of gang member carrying handguns? These feelings of Quirk 3 unknowing and helplessness both inspire fear in the audience, and the image offers that the solution to this fear is to get a gun. Another appeal found in this image is that of logos. Logos is an appeal to logic, and sensibility. The logos of this image is the text HAVE A RIGHT TO PROTECT YOUR This statement reminds the audience that they do have the constitutional right to bear arms, and protect their home. When this text is paired with the image it causes the audience to ask themselves, would they want a gun if someone were breaking into their home? This question is important because most people, even many people that are anti-gun probably would. These appeals to logic fit into the position because it is designed to make the audience think that they need a gun. The appeal of kairos is also present in this image. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness, or urgency. The picture is designed to make the audience panic. In the event of a break in time would be of the essence. It causes the audience to think of what they would do in the situation; would they want to wait for the police, or would they want the immediate protection that a gun can offer? This question of time is the application of kairos in this image. The last appeal found in this image is that of ethos. This is the appeal to credibility. The ethos of this image is that it is published by the NRA, and appears in a video published by them. This is important because the NRA is a well-established and credible organization, and if they attach themselves to an image then they attach their credibility as well. Another image produced by the NRA is the quote of the second amendment. The quote is in a frame that appears very old. The second amendment has an American flag to its right, and left, and the logo of the NRA under it. This images main purpose is to remind citizens that the second amendment is a constitutional right. This image uses the idea of patriotism, and the logic Quirk 4 of the constitution to convince people that they should own a gun because it is there right. This image, just like the aforementioned one, uses rhetorical appeals to promote their cause. One of the appeals used in this image is the appeal of ethos. The NRA proves their credibility by directly quoting the second amendment. This proves their credibility because the constitution is, after all, the law of the land. The NRA also lends its own credibility to the image by placing its logo under the second amendment. The appeal of pathos is also shown in this image. The image is supposed to make the audience feel patriotic. The American flags waving next to the second amendment, and the amendment itself inspire this patriotism. The amendment is used to remind people that we live in a free country, and that we have certain rights that cannot be infringed, and in fact these rights are the principles that the United States was founded on. The American flags waving brings forth the same patriotic feelings as the second amendment, being many people associate the American flag with freedom. Logos is an idea also present in this image. The second amendment is the only use of logos, its primary purpose is to simply remind the audience that it does exist, and it guarantees the freedom to own weapons. The logic is simply that citizens do actually have the right to own guns, and it is guaranteed by the constitution. The last appeal used is kairos. This appeal is seen in the frame around the outside of the image, along with the amendment itself. The frame looks very old. It looks this way to remind the audience how old the amendment actually is, and asks change it Both images use rhetorical appeals to convince the audience that they should own a gun. This promotes the cause because if more people own guns then more people will be willing to fight to preserve their right to own them. They aim to convince people to own guns by Quirk 5 promoting the idea that guns will make people, and their families safer with image one, and promoting the idea that people should own a gun because it is their constitutional right with image two. Overall these images do a great job at promoting the idea that people have the right to, and need to own a gun. Quirk 6 Work Cited Constitutional Topic: The Second  USConstitution.net. Accessed January 24, 2017 Grant, David. deal on background checks: Biggest gun control win The Christian Science Monitor. 10 April 2013. Accessed January 24, 2017. National Rifle Association. A Brief History of the NRA at the National Rifle Association, 2017, home.nra.org/about-the-nra. Accessed January 25, 2017 Quirk 7