Sharif 1 Mahir Muhtasim Sharif Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 26/2/2017 The Drinking Age Should it remain at 21 or be lowered? Nowadays drinking are like drugs. Many people in the world got easily addicted to it which is the major problem. However, taking small amounts of drinking is perfectly fine and in some cases, it healthy. On the other hand, drinking in large amount can caus e serious health problems and millions of people die every day. Although many people are against under 21 drinking, some people believe that drinking age should be lowered from 21 to 18 because 18year - old are considered as adults and they can make importan t decisions in their life. The stakeholder I want to talk about is MADD. It means Mothers Against Drunk Driving. MADD releases images to show their concerns about people who get drunk and drive. Using the rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos and kairos, the two images properly represents goals. MADD is a noncommercial organization which is in Canada and in United States. It was formed 36 years ago, in 1980. main objective is to prevent people driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs. Also, to help innocent people who become the victims in these deadly crimes. One of their major goal is to prevent underage drinking. MADD was heavily involved in certain aspects making sure people has less alcohol in their blood by making it limit to BAC .08 from BAC.010. MADD was in action to make 50 states in USA illegal to drive with Sharif 2 alcohol more than blood alcohol content 0.8 illegal and was successful in doing it. Furthermore, MADD also criticizes the video game Grand Theft Auto because gamers can dr ink and drive on that game. MADD said the game encourage the gamers to drunk drive and this is a serious problem. MADD also want to devices such as breath alcohol ignition interlock devices should be installed in all cars to reduce drunk driving. MADD also takes donations for the people who are the innocent victims of drunk driving and pay for their loss. Also, that proper actions are taken by the court for the criminals. Pathos focuses on value and believe of the audience. It shows empathy and emotion . Over here the pathos is lives, supporting which means they want to save lives of the people and to help the people who are innocent. Also, to support the people who are unfortunately becomes victim in an accident. This make the people s orry for the victims and makes them to stand with the organizations. Logos focus on the data to support claim and its message to the people. Over here the message to the people is on a proud past, focusing on a proud which shows people that that the organization is highly reputed and has a strong background. It also shows people that the organizations will make future and the future of the country bright. It will make people to work and to be interested in the company. Kairos foc uses on perfect timing and timeliness. The Kairos over here are the year dates such as to which shows the people the duration of the citizens against Sharif 3 impaired driving achieved by the organization. It also shows that for 27 years they are honori ng their project Red ribbon. So, its showing them achieve throughout the years. Making the people more confident about the company. Here is a MADD picture, which contains ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. Ethos which focuses on the trustworthiness of the speaker, reputations, experience, and credential. So over here the MADD logo is the ethos which shows the brand image of the MADD. It also helps the people to identify the organization. People whenever see this logo they will be more aware of the organiz ation and will have sense of trust. Some people will be caution to see this logo and will be more careful next time with alcohol and driving. The ethos in the picture is the MADD logo. There can be more ethos in here such as the some of the celebrities me ntioned in the right bottom corner picture. So, due to ethos the people will be interested to see the advertisement and some people will easily be convinced if it is their favorite celebrity. Logos is another important appeal here because MADD is all abo ut drunk drivers and it is trying to show the bad consequences of drunk drivers in the pictures mentioned above. There are some important messages written such as This small Sharif 4 phrase means that crashes are caused by drunk drivers so the logic here is to stop drunk people from driving. Kairos is the timeliness so here in the collage above all the history of MADD is mentioned how they formed and some of the tragic incidents happening. Thus, the timeliness here is the history of MA DD. Another Kairos here can be that drunk people driving are causing a lot of accidents so if drunk people are stopped from driving then accidents will reduce. So is another Kairos in here. The effectiveness of the images is great because the first image portrays the appeal very nicely and in easy language. It shows all the achievements of MADD in quick succession in different forms. The ethos is again the logo, logos are the logic of stopping the drunk people from driving and the Kairos is the ir timely achievement. Everything goes with their goals which is stopping drunk people from driving and responding appropriately against the people who do drugs and drive. MADD gives donations to the people who face bad fate in the accidents. In the second picture, it also shows the history of MADD in lot of small pictures and the whole picture is an example of Kairos. Ethos is again the logo. Logos is again stop people from drinking and driving as some of the picture shows the consequences of drunk drivers . The goals are again met as MADD wants to stop drunk people from driving. New laws are also pushed for organizations such as MADD. So overall both the images are very effective and shown in an easy way which can catch the eyes of the general people. In the end, MADD wants to make sure that no one under 21 can drink and they also want people to be more responsible and not cause loss of many people on accidents. They also have a moto to safe and Drive MADD achieved a lot of awards unti l now from past and Sharif 5 new laws are now also set for reckless driving. They also want to make sure that police are very strict and careful about all the drivers who maintain their speed limit. Zebra crossing should also be well watched or observed by al l drivers. Thus, MADD and both of its images are good examples and good message for people to stop driving when they are drunk and both the pictures have used the rhetorical appeals very well. Thus, drink safe and drive safe and let MADD fulfill all its d uties and make the world more safe and secure. Sharif 6 Work Cites 1. MADD. against drunk Wikipedia . Date Accessed 26 th February 2017. 2.MAAD, https://scontent - mia1 - 1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t34.0 - . 12 th March 2017. 3.MAAD, http://www.madd.org/about - us/history/interactive - timeline.png . 12 th March 2017.