Ernst 1 Katie Ernst Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 12 March 2017 The National Collegiate Athletic Persuading Images The disputed topic of whether college athletes deserve to get compensated through their daily requirements have come up in conversations for the past several years. Since this debate is spoken about nationwide, organizations have prescribed different views on this controversial proposition to gain support from people to agree with them on their opinions. The National Collegiate Athletic Association considers that paying college athletes is unnecessary, since education should be their first priority in the college atmosphere and a scholarship is already consumed in their expenses to attend the school. main point is that some college students do not get that opportunity with those expenses and collegiate sports would be diminished if it was not for their education. Overall, the main goal is to come together and devote their time to try to give college athletes success throughout their whole life Additionally, The National Collegiate Association clearly represents their views about not paying college athletes through realistic images in the classroom to persuade their audience toward their opinion that education comes first. Through their mission statement and the controversies, they face within the topic of college athletes pay, The National Collegiate Athletic Association presents their opinion through rhetorical appeals in images to their audience. The particular audience for the images posted on their website comprise of athletes involved in college sports, staff of all universities in the country, and the public who are interested in this issue. To reassure this audience that the Ernst 2 views have value to the controversy, they state that their mission for the athletes is to them with the skills [they to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and throughout Photographs are displayed on their central website to promote rhetorical appeals on why educational factors should be the athletes prime priority, not the ultimate fight to receive a salary from their athletics. The public opposing views argue that the NCAA consumes all of the money that should be going to the athletes; however, money is distributed in more than a dozen ways, with more than 90 percent going to support NCAA schools and Overall, these two images depict what NCAA strongly believes in within the athletic and academic community in the college atmosphere. The first photograph shows a NCAA logo placed on the basketball to strengthen the credibility of the image to accomplish their goal of persuading the audience how essential education is. The placement of the ball presents that the student is involved in athletics at the college. The ultimate goal within this picture is to expose to its viewers that, even though athletes are required to practice and attend all sporting events with their team, education is more of a priority for the college athlete. Since the educational aspect is more imperative than the athletic facet of the college, this is where the NCAA determines that these athletes are not destined to collect money through athletics within their academic career. Furthermore, this image was taken so that the audience can trust it was created from the NCAA by placing their symbol on the basketball and positioning a student athlete in a classroom to emphasize the importance of an education. The emotion of this photograph creates a sense of stress, yet determination from the student athlete. The fact that the man is paying attention and engaging into the lecture symbolizes that the student genuinely cares about his education. This action supports the NCAA Ernst 3 since education is more of a priority to them than the athletic department. Even though this class may be challenging, considering the anatomy of the body on the poster, the student athlete still chose to attend class instead of voluntarily practicing basketball at his leisure. In essence, the aspects in this image make the public realize that education is superior to the sports athletes are incorporated in, making the athletes not eligible to obtain a salary from their sport. The way the NCAA applies logic into this image brings a realization to the eyes that athletes are still able to balance school work and sports without getting paid. This situation is interpreted through the student sitting at a desk with a basketball placed in front of him carefully listening to the professor. The logic behind this photograph the NCAA wants the audience to grasp is that education comes before participating in sports, notably since athletes must keep a high enough grade point average to maintain their scholarship received from the university. This image seems to develop assurance by making it credible through goal to advise to athletes the importance of education. According to the authors of Rhetoric Really Matters, is the way of establishing trust with his or her (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs 20). Credibility developed in the second image is entrenched with the NCAA sticker placed on the football helmet. This makes the picture trustworthy since they are advertising their symbol on a televised sport, and they are also a well-known institution in the sporting community promoted in the United States, hence the American flag sticker on the helmet. Within the second image, the NCAA seems to convey to the audience that the football player has a purposeful mindset toward his education and athletics. The fact that the man is wearing his uniform as well as his backpack presents that he is able to emotionally balance out his different lifestyles. Both of these appearances support the main goal: to guide and Ernst 4 aid all athletes in order to succeed on the playing field, but most importantly, the classroom. The way the player is facing away from the camera symbolizes that he is contemplating what his future will look like and where his athletic and academic career will take him. In the perspective, they value that education is more essential for the athlete, leading to the topic of college pay in which they completely disagree. Ultimately, the National Collegiate Athletic Association succeeds in developing similar messages in two photographs they provide for their viewers. The overall goal of these images was to make the audience realize that even though they care about their student athletes in both education and athletics, education is their number one priority for these students. Collegiate sports would not exist if it was not for the university integrating athletics, leading the NCAA to believe that college athletes pay is unnecessary with the scholarships they obtain already and also to comply fairness to all other students. All organizations involved in the college athlete system should consider the stance on college athletes pay and realize how much it would affect other undergraduates that would not get paid for their academic work. Ernst 5 Image #1: Ernst 6 Image #2: Ernst 7 Works Cited  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text.