Enix 1 David Enix ENC 1102 Casey Clague March 17 2017 Environment vs Profit Environmentalists, such as the members of The Ocean Cleanup, and the Plastic Manufactures Association are considered opposers, with little in common. The main goal of The Ocean Cleanup is to reduce the amount of plastic in the environment, focusing on our oceans. Their image (image 1) tries to bring attention to their project(s) and is a potential call for help. On the other hand, the main goal of the plastic industry is to grow their companies and maintain a positive relationship with their customers (Plastic Machinery Manufactures). Image 2, presented by the Plastic Manufactures Association, is used to spark unity in the community of plastic companies around the world. Image 1, representative of The Ocean Cleanup, uses ethos, pathos, and kairos to motivate the audience to get involved in Largest Cleanup in while Image 2, representative of the Plastic Manufacturers Association, uses pathos and ethos to put a positive message into the head. The Ocean Cleanup is an organization consisting of dedicated environmentalists that have the goal of substantially reducing the amount of plastic in our oceans. Their plan is to use huge objects that move with our currents to trap plastic debris in a net like structure. Image 1 is a picture of one of their nets in the ocean, catching plastic and concentrating it into one spot. The phrase Largest Cleanup in is front and center in their picture, making it the first thing noticed. There is no company logo on the image as this picture is from their website. Enix 2 Although there is no inclusion of company experts or a company logo on the image, the presence of their equipment and the huge collection of plastic sends the message that their projects are successful, an appeal to ethos. Showing the audience that their approach to ocean restoration is working gives the reader a sense of confidence when choosing to support their cause. The biggest appeal in this image, pathos, is easily noticed. Showing that plastic pollution is a problem by presenting a real life example triggers emotions. The inclusion of the ocean in their image is a big contributor to pathos. According to color theory, is the color of the sky and sea. It is often associated with depth and (Color Wheel Pro). Blue gives off a feeling of calmness, thus many people see the ocean as peaceful. The bulk of plastic in the image should spark an offended feeling in the audience. The centerpiece of this image is the phrase Largest Cleanup in Their use of white font contrasts the colored background and makes the phrase stand out above the rest of the image. Additionally, the use of capital letters lets the audience know that what they are saying is important. They want to draw the attention of the audience to this specific phrase because it reflects their mission, to clean up our oceans. This phrase is also an appeal to kairos because it motivates the audience to get involved and potentially become a part a history. The biggest fault of this image is its lack of appeal to logos. Many environmentalists are scientists and/or researchers, where statistics and data are important. The biggest goal of this image is to gather support for their cause, however no facts or data are shown to convince the audience that a real problem exists and how effective this organization is at solving it. Looking at this image alone, the reader can feel confused as the what to do next or how to get involved. An easy way to suppress this flaw would be to have the website printed on the image to inform the audience of where to go to find out more information. Enix 3 The Plastics Manufactures main goal is to promote the growth of the plastic industry while maintaining positive relations with the government. They plan to be catalyst for the whole plastics (Plastic Machinery Manufactures). They will do this by establishing an open relationship with the government, enabling them to discuss and resolve policy issues. Their image, (Image 2) shows a half-organized cluster of different colored and sized hands grouped together in the center. On the left side of the image is the phrase We in large, capital blue letters. On the right side of the image sits the multicolored company logo with the text Shape under it. The background of the image is plain white. When you first look at this image, your eyes are immediately drawn to the group of hands in the center. All of the hands are different colors and sizes when you compare them individually. However, when grouped, they form a visually pleasing cluster. This represents the that when people put their differences aside and unite under a common goal, the result is beautiful. The different sizes and colors represent the differences in the companies but do not take away from their importance. This illustration is an example of pathos as it provides a sense of unity and positivity between all the companies within the Plastic Manufactures Association. The second part of this image is the phrase We on the left. This phrase is in large font and capital letters, reflecting its importance. The letters are colored blue, symbolizing trust, loyalty, and truth (Color Wheel Pro). They want the reader to feel comfortable supporting their association, appealing to both pathos and ethos. The phase We promotes unity and positivity just like the group of hands. The third part of this image is the company logo followed by the company slogan on the right. Their logo uses bright colors to draw attention it. Their logo consists of people bonded together, another representation of the feeling of Enix 4 togetherness offered throughout the entire image. Following the logo, is the text Shape in red letters. Having the company logo on the image is an example of ethos, they are letting the audience know that they are a leader in the plastic industry. The white background contrasts all three parts of the image and makes them stand out. Being that the main goal of this image is to bring unity within the many companies of the plastic industry, the lack of logos and kairos is not a huge problem. The presence of statistics or data would not help facilitate a bond between people. Additionally, the Plastic Manufactures Organization is not pressed for time, therefore there is no need for a quick call to action through kairos. Overall, this image does a great job of delivering their message using powerful colors, statements, and illustrations. The Ocean Cleanup is an organization looking to counteract the destruction of our oceans. Plastic being the biggest offender, they are starting projects to gather and clean up the trash in our oceans. According to their website there is 5 trillion pieces of plastic that litter our oceans. Plastic accumulates in 5 big ocean garbage patches, the largest being between Hawaii and California. (The Ocean Cleanup). They are looking for support for their projects so they can complete the largest cleanup in history. On the other hand, the Plastic Manufactures Organization is concerned with the growth of the plastics industry while maintaining a positive relationship between people and plastic. Two images from their respective organizations were analyzed to find occurrences of all four rhetorical appeals. (Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos) In the end, both images relay their message well and accomplish their purposes. Enix 5 Works Cited Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Mar. 2017. Cleanup, Www.theoceancleanup.com The Ocean.  The Ocean Cleanup. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Plastic Machinery Manufacturers Association Of  Indian Manufacturers Directory India Plastic Directory Manufacturing Industry in India. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Mar. 2017.