Derik Ware Karen Hanson ENC 1102 12 March 2017 The Warmth of Nuclear Energy Nuclear energy a cleaner source for tomorrow. Nuclear energy is the path to a cleaner environment because it provides a massive amount of energy in a small amount of space. A single pellet of uranium is the equivalent to 1,780 pounds of coal and is the only non-fossil fuel that can produce energy no matter what the weather conditions are (FAQ). Nuclear power plants are also better than solar and wind farms because they take up around forty-five square miles, whereas the farms take up about 260 square miles almost six times more space (FAQ). Nuclear Energy Institute is a new stakeholder formed from four older companies coming together in 1994, to better promote the use of nuclear energy in the United States. Nuclear Energy Institute argues for the use of nuclear energy in the United States by talking with senators and announcing publicly benefits of nuclear energy (About NEI). Nuclear Energy Institute has images on their website that show their position even if the words and statistics were taken away. Both images use some overlapping appeals along with others, Nuclear Energy Institute uses these appeals to promote the use of nuclear energy. All four of the rhetorical appeals are at work in the images to preserve the position of the Nuclear Energy Institute and their stance on nuclear energy. The first image is a collage of pictures that depict time passing from past to present going from black and white to color looking from left to right. It also includes the four predecessor abbreviations along with Nuclear Energy Institute. One of the most obvious rhetorical appeals in this image is ethos. Ethos is often the use or Ware 2 so that the creator of the current source creates a backing or foundation on what he will build upon as the paper progresses (Sproat et al.). Through including the previous names gives on the collage it allows the viewer to feel that Nuclear Energy Institute is has a background in nuclear energy and are trusted in their opinions about nuclear energy. Another major factor with this image, is that the viewer can clearly see kairos by looking at the how the image moves from black and white into a color image. Kairos is normally used as a meaning for call to action or more succinctly and clearly identifies this concept for contemporary (Sproat et al.). As the viewer looks at the image it may not give a since of urgency, but rather improves the aspect of ethos in showing a time progression as the longstanding corporations merged into a newer stakeholder. The first image also shows pathos and ethos with the pictures of people displaying a reliable core group which builds trust with the viewer by suggesting longevity of the former companies. Pathos is an appeal to feeling and is often used to help the creator of the work grab the viewer/reader attention and provoking an emotion out of them (Lane 37). If they were to include more aspects of pathos, this would allow the viewer to better connect with the image. Such as placing images of progress instead of the founding companies in the background. Not only would this make the viewer feel better about nuclear energy but also would give the viewer to remember why the image is important. The second image on the other hand includes a vast amount of pathos and a decent amount of kairos, allowing the viewer to be immersed in a warm feeling of something new. Image two contains field of shrubs that are planted in rows and are a vibrant shade of green. The sky is slightly darker than a baby blue with brilliantly shaded clouds. This alone could be a breath-taking view but the artist goes even further and places a sun rise behind four cooling towers set in the distance. This combination of color give the viewer a warm inviting feeling of Ware 3 pathos while hinting at kairos as it is an undertone in the image implying a new age or era has begun or is on the horizon. It also implies that nuclear energy does not affect the environment the same way a coal plant or other fossil fuel would. However, this image is missing some key elements in order to fully reach the message of what Nuclear Energy Institute wants to convey. Like a quote giving a logical argument towards nuclear energy. If Nuclear Energy Institute wanted to appeal towards animal sympathizers, they could possibly change the scenery to by a river and include wildlife in the combined images. At the very least they could include a deer, birds, or similar wildlife seen in nature. Including this would increase their backing from animal supporters. Although these images can be improved upon, the state that they are in gives a rise to strong feelings in pathos trusting the stakeholders background which involves ethos, and both causes the view to look at the past and future which applies to kairos. After looking at both images and looking at what they have in detail. The main thing that is missing from both images is a piece of logos. Logos is nothing more than an appeal to logic or reason (Lane 32). If this element where to be included in either image it would greatly increase the appeal to a business minded person or someone who prefers statistics over an image. This would have the greatest effect if it was placed one image two since it has no words overlaid on the image. Overall it can be said that the images convey what Nuclear Energy Institute stands for without having the stakeholder directly say what they want about the topic. It can be hypothesized that because they wanted to avoid out right saying their point is why they chose to not include a logos appeal in either image. Allowing the viewer to be subconsciously manipulated by the images making them have a kinder view towards nuclear energy. Ware 4 Works Cited Nuclear Energy Institute, www.nei.org/About-NEI/History. 20 Feb. 2017 About Nuclear Nuclear Energy Institute, www.nei.org/Knowledge-Center/FAQ- About-Nuclear-Energy. 5 March 2017 Lane Emily, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides. Eds. Allyson Hoffman, Kimber Wiggs, Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. (27-46). E- text Sproat Ethan, Dana Lynn Driscoll, Allen Brizee Owl Perdue owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/625/03/ 27 April 2012 Image 1 above Image 2 above