Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 5 March, 2017 Foster Cares Long-Term Impact Over Time Foster care has been a highly debated topic throughout the years. Whether it has a positive or negative impact on the children involved is one of the main topics. The research question was to find out what long-term effects foster care has on the children involved. Many sources and articles came up regarding this topic. In the earlier years there was a trend of a negative behavioral impact on the foster children. However, this trend has changed over time. More recent studies and articles show that foster care actually has a greater negative emotional impact on these children. While there are many other trends and changes regarding foster care this was the biggest shift. Through research it was found that this shift from behavioral to emotional impact happened somewhere between 2007 and 2011. Beginning with behavioral problems by Cherlyin Dance was written in 2001, this article talks about children who were placed in foster homes at late ages and how this affected them in the long run. The results showed that these types of children were more likely to have behavioral issues. Some surprising statistics that were concluded due to her research was that 38% of children age 5-11 in foster care had an unusual range for disruptive behavior but only 26% of children ages 5-11 who had been adopted by a permanent family had this abnormal range of disruptive behavior. The next article relates to study in that it stays with the perspective of behavioral issues. This article is Student 2 from 2007 and the research was conducted by Cassandra Simmel, this study showed children in foster care for long periods of time between 6-8 years incurred more behavioral issues due to being moved from home to home over this time period. Now moving into the more recent years, studies become focused on emotional problems instead of behavioral. The first article is by Sarah Miller in 2011 and this article showed that children placed in foster care due to their substance abuse lead to them being more prone to depression and severe emotional attachment to their foster parents. This then leads to long-term effects such as inability to be left alone and fear of abandonment. Then there was an article written by Elizabeth Lightfoot in 2016 this research showed that children placed in foster care due to a parental disability were more likely to have longer stays in foster care. Her study also found that if children had been placed in foster care due to a parental disability they had a 22% higher chance of having permanent parental custody revocation. This increased length in placement lead to a higher risk or emotional stress and trauma. These articles showed the change in thought processes among more recent studies to an emotional impact on foster children such as depression and anxiety. All of these articles have some similarities and also some differences throughout. The first two articles have a lot of similarities since they both describe a negative impact in behavior in children due to foster care. Also, the last two articles also have a lot in common they both describe the negative long-term emotional effect of foster care. A similarity between all the articles is that there is in fact a long-term negative impact on children placed in foster care whether it be behavioral or emotional. However, these article all contrast in many ways as well they all studied different types of foster care children. research was on children placed Student 3 in foster care at late ages, research studied children in foster care for extended periods of time. research was about children placed in a home due to parents with substance abuse and was on children placed in foster care due to parental dis ability. This also leads to another correlation the first two articles discussed behavioral issue and focused on children placed in homes in relation to their age or time being there. While the second two articles were about emotional issues and focused more on children who have been placed in foster care due to a parental issue, whether it be disability or substance abuse. To conclude, the conversation over time about foster care has been happening since the mid 19 th century. This conversation has brought up many issues and advantages within the foster care system. In the last couple years, the conversation topic of long-term effect on children in foster care has shifted from behavioral too emotional. This might be due to a change in children being observed from long-term staying children to children put in foster care due to parental issues and disabilities. Or it might just be due to a simple evolution in thought among researchers. Regardless of the reason the trend of thought about the long-term effects of foster care on children has shifted from behavioral to emotional negative effects and will probably continue to change in the years to come. Student 4 Works Cited Dance, Charilyn, The Adoption of Children from Public Care: A Prospective Study of Outcome in Journal of American Academy of child and adolescent psychiatry, October 2001, article. Simmel, Cassandra, and Protective Factors Contributing to the Longitudinal Psychosocial Well-Being of Adopted Foster Journal of emotional and behavioral disorders, July 2007, article. Miller, Sarah, Attachment in the Face of Systemic Disruption: Clinical Treatment with Children in Foster Care and the Adoption and Safe Families Smith College studies in social work, March 2011, page 26-80, article. Lightfoot, Elizabeth, experiences and outcomes of children in foster care who were removed because of a parental In children and services review, March 2016, article.