Whigham 1 Alexandria Whigham Bianca Hernandez Composition II 24 February 2017 Euthanasia and Rhetorical Appeals Freedom is the foundation in which America was built on. The freedom to practice any religion, the freedom to have relations with whomever you please, the freedom to choose what you do with your own body etc. In the controversial conversation on Euthanasia, this foundation of freedom is challenged. In most states in the U.S, and in countries such as The United Kingdom, Euthanasia is illegal. Campaigns such as Dignity in Dying is for the legalization of death by Euthanasia. Dignity in Dying believes that assisted dying for terminally ill, mentally competent adults should be legal in the U.K. (Dignity in  Their position on legalization is narrowly focused. They are simply aiming for dying U.K citizens to have the right to control the timing and manner of their death. Through the use of protesting images and satirical cartoon depictions, Dignity in Dying appeals to ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos to further solidify the effects that legalization of Euthanasia has on the community as a whole as well as the dying individual. Dignity in Dying is a well-known campaign among the U.K. According to the campaign, 82% of the public support the choice of assisted dying for terminally ill adults. Dignity in Dying has a wide following of U.K citizens that support their efforts to legalize euthanasia. This large following can create a sense of credibility simply because self-conclude that if an idea has a large group of supporters, it must be tenable. Whigham 2 In both images presented by the campaign, their logo is very evident. The presence of their banner evokes a sense of credibility of the campaign, thus, exhibiting ethos. Aside from the Dignity in Dying banner, in image 2 there is a large crowd of people protesting for the right to die. The crowd represents the amount of people that agree with Dignity in efforts to legalize euthanasia. Human beings tend to gravitate towards things in which there are a large following of individuals. In contrast, each image also displays several forms of pathos to evoke certain emotions from their audience. Image 1 depicts an elderly man in a hospital bed holding a Right to  sign while the doctors display an antagonistic approach by saying And what about our right to choose what you  Within this cartoon, the color scheme of this image is very dull and dim (dark greys and whites). There is also a grey cloud depicted above the ill head. The color scheme provokes a somber and sympathetic mood in attempts to further evoke a feeling of sympathy in the audience for those who are fighting for the right to choose to end their own life. The use of grays and dark colors also mirror the sense of depression of those with the unfortunate prognosis. According to The Atlantic, most terminally ill patients who seek assisted suicide are depressed.... This depression also makes physicians less likely to prescribe lethal medications to die by their own hand.  In addition to the color scheme, the grey cloud above the head is symbolism for the  dark  hanging over the heads of those that are terminally ill. The dark cloud can be viewed as synonymous to death. Death is their only option regardless of their right to choose. In image 2, The woman is the main focal point. She has a very grim look on her face to further depict the frustration that comes along with the fight for the legalization of Euthanasia. By using a focal point such as her, the campaign aims to create a sympathetic tone in the audience. Like image 1, Image 2 also strategically uses certain Whigham 3 colors to further assist in their purpose. The sign that the lady is holding is blue, Blue often represents freedom, vigilance, perseverance, justice, prosperity, peace, and/or (Colors). The use of blue is symbolic because those that support the Dignity in Dying campaign are ultimately fighting for the freedom to end their own life. When aiming to gain support and following for their position on issues, organizations and campaigns tend to use statistics and evidence as a powerful ploy of persuasion, mainly because Many people think that statistics can speak for  (statistics). Therefore, statistics are usually taken as truthful and not looked into for further clarification, which is why logos is said to be one of the most effective rhetorical appeals. For example, In Image 1 the ill patient in bed is holding a Right to  sign. Although the sign is not an actual statistic, it represents an evident right known to man. It is established that we have to right to express free will, which encompasses the right to choose. In image 2, the example of logos used is much more apparent. The sign that the woman is holding says  80% of the UK population support a change in the law on assisted  By using a statistic as such, Dignity in Dying creates a sense of persuasion in the audience. If 80% of the UK population supports a change, it should be carried through because of the law of democracy. The statistic is aimed toward the government in hopes that they realize the majority of the population supports the legalization of euthanasia. Finding the right time to say or do something is also a crucial part in persuasion. Kairos is an appeal that uses time as a call to . Although Kairos can be viewed as quite subjective, it is still used in many of Dignity in campaign photos and cartoons. In image 1, Kairos can be depicted by the elderly man. By the man being old, and in the hospital, it creates an assumption in the viewer that the man is on the verge of dying or in an inadequate state. By him being elderly, time is running out for him, therefore a change in euthanasia laws needs to be Whigham 4 made. In image 2, the example of Kairos is less evident. The woman has a look on her face that exhibits a cry for help. From the image, she and the rest of the crowd have reached a boiling point. They are fed up with the lack of change in the laws against euthanasia. Dignity in Dying successfully attempts to solidify the effects that changing Euthanasia laws have on the community and the individuals involved. By employing the four rhetorical appeals of argument present in campaign images and cartoon depictions, Dignity in Dying illustrates how crucial a change can be. The use of rhetorical appeals in each image such as color scheme, tone, and statistics assist in attempts to persuade the audience to join in the campaign to legalize the practice of euthanasia. Dignity in Dying focuses mostly on the appeal to emotions and statistics to gain a larger following of individuals and to gain the support of the UK government to sympathize with those terminally ill. Whigham 5 Works Cited Colors as Symbols in  Colors as Symbols in Flags: EnchantedLearning.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Khazan, Olga. Brittany Maynard and the Challenge of Dying with  The Atlantic Atlantic Media Company, 03 Nov. 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Join the  Dignity in Dying. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.  The Writing Center at UNC-Chapel Hill. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Whigham 6 Image 1: Image 2: Whigham 7