Oswald 1 Chelsi Oswald Karen Hanson ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Sexual Education Sexual education is one of most important topics that is taught to children in school. It is also one of the most controversial when deciding who should teach it and how it should be taught. Many organizations feel that this topic should be taught at age appropriate levels to make them aware of how to stay safe and what to do when the teen decides on any type of sexual activity. These groups like to argue that teens need to be aware of how to protect from how to practice safe sex, etc. The reason for this is because sexual activity has become very common to see in younger and younger teens. They feel that it should be given to them in blatantly factual ways and give them the information they need for when they do decide it is time. However, many other organizations feel as though abstinence should be the focus as to not give these teenagers the wrong idea. These organizations feel that they are conveying to them that they should go out and have sex since they are being taught about it. The Abstinence Clearinghouse, a nonprofit organization that promotes sexual abstinence, supports the side of the spectrum that clearly states they want the focus on abstinence. Through the use of pictures for their viewers to see they show why and how their methods could be a successful way of life. Clearinghouse believes that if these kids are taught in this way that they will have other things to focus on that will enable them to build the necessary relationships and become happier in the long run. The Abstinence Clearinghouse supports the side of the education that keeps abstinence Oswald 2 the forefront of what is taught and it is clear in the rhetorical appeals that associate abstinence to happiness and love. To start, the first image or image A targets the part of the brain that wants happiness, love, and joy in life, this is a clear depiction of the focus of this image conveying pathos when putting this on the website. The Abstinence main focus is to create the sense that staying or going down the path of abstinence is what will lead to happiness and the kind of love that everyone longs for. In this picture, there is a couple standing in a field which simulates that they were out doing something fun and possibly adventurous. They are standing together and look very happy being together the man is also holding a kitten. Since he is holding a kitten and looks to be very in love it creates a sense of emotion. According to Lane et al, a writer uses images, songs, and other types of nontextual media, he or she is often attempting to engage a (22). Although pathos is indeed the clear focus when looking at the image, ethos also plays a part for the viewer to trust that this organization is going to lead them down the right path. The viewer needs to be able to trust that the Clearinghouse just be trying to keep them from enjoying all that life really has to offer. This pictures offers a glimpse of logos to make the viewer think course they are trying to teach the right message to me they look happy, why I want it appeals to their sense of logic. The Abstinence Clearinghouse wants to appeal to the emotions over anything. They fully back up the side of the topic that supports wanting until marriage to have the first sexual encounter with the viewers significant other. Anyone can look at their website and then see the pictures that they utilize and associate them with happiness even if not what they are promoting up front. Oswald 3 For the second image, image B, that the Abstinence Clearinghouse uses it causes the reader to reminisce on simpler times in their childhood. In this picture, it is a group of six people possibly around the 9-12 age range jumping in the air with their other friends around the time of the sun setting and having a fun time. This image reminds the viewer about the simpler times when they have to worry about these kinds of situations where they would have to make life changing decisions such as having sex for the first time. In that age range it had probably never crossed their mind at that point. The most evident appeal that is being shown here is pathos because it reminds the viewer of the same times they had during the summer with their friends. This makes the reader have the thought in their head that since they have this picture showing the simpler times, they must know that most teens and even adults would love to go back to that time in their life when they have to make any of these major decisions. No one likes to make the possibly life changing decisions that occur on almost a daily basis. The ability to put trust into this organization makes it seem like a smart choice which is also where ethos comes into play. This picture creates that sense of trust, since everyone has had the nights spending time with friends and not having worry about very much. According to the McKee and McIntyre, ethos is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or authority (27-28). The pictures anywhere near trying to convey something different because both of them are trying to get you feel the emotion of the picture first and foremost and then getting you to relate to two different aspects of life. Happiness and love is the main goal of the Abstinence Clearinghouse when it posts pictures for their viewers to see. They want to show the reader all that they can have if they take the path that is being laid out in front of them. Oswald 4 Higgins, Colin, and Walker concluded that the context of everyday social interaction, rhetoric is, on the one hand, about social actors putting forward their perspective about a particular state of (205). The Abstinence Clearinghouse is set in their beliefs that abstinence is the way to go to ensure you have a life full of happiness and love. They do this by using ethos and pathos in their pictures that they use on their website, including social media. They use the kairos at all because there is no rush to get started with abstinence because it is taken at their pace. Anyone can start at any time they choose since they had sex yet. They very briefly use logos because the pictures they use offer logic as a part of the appeal that needs to be used and the main focal point. The Abstinence Clearinghouse believes that joining the program they offer to everyone will lead to the path of life long happiness and love. They smartly use the rhetorical appeals stated above to make it seem like an easier choice to decide on. The question is whether they used them to the best of their abilities to make the readers agree that it is an easy and smart choice to make. Oswald 5 Works Cited Abstinence Clearinghouse www.abstinence.net/about-us/. 26 Jan. 2017. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-28. E-text. Higgins, Colin and Robyn Walker. Ethos, Logos, Pathos: Strategies of Persuasion in Social/Environmental  Accounting Forum, vol. 36, no. 3, Sept. 2012, pp. 194- 208. EBSCOhost, doi: 10.1016/j.accfor.2012.02.003. Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 22. E-text. https://www.facebook.com/abstinence801/photos/a.10150638901488498.413079.174242833497 /10154033782703498/?type=1&theater. Oswald 6 https://www.facebook.com/abstinence801/photos/a.10150638901488498.413079.174242833497 /10150638901508498/?type=1&theater.