Tillman 1 Simone Tillman ENC 1102 Bianca Hernandez 13 March 2017 SIECUS on Sexual Education The Sexuality Information and Education Council for the Unites States (SIECUS) is an organization that was formed to families, educators, and policymakers access to fact- based sexuality information through publications, websites, trainings, and myriad other (Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States). SIECUS works to be a source of unregulated and regularly updated information on sexuality for the community. This organization supports a comprehensive sexual education curriculum, which is the approach to provide young people with complete, accurate, and age-appropriate sex education that helps them reduce their risk of HIV/AIDS, other sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and unintended (Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States). SIECUS also works to inform children about other aspects of sexuality, including but not limited to sexual rights, abortion, orientation, and gender equality and equity. In a study done by the Guttmacher Institute, percent of teens age 18 to 19 said they knew little to nothing about condoms, while 75 percent knew little to nothing about the contraceptive (Kucera). Statistics like this are why SIECUS works hard to create guidelines for comprehensive sexual education programs in schools all over America. Their programs focus on giving students all the information for any and every possible question they could possibly have about sexuality. Tillman 2 Through two images, SIECUS use rhetoric appeals to promote their goal to educate and protect students from not only sexual ignorance but also from sexually transmitted diseases. The first image promoted by SIECUS is only one of a few images released by SIECUS that works to convince people and their partners to get tested for sexually transmitted diseases. SIECUS appeals to ethos the morals and credibility of the image by putting their logo in the corner. This shows onlookers that the image is credited by an official source that prides itself on promoting up to date reliable information. When people see the logo, they know that the promotion is legitimate. The next appeal is on pathos, which focuses on emotions. The image, admittedly, is not that creative. However, it still works to instill worry in viewers. The text also shows how quickly a happy situation can turn sour with just a few words. After all, no one wants to have to wonder whether their partner from the previous night was HPV positive. It creates doubt in some people if they completely sure. The third appeal is to logos, which relates to logic and reason. In the corner of the image, the texts reads: Basically, just a statement that after looking at the image, one should agree that better sex is safer sex as opposed to the unsafe sex that was referred to above where the person contracted HPV from their partner. SIECUS uses this hashtag to really the fact that if you do not have safe sex, this situation can occur. It takes the hypothetical out on the context and introduces people to the reality of that sort of moment. The last appeal is to kairos, which relates to timeliness. This advertisement is tailored to relate to people in this generation. The whole image looks like something from a social media picture whether it be Instagram, Snapchat, Tinder, or any of the other platforms available Tillman 3 today. Nowadays, extremely easy to get caught up in the quick and easy appeal of social media and meeting new people that sometimes people forgo the uncomfortable and time consuming factors such as getting tested and making sure every partner you have gets tested. That is what SIECUS is saying through their promotion: No matter how great the profile or person looks or is in bed, it change the fact that anyone you meet can have sexually transmitted diseases. The second image is of a little boy in a lifejacket standing on a dock. This particular promotion was created to support comprehensive sexual education in schools. The image appeals to ethos because it yields the Care2 logo in the corner. Care2 is a huge online organization that supports and connects a myriad of activists and activist organizations from Greenpeace to Habitat for Humanity. It works as a donation and promotion area for multiple different organizations, including SIECUS. This shows viewers that the image is legitimate and credible. This image also appeals to ethos because it makes the reader question their morals. The organization is putting comprehensive sexual education in a simpler context and challenging readers to test their previous beliefs. In terms of pathos, this image is supposed to provoke someone to be frustrated and confused. The text talks about not giving a child a lifejacket and lists plenty of as to why a child need one in the first place and how the fault if they fall in the water in the first place. However, when one continues reading, the arguments listed against lifejackets get more and more familiar: They are the same arguments used against teaching children about rape and sexual education. Upon reading the text on the image, the viewer should feel frustrated and confused at the idea of children being refused lifejackets, but that confusion should turn into realization as they make the connection from the context to the Tillman 4 actual purpose. Next, there is the appeal of logos. Logos and pathos go hand in hand for this image. Those feelings of frustration and confusion should turn into realization at the end. That realization should be that only logical to prepare children from a young age about not only rape culture but also sexual education just as only logical to make young children wear lifejackets whenever they get on a boat. Lastly, the image appeals to kairos by putting an image of a young brightened child as the focal point of the picture. This image and its message press the urgency of teaching young children about the matter. The kid is brighter than his surroundings and he seems very prepared to go canoeing with his paddle and lifejacket. Just like that, this image pushes that we should prepare children, not prevent r shield them from doing anything. Comprehensive sexual education is becoming more of a popular idea, but the fact still remains that over half the states in America do not require sex education and HIV education. Only 28 states and the District of Colombia are required to teach both, and that says nothing on how in depth those programs used in each of those states (Sex and HIV Education). SIECUS works to provide a list of guidelines for sexual education that will give students all the information starting from a young age and progressing throughout their education to 12 th grade because quality sexual education is something that every child should receive. Tillman 5 Works Cited Kucera, Kat. Why We Can Still Learn From a 1970s Sex-Ed  Care2, July 2015, www.care2.com/causes/why-we-can-still-learn-from-a-1970s-sex-ed-comic.html. Accessed February 2017. Sex and HIV  Guttmacher Institute, www.guttmacher.org/state-policy/explore/sex- and-hiv-education. Accessed Feb. 2017. Sexuality Information and Education Council for the United States, www.siecus.org. Accessed January 2017.