Austin Stooks Dr. Sabah Firoz Uddin English Composition 1 March 26, 2017 1 Privatization and Net Neutrality: An Evolving Trade With new innovations of the Internet come new challenges. Since the internet has been fully privatized (controlled and regulated by corporations) scholars have looked at the data and have demanded more regulations and net neutrality (the mindset that all data should be treated and charged at a uniform price). The first point the scholars from the early point out is that the internet had been privatized and were summarizing the steps which the internet went through to become privatized(Shah, Rajiv C., and Jay P. Kesan). Through those steps they evaluated how the transition was handled and criticized the lazy regulations or lack of entirely. They noted that, the lack of any performance requirements for the public NAPs (Network Access Points) led to them becoming as well as the lack of an interconnection policy has resulted in a concentrated industry with a few large backbone The work of both of the authors can be summarized as the history and short term effects of internet privatization. From the observations of the authors a new view was created and shifted towards. The idea of net neutrality, as seen in Sascha and Victor journal. As the journal states, neutrality, defined broadly, is non- discriminatory interconnectedness among data communication networks that allows users to access the content and to run the services, applications, and devices of their This was a brand new forming idea that was challenging the notion of big businesses controlling what people could access. In their journal Meinrath and Pickard liken the Internet to previous forms of communication like the telegraph and telephone technology. They use this comparison to argue that the Internet should be treated like a telecommunications service and should be protected as such. They go into a brief history of the regulations and process that the Austin Stooks Dr. Sabah Firoz Uddin English Composition 1 March 26, 2017 2 telephone had to go through in order for it to be what it is today. The authors make a proposal of a list of regulations that they think are necessary for the Internet to thrive and be protected. The list includes a common carriage carriage ensures that network operators lease their lines to all potential market players, including municipalities, at market (wholesale) maintaining open protocols and standards, safeguarding privacy, and many others. These suggestions harken back to and Kesan first complaints about the privatization process and shows how similar these scholars think for a solution to the problems with internet privatization. But as time goes on more and more scholars pick up the subject and research the problems that were stifling the Internet. The causes also become a bit more personal and economical as seen in and journal specifically talking only on net neutrality. Since the Internet has been around now for a few years scholars have looked more closely at the long term economic benefits/drawbacks rather than the short term problems and solutions of net neutrality and privatization. In journal he analyzes the cost and benefit equations of larger Internet services like Comcast and Netflix and what the standard consumer would have to pay for those services. He then compares those to another formula where there is more regulations and consumer protection. In this he also counts the base charge would go up as well because of the companies need to make up for the regulations in the first place. As he puts it, neutrality, instead, cuts all profits from content providers for the ISP, which is therefore not interested in generating additional traffic from them. This generates inefficiencies when it is more profitable to make more money from fewer which creates lazy providers and is overall worse for consumers and the economy. However Greenstein does give the concession that certain data like Skype calls lose value when not prioritized unlike other types like downloading a huge file. This brings up the debate of should Internet providers be able to favor other data types on the basis of need or in value? As stated in the absence of net neutrality, an internet service provider might benefit Austin Stooks Dr. Sabah Firoz Uddin English Composition 1 March 26, 2017 3 from strategically degrading the quality of the nonpriority lane in order to drive traffic to a paid-for prioritized The scholars have now looked at net neutrality not as a blanket tool but as a scalpel and have tried seeing the effects it could have on the economy and if it is worth it, also in terms of scope how should net neutrality be treated. This is spoken further upon in Richard journal on mobile carriers and if they should follow the same regulations of regular providers. In this latest journal net neutrality is no longer treated as a blanket treatment but as a question of will this help the economy and protect users from Internet providers? However hope is on the horizon because as stated in paper, FCC has proposed a standard that achieves these goals without infringing upon innovative practices, or end user access to the open