! !Fishman 1 Jack Fishman Professor Wiggs ENC 1011 26 March 2017 P2 Final Draft Internet censorship and regulations is a highly debated and controversial topic in todays times. Some could argue that the internet should be a free space where people should have access to anything the want no matter how terrible, controversial or dangerous it is. The other side of the argument is that people need to be protected from the dangers of the internet. And then there are some governments who are not concerned with either side of this argument and just want to keep their citizens away from outside information like China. Since the creation of the internet it has been proposed that their have been four stages of internet regulation so far. From the 1960s to 2000 there was open (Palfrey 981). From 2000 to 2005 there was the de- stage of the internet (Palfrey 985). From 2005 to 2010 there the stage (Palfrey 989). The from 2010 until current times the internet has entered the of the internet (Palfrey 991). So according to this argument it is obvious that internet regulation has changed since the creation of the internet. Along with the changes in regulation peoples per- ception and opinions of internet regulation changed over time, which is why scholarly conversa- tion about internet censorship has changed slightly over time due to changing opinions and cul- tures. Phase one of internet regulation according to John Palfrey is called open this took place from the 1960s to 2000. Palfrey states that until the late 1990s, most states[meaning tended either to ignore online activities or to regulate them very light- ! !Fishman 2 (Palfrey 982). To many this may sound like a perfectly fine state for the internet to be in, but there were problems for certain groups in this state. Palfrey makes the argument that the internet allows people to hear more speech than ever before. A problem that arose from this was that closed regimes where the state controls mouthpiece to which citizens could no longer control that mouth piece with the open internet policy (Palfrey 982). An example of where this became an issue is China. Another issue that arose in this open state of the internet is that dan- gerous speech specifically that of terrorism could not be controlled and was easily accessed (Pal- frey 984). After the open internet stage there was phase two or the denied taking place from 2000 to 2005 (Palfrey 985). This is the point in time where states as well as other started to come to the understanding that there were certain things on the internet that needed to be blocked and managed (Palfrey 985). While people did start to come to the agreement that there were things that needed to be blocked or managed on the internet, those varied drastically. In China the government wanted to continue to act as the mouthpiece so it began to regulate the internet. One may think that this would begin to anger the people of China, however this was not the case. According to a study done by Dakou Wang and Gloria Mark done at the University of California Irvine 80% of the people in China when asked about internet censorship, agreed that the internet should be censored (Wang and Mark 17). Furthermore, they used a for- mula to turn their questions and responses into a scale system ranging from 20 to 180 (Wang and Mark 17). They then asked a Americans with varying ages the same questions and the students scored very similarly to the Chinese people who were asked. The average score for the Chinese citizens was 93 while the Americans was 90 even though the two have drastically different expe- ! !Fishman 3 riences with internet censorship (Wang and Mark 17). This however is very different from a study done in 2003 A. Graham Peace. Peace preformed a similar study, his did not have a scale system, but his conclusion was that in United States institutions, internet censorship was not de- sirable nor was it even deemed an important issue at the time (Peace 109). Furthermore, this discussion moves along to phase 3 or Palfrey de- scribes this stage as period during which states have emphasized regulatory approaches that function not only like filters or blocks, but also as variable controls (Palfrey 989). This is where China elaborate firewall system also known as the Great Firewall of China was born. In a Time magazine article written by Hannah Beech a Beijing stationed times affiliate, called Other Side of The Great she states that Chinese citizens have almost everything that other users have just under different names and Chinese ownership for example China has a Google called Baidu, a Facebook called Tencent and an Amazon called Alibaba (Beech 3). Beech states that many Chinese, the Internet behind the Great Firewall works just fine, delivering goods, services and cat (Beech 3). Which is a humorous way of stating that even though extreme internet censorship carries negative connotation with it it works just fine for the people of China. Lastly, is phase four or the Palfrey describes this stage as basically a pushback against internet regulation and it started in 2010 and has carried into modern times (Palfrey 991). History is known to repeat it self and it seems like this is what this stage is, people want to go back to the beginning where the internet is without regulation. With that being said, people may never agree on how the internet should be regulated be- cause that changes from culture to culture but through research it does seem however that major- ! !Fishman 4 ity of people do believe the internet should be censored and some way shape or form. As for the ones who do not it seems like that may stem from the negative connotation that comes with the phrase or internet ! (Word Count: 981) ! ! (I know my revision plan was to shift the focus of my paper off the Palfrey article and on to more of a chronological focus. I could not for the life of me figure out how to make that connection with the articles I had for my project, this was the best way I could tie some of my articles to- gether with some type of chronological connection. I did not completely ignore my revision. I made changes with the other suggestions given to me but the main suggestion was the focus and I could not find away around it.) ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !Fishman 5 ! ! Works Cited Beech, Hannah, et al. The Other Side Of The Great  Time 185.23 (2015): 48-51. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Palfrey, John. Four Phases Of Internet  Social Research 77.3 (2010): 981-996. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Peace, Graham. Balancing Free Speech And Censorship: Response To The  Communications Of The ACM 46.11 (2003): 104-109. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Wang, Dakuo and Gloria, Mark. Internet Censorship In China: Examining User Awareness And  ACM Transactions On Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI) 22.6 (2015): 31:1-31:22. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.