Christophe Boucher1 Pollution from the burning of fossil fuels, as well as their lack of sustainability, have become a primary concern to many. Carbon dioxide is one of many dangerous chemicals released in abundance during the burning of fossil fuels, especially coal. The NRDC (the Natural Resource Defense Council), is an environmental group. Their About us tells of how they the rights of all people to the air, the water, and the This group wants to get rid of fossil fuels altogether, and make them obsolete. They often get quite active, such as how they advocated for cutting the carbon pollution that power plants are allowed by law to make. The NRDC has multiple images on social medias, including Instagram, that utilize rhetoric appeals to move people against the big companies that support the usage of fossil fuels such as coal. In the first image, the first thing to really grab attention is the quote. Before even looking at the content, the quote invokes ethos; it borrows credibility from the speaker of the quote, in this case Rose Marcario. As the CEO of the company Patagonia, it can be said that her words are reliable. Additionally, her statement not only carries weight from her, but also the company she represents, Patagonia. Upon analyzing the quotation, the wording seems to carry a sense of urgency. It talks of a future we afford, which gives the feeling of act now and save the EPA. Pretty much a Kairos time is of the essence kind of thing. It is quite logical as well, after all, why would anyone want to miss opportunities like those of clean energy. This, however leads to a false dilemma logical fallacy. Just because the EPA is shut down mean clean energy will be completely ignored. likely there will be an impact but that mean there more possible courses of action. Image number two lacks ethos and logos, instead focusing primarily on pathos. The whole picture seems to be about manipulating feelings. Without even looking at the subject matter, the photo has a sepia tinge to it which conveys a serious tone right of the bat. Then, the contrast of the factories to the plains makes an impact. Surely those ginormous smoke emitters should not be allowed so close to the nice horses and pretty flowers. Additionally, their close proximity can lead to the train of thought that very soon that natural area in the picture will be destroyed. This gives a real sense of Kairos. Basically, act now and switch to clean energy or the horses are doomed. This however has the clear makings of a logical fallacy. This could very well be a hasty generalization. Displayed is just one location, of which there may not be any others similar too. Of course, maybe there are many place just like it but either way there information in the graphic to support either view. In all, these images each go against fossil fuel companies in their own ways. The first promotes clean energy with its opportunities for a better future. The second discourages anything that produces horse killing smoke, such as burning coal. Despite those differences and the way they get those ideas across, be it logic and credibility or emotion, the NRDC gets their ideas across to anyone with the time to look at a photo. NRDC. https://www.nrdc.org/. Accessed 27 February 2017. Christophe Boucher2