Sloan1 Maurice Sloan Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102 February 22, 2017 The Benefits of Video Games for Advertisements The Entertainment Software Association (ESA) is an organization dedicated to handling the public affairs of computer and video game publishers. Their goal is to make sure that the public is informed about the games that get published, and they also promote the many benefits of playing said games. Video games serve a pivotal role in many lives and should not be under looked. Although the two images provided have different meanings behind them they both illustrate that video games are very beneficial in helping people of different age groups and different walks of life. The pictures provided do a great job of showing what the ESA stands for through the uses of different rhetorical appeal, and their primary goal of trying to advocate for video games being a beneficial source of media in society. With Picture A showing that video games can be used for charities to help benefit children in need. While Picture B does a great job of revealing the benefits that Video Games provide for soldiers overseas. The Entertainment Software Association is an organization that is an advocate for the many benefits that Video Games have for different individuals. The pictures provided promote the goals of the organization in that they show that Video Games can help children in need or even allow soldiers to get through problem they are going through on the battlefield. Sloan2 To begin, one of the most important rhetorical appeals that the pictures provide is ethos because without any source of credibility it makes an advertisement difficult to believe and makes the audience question validity of the statements provided. In Picture A the organization that is hosting the charity gives a .org link that goes to their official website for anyone interested in the company. This creates a sense of trust between the audience and the organization in that if anyone wants to support the charity there is official website that they can go to that will give credible information. While in the case of Picture B it shows United States soldiers supporting video games. Even though soldiers are not the best advocates for video games by most of communities they are seen as symbols of authority and are highly respected in society. So to see military officers seemingly enjoying the presence of video games can make the audience that is being appealed to feel as though if these officers can support video games the audience can as well. To continue, another rhetorical appeal that is present is the appeal to emotions with pathos. In Picture A the advertisement is centered on the concept of helping children with needs by just playing video games. This can evoke emotions in different people such as hopefulness, happiness, and even optimism. This analysis is supported in the book to Do Things with Video by Ian Bogost. In a passage he details the purpose in which video games can be used in rhetoric In art procedural rhetoric does not argue a position but rather characterizes an idea. These games may say something about how an experience of the world works, how it feels to experience or to be subjected to some sort of (Bogost Pg 12). This quote supports that idea by showing that the picture is trying to tell an audience that the picture is attempting to characterize that video games are not just a useless past time they can be used for great causes. On the other side in Picture B the appeals are not blatantly as apparent as Sloan3 the other picture. The image has a better chance of resonating with individuals who have a history with people within the armed forces rather than the average consumer. To the audience invested within the armed forces this picture may invoke feeling happiness, and appreciation towards the impact that these games are providing for these soldiers such as mental stability and emotional stability. While on the other side of the spectrum the average audience member would probably feel a sense of just pleasantness, or lukewarmth.Their reaction would not be as passionate or would not resonate as deep with them. In addition, another appeal that is revealed is the appeal to logic or logos. In Picture A it is trying to invoke in the audience that by doing something as simple as playing video games that they can help children. This is due to most people not wanting to see a child suffer through anything; so logically if someone can do something impactful with minimal effort any logical person would pursue that venture. In an essay written by Chet Daniel Breaux he details the many ways people utilize Aristotle rhetoric to combine both logos as well as pathos to engage audience members with the problems The addict must name the addiction to understand the power the substance holds on the individual. Ervingham builds logos and pathos through a link to medication and The audience immediately becomes the target of the argument, which essentially dictates an individual addiction based on any negative emotion (Breaux Pg 18).His analysis on the situation explains greatly what the ad is trying to accomplish. It says a which is connecting the positive connotation of being a hero to another positive action of helping children, it creates a sense of logical validation when they help the kid. While in the case of Picture B it employs the visage of military officers holding and supporting video games. The image of military officers most of the time represents respect and honor among most individuals in society because individuals that are willing to go to war and fight to protect Sloan4 the country are held in high esteem. That is what the image is trying to convey that if someone respectable is having a good time playing video games perhaps that the audience member looking at the image would consider playing video games or put video games in a positive light. Finally, the last rhetorical appeal that is present is the appeal to time or urgency, or what is known as the appeal the appeal to kairos. In the first picture it is quite evident the sense of urgency that is being portrayed with the use of the exclamation point after the phrase a It is trying to tell the audience to hurry and become a hero today to help kids. This gives the audience member that is viewing the image the sense that if they fail to act on the message or do not respond instantly; they will run out of time and fail the children. This is a great way of adding emotional weight to the audience it creates a connection that initially does not exist with the audience. In conclusion, the appeals utilized by both of the images do a great job of showing how the organization is trying to promote video games in a positive light and showing that video games have many beneficial uses and showed be seen as a great source of media. Sloan5 Works Cited Bogost, Ian. How to do things with videogames. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota Press, 2011.Print. Breaux, Chet Daniel, Stop Playing That Game: A Rhetorical Analysis of the Video Game Addiction  (2011). Masters Theses & Specialist Projects. Paper 1067. http://digitalcommons.wku.edu/theses/1067 Entertainment Software The Entertainment Software Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb.2017. http://www.theesa.com/esa-foundation/ Picture A Picture B Sloan6