Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Combat Women to Everyday Women Service women have many resources during their time in the military and after to help them feel confident and empowered in a male dominated field. The Service Action Network is an organization that the voice for women in the (Service). Whether it is women needing to talk to other service women to feel more empowered and unified or getting involved in rape cases in the military, the Service Service Action Network (SWAN) is there for all service women (Service). When women leave the service they sometimes feel lost and do not know how to re-enter into society. The Makeovers that Matter is an organization that provides service women who leave the military with makeovers, job services, and overall confidence and reassurance when coming back into a world without combat (Makeovers). Although the points of view of Makeovers that Matter and Service Action Network are incompatible; however, they could come to a compromise by combining forces to help active service women and veteran service women feel more confident by providing them with an advocate, a makeover, and tools to help once they leave the service and re-enter society. The Service Action mission states that they are most influential and effective network of service women, acting as their champion, advocate and best information (Service). SWAN provides women with unity by connecting them with other active service members and critical resources they may need to be successful and have a good life in the military. They also work to impact policies that directly affect their Student 2 these policies include healthcare, rape prevention, and gender equality. In order properly bring about change regarding these policies, SWAN uses their platform to fight for these women (Service). Service women need organizations like SWAN, because without their work with advocacy issues to prevent rape in the military, the problem might go unnoticed. As stated in an article by Rose Weitz, to one-third of military women are sexually assaulted during their time in the which she believes is due to the military being a masculinist institution. masculinist institution is one that is dominated both by men and by cultural attitudes traditionally inculcated into men, such as a rejection of any signs of (Weitz). SWAN fights to make sure that women in the military have a voice in all aspects of the military just like men, which includes it being acceptable for women to talk about issues like rape. This organization truly is the advocate for women in the military by helping them voice their issues, gain the respect they deserve, and provide the support they need to succeed. Makeovers That Matter is dedicated to the empowerment of women returning from military service and the wives and widows of veterans who have served our nation. Our mission is to supply these women, as well as other economically challenged women, with the right tools to re-enter the workforce. (Makeovers) Makeovers that Matter focuses on women coming back from combat who need help getting back into everyday life and preparing for a career outside the military. They not only provide makeovers with make-up and clothing, but as their CEO and founder, Michael John Derricott, states that they also makeovers for the (Makeovers). Makeovers that Matter truly wants to help veterans get on their feet after being in the military for so long. Along with providing hair and makeup makeovers, they provide clothing, stylists and job interview assistance as well as counseling for these women. These makeovers uplift these women and Student 3 make them feel confident and beautiful again, after being in a job where they had to hide their feminity and show their toughness to prove they could do the same job as a man. Women and men both struggle returning home, because a huge change from what they are used to. New studies show that women returning from the military face issues with body dissatisfaction and eating disorders due to pressures to attain and maintain fitness and weight (Lehayot). If women coming home are provided with the support of Makeovers that Matter to show them that they are beautiful, build confidence and provide them the proper tools to succeed, it may ease the transition process from the battlefield to the regular workforce. Although these two organizations do not go about helping women in the military the same way, they have a common goal of providing women in the military with the things they need to thrive. Service Action Network does this by giving women in the military a public voice and platform to get their problems and needs heard. Whereas the Makeovers that Matter organization provides these women with the tools they need after coming home to get reacquainted with society and become a civilian woman again. These two organizations strive to help military women prosper and feel honored and respected by not only the men they work with, but also by society as a whole. Therefore, if these two organizations worked together they could provide a service to women during their time in the service and then long after. The Service Action Network states that they wish to help women their personal and professional goals during and following their years of (Service). If they did this by combining with Makeovers that Matter who is already working to help veterans, they could help so many more women flourish not only in combat, but after as well. The way this would work would be that Makeovers that Matter could hold an event in combination with SWAN to provide women in the Student 4 military and retired women to come get help from both organizations. This would be the beginning of the two organizations coming together, but then they could provide information to all of their members about the other organization. At the event to start everything, SWAN could provide women with the connections they need within the military, whether that be with other service women, health care, political advocacy, etc. Makeovers that Matter could provide makeovers, clothing, job interview assistance, etc. The service women would have access to resources and support they would need to succeed both during and long after getting out of the military if both of these organizations worked together. A possible way for these two organizations to work together would be if they agreed to share their members contacts or information about the other organization. In doing this both organizations would benefit, because they would be helping as many service women as possible through outreach efforts, which is their main goal as stated by their mission statements. SWAN and Makeovers that Matter both work to help service women feel confident in themselves and what they do. So, they could better achieve their goal to help as many service women as possible. Also, by combining these two organizations they could provide more services to these women than they could as separate organizations. In helping more service women, these organizations will be able to make it known that it is acceptable to be a woman in military and a woman in the military is equal to any man. All military women deserve to be treated with respect by all people and should receive the support they need after returning in order to get back on their feet and these two organizations could do that for them. Imagine how many lives will be changed for the better if this is made possible. (WC: 1256) Student 5 Works Cited Alfonso, Kristal L. M. Air University Needs  Adult Education Quarterly 5.2 (1955): 113. The Drew Papers, 2017. Web. 2017. Creech, Suzannah K., Robert Swift, Caron Zlotnick, Casey Taft, and Amy E. Street. Combat Exposure, Mental Health, and Relationship Functioning Among Women Veterans of the Afghanistan and Iraq  USF Library. N.p., 11 Feb. 2015. Web. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=1f0e39a2-1a0e-4e6d-afac 4d1e0edf4886%40sessionmgr101&vid=28&hid=121&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd U%3d#AN=2015-40862-001&db=pdh>. Ghahramanlou-Holloway, Marjan, Daniel W. Cox, Elisabeth C. Fritz, and Brianne J. George. An Evidence-Informed Guide for Working With Military Women and  Professional Psychology: Research and Practice, 26 Oct. 2010. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=4d38e201-33e9-4e57-9857 d5c1187c4a3d%40sessionmgr103&vid=25&hid=121>. Lehavot, Keren, PhD. Health Indicators for Military, Veteran, and Civilian  ScienceDirect. N.p., May 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S07493797120005 05>. Makeovers That  Makeovers for Female Veterans Makeovers That Matter. CreativeSights, 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.makeoversthatmatter.org/>. Segal, Mady W. Conceptual Model of Military Life Events and  USF Library. N.p., 2017. Web. 2017. Student 6 <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=53&sid=1f0e39a2-1a0e-4e6d-afac 4d1e0edf4886%40sessionmgr101&hid=121&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d AN=112085739&db=aph>. Service Action  Service Action Network. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://www.servicewomen.org/>. Weitz, Rose. Vulnerable Warriors: Military Women, Military Culture, and Fear of  USF Library. N.p., 21 Feb. 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=16&sid=4d38e201-33e9-4e57-9857 d5c1187c4a3d%40sessionmgr103&hid=121&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d AN=108560951&db=a2h>.