Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 March 26, 2017 The Safety and Regulation of GMO Products. Currently, there exists two very different camps when it comes to the decisive issue of One side strongly for, and one side strongly against. No two stakeholders better show this fact that the pro GMO website Facts about and the strongly against GMO website Institute for Higher Technology. Facts about features studies on several links on their webpage, all of which are credible, fact checked and peer reviewed papers about the safety of (These two websites could not be more against each other when it comes to the topic of and perfectly symbolize two stake holders who seem to have nothing in common when looked at on the surface. But, with a deeper inspection, similarities between the two begin to develop. The websites appear extremely alike when a deeper connection is viewed, both in design and purpose. Both websites focus on which while seems basic, is important since that means they both have a vested interest in figuring out the best way to control the regulations concerning and protecting Both stakeholders care about the consumer, since they both are fighting so heavily for the right of GMO production and list tons of different kinds of studies about consumer protection and awareness about Finally, both care greatly about scientific studies, with their websites featuring many different scientific studies that are either pro or against GMO production. The use of scientific studies makes it easier to find a compromise between the two, which may seem difficult, but is much easier than it may first Student 2 appear. The points of view that are taken from these two stakeholders are incompatible, however the compromise of regulations regarding can be implemented through the change of laws concerning the safety of the addition of a controlled study that both stakeholders can agree on, and the management of labels on GMO products. Both stakeholders, by virtue, want the other stakeholder to be proved wrong, and would thus be ready at any chance to prove them wrong. While science may take the stance that are safe to use, many consumers feel that are an unsafe product. In response to an article in USA Today about consumers appeared to distrust studies done, calling the studies biased and steeped into the pockets of the government (Gryka, yourself a big helping of This consumer speaks out, saying that the corporations could buy facts, and that they be trusted to deliver correct information (Gryka, yourself a big helping of Imagine going to Scotland and seeing the green meadows and calm culture of the people there, with a slower and calmer lifestyle as a person walks through a small town. This is the exact image Scotland would like to preserve, and in doing so outlawed since they might clog up the beautiful landscape with unsightly plants or invasive species (Sifferlin, Scotland to Prohibit GMO ). These ideas seem incredibly radical, especially since they only seem to serve for an aesthetic purpose. While the usage of is generally thought of by the science community to be a good thing, the opposite side, against the production and usage of these products, remains adamant that they must be not used. While this may seem a bit crazy, an article called GMO War on (Koberstein, GMO War on argues against the usage of them, citing several different sources, including a professor from the University of Hawaii speaking out against them. The article speaks out against Student 3 saying they induce the use of dangerous pesticides, and can lead to corruption, such as when a Monsanto director was appointed to the board of directors for the university of Hawaii and accepted a large donation of $620,000, and then silenced the professor speaking out against them (Koberstein, GMO War on This argument begins to take more and more shape, as does the opposing, pro-GMO, side. This side features tons of scientific studies, that if included in this paper, would stretch incredibly long. While this seems strange, one study compared many of them together. The study a statistical reanalysis and review of experimental data presented in some of these studies and found that quite often in contradiction with the conclusions the data actually provides weak evidence of harm that cannot be differentiated from (Panchin et all, Published GMO Studies Find No Evidence of Harm When Corrected for Multiple ), thus showing that many studies find that are, in fact, safe. An easy first compromise to these differences would be regulations that fit both needs. More labeling could be used on products containing alerting consumers to whether or not the product contains them, and the quantity in each product. This would compromise both stakeholders, since it would appease both sides into finally reaching a sensible solution to both problems they have with each other. These two sides battle it out constantly, and regulation forcing labels on products seems as a practical solution to ease both sides mindset. This solution is already taking effect in the European Union, with countries forcing products to be labeled. The EU was one of the first places to construct a labeling system, and the current system forces every stakeholder in the production of a GMO product to pass along the information to the consumer (GMO Compass, New Labelling Laws: What Has ). This system allows for consumers to know exactly what products contain since the Student 4 system forces every single stakeholder in a product to either notify or be notified that the product contains a certain GMO, even if it is very trace in the product, and makes sure the consumer is aware that the product contains (GMO Compass, New Labelling Laws: What Has ). The similarities between the stakeholders The Facts about and Institute for Responsible Technology are clearer when looked at with further inspection, and a compromise between the two can be found through the use of regulation on GMO products. The two websites focus on radically different ideas when it comes to but while their claims might be different, the actual stakeholders themselves could come to any easy compromise of regulation and labeling of GMO products in order to give consumers the information necessary for them to make the decision whether or not they should buy GMO. Student 5 Works Cited Admin. Institute for Responsible  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. Brewer, M. S. and M. Rojas. Consumer Attitudes toward Issues in Food  Journal of Food Safety, vol. 28, no. 1, Feb. 2008, pp. 1-22. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/j.1745- 4565.2007.00091.x. The Facts About  The Facts About GMO. The Grocery Manufacturers Association, n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Gryka, Have Yourself a Big Helping of  USA Today, n.d. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=J0E284416798516&site=eh ost-live. Koberstein, Paul. The GMO War on  Progressive, Jul/Aug2015, pp. 48-51. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=103602428&site=ehost-live. Panchin, Alexander Y. and Alexander I. Tuzhikov. Published GMO Studies Find No Evidence of Harm When Corrected for Multiple  Critical Reviews in Biotechnology, vol. 37, no. 2, Mar. 2017, pp. 213-217. EBSCOhost, doi:10.3109/07388551.2015.1130684. Sifferlin, Alexandra. Scotland to Prohibit GMO  Time.Com, 12 Aug. 2015. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=108874428&site=ehost-live. Www.gmo-compass.org. New Labelling Laws: What Has  GMO COMPASS - Information on Genetically Modified Organisms. N.p., 15 Dec. 2005. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Student 6