Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC1102 21 March 2017 A Truce for Justice Food waste is a societal problem that is currently being faced by many countries Waste in The overproduction of food combined with a lack of a good disposal method has wreaked havoc on the environment and puts many countries to shame- a disgrace that many people work to put an end to daily. An important stakeholder in this issue, Rescuing Leftover Cuisine, believes that the best way to put an end to food waste is to collect the food that is supposed to go to waste and donate it to those in need instead (Ma). Another key stakeholder, Waste and Resources Action Programme (WRAP), promotes food waste prevention as the best strategy to bring a stop to food waste globally (WRAP). The main issue, ending food waste, is a shared goal for each of these two stakeholders; however, each stakeholder has their own opinion on how this issue should be resolved. Though the two stakeholders have seemingly incompatible methods, their goal is the same to stop food waste: this goal can be reached by reducing the amount of surplus food produced then redistributing any food still leftover, a combination of each strategy. The first stakeholder in this debate is Rescuing Leftover Cuisine, a non-profit organization that has been operating since 2013 (Ma). One of the main issues Rescuing Leftover Cuisine addresses is food waste, arguing that the best way to end food waste is to redistribute leftover food to the hungry- creating a mutualistic relationship (Ma). The logic used in this strategy is that by solving one issue, the other can easily be solved as well. Student 2 Rescuing Leftover Cuisine hopes to allow food redistribution to become a widespread solution to ending food waste (Ma). A possible objection many may have against this strategy is that leftover food is potentially unusable. This argument is negated by the fact that of the food wasted is still fully fit for human (Blasi et al) meaning that most leftover food can still be eaten or, in this case, redistributed. The feasibility of food distribution is further supported by the research done by Garrone et al, which shows how surplus food efficiently and huge potential for reducing both food insecurity and food (Garrone et al) and that redistributing leftover food can help achieve this goal. As an increasing amount of food gets wasted each year, the paradox of food waste increases. Besides the social aspect, there are also environmental benefits to consider: such as the reduction in ecological footprint due to lowered water usage, resources wasted, and food in landfills (Blasi et al). By doing their part to decrease food waste, Rescuing Leftover Cuisine supports the idea that one day food waste and hunger will come to an end. Contrastingly, the second stakeholder in this debate is WRAP, a non-profit organization that was founded in the year 2000. WRAP applies the strategy of surplus prevention to reduce waste of every kind, so on the issue of food waste, WRAP believes that surplus food prevention is the best way to end food waste (WRAP). The logic behind this type of strategy is that if less resources are wasted at the beginning, less will end up being wasted at the end. WRAP hopes to use their strategy to revolutionize the way consumers think about the products they use and consume (WRAP). One potential objection to surplus food redistribution is that food waste can be stopped without having to go through such a drastic social change. In his proposed food waste hierarchy, Lozano asserts that priority is to prevent overproduction and oversupply of food beyond human nutritional (Lozano) as the first and most important Student 3 line of defense against food waste. The reason why surplus prevention must be the focus in the fight against food waste is because although it is not widespread, recent evidence points to it being the best plan for a long-term solution of food waste (Mourad). Lozano also claims that stopping excess food from being made has the greatest potential to bring about an end to food waste. WRAP believes that by reducing surplus food production, they can do their part to help bring an end to food waste. Both Rescuing Leftover Cuisine (Ma) and WRAP (WRAP) are invested in the fight against food waste and are hoping to see an end to this issue. Both stakeholders are committed to educating the public about food waste and are asking people to volunteer to help further their impact- each organization using their own strategy to fight for the cause. To bring an end to food waste, there must be a consolidated effort and strategy worldwide to increase resources and efficiency. Looking to the future, it is time to develop a new strategy that will combine the ideas of both Rescuing Leftover Cuisine and WRAP to bring an innovative and fresh idea to the movement that will also be feasible. By creating a system to both prevent food waste and redistribute any food that is still leftover afterwards, food waste can potentially be eliminated. To achieve this, both sides would have to be willing to give in and work with the other stakeholder- which encompasses two key steps. First, each stakeholder must acknowledge that the other has some validity and realize that they are working towards a mutual goal. Secondly, both sides would have to blend their ideologies and strategies to educate the public and their volunteers. This new strategy is feasible if both stakeholders look past their differences and combine their resources to make a bigger impact on the world than they each could have made individually. Student 4 This proposed compromise has not been implemented on a large scale, but has a large amount of potential. Bossle claims that since all food waste is (Bossle) because some excess is needed, the best strategy is to minimize as much surplus as possible and then redistribute the excess to those in need. The data collected in Gruber et research also shows that store managers have already effectively been using this strategy in their stores for years to reduce the amount of food they must throw away. In the past, one solution that was attempted was to compost leftover food (Sasser). While this strategy helped to get the movement against food waste started and raise awareness, it ultimately failed in attaining its main goal because stakeholders felt that their concerns were not being addressed, creating distrust (Sasser). The new proposed compromise will be feasible because it addresses the old issues by taking into consideration the strategies of both stakeholders. It is not only viable, but it also benefits both stakeholders equally- both of their strategies are being utilized and their mutual goal is being worked towards. Though both stakeholders have different methods to stop food waste, by compromising and combining their strategies and resources, a new and effective strategy can be created that will be able to succeed under a unified effort. If a consolidated strategy is not implemented, the amount of food that is wasted will continue to grow and neither organization will achieve their goals. Food waste is a critical issue because even with all the technology developed, it is still a huge problem all over the world that impacts everyone. Though it may not be immediately visible, the toll that wasted food takes on the environment is huge. From the wasted resources, to the impact that compost has, the environment cannot support this process for much longer and we must all work together and see eye-to-eye to build a brighter and more sustainable future for generations to come. (WC: 1275) Student 5 Works Cited Blasi, Emanuele, et al. Value of Food Waste: An Exploratory Study on Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, vol. 30, 2016, pp. 96-104, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S096969891630007 8?. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Bossle, Marilia, et al. Characteristics and Success Factors of Supply Chain Initiatives Tackling Consumer-Related Food Journal of Cleaner Production, 2016, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S095965261632035 2?. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Food Waste in  Feeding America, http://www.feedingamerica.org/about-us/how-we- work/securing-meals/reducing-food-waste.html. Accessed 21 Mar. 2017. Garrone, Paola, et al. Food Waste in Food Manufacturing Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 137, 2016, pp. 1076-1085, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S095965261631041 1. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Gruber, Verena, et al. a Waste! Exploring the Human Reality of Food Waste from the Store Journal of Public Policy & Marketing, vol. 35, no. 1, 2016, pp. 3-25, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=1c748c82-4f68- 4b78-a7ac-17e4bb79715d%40sessionmgr4007&vid=2&hid=4203. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Lozano, Rodrigo, et al. Food Waste Hierarchy as a Framework for the Management of Food Surplus and Food Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 76, 2014, pp. 106- 115, Student 6 http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S095965261400368 0. Accessed 21 Mar. 2017. Ma, Runbai. Rescuing Leftover Cuisine. http://www.rescuingleftovercuisine.org. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Mourad, Marie. Recovering and Preventing Competing Solutions for Food Systems Sustainability in the United States and Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 126, 2016, pp. 461-477, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S095965261630153 6?. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017 Sasser, Larry. of Large-Scale Organics BioCycle, vol. 36, no. 10, 1995, pp. 68-71, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=58be4fe7-075d-428c-8c9a- 882299481941%40sessionmgr101&vid=0&hid=119&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=edsgcl.17987704&db=edsgao. Accessed 03 Mar. 2017. WRAP - Circular Economy & Resource Efficiency Experts. http://wrap.org.uk. Accessed 03 Mar. 2017.