Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Cost Effective Music Education Musical arts programs have been an integral part of education for years. Several studies have been proven to help create a well-rounded individual and improve other aspects of a education. Only recently has there been a lack of funding for such programs, especially with the rise of STEM, or science, technology, engineering, and mathematics programs (Staff). Looking at two stakeholders: The Heritage Foundation and National Association for Musical Education, this situation can be seen. The National Association for Music Education attempts to raise funds for musical programs through legislative action and fundraising and In comparison, The Heritage Foundation seeks to lower national spending through reform of entitlement programs; a few of which are related to arts and specifically, musical arts The points of view that are taken from these two stakeholders seem incompatible. However, allowing states to control funding for these programs opposed to the federal government can allow for more efficient spending, create a greater impact, and give the funding that is needed, where it is needed. The National Association for Musical goals of providing quality music education for students requires funds. The incompatibility between these goals and The Heritage Foundation occurs when The Heritage Foundation created Blueprint for for This blueprint is what President Donald Trump and Congress are considering as the budget plan for the 2017 fiscal year (Boccia, Romina). On page 80 of the document is a plan Student 2 for elimination of the National Endowment for the Arts for The National Endowment for the Arts is an agency within the federal government who offers much support through big funding projects for arts programs nationwide Endowment for the ). Removing this agency could dramatically impact the future of music education. However, it could also save the federal government nearly $151 million in the 2017 fiscal year for This money could be spent on potentially improving other aspects of the country and possibly other aspects of the education system. The Heritage goal of down spending, while maintaining a strong national defense, and without raising is planned to be accomplished through the removal of several entitlement programs which were deemed not worthy for federal spending. The idea is to cut spending in as many areas as possible to lower the national debt and remove the government spending out of for The Heritage Foundation projects the national debt to be reduced by trillion over the through use of this plan for This could mean great things for the United States, but at the expense of many entitlement programs that required those funds to continue functioning. Despite their differences, The National Association for Music Education and The Heritage Foundation have some commonalities. First, they both want to improve the United States in some way. Although their methodology differs, they both have positive intentions. The Heritage Foundation and The National Association for Music Education both look at their situations holistically. The National Association for Music Education is more concerned about all students and teachers, whereas The Heritage Foundation is focused on the Referring specifically to their mission statements, The Heritage mission is stated to communicate rigorous conservative policy research Student 3 to Congress and the American In comparison, The National Association for Music Education has stated their intentions are advance music education by promoting the understanding and making of music by and Also, both stakeholders need supporters to back up their ideas. Without external support, they would not get the exposure they need to be successful. The other common ground the two stakeholders share is the process they take to incite change based on their ideas. They both take their ideas to Congress through the legislative process. On the National Association for Music Education website, they have a whole section dedicated to advocacy and ways a citizen can get involved within their state. There is an where people can get informed on the latest news and information regarding developments in Federal Budget and Appropriation etc. In contrast, The Heritage Foundation uses their Blueprint for budget plan along with research and communication gathered from their staff to advocate their ideas through legislation for Despite these similarities, both stakeholders fundamentally disagree with each other. Simply stated, one side is trying to spend money where as the other is trying to save money and repurpose it. In the past, solutions have included giving parents the responsibility of teaching their kids music through various extracurricular means (Goldsmith). For example, if a student wants to learn to play the violin, instead of blaming the school system for not supporting this, the parent can simply take their child to a professional music instructor outside of school hours. This saves the school a lot of money because they do not need to worry about paying for expensive music equipment and hiring a qualified music instructor. On the contrary, if a student does not know about the violin, they may never ask to learn how to play it. Therefore, having music Student 4 education in schools can be a good thing. It gives exposure to the students and allows them to determine what they want to do. A potential area of compromise which the two stakeholders could come to is regarding how much funding is removed. The Heritage plan to eliminate the National Endowment for the Arts is rationalized by saying should not be forced to pay for plays, paintings, pageants, and scholarly journals, regardless of the attraction or for 80). What is failed to mention, is that the National Endowment for the Arts also supports K-12 arts education. Every year, nearly $10 million is given to support these art education projects with the intentions to American of all ages have opportunities to learn, create, and Endowment for the The goals of The Heritage Foundation can still be accomplished without getting rid of the National Endowment for the Arts entirely. Their plan can include the potential of repurposing the National Endowment for the Arts to focus a smaller amount of funds to only K-12 music education. This compromise could fulfill the goals of The Heritage Foundation while maintaining music education funding, something which The National Association for Music Education needs to create these music education programs. Both stakeholders have a mission and goals they want to achieve. The Heritage Foundation wants to create a budget that will cut government spending and lower the national debt, all while creating a better and safer country. The National Association for Music Education wants to raise funds and incite change through legislation to improve music education across the United States. Coming to a compromise and working together to find a plan that can suit both stakeholders equally is very important to maintaining the integrity of the United education system, as well as to maintaining the efficiency of the government and the way it uses Student 5 tax payer dollars. With the hope of a compromise between the government and musical education, the possibility of giving every student a chance to be introduced to the world of music is paralleled with the possibility of keeping the budget in check for future generations. (WC: 1237) Student 6 Works Cited The Heritage Foundation, 2017. Web, 4 Mar. 2017. www.heritage.org/about- heritage/mission/. National Association for Music Education, http://www.nafme.org/advocacy. Web, 29 Jan. 2017. for Balance: A federal Budget for The Heritage Foundation, 2016. thf- reports.s3.amazonaws.com/2016/BlueprintforBalance.pdf Boccia, Romina. Has the Blueprints to Build a Better, On-budget TheHill, 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Goble, J S. so Important About Music Education?. New York: Routledge, 2010. Internet resource. Goldsmith, Melissa. Solutions to Cuts in Art & Music Programs in Public  Solutions to Cuts in Art & Music Programs in Public Schools Education - Seattle PI. Seattle PI, 21 June 2013. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. www.education.seattlepi.com/solutions-cuts-art- music-programs-public-schools-1814.html Ludwick, Mark S. and Benyam Tsehaye. NIPA Translation of the Fiscal Year 2016 Federal Budget. Survey of Current Business, vol. 95, no. 3, Mar. 2015, p. 1. Mark, Michael L, and Charles L. Gary. A History of American Music Education. Lanham, Md: Rowman & Littlefield Education, 2007. Print. Student 7 McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 371-374. E-text. and National Association for Music Education, 2017. Web, 5 Mar. 2017. www.nafme.org/about/mission-and-goals/. Endowment for the National Endowment for the Arts, Web. 5 Mar. 2017. www.arts.gov/. Endowment for the Arts and Arts . National Endowment for the Arts, Web. 05 Mar. 2017. www.arts.gov/infographic-national-endowment-for-the-arts-and-arts- education/. Staff, Edudemic. vs. STEAM: Why The Makes a Edudemic, 21 Jan. 2015, Web, 4 Mar. 2017. www.edudemic.com/stem-vs-steam-why-the-a-makes-all-the- difference/.