Suarez 1 Jouline Suarez Mr. Phillips ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Censorship in School Censorship has a large influence in schools. However, most of the time, it affects students in a negative way because it limits the topics they can talk about and what they can learn. The National Coalition Against Censorship (NCAC) is an organization that fights censorship to a great extent. Two of their articles fight censorship in schools, and they have two pictures strongly opposing censorship. One of their pictures is of a book that has been censored, and another picture in their article is of a protest against censorship in schools. Both pictures affect the audience and their views towards censorship. The National Coalition Against Censorship fights censorship in schools through the use of its images of the censored book and protest with the appeals of logos and pathos. The National Coalition Against Censorship is strictly against censorship and fights the violation of human rights with censorship. The main message opposes censorship in all areas, including censorship in school. Ncac.org has two images that are strongly against censorship in school. One of the images has a picture of a book with half of a words covered up. Suarez 2 This is a way of fighting censorship because it shows the audience that the reader is being limited on what they can learn. It also shows that books may have censored paragraphs and makes the viewer understand how censoring things limits the information students receive. The other image is one of people in a protest against censorship in school and banning books. There are several protest signs in the picture that are about how banning books limits education, shutting out ideas and perspectives. The signs in the protest are fighting censorship and even one of them says that books shuts out (ncac.org). The sign is persuading people to be against censorship in school because it limits the ideas students have and the different perspectives that can be discussed. The purpose of my images is to persuade the audience to be against censorship and inform the audience about the consequences of having censorship in school. Both images convey the purpose of fighting censorship by affecting the audience with their advertisements. The use of the rhetorical appeal of logos in the images is essential in conveying the message opposing censorship in the National Coalition Against Censorship. In Allyson Hoffman and Kimber book Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, logos, in literature, is defined as appeal to (32). In the image of the book, the logos, is that by covering the words of the book, the school is limiting Suarez 3 knowledge. Almost half of the words in the image are being censored by the school therefore preventing the students about learning or knowing half of the material. Censoring the material in the book leads to students not being able to develop their ideas correctly. The article Freedom for Young by Katherine Butcher and Lee Manning states that presents a special problem in the upper elementary and middle school at this level are developing cognitively, physically, and Therefore, censoring material in books will not allow students to express their ideas or gain the complete information of the book. The image of the protest also uses logos to express the message against censorship. In the image of the protest, the use of logos is shown in the signs. One of the signs in the protest says books shuts out The logic of this statement is that by banning books, students are being limited on the ideas and perspectives they can have and discuss in class. Another sign says Books, Closing This sign appeals to logic because it shows how the banning of books leads to the limited knowledge of students which may lead to the closing of schools. It may also be trying to emphasize the banning of books by saying that it is as important as the closing of schools. Therefore, the logic in this image is that the banning and censorship of books is bad because it affects students in a negative way by limiting their education. The use of pathos in the two images plays a large role in communicating the point of view against censorship in ncac.org. Pathos, is an as described on page 190 in Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. In the image of the book, the pathos is that people might be upset because the reader cannot continue reading the book and will have to skip a section. The viewer will see how students are limited on what they Suarez 4 can read and will feel upset and mad because of the negative effect of censorship. According to Freedom for Young adolescents need to be aware of the problems caused by censorship and must support and protect intellectual (Butcher and Manning). Students should be informed about the negative effects of censorship and support freedom of speech in school in order to prevent not talking about important controversial topics. Students that read or talk about important censored material gain more knowledge and have a larger range of ideas. Students should feel free to talk about any topic in school and not feel pressured to limit their ideas and point of views. The image of the protest also uses pathos to convey the message against censorship. The pathos in the image is that the viewer will feel mad because censorship has a lot of negative effects in school. The viewer will see the negative effects of censorship depicted on the signs and will also see the angry face of the lady holding the sign. This will cause the viewer to feel against censorship in school. The people in the protest are students and parents. By looking at their facial expressions, parents in the protest must have strong feelings against censorship and the limiting of knowledge their kids are receiving in school. In Rachel research in her article, out of four parents felt about these topics [(violence, sexuality, religion, drug use, and could promote positive conversations around difficult It is important to talk about controversial topics with students because some may be affected emotionally by them. Some students in the protest might feel the need to talk about the controversial topics with someone in school and not be able to because of the harsh censorship. This article is imposing for schools to stop censoring material leading to the discussion of those topics. Suarez 5 The National Coalition Against Censorship strictly opposes censorship especially in schools. The images of the book and the protest help convey the purpose and message of the organization with the use of logos and pathos. Both images imply that censoring things in school limits the development of ideas and knowledge of students. They also affect the feelings and views towards censorship. With the use of logos and pathos in their images, the National Coalition Against Censorship successfully fights censorship in schools. If they stop fighting against censorship in schools, future generations might be negatively affected by the limiting of knowledge about important subjects. Suarez 6 Works Cited Book Censorship  National Coalition Against Censorship. National Coalition Against Censorship, 10 July 2013. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Butcher, Katherine, and Lee Manning. Intellectual Freedom For Young  ERIC - Freedom for Young Association for Childhood Education, 2007. Web. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Censored section of Green Illusions by Ozzy Zehner. Digital image. National Coalition Against Censorship. National Coalition Against Censorship, 2017. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Hallquist, Rachel. Tough Talk: Conversations with Students, Teachers, Parents, and Administrators about Censorship and Free Expression in High  Art Education, no. 3, 2008, p. 42. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print Persepolis ban protest at Lane Tech. Digital image. National Coalition Against Censorship. National Coalition Against Censorship, 2017. Web. 18 Feb. 2017.  National Coalition Against Censorship. National Coalition Against Censorship, 2017. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. The First Amendment in Schools: A Resource  National Coalition Against Censorship. National Coalition Against Censorship, 10 July 2013. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Suarez 7