Student 1 Student Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Housing First: Contrasting Solutions to Homelessness Homelessness is one of the most visible and prominent issues in the United States, and while methods to assuage it seem obvious, large scale solutions often approach homelessness from different perspectives. While two stakeholders in this issue, Metropolitan Ministries and Coalition for the Homeless, share the goal of improving the lives of the homeless, they follow incompatible methods to do it. The fundamental difference in their solutions revolve around a strategy labeled housing first, which homeless people the stability lacking in temporary solutions like shelters and halfway (Bertrand, n.p) The contrast between and strategies both present themselves as effective, but the incompatibility of their co-existence weakens both ability to provide aid. Coalition for the Homeless promotes housing first strategies, where Metropolitan Ministries uses a skill-building strategy to build up homeless people. The stakeholders can meet their shared goal while incorporating elements of both strategies through compromise. An inclusive solution to this difference, would be for homeless centers to provide temporary accommodations while residents go through the important skill-building process, and later transition residents to a permanent housing solution with their newfound skills. This solution separates from the housing first or skill-building philosophies, but includes the all desirable products from both ideologies. The first stakeholder, Metropolitan Ministries (MM), focuses on building life skills for their clients, as developing these skills is the best way to escape poverty. MM explains that Student 2 and job-skills training are long-term solutions for families . . . they can finish high school or get skills training that will enable them to actually provide for their (Metropolitan Ministries). philosophy is not unfounded either, a case study that focused on New England homeless in the early lead 638 homeless through a fourteen week skills-training program. (Nelson 710) The result of the program was an in all types of work and related life skills, employment and income, and multiple other life domains from baseline to graduation and (Nelson 711). In addition, the case study supports the concept that improved skills result in and secure more permanent housing, where it found in work and related life skills were associated with improvement in self-esteem and self-efficacy, and that these improvements predicted stable housing situations at (Nelson 711). Metropolitan Ministries provides a variety of skills training and services, covering adult GED classes, employment counseling for resumes, interviews, and job searches, a culinary arts program, financial services, mental health counseling, and child care to allow for full-time enrollment of parents (Metropolitan Ministries The value of education is especially underscored by MM, and the value of these skills are supported in case studies, but these programs only combat homelessness indirectly, and can be outwardly seen as ineffective due to their delayed nature. Skills-first programs place a high value on education in general, and correlate lack of education to poverty. The thought is that improving education will therefore counteract poverty, and that improved job skills and life skills are an effective solution to some of the root causes of homelessness. A 2013 case study reinforces the idea that education combats poverty, finding that (< high school) was associated with the third greatest loss of quality-adjusted life (Koffarnus 583), correlating lack of education to a symptom of poverty. Student 3 In contrast, Coalition for the Homeless (CH) employs a housing-first method for enacting their benevolence. On their website, CH presents housing-first as a proven solution, where long-term street homeless individuals - the majority of whom are living with mental illness, substance abuse disorders and other serious health problems - directly into subsidized housing and then linking them to support services, either on-site or in the (Coalition for the Homeless CH highlights the mental and psychological value of permanent residence to homeless citizens. An article from the Journal of Social Distress and the Homeless argues that are supports and barriers to the home process, which include social, physical, environmental, financial, and practical (Rivlin 323). A main draw of housing first is that it allows for homeless people to begin accustoming themselves to a permanent residence, and it removes some of the psychological barriers that impact freshly-resettled homeless citizens. Housing-first is advertised to state and federal governments as a cheaper solution to combat homelessness, this proposal is supported by article that states shelters, jail stays, ambulances, and hospital visits, caring for one homeless person typically costs the government $20,000 a year. Providing one homeless person with permanent housing, however as well as a social worker to help them transition into mainstream society costs the state (Nelson n.p). The idea that housing-first saves money is compounded by similar findings by an implementation in Denver, where costs alone went down 73 percent for people put in Housing First, for a savings of $31,545 per person; detox visits went down 82 percent, for an additional savings of (Carrier n.p.). These studies highlight the financial value of housing first, while CH places a strong emphasis on the psychological benefit for the residents. Student 4 Both stakeholders hold identical goals, but incompatible methods. The organizations state a clear focus on helping homeless people and combatting homelessness in their area, and place a heavy emphasis on their impact in doing so, however they approach the issue with different solutions. Housing-first focuses on people experiencing homelessness with permanent housing as quickly as possible and then providing voluntary supportive services as (National Alliance to End Homelessness n.p.), but skills-training can be either non- existent or optional to residents. The housing first philosophy of CH starkly contrasts with the skills training and education focus of MM, which assures education as the solution to chronic homelessness, and is reinforced by case study which states: most proximal cause of poverty is unemployment or underemployment, a problem that is difficult to address if individuals lack sufficient education and job (Koffarnus 583). Ultimately, both of these stakeholders can keep elements of their philosophy and better reach their goal through compromise. In the past, a to this issue was for different homeless centers to carry out their personal solution and to allow for homeless people to reach out to the appropriate aid based on their needs, but this solution obviously limits homeless people to centers in their proximity, and always simultaneously address the needs for both center services and housing. A more complete compromise would be for shelters to offer temporary housing while clients work on skills training and education, and then to help them transition to permanent residence and a stable career afterwards. The United States Interagency Council on Homelessness (USICH) places mental illness and substance abuse as the most frequent source of chronic homelessness, stating high rates of current or past mental illness (approximately 60%) and/or substance abuse disorders (approximately (USICH 4), highlighting the value of counseling and other services provided by MM, but also highlights the Student 5 effectiveness of immediate housing by citing the Collaborative Initiative to Help End Chronic Homelessness, participants who had been homeless for an average of 8 years were placed rapidly into permanent housing. The CICH evaluation reported 95% were in independent housing after 12 months; average costs for health care and treatment costs were reduced by about (USICH 6). All aspects of both solutions are covered by this compromise, and both existing lack-of-residence and factors for homelessness are addressed. Issues of feasibility are most easily directed at the cost of a program like this, but housing first solutions have already proven to be cost effective in reducing public expenditures that result from lack of residence. Skills training, which targets chronically homeless individuals and families, is especially cost effective, as the chronically homeless result in the highest state public expenditure, such as in Portland, Oregon, where costs for services used by chronically homeless, which are those unable to hold a residence or job, grow close to $50,000. This costs more for a single year than the cost of housing, feeding, and providing training for the same individual (USICH 4), the same is found in other states, where Seattle, median costs for public services used by chronically homeless persons with severe alcohol problems were $4,066 per person per month in the year before they entered supportive (USICH 4). Student 6 Works Cited Bertrand, Natasha. Utah Found a Brilliantly Effective Solution for Business Insider. Business Insider, 19 Feb. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Carrier, Scott, Katie Rose Quandt, Josh Harkinson and Prashanth Kamalakanthan, Robert Okin, Gabrielle Canon, Inae Oh, Andy Kroll, and Jennifer Velez. The Shockingly Simple, Surprisingly Cost-effective Way to End  Mother Jones. Mother Jones, Mar. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Chronic Homelessness Background  United States Interagency Council on Homelessness. United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, 2017. Web. 4 March. 2017. Housing  National Alliance to End Homelessness. National Alliance to End Homelessness, 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Koffarnus, Mikhail N., Conrad J. Wong, Michael Fingerhood, Dace S. Svikis, George E. Bigelow, and Kenneth Silverman. Monetary Incentives to Reinforce Engagement and Achievement in a Job-skills Training Program for Homeless, Unemployed  Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis 46.3 (2013): 582-91. Web. Nelson, Sarah E., Heather M. Gray, Ingrid R. Maurice, and Howard J. Shaffer. Moving Ahead: Evaluation of a Work-Skills Training Program for Homeless Community Mental Health Journal 48.6 (2012): 711-22. Web. Proven  Coalition For The Homeless. Coalition For The Homeless, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.coalitionforthehomeless.org/>. Student 7 Rivlin, Leanne G., and Jeanne Moore. Home-Making: Supports and Barriers to the Process of  Journal of Social Distress and the Homeless 10.4 (2001): 323-36. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. We Are Metropolitan  Metropolitan Ministries. Metropolitan Ministries, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.metromin.org/>.