Maycock 1 Natale Maycock Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 26 Mar 2017 Penny Wars Designed by Benjamin Franklin and first minted in 1787, the penny is the first currency of any type to be authorized by the American Government, and is said to the spirit of the nation, from Liberty to Lincoln (Holmes). But as of recently, the need for a penny in our current economy is being called into question. There are citizens that agree with organizations like Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, who strongly advocate for the abolishment of the American penny for several reasons. One of the many reasons being that the production cost of pennies have exceed one cent. Then there are Americans that can look past the production deficient, and have the same views as Americans for Common Cents, which is an organization that fights for the penny to stay in circulation by spreading the abundant history of the U.S. penny. Even though these two opposing organizations only have a common ground in the fate of the American penny, they both have very valid reasoning behind their ideals. But since the further production of pennies is combative to our economy, a revision of the manner that they are being produced can be means to an alternative route. Americans for Common Cents (ACC) is an organization whose mission is inform and educate policymakers, consumers, and the media about the economic, cultural, and historical significance [so the impact of any changes Maycock 2 to the role in our monetary supply is adequately One of Americans for Common strongest arguments revolves around the ideals that the abolishment of the penny is an unpatriotic act, one that would dampen our latent patriotism; another argument being the rounding effect that would be felt throughout the economy. Since the market would go from the penny being the smallest currency, to the nickel being the smallest, prices would have to adapt a rounding up/down effect. For instance, something that would cost $4.97 would have to be rounded down or up to $5.00. This type of rounding effect would affect the lower classes because the difference between $4.97 and $5.00 multiple times, for multiple items over a time period could be detrimental. According to ACC, 71% of Americans earning $35,000 or less a year prefer the continuance of the American penny (Home), But how detrimental is too detrimental? There are countries that have eradicated the circulation of their smallest currency, such as Britain, and our northern neighbors Canada without incident, which proves that the task is a feasible one. There are other American citizens that use the facts that other economically strong countries have ceased the rotation of their smallest currency to aid their mission of following suit, and dropping the American penny. Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny is an organization whose goal is to the public on the advantages of retiring the penny from general They ride on a platform that the penny is an outdated economic tool that the United States should uniformly quit using. One of their arguments being, that the penny costs more to make, than what hey are actually worth. According the Paul Solomon, Yale Maycock 3 Economics Professor and global economic expert, government continues to mint four billion pennies every year, even when it costs 1.8 cents to mint one that equates to the American Government spending $8 million more per year on pennies because of the production price margins. Many supporters of the eradication also try to insert their and question when was the last time they utilized a physical penny and how necessary they are. Looking at the numbers, one would lean towards the use of a nickel system. Without pennies, the nickel would be the smallest physical currency; prices would have to change to reflect the smallest factor being $0.05. But we as a country have already gone through something similar to this situation, 1857 the U.S. half penny was removed from circulation (Taylor). At the time, the argument was that the elimination aided in the fight at the inflation of the economy at the time, and it is proven that it helped, the only difference between then and now is about 160 years of technology, specifically credit and debit cards. Now that there is technology that allows us to utilize our own money in real time, without physically having it on our person could make the transition of the discontinuance of pennies an easier transition. In fact, since there are checking accounts with debit cards, it is possible for the physical penny to be removed from circulation, without us switching to a $0.05 system. Prices could, theoretically, stay virtually the same, while card is the major means of transactions. But this is all assuming that every American would access to a debit card. According to NASDAQ, 185 million (roughly 58%) of Americans have debit cards, so that means if the nickel system were to be utilized, Maycock 4 the 42% of Americans without debit card access would be economically excluded, disqualifying the nickel system as an option. A compromise that can be utilized has been implemented in American history previously, because during the duration of World War 2, pennies were made briefly from steel (Wolchover), to reduce the price and redirect money towards the war. A similar action could be taken in this matter and all sides could prevail. Americans that support the retirement of the penny would potentially be satisfied because the production price of the penny would decrease, no longer causing it to be an economical inconvenience. While those supporting its continuance in the American circulation get the traditional faced penny that they are accustomed to, as well as the American spirit behind the penny. The economy should actually feel a positive feedback from the change because the overall price of the penny production would decrease; and lastly the 42% of Americans without debit cards prevail because they are not left out in the economic dark. Ultimately, the two opposing sides of the penny wars need to come together for a compromise that would benefit the American economy as a whole. The ACC and Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny are two stakeholders whose ideas, on paper, seem practical and easily achieved. But in reality, are more than enviable, and slightly selfish. Instead, it is proposed that a middle ground of a new minting material is currently being talked about in the capital. Maycock 5 Work Cited Gore, Jeff. It Makes  Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny It Makes . N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Holmes, Tamara. Debit Card  NASDAQ. N.p., 16 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Mar. 2017.  Americans for Common Cents. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://pennies.org/>. Solman, Paul. Why We Should Kill the American  PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, 19 Feb. 2014. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Taylor, Sol. Half Cent,  Half Cent, The Signal, 24 Dec. 2005. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. coins.htm>. Wolchover, Natalie. How to Make the Penny Worth 1 Cent  Live Science. N.p., 16 Feb. 2012. Web. 26 Mar. 2017.