Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Depression: More Than Just a Stigma As many people continue to suffer from depression, a number of treatment options have been developed. According to the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, 6.7% of adults in America suffered from depression at one point in the year 2014 Treatment options vary depending on different institutions and what each individual person dealing with depression, anxiety, or like illnesses feels works for them. Concerns continue to increase as more people continue to suffer from depression and there is current controversy behind which treatments are effective, logical, and ethical. A current stakeholder, The Refuge, believes that depression is most effectively treated through more holistic approaches such as yoga and meditation to They strongly encourage natural healing techniques. Another current stakeholder, Freedom from Fear, however, holds the idea that depression may be effectively treated by education, medication, and research From They focus on scientific approaches as the most effective treatments for depression. Though both The Refuge and Freedom from Fear support the treatment of depression, they believe in two different methods, therefore a compromise between the two stakeholders would be to promote the support of family members and medical professionals regardless of which type of treatment is used in order to still achieve the goal of treating people positively, properly, and effectively. Student 2 There are some stakeholders such as The Refuge that support a certain way of how to treat depression and like illnesses. The Refuge is an institution that provides a residential treatment for people suffering from disorders ranging from anxiety and depression to post- traumatic stress disorders that lasts from 30 days to a year to The Refuge believes its mission is provide lasting recovery through healing the mind, body and to They aim to heal their patients by treating depression through holistic approaches as this is what they present as most effective. They do not endorse the use of scientific approaches such as the use of medication in any way. The Refuge supports their claims through the testimonies of past patients by posting videos of the testimonies on their website. In an article published by the Massachusetts General Hospital, they explain that it is important that people know more holistic approaches to treating depression as the side effects of antidepressant medication are serious and dangerous which help support The Refuges goals Your Though these medications aid in the stabilization of hormones and communication within the body, side effects such as bleeding, insomnia, headache, weight gain, and increased risk for are extremely prevalent Your In a case study completed by Cambridge University, self-help found to be the most acceptable and preferred treatment while found to be the least acceptable treatments, with antidepressants rated as the most likely to have side (Hanson). These examples further The Refuge and why it believes in its methods. Using the approaches and methods that The Refuge offers, people suffering from depression are helped through natural approaches that are stated to not include the harmful side effects that medications may cause. Student 3 On another hand are stakeholders such as Freedom from Fear (FFF) who present the idea that research and medication are effective ways of treating depression. Founded in 1984, FFF is a non-profit organization dedicated to mental health advocacy, treating people suffering from anxiety and depressive disorders From Their goal is impact, in a positive way, the lives of all those affected and related disorders through advocacy, education, research and community From They support the use of medication in order to treat the effects of depression and related illnesses. In a 2005 case study done by the University of Pennsylvania, it was seen that medication as a treatment was more effective than cognitive therapy techniques (DeRubeis, Hollon, Amsterdam). In their study, they were able to compare the perspectives and attitudes of cognitive therapy versus medication as treatments of depression. In an article published in the British Medical Journal, it was found that antidepressants the time to onset or relapse or recurrence or reduce the severity of residual depressive which furthers that idea that medication may be beneficial to those suffering from depression (Edwards). Though there are side effects that come with medications and research that still needs to be done, FFF stills believes that medication is the most effective method of treating serious depression. The research that comes with testing these methods of treatment is crucial and necessary so that people know what effective options are available to them. Both stakeholders aim to make sure that people suffering from depression are receiving the treatment they need. In order for both stakeholders to reach their goals, they must be sure that people suffering from depression have the support of family and medical professionals. The most recent solution to the incompatibility between these stakeholders is that the type of treatment that should be used depends on the person being treated and what works the most for them. In order Student 4 to ease the tension created by the incompatible stakeholders, The Refuge could take into consideration the results of the use of medication as a method of the treatment of depression as presented by Freedom from Fear. In addition, Freedom from Fear can also consider the techniques in which The Refuge treats its patients suffering from depression and its outcomes as well. A compromise that would be in the best interest of both stakeholders goals would be to promote the support of the treatment of depression amongst family members and medical professionals regardless of which treatment is used. While promoting the support of family members and medical professionals would be a compromise between the two stakeholders, it is indeed benefitting both sides. The proposed compromise benefits The Refuge because having the support of family members and medical professionals is an important part of the healing process. The Refuge is primarily focused on the of the mind, body, and to When it comes to the second stakeholder, Freedom from Fear, the proposed compromise would benefit them as well because the support of family members and medical professionals is a crucial step (and sometimes mandatory for legal purposes) in taking any medical actions for the treatment of depression. In a research article written by BMC Health Services, upon completing a case study, it is evident that awareness campaigns about depression and suicide can actually lead to modest improvement in public knowledge of and attitudes toward depression and which goes hand in hand with creating more communal support for those suffering from depression (Takashi). Another case study about internal family systems therapy in the treatment of depression mentions the lack of social support as a cause of depression (Haddock). Through this compromise, both stakeholders benefit because goal is still to encourage people suffering from Student 5 depression to seek help regardless of the type of treatment they receive, thus positively impacting their lives. Practically, this compromise can be implemented through further promotion of communal support on the website of each stakeholder. They can each create a page that discusses the importance of the support of family members and medical professionals in order to promote the need for the treatment of depression. In order to implement this compromise, each stakeholder must create a link on their websites that is on their main page so that people are able to realize the importance of having support first and then the importance of which type of treatment to use. They may also directly state this in their goals so that people understand just how crucial it is to have communal support. Although The Refuge and Freedom from Fear have seemingly incompatible goals, there is a compromise that would lead to their common end goal of positively, properly, and effectively treating people who suffer from depression. The compromise would be to encourage support among families and medical professionals of those suffering from depression. If this compromise is effectively implemented, then more people suffering from depression will seek professional help rather than worry about which treatment is better or more effective, thus aiding themselves as well as their families and their community. (Word Count: 1,368) Student 6 Works Cited  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <https://www.adaa.org/understanding-anxiety/depression>. Freedom From Fear: Anxiety and Depression Resource  Freedom From Fear: Anxiety and Depression Resource Organization. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <http://www.freedomfromfear.org/>. Increase Your Happiness without Antidepressant Medications: Natural Options May Help Ease Depression without Side  Mind, Mood & Memory, no. 1, 2013, p. 3. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.316317977&site=eds-live. Welcome to The  The Refuge. The Refuge, A Healing Place., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com/>. DeRubeis, Robert J. Hollon, Steven D. Amsterdam, Jay D. Cognitive Therapy Vs Medications in the Treatment of Moderate to Severe  Medical Benefits, no. 11, 2005, p. 11. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.133684925&site=eds-live. Edwards, J. Guy. Term Pharmacotherapy of Depression: Can Reduce Relapses and Recurrences in Major BMJ: British Medical Journal, vol. 316, no. 7139, 1998, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/25178924. Haddock, Shelley A.1, et al. The Efficacy of Internal Family Systems Therapy in the Treatment of Depression among Female College Students: A Pilot  Journal of Marital & Student 7 Family Therapy, vol. 43, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. 131-144. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/jmft.12184. Hanson, Katie, et al. Attitudes and Preferences Towards Self-Help Treatments for Depression in Comparison to Psychotherapy and Antidepressant  Behavioural & Cognitive Psychotherapy, vol. 44, no. 2, Mar. 2016, pp. 129-139. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1017/S1352465815000041. Takashi, Yakushi, et al. Usefulness of an Educational Lecture Focusing on Improvement in Public Awareness of and Attitudes toward Depression and Its  BMC Health Services Research, vol. 17, 10 Feb. 2017, pp. 1-9. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1186/s12913-017- 2071-0.