Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Healthy Eating from Grown Crops From thousands of years ago to the present day, societies have been growing crops as a source of food to consume. Recently, the use of genetically modified organisms has become an issue brought upon by plenty of people who are concerned about what foods are eaten. Two organizations: Organic Consumers Association and the American Association for the Advancement of Science have different perspectives on the prominent issue, with the former wanting to grow their crops in a more natural manner (Organic Consumers Association), and the latter feeling that the use of science in modifying crops will be the most efficient way of producing healthier crops (American Association for the Advancement of Science). The Organic Consumers Association ultimately wants foods to be the healthiest they can be without the use of genetically modified organisms, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science feels their food will be the healthiest with the use of genetically modified organisms, but both have incompatible ways in creating their food as well as a compatibility in wanting the healthiest food for their consumers. The first stakeholder, Organic Consumers Association (OCA), is an organization with the primary goal of campaigning for health, justice, and sustainability about the safety of foods within their industry (Organic Consumers Association). The Organic Consumers Association was created in 1998 in order to preserve strict standards when it comes to how food should be grown around the United States (Organic Consumers Association). Some people feel crops Student 2 should be grown without the use of genetically modified organisms because the body may not be able to handle whatever chemicals are within the crops. The members of the Organic Consumers Association feel that consumers of any grown food items should be aware of what they are eating and how the food was grown (Organic Consumers Association). In addition, the public is generally unaware of what specifically is in their food (Organic Consumers Association). Most people do not think twice when buying products at grocery stores. According to author Melissa Diane Smith, who has a diploma in nutrition, nearly 20 years, most Americans have been in the dark about GMOs and the foods made with are learning more about these untested, unlabeled substances imperceptibly hidden in our (1). Smith feels it is time for the people to learn the nutritional facts of what is in their food before it is bought from the food market because there is a possibility the food may not be healthy. Furthermore, the Organic Consumers Association (OCA) wants to prevent consumers from eating genetically modified organisms as the organization deems them not safe for people to eat because no one knows what chemicals are inside the food. Customers buying food at the local food markets think the same. Editor Ken Roseboro of the Organic and Non-GMO report portrays, want foods made with fewer, more simple, and natural without genetically modified (1). Consumers do not want to put any potentially harmful substances in their mouth without knowing what that substance is. There is no way to tell what implications eating something that is genetically modified might have on someone eating possibly hazardous food. Melissa Diane Smith agrees as she proclaims, in 10 consumers say they would be more likely to purchase food or a beverage described as GMO- Free in 34 percent would be willing to pay more for (3). Most people would Student 3 rather spend an extra amount of money if it means living a healthier lifestyle. The main point taken from these articles is that no person should have to risk their lives for a small amount of food. Moreover, the second stakeholder, the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), is a group known for their scientific work to help benefit all people. AAAS uses GMOs for projects such as creating healthier foods and integrating the future at present time. This organization to science, engineering, and innovation throughout the world for the benefit of all (AAAS). This organization was created in 1848 with the intent to invoke science within the United States to better develop its engineering at a national level (AAAS). One of the more latent goals of AAAS is to subtly force the future onto Americans while in present time. Likewise, most companies that use genetically modified organisms have the goal of improving the health of users that consume their products. The Philippine Rice Research Institute is genetically modifying golden rice that will contain beta-carotene, which will help with people who cannot see as well as others (Alberts et al.). In this example, blindness is caused by a severe vitamin A deficiency. The beta-carotene prevents deficiencies for 1.9 to 2.8 million preventable deaths annually, mostly of children under 5 years old and (Alberts et al.). The golden rice will help those in need because it has a high source of vitamin A, which will vastly help improve ability ranging from seeing normally again to regaining growth and development. As comparatively stated from the Ghana Public Health Association, an advantage to allowing GMOs would be the nutritional properties of crops to enhance human health through food fortification with desired vitamins and (Amofah 2). Including genetically modified organisms within food is for health reasons specifically, not to Student 4 harm those who consume the modified products. Most people around the world look to improve life expectancy as well as easing the lives of others. Similarly, there has not been evidence of genetically modified organisms having adverse effects on those who consume the products. In the article Verdict on GMO foods: Safe to a committee compared the incidence of cancer, obesity, kidney disease, etc. with the consumption of GMOs in North America to those of Western Europe Personal Finance). Since Western Europe has no GMOs, then there would be an expected difference between the two hemispheres in correlation to the contraction of the various illnesses Personal Finance). Kiplinger feels if there were any major changes within the human body from genetically modified organisms, then the differences would have been discovered by now, however, there have not been any discoveries, making the use of GMOs perfectly okay for those who want to use if when making modifications to their crops. Conversely, a compromise between the two perspectives has recently come to fruition. The U.S committee on Agriculture has released a compromise plan to provide mandatory labeling of GMOs in food (GMO Bill). If this plan does become a law, then companies can have labels created to make customers aware that the foods they are purchasing contains genetically modified organisms. This is the start of equality between both perspectives on how crops should be grown. Both get to grow food in their own way, but now customers are going to be aware of what is in their products before they buy the items. Regarding both stakeholders, although one organization promotes the use of genetically modified organisms and the other does not, both have a mission of providing the best food for people in order for them to live healthier and longer lives. The stakeholders must respect the views on GMOs, and although this may be hard, everyone has different perspectives, so there is really no right way to Student 5 grow food. Some prefer food to be grown organically and others prefer genetic modifications. In the end, views should be respected. Overall, the Organic Consumers Association and the American Association for the Advancement of Science have opposing perspectives on the issue of genetically modified organisms. An offered solution would be to provide labels on the packaging that contain GMOs so customers who are purchasing the products are aware of what they are buying. This may have people thinking about the foods they consume and if they are eating the proper way or not. One may gain a deeper perspective on what goes inside their bodies and if what they eat is actually healthy. In a lighter sense, both stakeholders have an equal amount of freedom to promote and advertise their perspectives as much as they can per the first amendment of the United States. With this, the labeling of products seems to be the most practical way for both sides when using GMOs or not for the most equality when concerning an issue as delicate as this. (WC: 1396) Student 6 Works Cited - The Largest General Scientific Society AAAS - The Largest General Scientific Society 27 Mar. 1970, www.aaas.org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Alberts, Bruce, et al. Up for Science, American Association for the Advancement of Science, 20 Sept. 2013, science.sciencemag.org/content/341/6152/1320.full. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Amofah, George. FROM A MEETING ON HEALTH IMPLICATIONS OF GENETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISM Lib.usf, Ghana Medical Journal, June 2014, eds.a.ebscohost.com. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017 Personal Finance. Verdict on GMO Foods: Safe to Lib.usf, Business Source Premier, Feb. 2017, eds.a.ebscohost.com. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Organic Consumers Association. Organic Transitions, 1998, www.organicconsumers.org/campaigns/organic-transitions. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Roseboro, Ken. Certified!, Prepared Foods, June 2016, eds.a.ebscohost.com. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Committee Crafts Compromise GMO Senate Committee Crafts Compromise GMO Bill, Putman Media, Inc, July 2016, eds.b.ebscohost.com. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Smith, Melissa Diane. Ways to Eat Out GMO 7 Ways to Eat Out GMO Free, Better Nutrition, Mar. 2016, eds.a.ebscohost.com. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. ---. REALITY GMO REALITY CHECK, Better Nutrition, Aug. 2012, eds.a.ebscohost.com. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017