Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 The Incompatible Dispute on the Labeling of Genetically Modified Organisms A genetically modified organism, also known as a GMO, is the product of a scientific process that takes genes from the DNA of one species and unnaturally forces them into the genes of a dissimilar plant or animal. The extraneous genes come from various types of bacteria, viruses, insects, animals, and in some cases humans (GMO Education). This topic is important today because of the fact that are becoming more relevant, and there is an issue with the ever-growing controversy in regards to how they are presented on various food labels. The primary goal of the first stakeholder, the Federal Drug Administration or FDA is to provide safety for the health of the public, promote better nutrition, and ensure the quality of products (U.S. Food and Drug Administration Home Page). In regards to this stakeholders mission is to ensure that they are labeled correctly on products that are containing them. The goal of the second stakeholder, DuPont is to solve problems through science and engineering in order to sustain a healthy earth (DuPont USA). DuPont is one of the largest companies to oppose the proper labeling of because of the fact that if are properly labeled they may scare off consumers and lead to a decline in sales and even in some cases, lawsuits. Because the labeling of is controversial, by determining what exactly defines a GMO new laws can be implemented by the two stakeholders through coming together with their similar missions in mind, both of which include aiming to provide safer food and pleasing their consumers. Student 2 The principal arguments that are used by the FDA to support their side on this argument are shown throughout their site. The FDA is in support of the labeling because they want to avoid having manufacturers mislead customers by placing the terms or on products rather than simply stating that are present on the label (Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant Varieties). The common public is not able to recognize when a manufacturer is referring to by using a different term. The argument for the labeling found in products is supported through their acts of ensuring higher quality products, and guaranteeing safety in food distribution. main argument is that when are properly labeled, sales of certain products will decline. Not only would sales decline, but according to another source found on website, has been much discussion of whether or not the labeling of  foods would add to the cost of food (Schmidt). Therefore, DuPont is in support of calling other names on labels in order to obtain better sales and a more efficient production cost because customers are unaware that are in the product. There are many misleading labels that imply that products are safer or healthier than they actually are even when genetically modified (Misko). Despite having incompatible goals, both stakeholders have shared interests, concerns, and needs. They both put their consumers at their best interest. The FDA creates the rules and regulations that aim to maintain responsibility for the safety of food products while also promoting better nutrition (U.S. Food and Drug Administration Home Page). While DuPont desires to take on large challenges through the world of science and engineering in order to bring new products and patents to the world (DuPont USA). Though they may disagree in some instances, both companies aim to provide safer food and please their consumers. They are concerned with the health and well being of people. Regardless of their incompatible goals, what Student 3 both of the companies need are people to support them. Without any reassurance from people, the programs implemented by the stakeholders would ultimately fail. Because of the similarities, finding common ground between the two is not too difficult of a task. A solution to this incompatibility that was put in place by the FDA is the FD&C Act that forbids food from the industry that has been misbranded or mislabeled in a way that is misleading to consumers (Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant Varieties). This act is in support of the goals to have clearly labeled so the public is aware of what is in their food. This act was just another way to maintain their mission of ensuring better quality and safety for the betterment of the public (U.S. Food and Drug Administration Home Page). Though this solution agrees with the first stakeholder, it does not offer a complete resolution to the issue. DuPont fought a subpoena from Vermont government officials for their results regarding the possible health and environmental effects of the genetically modified crops, which just goes to show the extent to which the two companies differ (Randall). A compromise is nearly impossible when it comes to the labeling of because it seems as though there are two different options, one that includes the label and one that does not. In order for the two stakeholders to compromise they need to agree on what exactly defines a genetically modified organism. In doing this, companies will not have to hide the fact that their products include By having the two stakeholders agree on a set of standards that only requires certain companies to acknowledge to labeling of if and only if the specific organisms used in the product put the consumer at risk. Similar to organic products, the level of should be put on the label as a compromise between the two stakeholders. The two stakeholders missions of wanting to better the health and wellness of people will come together by setting guidelines as to what a GMO is and placing the amount and type on a Student 4 label. The proposed compromise will give both of the stakeholders the ability to have a few of their ideas implemented by bringing their similar missions together. The compromise benefits the FDA by still allowing them to partially control the labeling of while also letting DuPont to keep other names of on products. By differentiating between and similar substances labeling laws would become a lot simpler. It has been mentioned to proceed with caution when using terms such as not contain or because of how difficult of claims those are to substantiate (Misko). Properly determining and coming to the conclusion as to what defines a GMO is the first step toward agreeing on a law that benefits both stakeholders. This compromise benefits both stakeholders by allowing them each to implement their ideas, and bring their similar goals together in order to benefit the health of people. At a practical level, a lot of research must be done on in order to make this compromise a reality. Labeling laws today are unclear and have yet to determine where to draw the line when it comes to trait, variety, or both (Schmidt). A specific step that needs to be taken in order to implement this compromise is to begin measuring the extent to which the are present in the different food items to put percentages on the labels. Once determining the percentage, then the type of GMO needs to be specified as well. The conflicting goals of the FDA and DuPont in regards to the labeling of can be realistically resolved through compromise by determining what exactly defines a GMO and labeling the percentage in which they are present in certain products. Neither stakeholder is correct, nor incorrect when it comes to the controversy over the labeling of genetically modified organisms, as both companies make great points on their side of the argument. The similar missions concerning the health and well being of people help in working toward a Student 5 compromise between the two. The proposed idea is able to show why both have valid reasoning behind their claims and are able to come together with their comparable goals in order to achieve a fair compromise (WC:). Student 6 Works Cited Audette, Robert. GMO labelling law: DuPont, Syngenta fight disclosure of internal Watch. N.p, 21 June 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. DuPont USA. The DuPont Oval Logo, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. GMO  Institute for Responsible Technology. WordPress, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Misko, George. FDA denies petition for GMO  Packaging Digest, 4 January 2016, p. 24. General OneFile, 26 Feb. 2017. Randall,Chase. Fights Vermont Subpoena in GMO Labeling AP Regional State Report - Maryland, Associated Press DBA Press Association, 15 April. 2016. EBSCOhost, 26 Feb. 2017. Schmidt, Jennifer. The Costs of GMO  GMOAnswers. N.p., 18 Apr. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant  Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant Varieties. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. U S Food and Drug Administration Home  U S Food and Drug Administration.Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Wright, James. From lab to label: should disclosure of GM products be mandatory at point of  Seafood Business, Sept. 2013, p. 20+. Academic OneFile, 26 Feb. 2017.