Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Complementing takes on the Arts in American Education Throughout the years, the conversation around the arts being integrated on American Education has been a topic of interest recently discussed around the nation. The issue, however, gives the rise to two different sides and takes on what should and should not be allowed. One side that questions if the arts should be supported in schools everywhere as more than just an extracurricular activity. On another side, there are advocates that believe the arts should not be integrated into education, stating it is a waste of time and money and should be taken away completely. The Americans for the Arts organization believes and supports the arts while the Heritage Foundation disagrees on the matter and would like it to be removed. The points of view that are taken from the two stakeholders are seemingly incompatible; however, the compromise of keeping the arts in schools with a shared funding can be implemented through believing in the importance of the arts as a whole, finding a common ground on both sides, and supporting that one thing that joins them together for the bettering of the American society. The Americans for the Arts organization is in full support of the arts not only in schools, but also around the entire nation. Their ultimate goal and mission is to advance, and lead the network of organizations and individuals who cultivate, promote, sustain, and support the arts in for the They believe in the Student 2 arts as a form of transformation in society and something that should not be ignored or cast aside. The article written by Randy Cohen discusses the top reasons why the arts should be supported (Cohen 1). One of the main reasons is how the arts improve academic performance, bringing out evidence that proves that students involved in the arts have higher and SAT scores. He also states that 88% of Americans believe in the arts as an integral part of an all-around successful K-12 education (Cohen 1). Additionally, Cohen is a believer of the arts as the essence for society, and he clearly explains how the arts creativity and with 72% of people stating that creativity is of high importance when being hired for a job (Cohen 1). Other supporters of the arts like Edward C. Warbunton agree with the Americans for the Arts organization, and in his article to Arts beyond High School: Issues of Demand and Availability in American Higher he discusses how the art programs have increased performance, reduce absenteeism, develop thinking and social skills, improve (Warbunton 1), and how it also improves connections in the outside world, far away from school. Author Dorothea Lansky also shows her support by stating how the arts bring uncharted opportunities in learning for students. She also argues how it reopens the imagination and with this it brings out change in their society (Lasky 75). This shows how some strongly believe in the arts funding for school education. On the other hand, we have the Heritage Foundation, which leads a conservative movement and rigorous conservative policy research to Congress and American Heritage They pursue their mission by timely, accurate research on key policy issues and effectively marketing Student 3 these findings to our primary which mainly include members of congress and policymakers. This particular foundation states that the U.S Congress already struggles to balance the federal budget and that the NEA, or National Endowment of the Arts, should be eliminated from it. This is stating that the arts have enough support without federal funding and that its merely (Butler 1). Adding up to this, they also state that the arts fail to further improve culture in the United States. They believe that it advocates art that diminishes American values; finally concluding that cutting the NEA be good for the arts and good for (Butler 1). Agreeing with this foundation writers Kornhaber and Mishook in integration in an Era of go over how students in schools designed to provide a strong arts program are less likely to do good than in a public school with a subservient art program, revealing that too much art integration may be misleading (Kornhaber and Mishook 9). Furthermore, Nicholas Tate from Case against the Arts from Plato to Tolstoy and Its Implications for Why and How the Arts Should Be Taught in goes over the different views on the arts as a negative impact. He states how the arts can corrupt mental judgment, increase emotion over reason, and disturb people from taking care of their lives, which can all be very distracting (Tate 1). Both of them express their dislike of arts in education, therefore accepting what the Heritage Foundation has to offer. When two stakeholders share incompatible goals it may be somewhat hard to find common ground between them. The goals of these two particular stakeholders both go against each other in a lot of different ways. However, they do share one thing in common, and that involves the arts itself. Both sides go to great extents to give people Student 4 reasons as to why supporting the arts can be good for the greater education or how funding for it is just unnecessary and should not be supported. They also share the same concern in common, which is the American people. Both main claims and reasons include people and how these specific claims affect them. Lastly the stakeholders both share the need of getting their voice heard and getting their reasons and missions across. With different needs, one being is the importance of the arts in school and the other one being against the practice of the arts in education, it is essentially important for both of them to convey their message in a way that everyone understands them. Solutions for the incompatibility between how arts in schools should be dealt with have arose and keep arising as the years go by. Schools all around the United States try to get funding from sponsors around their community in a search for more support in the program and less spending on the governments and respective part. While in some schools this works, it has not fixed the problem as a whole. For a good and successful compromise to be created, both of the sides must give up something, bending to the idea. A favorable accord between the stakeholders would be that instead of cutting the whole arts program and budget as a whole, schools could divide the money between a more sustainable department that has more money than they spend and can help as well, like the Athletics department. These proposal benefits the Americans for the Arts organization by keeping and supporting the arts in school just as their mission strives for. Likewise, it helps the Heritage Foundation by saving the federal budget some money through cutting the amount of money given to the schools. This compromise can be implemented with the help of Congress and the school Board of Education, where an agreement can be decided that supports the proposal in Student 5 which both sides are giving something away. According to Rajan on the article, the different guidelines to achieving the agreement from the school board include where to find potential funders, writing the proposal, developing a budget, and including an 30). Following this will lead to a possible review and acceptance to this proposed compromise that both stakeholders can cope with. This compromise in which instead of completely cutting the arts program and budget, schools could get to divide the money between a more viable department can only be successful if people around America support both sides of it and want to see an accord finally be set between them. Between the Americans for the Arts or those who support and encourage the arts in schools and the heritage Foundation or those who would want it to get unfunded a deep acceptance needs to be reached. It is an arrangement that challenges people to think about not only their future but also the future of everyone around them and how it can be affected with this proposal. With this compromise there is hope that on both sides of this ordeal there are those who can see through the clouds of difference and reach an agreement that benefits the American people. (WC: 1402) Student 6 Works Cited Americans for the  Americans for the Arts. N.p., http://www.americansforthearts.org/. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Butler, Stuart. Ten Good Reasons to Eliminate Funding for the National Endowment Orthe  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.heritage.org/report/ten-good-reasons-eliminate-funding-the-national- endowment-orthe-arts#>. Cohen, Randy I. 10 Reasons to Support the Arts in  ARTS Blog. Americans for the Arts, 4 Mar. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://blog.americansforthearts.org/2016/03/04/10-reasons-to-support-the-arts- in-2016>. Lasky, Dorothea1. Learning from Objects: A Future for 21St Century Urban Arts  Perspectives on Urban Education, vol. 6, no. 2, Oct. 2009, pp. 72-76. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=eue&AN=47839123&site=eds-live. Mishook, Jacob J. and Mindy L. Kornhaber. Arts Integration in an Era of  Arts Education Policy Review, vol. 107, no. 4, Mar/Apr2006, pp. 3-11. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? Rajan, Rekha S. Funding  General Music Today, vol. 30, no. 1, Oct. 2016, pp. 30-37. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/1048371316649641. Tate, Nicholas. The Case against the Arts from Plato to Tolstoy and Its Implications for Why and How the Arts Should Be Taught in  Educational Review, vol. Student 7 68, no. 1, Feb. 2016, pp. 24-39. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/00131911.2015.1044500. The Heritage  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. <http://www.heritage.org/about-heritage/mission>. Warburton, Edward C. Access to Arts beyond High School: Issues of Demand and Availability in American Higher  Arts Education Policy Review, vol. 107, no.6, Jul/Aug2006, pp. 11-16. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=ap h&AN=23317134&site=eds-live. Vancouver/ICMJE References Warburton E. Access to Arts Beyond High School: Issues of Demand and Availability in American Higher Education. Arts Education Policy Review [serial on the (2006, July), [cited February 26, 107(6): 11-16. Available from: Academic Search Premier.