Student 1 Student Professor Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Maintaining the Coal industry in a growing Solar Economy Energy is a growing concern across the world, with the increasing issue of climate change all countries are searching for alternative sources of energy. With this concern conservative sources of energy such as fossil fuels, coal and oil are disbanding due to their impacts on towards the environment. Also through this solar, wind and hydro energy are growing through more government funding and incorporation in large businesses. As the solar industry grows and the coal industry stagnates interest groups take sides promoting their viewpoint on the conflict. Stakeholders disagree on the issue of whether to invest more time and money into alternative sources of energy, or to continue to fund and research energy acquired through fossil fuels. A prime example of a stakeholder promoting solar and other sources of alternative energy is the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), this organization creates articles and backs companies to promote the usage of solar energy within America (Solar Energy Industries Association). Another stakeholder that stands out to defend the coal industry by preserving it in Western America through education is the Rocky Mountain Coal Mining Institute (RMCMI). This organization sets out to work with state governments, and colleges to secure the coal industry within most of America (Coal and Mining Industry Organizations Companies and Non- Profits). Because using solar energy is contentious, the compromise of using solar energy where possible can be implemented by utilizing the coal industry as means for producing panels. Student 2 The SEIA is a non-profit organization that was established in 1974 as a trading association, this group works with several other companies to make solar energy a mainstream resource within America (Solar Energy Industries Association). It notes on the website, organization maintains a complete dedication to solar energy as means for powering (Solar Energy Industries Association) and intends to do so by influencing the general population of the United States. Due to the recent concerns of global warming and climate change, ideas of alternative sources of energy have become more prominent throughout the world, including but not limited to hydropower, and wind power (Mackay). The SEIA stands to champion the use of clean, affordable solar energy in America by expanding markets and working with thousands of member companies. Solar energy is a major form of alternative energy and most think it should be considered as the primary source of power in America because they believe cost-efficient, promotes a new source of jobs, and is a clean supply of energy (Solar Policy and Legislation). This information along with many other sources can be found on the website (www.seia.org) and in the citations listed in the works cited. The SEIA maintains a hold that climate change is affecting the world now because of the usage of fossil fuels as a means of energy. The other stakeholder in this argument is the Rocky Mountain Coal Mining Institute, a nonprofit western based American company set out on defending the coal industry through education. Founded in 1912 the organization enounces its ideals as sponsoring educational programs that pertain to coal mining technologies, and production techniques, as well as safety on federal laws. Along with these goals the mission statement states, disseminate to the public and to educational and scientific institutions knowledge and the results of study and research into recent developments in coal mining technologies and production Student 3 techniques, mining management and safety, federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to coal mining and other energy related (Coal and Mining Industry Organizations Companies and Non-Profits). The company maintains through primary sources that the coal industry greatly affect climate change in America, and through proper education more people can be informed of the issue (Miller). Information on the subject of coal in America and the stakeholder can be found at the website (www.rmcmi.org) and the sources enounced in the works cited. Global warming and energy as means for empowering America is an impending issue, many people look towards alternate sources of energy while others believe the continuity of fossil fuels is important. As organizations and companies side against one another fiscally the issue becomes less and less compatible. A possible solution to compromise this problem is to maintain the coal industry by utilizing it to increase production of solar panels. The SEIA wants to improve the environment by disbanding fossil fuels and improving solar power in America. The RMCMI wants to continue the coal industry in western America by educating the public and sustaining the industry as a whole. While each stakeholder has interests that goes against one another they each want to continue the energy industry in America greatly. Concerns that both organizations have been based on climate change and global warming as a whole, the melting of ice caps, stronger hurricanes, and severe heat waves are all prominent due to the changes in the environment. Through this, both companies have a common need of expansion and through factories each will succeed more. Past solutions to this incompatibility have occurred but mostly through the cutting down of coal power as a whole in America to open up more alternate sources of energy. Other solutions have been created so that solar energy furthers and the coal energy starts to diminish by governments control. Most scientists have come out in articles and Student 4 textbooks noting that have to cut down on coal power as a whole in America to open up more alternate sources of (Smart Energy Solutions: Decrease Coal Use.). Compromises that benefited the coal industry in the past caused solar groups to cease on its creation of solar panels so the coal industry can further (Mathur). A possible new compromise that can be reached between the two companies is that to create more solar panels, Americans can invest in coal factories by means to create them, by doing this both sides of this conflict benefit. The possibility of this compromise will benefit each stakeholder immensely. The SEIA and the solar industry will gain more production into solar panels while the RMCMI and the coal industry will still be a continuous source of jobs within America. This will benefit both as a whole through the compromises implementation, more jobs will be created in the coal industry to be able to create more solar panels so that the solar industry will increase (Walker). At a practical level coal companies can begin selling their power output to other companies that create solar panels in America. Specific steps include increased production of solar panels, and increased output of coal mining and factories to be able to create the alternative energy source of solar panels. As seen from this compromise and many others, both sides have to commit, give to benefit each other and overall. For this and every other compromise each group is always cutting back in a way to further the general concept. The compromise discussed in this essay is the issue of climate change and alternative sources of energy challenging conservative methods. On a positive note the possible compromise that may occur between the two stakeholders is that overall it will benefit the planet as a whole by reducing emissions and lessening the problems that arise from climate change. Through the compromise problems that arise through global Student 5 warming bring will be lessened immensely and humanity will greatly benefit. (Word Count: 1221) Student 6 Works Cited Coal and Mining Industry Organizations Companies and  Coal and Mining Industry Organizations Companies and Non-Profits. N.p., n.d. Web. Mathur, V.K. Coal gasification using solar  Elsevier Ltd, n.d. Web. Mackay, Michael E. Solar energy: an introduction. Oxford: Oxford U Press, 2015. Print. Miller, Bruce G. Coal energy systems. Amsterdam: Elsevier Academic Press, 2005. Print. Smart Energy Solutions: Decrease Coal  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. Solar Energy Industries  SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association. N.p., 02 Mar. 2017. Web. Solar Policy and  MassSolar. N.p., 26 June 2016. Web. Walker, Andy. Solar energy: technologies and the project delivery process for buildings. Hoboken: Wiley, 2013. Print.