Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 20 March 2017 Different Energies for Similar Purposes The lives of those in developed countries is driven using energy to power our cars and light our homes. Various means gives this energy, from the burning of fossil fuels to the capture of solar energy, and everything in between. Fossil fuels comprise of the total energy used by the world (Hendrickson). A problem arises from this usage, as the world will eventually run out of its limited quantity (Hendrickson). It is simply not possible to stop using something that comprises so much of daily life at a quick pace, not to mention the cost of switching to renewable energies or other means. While Solar Energy International uses renewable energy to power the globe, Saudi Aramco stands to use fossil fuels to help supply the world. The points of view that are taken by these two stakeholders seem incompatible; however, the compromise of slowly decentralizing out energy system off fossil fuels and integrating solar energy can be implemented through both companies working together for the better of humans, and both using the extent of their resources and knowledge to aid one another. Solar Energy International (SEI) is non-profit organization that stands to people around the world through education of sustainable (Solar Energy International). SEI argues that renewable energy systems are a more practical and reliable way to help protect the environment and keep it healthy. In 2006, R wrote an article assessing what could possibly happen if California concentrated more resources into Solar Power. In this article, it states that if a 4000 mega Watt solar array was established in California Student 2 it would reduce the amount of CO2 emissions by 7.6 million tons per year ES-4). Integrating solar energy into the grid would result in much less emissions into the ozone, and in turn reduce the risk of climate change to the planet. The second stakeholder, Saudi Aramco, is the largest oil company producing in 8 of oil used throughout the globe (Saudi Aramco). This company stands to produce products people and depend for economic growth and (Saudi Aramco). The use of fossil fuels is heavily relied on, of our energy comes from them alone (Hendrickson). In a book titled, The Moral Case of Fossil Fuels, Alex Epstein persuades the reader of why fossil fuels are currently needed (Alex Epstein). Simply put, is the only energy technology that can currently meet the energy needs of all 7+ billion (Epstein). Fossil fuels, are simply a cheap and easy way to supply the world with the abundance of energy it needs. While both companies promote different forms of energy, both stand to provide some form of energy to its consumers. Either company is focused on implanting its energy source, as they see it is fit for the needs of the consumer. In addition, both stand to make a necessary revenue to expand their companies and offer a wider array of services to more people around the globe. SEI and Saudi Aramco rely on different forms of energy, they both share in their intention of providing it to consumers. Their vision of providing energy is the underlying factor that brings the two companies together, and will allow for a compromise if both companies work together. When entities come to a compromise, the way is paved by the shared ideals of those coming together. Compromises between companies like those of SEI and Saudi Aramco, have been unsuccessful in the past as either party was unwilling to maneuver their own vision. Many individuals see as the oil companies stopping the production of oil, which would Student 3 pose major economic hazards as society relies on it very heavily. Oil companies would like to see renewable energies be eliminated altogether from the power grid, as they are in favor of one form of energy. This ideal is not sustainable as it takes of for fossil fuels to develop, so the supply will not be able to keep up with the demand. Based on these past failures, it is right to deduce that both companies must give up a little to obtain more. It is needed for companies Saudi Aramco, and companies alike, to lower the amount of oil produced and distributed over time. However, SEI will share their knowledge with Saudi Aramco and allow the resources of the bigger company to help educate and implement more sustainable practices. Both stakeholders must work with one another, to agree to implement more sustainable practices and not rely so heavily on a fuel that will die. Both companies want to provide energy for their consumers, providing it based on needs and availability of resources. The benefits for SEI include the ability to impact more persons around the world and provide sustainable practices, backed by a company that directly impacts most individuals around the world. Saudi Aramco is larger and has more resources available to them, allowing for SEI to use these to their advantage. Saudi Aramco of being more sustainable in the future when their supply of fossil fuels will inevitably run out, while still maintaining their status as one of the largest energy suppliers in the world. Saudi Aramco will have even more of an impact and a greater image weeding out their fossil fuel production as environmental agencies will take a liking to the approach the oil giant is maneuvering towards. In an article written by Kartikeya Singh, titled Of Sun Gods and Solar Energy, he assesses the availability of consumer energy in urban slums in his home country of India. Singh writes, million and many face a daily struggle to access to commercial (Singh 50). In a very populous country such as India, many still struggle to gain access to electricity and daily energy sources. For both Saudi Student 4 Aramco, and SEI this is a problem that they could assess with more research and implementing more sustainable ways for those in lower socioeconomic backgrounds to gain access to consumer electricity. Both companies working together to create a more integrated energy system and helping the planet in the process. In implementing a compromise, it is above all, the companies job to assess one another and monitor each involvement in the compromise. If only one company is doing their part both will suffer from the decisions of the one. Implementing renewable energy and phasing out fossil fuels is the core ideal in the compromise between SEI and Saudi Aramco. However, if the phasing out/in takes too long than the companies will suffer due to lack of revenue. Practical strategies can be put into place by analyzing research and using mathematical models to hypothesis the best course of action. Per an article published in January of 2016, systems offer more susceptibility for improvement by integration of (Baniassadi 298). Amir Baniassadi, the author of the article, assess how using a statistical model of R-curves, you can analyze the rate at which renewable energies are implemented into the system. Per his article the integration of renewable resources is impactful in improving electrical systems already present. In addition to Baniassadi, an additional article by the duo of Tim Schmidla and Ingo Stadler, agrees in the establishment of renewable energy added with cogeneration systems. The duo established that in majority renewable systems, the turnout of efficiency with cogeneration systems was greater than that of preexisting power systems. The article stated, that operation mode is calculated using a linear algorithm structure involving actual and forecast showing the assessment of data is easily done using algorithms and knowledgeable research (Schmilda and Stadler). The two sources both assess the use of implementing renewable resources and that they are beneficial to Student 5 the power. Adding more sources of renewable energy betters the power grid, but also adds more incentive to remove harsh fossil fuels from production. The integration of two entities with opposing initiatives requires a lot of compromise from both parties. However, the integration of SEI and Saudi Aramco allows for a more sustainable future and an outlook to better and safer planet. Looking ahead, it is known that fossil fuels will eventually run out in them taking millions of years to be produced in the earth. Implementing more renewable resources will lessen the load on fossil fuels until they dry up. Two entities compromising now, allows for better transitions and to be more readily equipped. (WC: 1403) Student 6 Works Cited Baniassadi, Amir, et al. Application of R-Curve Analysis in Evaluating the Effect of Integrating Renewable Energies in Cogeneration  Applied Thermal Engineering, vol. 93, 25 Jan. 2016, pp. 297-307. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.applthermaleng.2015.09.101. Epstein, Alex. The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels. Portfolio, 2014. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sebk&AN=1122790&site=eds-live. Hendrickson, Cary. Fossil  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=er s&AN=89475132&site=eds-live. R. Economic, Energy, and Environmental Benefits of Concentrating Solar Power in  2006. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2172/881924. Aramco Where Energy Is Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabian Oil Company, 2017, www.saudiaramco.com/en/home.html. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017 Schmidla, Tim and Ingo Stadler. Prospective Integration of Renewable Energies with High Capacities Using Combined Heat and Power Plants (CHP) with Thermal  Energy Procedia, vol. 99, no. 10th International Renewable Energy Storage Conference, IRES 2016, 15-17 March 2016, Dusseldorf, Germany, 01 Nov. 2016, pp. 292-297. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.egypro.2016.10.119. Student 7 Training, Solar PV Training, Solar Installer Training, Solar Energy Solar Energy International (SEI), Solar Energy International, 2016, www.solarenergy.org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. SINGH, KARTIKEYA. Of Sun Gods and Solar  Issues in Science & Technology, vol. 33, no. 2, Winter2017, pp. 48-54. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=aph&AN=120774616&site=eds-live.