Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Difference in PTSD Treatment. Posttraumatic Stress Disorder, which is also known as PTSD, is a mental disorder caused by a shocking and/or life-threatening event, like natural disaster, sexual assault, combat, etc. Everyone, despite his or her age, sex and social status is at the risk. The disorder does not have specific range of impact, since almost everyone had, has or might experience something traumatizing during his or her life. However, even though most of the people recover from traumatic event comparatively fast, some people might have issues with getting over the frightful memory of the event (PTSD: National Center for PTSD). Luckily for those people, some organizations, such as K9s For Warriors and The Refuge, are willing to offer help and treatments to people with PTSD so they will have a chance to recover from the disorder. Nevertheless, these organizations have different treatment methods and approach, which causes a conflict between their beliefs and cause the debate over which exact treatment is better to cure PTSD. Despite the conflict both organizations are aimed to help people with PTSD, which makes the compromise available to achieve by combining their methods of treatment and putting their strong sides together. K9s For Warriors, which is a non-profit organization that aimed to provide trained dogs to veterans to help to cope with PTSD and be able to keep the habitual way of life. The organization was founded in 2011 and its founder Shari Duval got inspired by her son, who served in Iraq and returned with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder, which affected the entire family. Student 2 To help her son, Shari Duval started an organization that trains canines and gives them to veterans to provide a support and some kind of a therapy. Besides the fact that the organization helps American warriors to cope with mental health disorders, it also rescues dogs from shelters, so the organization saves not only humans but canines as well. The main goal of the organization to provide a life-time friend and support, who will help to overcome the negative experience and cope with traumatic memories of the event. This is an alternative therapy for people who suffer from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. On the other hand, The Refuge, national treatment center that was founded in 2003. According to their website, The Refuge is a residential care facility in Ocala National forest that offers patients with PTSD help, treatments and recover from mental disorders. Additionally, The Refuge is a 12-step based program that treats each person as a unique (Premier Residential Program). The program is aimed to help their clients to understand what is PTSD, find the root of problems and finally help them to recover. The program is consist of a variety of different therapies that aimed to make people feel relaxed, calm, safe and restore mental health. Overall, it is a sort of a sanatorium, where people who are suffering from PTSD and addictions receive the treatment that they need by staying in there for a long period of time and away from possible triggers. Both organizations, K9s For Warriors and The Refuge have one primary goal to help people who suffer from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder recover from the disorder. Nevertheless, the way of achieving the goal is different. On the one hand, the former offering the way how to cope with the disorder and still be able to combine it with daily life, while The Refuge offering help but only if patients will stay at the sanatorium and take a break from their daily life. Thus, it is difficult to reach a compromise for both stakeholders due to the difference in their beliefs and Student 3 treatment methods. Considering their common ground that both stakeholders have same goal to help people, the difference is notable. K9s For Warriors does not offer deep treatment to cure the mental disorder, but provides alternative way to cope with it and still be able to participate in daily life. In the meantime, The Refuge offers the place, where people can receive all types of psychological treatments, but making the patients live at the sanatorium. The stakeholder believes that for complete recovery their clients need quiet place, almost isolated from possibly triggering moments or things. The Refuge is a program that requires to a from daily life and take their long lasting recovery treatments, while K9s For Warriors allows to receive their alternative treatment without disturbing life routine. Besides the main difference between both stakeholders, there are other obstacles, such as the audience that stakeholders are aimed to help and financial issues. Since for Warriors focuses only on military related people with PTSD and trains dogs to provide them to veterans afterwards, the treatment that the stakeholder offers is different from The treatment methods. for method is mostly created specifically for military related people more than to civilians. Although this obstacle can be solved by improving the treatment, so the canines will be trained to serve not only to veterans, but to civilians as well. Besides changes in canines training, the stakeholder can also improve their methods, so civilians will be able to receive help and a companion at the same time. In the meantime, The Refuge does not have any facilities, staff and conditions to train dogs in the sanatorium. Certainly, the organization can built specific facilities, hire canine trainers and create all the necessary conditions to make expand the list of treatments and add to it dogs, who will help patients to cope PTSD. However, to make those improvements both organizations need more finances. This is another obstacle that Student 4 might be faced during finding a compromise. Moreover, it cannot be omitted that other possible types of issues and nuances will be caused during finding a compromise for both organizations. Despite all these differences and difficulties, all these nuances can be solved and the compromise might be achieved. The goal that both of the stakeholders are trying to achieve bounds them. To help people, as both organizations want to, they possibly can unite their strong sides. For instance, both organizations probably will be able to combine their finances and/or improve treatment methods to satisfy both beliefs. Ideally, The Refuge can open a shelter for animals on their facility, while K9s For Warriors will offer their treatment method to The Refuge and work together. Both stakeholders can improve their treatments by combing their methods, so they will be able to provide help to everyone. The only significant difficulty is how stakeholders are helping their patients. The only way how it can be solved is to make The Refuge less isolated and allow people to receive the help without disturbing life routine, while Warriors will train dogs to serve not only veterans, but also people who are not related to military and spend time with service dogs during treatment sessions. Thus, the place will include both treatment methods and allow people to have a life-time supporter that always will associated with a calming and relaxing place, where patients received help and support. The symbiosis of both organizations will create a perfect place as for people who suffer from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder, so for homeless animals. Therefore, to combine beliefs and ideas of both organizations seems to be the most fair and decent option to achieve a compromise between K9s For Warriors and The Refuge. The idea of a long-lasting treatment somewhere quiet and relaxing already seems to be a good way to cure PTSD (National Institutes of Mental Health). In addition to this good treatment method, an alternative method of a treatment that K9 for warriors offers also might affect positively. Student 5 However, the compromise can be reached only if The Refuge method of treatment will be as convenient as K9 for Warriors treatment, which means that patients will be able to receive therapies and help without interrupting their normal life. According to Benefits of Canine Companionship for Military Veterans with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder article by S.L. Stern, the alternative treatment, such as having a friend, support and a creature that helps a patient to overcome the disorder might increase the possibility of recovering from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. Moreover, the article treatment and 5-year remission among patients with substance use and posttraumatic stress states that psychological treatment for PTSD helps patients a lot and actually has a chance to cure the disorder (O. Paige). Thus, the psychological help that service pets render increases the chance to recover from PTSD, which means that the symbiosis of both stakeholders will lead to a better treatment method of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. Word count: 1382. Student 6 Work Cited Premier Residential Program Treating Adults with PTSD, Trauma, Depression and Co-Occurring Disorders, 2013, web. http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com/ K9s for Warriors, 2011, web, https://www.k9sforwarriors.org/ S. L. Stern, D. A. Donahue, S. Allison, J. P. Hatch, C. L. Lancaster, Trisha A. Benson; A. L. Johnson, M. D. Jeffreys, D. Pride, C. Moreno, A. L. Peterson, Potential Benefits of Canine Companionship for Military Veterans with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), Society & Animals, 1063-1119, 2013. PTSD: National Center for PTSD, U.S. Departament of Veterans Affairs, web. http://www.ptsd.va.gov/index.asp Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, National Institutes of Mental Health, Feb 26, 2017, web. https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/post-traumatic-stress-disorder-ptsd/index.shtml O. Paige, R. H. Moos, J. W. Finney, PTSD treatment and 5-year remission among patients with substance use and posttraumatic stress disorders, Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology 71.2, pr, 2003, 410-14. PsycARTICLES, web, http://psycnet.apa.org/journals/ccp/71/2/410/