Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Approaches to Art Education Art education has been a growing concern when it comes to its importance in schools. There are two stakeholders with opposing views about this concern: Americans for the Arts and the Common Core State Standards Initiative, also known as the CCSSI. Americans for the Arts is an organization that essentially advocates for all aspects of art. The CCSSI is a set of standards to be taught for English/Language arts and math that prepares students for college courses. The values of the two stakeholders disagree, from a distance it seems to be a left brain versus right brain debate. Though the views seem incompatible, the stakeholders see art education as important part of the learning process; a compromise can be established through working to implement optional art classes to all schools, continue using art in English classes, and considering the National Coalition for Core Arts Standards (The College Board). Originally referred to as Community Arts Councils Inc., Americans for the Arts is an organization that advocates for arts throughout the nation and has been around for over fifty years, per the timeline on its website. th Anniversary Americans for the Arts has four sub-groups: Arts Action Fund, National Arts Marketing Project, pARTnership Movement, and Animating Democracy (Americans for the Arts). All the groups do different tasks to promote arts throughout the nation, respectively: raise money to build political influence and advocate for the arts and art education We Stand help artists and art professionals expand their Student 2 artistic horizons encourage business leaders to use the arts as a strategy to give them an advantage and promote cultural change through the arts Animating Currently, Americans for the Arts keeps its website up to date, has an and gives information about Americans for the Arts in the news (Americans for the Arts). In a recent news posting, Americans for the Arts announces Arts Advocacy Day on March 20-21 and describes how the arts benefit the economy; the arts employ 4.8 million arts workers and the arts and culture sector is a $730 billion industry on Arts, Jobs, and the Americans for the definition for art education is and programming in all arts Americans for the Arts advocates to provide the definition of art to all children, especially in public schools. Nick Gibb, the Minister of State for School Reform in the United Kingdom explained in a speech that every child should have access to the arts, no matter the disability or household income (Gibb). There was a Harris Poll run by Americans for the Arts, and published by Sandra S. Ruppert, that found 93% of the people questioned said the arts give children a more education; the poll proves that Americans agree art education is important to student development (Ruppert). Americans for the goal is to spread awareness of art education, so that all people understand its importance, and all students get the opportunity for a hands-on art experience. The second stakeholder, The Common Core State Standards Initiative, is a set of curriculum standards that prepares students for college (Common Core State Standards Initiative). The CCSSI started with concern of the quality of American education; the National Governors Association met with the Council of Chief State School Officers and decided standards for students in math and English was a good idea. This is a statewide option; each state Student 3 decides whether to take up the standards instead of the federal government. The standards were set to improve the quality of public education and prepare students for college, no matter where they lived. The standards went through two phases and the final standards were released on June 2, 2010. (Lang) The Common Core State Standards are now supported in much of the United States and various companies in Your Towards art education, there is a bit of a gray area in the CCSSI; for example, the standards including teaching art through English classes. David Coleman, president of the College Board and, per Alice Wexler, a architect of the (Wexler), released a statement about how the arts should be taught and based it off preexisting New York State standards. Coleman said students should be able to develop the skill of observation, similar to re- reading literature, when learning about art. Coleman explained that classes should have deep analysis of works of art and learn about how each choice affects the outcome. The standards expect students to describe how a work of art was influenced, whether from social or economic concerns that were going on at the time. Students should be able to study works of art in the community voluntarily after learning about how to do so in class. As the grades increase, their knowledge and ability to analyze art should also increase; students should also learn how to imitate harder works of art and face bigger challenges that could potentially be applied to their work. The standards want students to observe how a choice was made, see how work changes over time, and study how art can affect consumers. The goal is to teach the students well enough so they can take their skills with them throughout their lives. (Coleman) One can argue that Coleman only wants to art into preexisting classes, such as English, instead of giving the arts its importance of its own class; Alice Wexler makes the arguments that view of art is more concrete. Wexler also stated that Coleman said it is impossible to Student 4 learn English without having some portion of art education thrown in there, implying that he did not care for regular art classes because it is implied in other classes. (Wexler) Though the views of Americans for the Arts and the CCSSI seem to differ, both recognize art education as a key to succeeding in school and both value quality education. An example of their colliding opinions includes the fact that Coleman said in his statement that artwork can affect a choice on a product; if a product has an aesthetically pleasing piece of artwork on it, or logo, people are more likely to purchase it. The message behind pARTnership states that businesses will benefit from using art, opinion is one way how. National Coalition for the Core Arts, though not a part of the CCSSI, is a set of core standards for the arts that goes more into depth about what the students should be able to achieve artistically (The College Board). A compromise can be made between Americans for the Arts and the CCSSI by doing three things: considering some type of merge with National Coalition for the Core Arts, working to provide art classes to all schools, and continuing to implement art into classes such as English. With these steps, Americans for the Arts will benefit because if the steps are successful, not only will art be available to all, students not taking art will learn about it through their English classes. The CCSSI will benefit because its values of teaching art through English would be adopted, and if students decide to take art classes, then the classes will be monitored through their own set of standards with the National Coalition for the Core Arts Standards. Through this compromise, Americans for the Arts and the CCSSI should come to an agreement. Both stakeholders will be making sacrifices, but they will each get something positive out of the compromise. Once enough money is raised to provide optional art classes throughout the nation, Americans for the Arts will be satisfied. If students choose not to take up the arts, they Student 5 will still learn through their English classes about analyzing works of art, which addresses the part of Americans for the definition. The CCSSI benefits because the standards and implied-arts will still be in the courses, but various art classes will also be provided; art classes would adopt the art standards so that even when the students are creating art, it will be regulated. It seems from afar that the stakeholders have opposite views, but a compromise can be made with ease by implementing optional art classes in schools, continuing the art-implied English, and adding the art standards. (WC: 1378) Student 6 Works Cited 50th Anniversary  Americans for the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 15 Oct. 2014. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.americansforthearts.org/about-americans-for-the- arts/50th-anniversary/50th-anniversary-timeline. About Animating  Animating Democracy. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.animatingdemocracy.org/about. About  NAMP. National Arts Marketing Project, 02 Feb. 2017. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://namp.americansforthearts.org/namp/about-us. Americans for the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 2015. americansforthearts.org. Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. Coleman D. 2012. Guiding principles of the arts Accessed February 26, 2017, at http://usny.nysed.gov/rttt/docs/guidingprinciples-arts.pdf. The College Board. (2014). The Arts and the Common Core: A Comparison of the National Core Arts Standards and the Common Core State Standards. New York: The College Board. Common Core State Standards Initiative: Preparing Students for College & Career. Common Core State Standards Initiative, 2017. Corestandards.org. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Getting  Americans for the Arts. Vans Custom Culture, 20 Apr. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. http://www.americansforthearts.org/by-program/networks-and-councils/arts- education-network/tools-resources/getting-started. Student 7 Gibb, Nick. Importance of High-quality Arts Music and Drama Education Exposition, 9 Feb. 2017, UK, Speech. https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/nick- gibb-the-importance-of-high-quality-arts-education. Lang, Jayden, ed. Common core state standards: background and issues / Jayden Lang, editor. New York: Nova Publishers, 2015. Education in a Competitive and Globalizing World. USF Online Resource. Web. 4 Mar. 2017. Learn a little about  About Us Americans for the Arts Action Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.artsactionfund.org/about/about-us. Ruppert, Sandra S. Critical Evidence: How the Arts Benefit Student  Eric Institute of Education Sciences. MetLife Foundation, 30 Nov. 2005. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Sabol, F. Robert. Shifts in the Education Landscape: What Do They Mean for Arts Education and Arts Education Arts Education Policy Review 115. (2013): 33- 45. Taylor & Francis Group. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Standards in Your  Common Core State Standards Initiative. Common Core State Standards Initiative, n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. http://www.corestandards.org/standards-in- your-state/. Statement on Arts, Jobs, and the  Americans for the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 23 Feb. 2017. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.americansforthearts.org/news-room/arts- mobilization-center/statement-on-arts-jobs-and-the-economy. The  The pARTnership Movement. Americans for the Arts, n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.partnershipmovement.org/the-movement/. Student 8 Wexler, Alice. Reaching Higher? The Impact of the Common Core State Standards on the Visual Arts, Poverty, and  Arts Education Policy Review 115.2 (2014): 52- 61. Taylor & Francis Group. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. What We Stand  Americans for the Arts Action Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. http://www.artsactionfund.org/pages/what-we-stand-for.