Bass 1 Sydney Bass Professor Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Treating Depression for All Depression is a disorder that impacts many people worldwide. Depression as a disorder is very complex, because of the complexity of depression and different types, finding successful treatments has become more challenging. One of the leading causes of death in people (especially teens) is suicide. In order to fix this problem, people need to be well educated on the severity of depression as a legitimate mental illness. Lighthouse is an organization that is geared toward helping teenagers and their families in the fight against depression. On the other hand, Postpartum Progress is an organization that is for women that are dealing with postpartum depression that occurs after becoming a new mother. There is some division between these two organizations because of the fact that they cater toward two different groups. Depression is something that effects everyone though, right? Because treatments for depression is contentious, the compromise of finding treatments for everyone and not just a certain demographic can be implemented by Lighthouse and Postpartum Progress, catered toward different groups in coping with depression, coming together to fight this mental illness as a whole. As mentioned before, Lighthouse is an organization that focuses on depression in adolescents. Their mission statement is that are a not-for-profit dedicated to educating and raising awareness about adolescent depression, encouraging good mental health and breaking down the stigma surrounding mental health issues Notice how in the mission statement it even states that their organization is strictly for adolescent depression. Bass 2 According to a study that is documented in The Journal of Health & Human Services Administration, they found that around 51% of girls and 49% boys between the ages of 13-21 show signs of depression (Moreh 298). The purpose of this study was to figure out which gender was more at risk of depression in the adolescent/ young adult stage and how it can impact growth and development, school performance and peer or family relationship (Moreh 283). Teen depression has been a growing problem that has somewhat become ignored. As a result, of teens do not receive help for their depression This may be to the stigma that depression is not a serious illness and because of this mindset, depression can be overlooked. In order to change this mindset, Lighthouse wants to help adolescents and their parents understand information about depression and that they are not alone. In the same way, of teens will experience depression before adulthood This organization stresses the importance of creating a sense of community with other families that are combating depression in their adolescents. Because of problems like this, the founders Tom and Ginny Neuckranz created this organization after their daughter, Erika, took her own as a result of battling depression Lighthouse). As a result of what happened to them, they were able to take their pain and heartbreak and help other families in preventing what has happened to them. Postpartum Progress is a stakeholder that is to pregnant and new moms who have postpartum depression and all other mental illnesses related to pregnancy and (Postpartum The mission statement is that raise awareness, fight stigma and provide peer support and programming to women with maternal mental illness (Postpartum In the same way as Lighthouse, it clearly states that this organization is catered to only helping women with maternal mental illnesses. Although, postpartum depression has not been as much in the light as teen depression, it is still a serious Bass 3 mental illness that affects many new mothers after childbirth. Even though taking care of a baby and childbirth itself is a lot to handle, 1 in 7 new mothers endure postpartum depression as another obstacle (WebMD). According to WebMD, Postpartum depression is a form of clinical depression related to pregnancy and childbirth Because of the severity of this particular type of depression, Katherine Stone, in 2004, created this blog after dealing with postpartum herself after giving birth to her first child (Postpartum Postpartum Progress is a blog that helps to create a sense of community for women going through the same thing. It is there for women to not only receive help but also be able to help other women. In the same way, there is an ongoing analysis mentioned in BMC Psychiatry that talks about how their clinical trial is aimed evaluate the efficacy of a psychoeducational programme in preventing postpartum depression in at-risk women, based on a range of clinical variables, and explore prognostic factors (Ugarte Ugarte As a result of this study, it works hand and hand with Postpartum Progress in helping to improve moods during the time they encounter a postpartum maternal illness. This stakeholder is there to provide information to both expectant mothers and new mothers. It helps for them to be prepared for what is ahead and seek help from other women who have been in their shoes. Since the only real problem between these two stakeholders is the groups different age groups they stand behind, the compromise that they should reach is that depression is depression and it can happen to everyone. Depression happens to men, women, teenagers, young adults, the elderly, anyone and everyone is at risk for depression. The thing is that it is just that different age groups and genders can be at more risk than others depending on certain factors. Instead of having these two stakeholders representing similar stances separately, they should be united Bass 4 together for the same cause. To make this compromise practical, the heads of the organizations should talk together about the similarities between their organizations and how they can unite. In the end, both of these stakeholders are still very great organizations who do good work for their respective organizations. Do all depression organizations geared toward different age groups like these two unite together for one cause? Although it is not impossible, it is a thing that can be achieved. The compromise that was given can help reach out to age groups that are not represented enough but are yet still affected by depression. Depression organizations all share the same thing in common, erasing the stigma associated with depression and educating people about it as a serious mental disorder. But the question is, do all depression organizations have the same goals like these two or different. How would one be able to unite completely similar yet at the same time, completely different organizations together? Bass 5 Works Cited Teenage Depression Programs  Teenage Depression Programs Lighthouse. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Postpartum  Postpartum Progress. Postpartum Progress Inc., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Malcore, Paul. Teen Depression: Troubling Statistics and  Rawhide. N.p., 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Postpartum Depression (PPD) Center: Symptoms, Causes, Treatments, Medications, and  WebMD. WebMD, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mayo Clinic Staff. Depression (major  Mayo Clinic. N.p., 7 July 2016. Web. Feb. 2017. Ugarte Ugarte, Amaia, et al Psychoeducational Preventive Treatment for Women at Risk of Postpartum Depression: Study Protocol for a Randomized Controlled Trial,  BMC Psychiatry 17.1 (2017): 1-7. EBSCOhost. Web. Moreh, Swenda, and Henry Common Risk Factors Associated with Adolescent and Young Adult  Journal of Health & Human Services Administration 2nd ser. 39 (2016): 283-310. EBSCOhost. Web. Watson, J.P. Depression: Biology, Psychodynamics, and  British Journal of Psychiatry 134 (1979): 122. EBSCOhost. Web.