Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Labeling An Effective Compromise The debate over the use of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) is a prevalent one that affects people every day. The main questions being asked are whether or not GMOs are safe to consume, and what their effect is on the environment. Research is still being conducted on the short and long-term effects of GMOs on the environment and consumers. Many people want to know if GMOs are safe to consume and if they are dangerous for the environment. Both sides, anti-GMO and pro-GMO, have yet to come to an agreement that is suitable for both sides as they are not willing to sacrifice to make advancements in negotiations. For instance, as Karen Batra explained in her Biotechnology Innovation Organization article, the Non-GMO Project www.nongmoproject.org) and the Monsanto Company (www.monsanto.com) have both lobbied in Congress for regulations to be passed that benefit their views to no avail (Batra). This standstill is when a more effective compromise must be made using a Rogerian argument, in which the person proposing the compromise must have an understanding of the views of both sides while constructing a resolution that is mutually beneficial. Because the topic of GMOs is contentious, the compromise of regulations that require labeling foods with GMOs and resulting punishment for companies that fail to adhere to the regulations can be implemented through both stakeholders concerning themselves with the safety of consumers and the environment as well as wanting consumers to be educated on Student 2 As stated in their website, the Non-GMO Project is committed to preserving and building the non-GMO food supply, educating consumers, and providing verified non-GMO choices in an effort to rid the GMO market (Living Non-GMO). The info on their website is supported by outside unbiased studies and scholarly journals. The Non-GMO Project claims that most developed nations do not consider GMOs to be safe GMOs Safe). They also state that more than 60 countries around the world have placed significant restrictions or outright bans on the production and sale of GMOs GMOs Also, in the U.S. and Canada, GMOs have been approved based on studies conducted by the same corporations that created them and profit from their sale. GMOs This information is supported by John Glynn in his of journal entry in which he lists studies such as the increase in cancer risks in consumers who eat GMOs and the effects of on honeybee populations (Glynn). Furthermore, in their New England Journal of Medicine entry, Philip J. Landrigan and Charles Benbrook both listed the facts that companies such as Monsanto and organizations such as the Joint Glyphosate Task Force funded their own research and presented it to the EPA in order to obtain passing grades on GMO crops and resultant herbicides (Landrigan and Benbrook). main goal is to educate consumers on GMO products as well as their impact on the environment at a They attempt to achieve this by empowering and produce more from their land while conserving more of the natural resources such as water and energy to show that the production of GMOs is safe and reliable at a Monsanto then markets their leading seed brands to farmers in crops like corn, cotton, oilseeds and fruits and vegetables. They also produce leading in-the-seed trait technologies for farmers, which are aimed at protecting their yield, supporting their on-farm efficiency and reducing their on-farm costs at a In essence, Student 3 this stakeholder argues that GMOs help to increase food production, are safe on the environment, and are safe for human consumption. claims are supported by an article in the Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine authored by Suzie Key, Julian K-C Ma, and Pascal MW Drake that includes statistics such as the increase in food production due to and the fact that studies have not yet explicitly determined that GMO crops are toxic to the human body (Key et al.). In addition, Megan L. Norris authored an article on the Harvard University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences webpage that contains information such as the conclusions from the American Medical Association and World Health Organization that genetically modified foods are safe for consumers based on the study of research from mostly independent groups worldwide (Norris). As one can see, these stakeholders have vastly different goals and objectives. However, upon closer inspection, they do have some similar aspects in their overall missions. They both want to educate consumers on GMOs and are concerned about the safety of consumers and the environment Both stakeholders also need consumers to trust in their respective processes in order to stay relevant in the ongoing discussion of GMOs. One example of a past attempt at a compromise was the proposed bipartisan Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act drafted by representatives Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.) and G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) (Batra). In her article, Batra explained the legislation would a federal standard for the safety and labeling of foods made with genetically modified ingredients (GMOs), eliminating confusion, providing consistency in food labeling while keeping food costs (Batra). This legislation was a step in the right direction but did not have punishments for companies that mislabeled their food or provided misleading information on labels. A more effective compromise could be made if Monsanto allowed all food products that Student 4 contain GMOs to be properly labeled while the Non-GMO project should accept labeling as a viable solution rather than the eradication of all GMO products. An act of legislation that requires labeling foods with GMOs would be a suitable compromise for the stakeholders at hand. The legislation would also need written clauses that pertain to the punishment for malpractice by companies that fail to follow the regulations. This extra step would protect the legislation from failing as the Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act did. This compromise works as the Non-GMO Project can use the labeling to compare their non- GMO verified products to GMO products and use this information to help consumers make informed choices. On the other hand, Monsanto does not have to stop their production of GMO products and resultant herbicides. The farmers and companies that use GMO crops in their foods will only have to label their food products as GMO food products. Both stakeholders have been adamant that they want consumers to be educated on GMOs. With labels, consumers can at least be informed on what foods contain and which foods that do not. Pro-GMO consumers will buy GMO products and anti-GMO consumers will buy non-GMO verified products. Proposing the compromise is easy. The implementation is the difficult part. The House Committee on Agriculture (HCA) will first need to draft up a plan based on this compromise and decide if the proposed legislation is viable enough to be sent through the House of Representatives and Senate. Considering the widespread bipartisan support for the Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act (SAFLA), my proposed compromise could be simply looked at as an improvement on the SAFLA. First, the HCA would need to consider each sides goals and objectives. Then, they will need to list reasons on how this compromise would benefit each side. Overall, the HCA would need to explain why this compromise is beneficial to both sides instead of just listing it as a potential answer to the GMO debate. Traditionally, for legislation to pass in Student 5 both chambers of Congress, the legislation has to be beneficial for both sides and this compromise meets those requirements. Although the stakeholders seem to have vastly incompatible goals, the compromise of labels and penalties works for both sides equally. Both sides would have to make sacrifices but that is necessary for a mutually effective solution. Both stakeholders claim that they want consumers to be educated therefore the proposed compromise of labels with penalties for non- compliance is a perfect way to help consumers become somewhat educated and thus make more informed decisions (WC:1330) Student 6 Works Cited GMOs Living Non-GMO, The Non-GMO Project, livingnongmo.org/learn/gmo- faq/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Armenakas, Sophia, and Macrene Alexiades-Armenakas. Genetically-Modified Organisms in United States Agriculture: Mandate for Food  Scientific Research 4.8 (2013): 1. Scientific Research. Scientific Research Publishing Inc., Aug. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.scirp.org/journal/PaperInformation.aspx?PaperID=35189>. Batra, Karen. Calls for to GMO Labeling Biotechnology Innovation Organization, Biotechnology Innovation Organization, 25 Mar. 2015, www.bio.org/media/press-release/bio-calls-%E2%80%9Cnational- solution%E2%80%9D-gmo-labeling-debate. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Glynn, John. of Journal of Nutrition and Food Sciences, vol. 6, no. 1, 18 Jan. 2016, pp. doi:10.4172/2155-9600.1000458. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Key, Suzie, Julian K-C Ma, and Pascal MW Drake. modified plants and human Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine, vol. 101, no. 6, pp. National Institute of Health, doi:https://dx.doi.org/10.1258%2Fjrsm.2008.070372. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Landrigan, Philip J, and Charles Benbrook. Herbicides, and Public The New England Journal of Medicine, Massachusetts Medical Society , 20 Aug. 2015, www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp1505660#t=article. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Living Non-GMO, The Non-GMO Project, livingnongmo.org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.. Monsanto, Monsanto Company, www.monsanto.com/pages/default.aspx. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Student 7 at a Monsanto, Monsanto Company, www.monsanto.com/whoweare/pages/default.aspx. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Norris, Megan L. GMOs Hurt My Body? The Concerns and How Scientists Have Addressed Science in the News, Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, 10 Aug. 2015, sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/will-gmos-hurt-my-body/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. .