Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 26 March 2017 Addressing the Implementation of Solar Energy The issues facing the implementation of solar energy have not changed much over the last ten years or so. An analysis of a small sampling of sources shows that while the authors address different aspects of solar energy such as how to implement it, what consumers think of it, what is holding it back not much has changed in the last ten years in the way authors view solar and why they think it has not become more widespread. Over the last decade, the authors note the same issues impeding adoption of solar energy mostly consumer attitudes, finances, and the fact that the power systems already in place are geared towards traditional energy sources. The authors, however, remain unflagging in their belief that solar energy could help address quite a few modern problems. It decreases pollution significantly when compared to traditional methods, and the technology is strong enough to compete with traditional methods. Yet it is not gaining much headway, due to issues that have not changed much over the last decade. Perhaps the most cited barrier to solar energy implementation is finances. Solar represents a large startup cost, whether it is an individual or a nation that is considering it. Solar is expensive none of the authors deny it but not to an extent that should be prohibitive. Older sources, such as Faiers and Neame, writing in 2006, note that consumers perceive solar as being expensive and that these consumers believe that there are not enough grants and tax credits to help with installation costs (1804). Ogihara et al write in 2007 that part of the expense is due to the fact that solar energy is at a disadvantage against traditional sources, since most systems and Student 2 business models in place were created for traditional sources (64). Once the equipment is in place solar energy no longer has to be mined, unlike coal or gas the equipment just needs to be maintained. These authors strongly recommend governmental policy changes, such as offering incentives, to help make solar more competitive and desirable (65). More recent sources are not completely in agreement. For example, Borenstein notes in 2012 that solar panels can be expensive to the individual but remove the need to be grid connected (73). He also states that electricity is expensive to store, but solar energy generation tends to peak at the same time as peak demand (74). Delmas et al, however, write in 2017 that the cost of solar panels and electric vehicles is decreasing, while their effectiveness is increasing (4), and that there are many more options for financing than previously (10). These authors even claim that with adequate credit scores a consumer can buy a solar energy system with $0 down (12). The next issue is the attitudes of consumers. Not all sources address this issue, but the ones that do suggest two different facets of the story: that solar energy suffers from a poor image with the average citizen or that the benefits of solar energy do not yet outweigh other, more immediate concerns. While it is well known to be a clean source of energy, it is generally considered to be expensive, unsightly, and inconvenient (Faiers and Neame, 1803). In 2006, Faiers and Neame discuss how even early adopters of solar energy perceived the technology as expensive (1802). They also note that some consumers are worried about the long-term performance of solar equipment (1799). More recently, Delmas et al do not address consumer attitude so much as consumer choice. Their research, published in 2016, shows that households frequently do not choose a vehicle based on Other factors, such as safety, cost or quality, are more likely to influence these consumers, suggesting that many households do not give ecological concerns as high a priority as other concerns (3). Their research also Student 3 demonstrated that solar is more likely to be adopted in situations where the cost of installing solar is significantly reduced compared to utilizing the available grid, suggesting that practical concerns affect consumer choice (4). The attitudes of authors have also not changed. The authors of all four articles firmly believe that solar energy could solve many modern problems. They are unwavering in the stance that solar is cleaner than traditional sources. They are also very clear in stating that once solar energy gets off the ground, it will be perfectly capable of keeping up with traditional sources. Faiers and Neame state that solar technology is dependable and eco-friendly (1798), and hold that solar is cost-competitive, but suffers from a bad image of being expensive (1800). Ogihara et al note that building up solar and other renewables can help increase the percentage of the world with access to electricity without increasing the ecological impact (63). Borenstein notes that research has shown the United States could easily depend on solar energy or wind power as its dominant sources of electricity based on viable site analysis (72). Delmas et al discusses how the number of individuals using gas-powered cars and consuming electricity is only increasing, and how solar energy consumption would decrease the amount of pollution (1-2). These authors also note an interesting trend where increased use of electric cars actually increased pollution in some areas due to the fact that the electricity was generated by traditional sources, which suggests that installing solar panels would actually be a more eco-friendly lifestyle choice (5). For years now, researchers have been analyzing solar energy and why it is not in use, and their analysis has not changed much over the years. While the technology continues to improve, the average perception of it does not. The authors, regardless of when they were writing, also do not change in their attitudes. Across the entire timeline, the reasons the authors encourage solar energy implementation never change. The authors firmly believe solar can Student 4 become a major source of power generation for the modern world, and that the technology is strong and practical. So perhaps the focus needs to change from researching why solar has not been adopted to how widespread adoption can be encouraged. Student 5 Works Cited Borenstein, Severin. The Private and Public Economics of Renewable Electricity  Journal of Economic Perspectives 1 (2012): 67. Academic OneFile. Accessed 5 Feb. 2017. Delmas, Magali A., Matthew E. Kahn, and Stephen L. Locke. The Private and Social Consequences of Purchasing an Electric Vehicle and Solar Panels: Evidence from  Research in Economics (2016). Science Direct, doi: 10.1016/j.rie.2016.12.002. Accessed: 5 Feb. 2017. Faiers, Adam, and Charles Neame. Consumer Attitudes Towards Domestic Solar Power  Energy Policy 34.(2006): 1797-1806. ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.enpol.2005.01.001. Accessed: 19 Feb. 2017. Ogihara, Akira, et al. Policies to Ease the Transition to a Post-Fossil Fuel  International Review for Environmental Strategies 7.1 (2007): 63-79. Academic Search Premier. Accessed: 19 Feb. 2017.