Su 1 Yang Su Sarah Basil ENC1102.106.S17 12 March 2017 Smoking and Save Your Life When you ask people who are smoking, what time did you begin to smoke. He probably said, I began to smoke when I was a teenager. The reason of most people smoking first time is curiosity. Teenagers which are a group are most easier to confuse, they will not consider the consequences about doing things. So, when they see the people around begin to smoke, they also want to try it and usually hide from their parents. When they realized the harm of smoking are too late, because they already got smoking addiction, especially for male. Because males usually have a higher curiosity and a lower ability to control themselves than females. That is also a reason why male life expectancy is shorter than women. The stakeholder known as Stop Smoking is an organization whose main objective is help people stop smoking. Obviously smoking have any benefit for your health. Contrary to popular belief, smoking only harm the lungs of a smoker, and cancer the only threat to a health. Inhaling tobacco smoke can cause damage to most of the organs and systems( Grant). So, stop smoking become an imminent thing. I found two advertisements from the internet. It is in order to help people quit smoke. Through the use of the rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. They are able to tell people the dangers of smoke. Pathos is a way to images evoke emotions. Through those two images, people can more intuitively feel the harm of smoking. At the first image, we could see a pregnant woman. We can Su 2 see from the picture, this woman is smoking and she has a lot of smoke even she was pregnant. holding a cigarette and the smoke came out from the belly button, it looks like she is smoking to the unborn child. The text describes child health foundation. That is warning people stop smoke give your child a good health. The second image has the name We could see clearly, a man is holding a cigarette and the shadow of the cigarette is a gun. The text describes about 106,000 people in the UK die each year due to smoking. This bluntness and incorporation of a gun is make audience feeling fear. Bold words and data statistics can let more people give up smoking. The gun in the image is a good thing to warning people quit smoke, it looks like every smoke equal to shoot a feeling of anxiety. As a result, images can directly convey their meanings to people, and let them to know what they want to express, and the harm of smoking for themselves or their relatives. Ethos is the credibility of information or images. At the bottom of the first image, we can see a website about child health foundation and also we can see a logo about child health foundation. The two evidence to enhance the image of credibility. If you want to find more details you can search this web site. In from organizations that have a website usually automatically seem more credible to most people. At the second image is not good at ethos. Because the really have any part to show the authority of information. But the data statistics are precise numbers in UK. Although maybe it exaggerated but also can make the audience feel afraid. As everyone know there do have a lot of people died because smoking each year, remind is most important in this image. People may have a impulsion to stop smoking in order to protect their health when they saw that images. Su 3 Logos is the logic of information or an image. An advertisement without logic is not a good advertisement. It let people feel boring and also it is hard to impress the audience if an advertisement only has text. It could be difficult to understand, if an advertisement only has image, it also hard to impress the audience. A good advertisement should combine appropriate image and text. At the first advertisement, we could easy to find the topic from the image, that is quit smoke, we also could find the reason of why should we quit smoke from text. Text show child health. In conclusion, we can understand very easy after read this advertisement, it is telling people stop smoke for your child health. For the second image. After reading there have two things make me impressed, one is the shadow of the cigarette another one is large letters text. The shadow of the cigarette is showing a gun, and large letters text write smoking kill. We can easy to understand the cigarette like a gun is killing people now. The topic is stop smoke and save your life. The two images have similar logic, that is let audience realize the harm of smoke and make people fear and quit smoke. Those two image can effectively communicate their ideas by providing visual cues. About 1.1 billion people -- one in every three adults -- are smokers, according to the World Health Organization(Blumenkranz). Contains 41,000 kind of chemicals in cigarettes, most are known to be carcinogenic(leading to cancer). These chemicals combine the heat of cigarettes to cause your cells to mutate, causing them to reproduce in an uncontrolled manner, leading to cancer(Sampath). Now teenagers have a myth, most of them think smoking is very cool, in fact is not cool. Why do teenagers think so? Because some people they worship are smoking, such as their parents or celebrity. Everyone has teenager time, as we know teenagers are lack of self-control and have a strong curiosity. As parents should have correct guidance. The Su 4 advertisement about stop smoke is a good method, but could not have substantial effect. To fundamentally eliminate must guide them correctly. As adults if you could not quit smoke in an easy way, you should remind yourself the harmful of smoke. Tell yourself there is no benefit about smoking, we can know smoking can cause great harm to people through these two pictures, especially the second, it described the cigarette as a weapon and kill the people who smoking. Smoking is not something that should be taken lightly. Every year a lot of people die the immediate cause is smoking. Smoking also lead to other lesions. Most reason of death seems not care about smoking, in fact it is closely related with disease in tobacco. Advocate smoking is helpful to improve the quality of producing advertisements that utilize the rhetorical appeals, logos, ethos, pathos, and Kairos stop smoking is able to effectively persuade the audience to stop smoke if people smoke that will make him want to begin to smoke. Su 5 Su 6 Work Cited Quittingsmoking among adults--United States, MMWR.Morbidity and mortality weekly report. 60 (44) Stead, Lindsay F.; Lancaster, Tim (2016). Combined pharmacotherapy and behavioural interventions for smoking . The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Fiore MC, Bailey WC, Cohen SJ, et al. practice guideline: treating tobacco use and Rockville, MD: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service Maguire CP, Ryan J, Kelly A, D, Coakley D, Walsh JB (2000). Do patient age and medical condition influence medical advice to stop . Age Ageing. 29 (3)