Student 1 Student Professor Lewis English Composition 2 5 March 2016 WC: 1215 P2 Final Draft: A Pathway to Efficiency Around the world, energy is needed and used every single day by billions of people. The largest issue is the type of energy needed to power the world and provide consumers with a main energy source to live comfortably. With a combination of nonrenewable and renewable energy used, hopefully an agreement can be made to make energy the most efficient. The world is coming close to running out of certain energy sources like fossil fuels while creating more items that need energy. The issue at hand is that what energy is the best to use. Its efficiency is dependent on many different factors such as economics, environment, and politics. difficult to come to a proper compromise because many consumers weigh these factors differently. Each stakeholder (Solarpowerocks and BP) fights to show that their product and ideas are the most efficient answer to this worldwide issue. Both stakeholders have a reputation and money on the line in order to fuel their argument and advocate for their cause. The stakeholder BP Global is all about maintaining oil as the main resource for energy, is one of the leading integrated oil and gas companies. We provide customers with fuel for transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants to keep engines moving, and the petrochemicals products used to make everyday items as diverse as paints, clothes and (BP). BP is a company that produces oil and has many locations that provide gasoline as well as maintain oil drill sites. This company has been around for many years and Student 2 will be around years to come based on its consistent success even with the infamous oil spill. Overall, the United States uses an overwhelming amount of oil, of our oil consumption throughout human history has occurred since (Mark Jaccard 2). The United States uses petroleum for a big portion of the fuel consumption. Fossil fuels provide energy in an interesting way, combustion created from dead creatures from many years ago. Petroleum consists of multiple elements, a complex mixture of hydrocarbons that occur in (Robert Curley 1). The oil drills provided by BP are the product sold gas stations as gasoline as well as other companies like electric companies. The primary goal is to get the consumer to invest in fossil fuels, to buy their product and believe that the only solution to the energy crisis. Fossil fuels is the largest energy industry worldwide. one of the main energy sources in the United States. It is mainstream use is due to its funding from investors and tax payers money. been around for a very long time because of the money and technological investment people have put into it. Naturally, it creates a reputation with its age. Thus there is an overwhelming decrease in oil production because of the overconsumption of a nonrenewable energy source. Those that are in control of the oil are changing prices constantly which can make some people wary about using this as the main source of energy. Advocating Solar Power by educating others, Power Rocks is committed to giving homeowners a clear picture of the policy, incentives, and investment returns on local solar panel It provides it consumers with information regarding laws, tax credits and how exactly to invest in this alternative energy. The primary goal is to get investment into solar energy from consumers and overall educate the public on the issue at hand. This stakeholder is not the only company or group of people that think solar power should be the new energy source. According to Michael Mackay, Sun produces an incredible amount of Student 3 energy each and every day. There is enough to supply all the energy needs for everyone in the World in one hour to emphasize the (Why Solar Energy is Important -1). Solar energy is renewable which a huge selling point to most consumers. Most renewable resources create a significantly less amount of harmful effects to the environment. Overall solar power can provide a long term energy source comparative to others, fuel resources will last on the order of years, yet, and burning them generates human-made carbon dioxide (CO2) and is responsible for changes in the Earth, such as global warming and Arctic ice loss. The CO2 concentration has reached a level approximately 50% above that of the last 800,000 years, which has happened only in the most recent 100 years. (Why Solar Power is Important). The main issue is the funding for technology and advancement. There is a common misconception that solar power technology is incredibly inefficient. Thus creating distain between consumers and producers of solar power. Not nearly enough subsidies have been put in place to change this, is clear... that Renewables have not received as many subsidies as the others have, particularly Biofuels which have recently received a huge influx of (9). Therefore often consumers that have a budget are scared away by the installment and equipment prices, energy is free, but not best sums up the major hurdle for the solar industry. There are no technical obstacles per se to developing solar energy (Vaughin Nelson 213). Overall if just solar energy is used, energy with proper planning of wind and solar installations, along with transmission lines, carbon emissions from electrical generation can be reduced by 80% (compared with 1990 levels) without increasing ( Elizabeth Weatherhead et. Al 21) The two stakeholders have the following in common: to obtain an effective way to power the world while making money and increase energy efficiency. The two biggest concerns for both stakeholders are how to convince consumers to invest and how to create the largest Student 4 profits. The need for investors and the need for energy is what they are focused on. The most practical solution and compromise for these two stakeholders is to use a mix of both renewable and unrenewable energy sources, solar power and oil to energize our world. Having development and studies in both energy sources and to pass limitations on use of both will create less tension with the stakeholders. Using fossil fuels as a backup still as an energy resource and developing more solar energy. Creating reasonable budgets for research and providing proper subsidies will jump start the energy market. This compromise matters, because so many investors have large amounts of money in both industries. Government funds from taxes have been used to fund and subsidize both industries in advancements and keeping them alive. So many workers would lose their careers if either one of these industries were eradicated or a sudden drop of utilization. Which means taking one industry out would disrupt many families and the economy overall. Keeping things the same would cause scarcity in fossil fuels and more carbon in the air. Much hard work has been put into research to find a good alternative to this ongoing controversial topic. Climate change has drastically influenced the argument on whether to include fossil fuels in the future. Using this compromise will reduce the large displacement of workers while decreasing the amount of environmental damage so future generations can enjoy the earth as the current generation is. Both companies can live comfortably years to come with this solution. Student 5 Works Cited BP Global.  Bp.com. Bp Global, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.bp.com/en/global/corporate/sustainability.html>. Curley, Robert, and Educational Publishing Britannica. Fossil Fuels, edited by Robert Curley, and Educational Publishing Britannica, Britannica Educational Publishing, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/usf/detail.action?docID=688243. Foster, Robert, Majid Ghassemi, and Alma Cota. Solar Energy: Renewable Energy and the Environment. Boca Raton: CRC, 2010. Print. Jaccard, Mark. Sustainable Fossil Fuels, edited by Mark Jaccard, Cambridge University Press, 2006. ProQuest Ebook Central, https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/usf/detail.action?docID=255020. Mackay, Michael E. Why Solar Energy is  Solar Energy: An Introduction. : Oxford University Press, 2015-06-01. Oxford Scholarship Online. 2015-08-20. Date Accessed 27 Mar. 2017 <http://www.oxfordscholarship.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/97801 99652105.001.0001/acprof-9780199652105-chapter-1>. SolarPowerRocks. Our  Solar Power Rocks. Solarpowerrocks, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://solarpowerrocks.com/our-mission-statement-and-contact-info/>.