1 Student Enc 1101 Kimber Wiggs 3/5/2017 Project 2 The penny has been the lowest denomination coin in America for over 150 years. With the age of credit and debit cards, cash in general has seen a decrease in use throughout America. Many people believe that pennies have become a waste of time to use, taking up time finding them in your wallet or purse as others wait in line. Countries around the world have begun to remove their one cent coin from circulation as it started to cost more to make than what they were worth. In the 21 st century there have been debates on whether the U.S should be the next country to remove the one cent coin. By examining whether or not the penny should stay in circulation, it can be said that there was a shift in opinion from 2000-2007 to post 2007. People believed that removing the penny would be disastrous for the U.S economy after a while people started to question that statement. In 2001, an economist by the name Raymond Lombra did extensive research on the theoretical effect of removing the penny. He found three major effects of removing the penny. He estimated that the need to round prices to the nearest nickel would end up costing consumers no less than 600 million a year. It would slightly increase the rate of inflation and overtime this would cost a large amount. He estimated about 950 million in 2005 and 2 billion in 2010. He finally believes that removing the penny would be detrimental to small businesses that survive on small margins, the effect of rounding may lead to an increase in prices overall. ( pg 433, Lombra) He ran experiments in order to come up with this data. This was the first time someone had 2 tested the effects of removing the penny. This lead to others following his opinion as his data showed how detrimental it would be to the U.S economy. In 2007, an economist by the name of Robert Whales began to question the experiments that Lombra performed back in 2001. He challenged analysis on the rounding effect: first limitation of this analysis is that it is unknown how many items (and in what combinations) consumers purchase from convenience (Whales, 139) He means that analysis was inaccurate because it is impossible to tell how many items each person purchases. Lombra also include taxing on the transactions. As people began to read what Whales was saying to counter claim, they began to realize that all the data Lombra collected as accurate as before. Outside of the debate between Lombra and Whales, the recession was happening in late 2007 which may have also lead to a split in people wanting to keep the penny compared to wanting to remove it. After 2010, there were a lot of people on both sides of the coin. This was also a time when the penny began to be more expensive to make than its face value. In 2013 Josh Sanburn began to explain that even though the penny was worth less than what it costs to make it. The nickel was suffering from the same problem. In 2013 people had seen both sides of the arguments with Lombra and Whales. It seemed as though they could see both perspectives and see the good and bad for both sides. On one hand it may hurt some consumers due to the effect of rounding prices, but on the other hand if you were to remove the penny the nickel would end up being in the same situation as the penny. In 2014 an article was released that had two different writers each with differing opinions on the state of the penny and what should be done. Jeff Gore wanted the penny to be removed. He stated that in the modern time with credit transactions, using low denomination coins such as pennies makes transactions take up to much time. This 3 potentially causes a loss in money because of how much time it takes to wait for someone to search for their pennies. The other person in the article, Mark Weller, is for keeping the penny. He refers back to Lombra and the argument he made about the rounding tax and how that may cause consumers to spend more money overtime. He also refers to the price it would cost the government to create nickels. This supports the claim that from 2013 to 2014 the perspectives remain the same, people are still split on whether to support the removal of the penny or to keep the penny in the economy. The main reasons why a shift changed from keeping the penny to being on either side was because of Lombra first providing the information he analyzed on the removal of the penny, Whales then challenging analysis claiming that it was inaccurate and providing his own data, and the cost to produce a penny increasing in 2012. Post 2010 the argument was almost split down the middle due to people seeing both Lombra and Whales journals. It shows just how influential their writings were to the topic on the penny. The effect of the recession in 2007 may have also lead to some people changing their position on wanting to keep or remove the penny. 4 Gore, Jeff, and Mark, Weller. It Time to Ditch the New York Times Upfront, vol.147, no. 6, 2014, pp 22-23., Academic Search premier, web, 03/5/2017 Lombra, Raymond E. the Penny from the U. S. Coinage System: An Economic Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 27, no. 4, 2001, pp. , Academic Search Premier, web, 3/5/2017 Sanburn, Josh, For Time, vol. 181, no. 4, 2013, pp 36-40, Academic Search Premier, web, 3/5/2017 Whaples, Robert. to Eliminate the Penny from the U.S. Coinage System: New Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 33, no. 1, 2007, pp. , Academic Search Premier, web, 3/5/2017