Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Two Different Treatments, One Source of Hope: To Conquer Mental Illness Depression is a devastating mental illness that can seriously take a negative toll on life. There are plenty of treatments for depression and organizations that can help one get that treatment. One well-known treatment is an anti-depressant. The organization, Anxiety and Depression Association of America gives people the ability to look up and make an appointment with a local therapist to then prescribe them with anti-depressants. The main goal of this organization is to help people with anxiety and/or depression; provides education about the disorders and helps people find treatment, resources, and (Mission and History, ADAA). As well as anti-depressants may appear to work, not everyone agrees with the usage of them. Addiction Hope is an organization that helps people overcome addiction, which is also a serious mental illness. This organization is not in favor of the usage of anti-depressants and offers a search engine to local rehabilitation centers in order to refrain from the usage of medications to treat addiction. Overall, these two stakeholders have different viewpoints on treating mental illnesses; however, they share one main goal which is to effectively treat patients with a mental illness. Because both stakeholders want to treat mental illnesses, a compromise might be to have support groups and an education on pursuing a healthy lifestyle in order to treat those in hope of conquering their mental illness. site offers plenty of resources for those suffering with depression or anxiety. The recurring hyperlink present in the website is labeled and once it is clicked, it Student 2 gives a list of antidepressants commonly prescribed and their effect on the human mind. Antidepressants are effective in a positive way according to Hidalgo Lopez-Torres, of the patients reported being satisfied with the antidepressant treatment, though the level of satisfaction was higher among those who presented with less marked depressive symptoms, received longer-term treatment and took a favorable view of drug (3). This scientist conducted a research project on people who are diagnosed with depression and are currently taking antidepressants. As time progressed on the medication, the happier people have become. It was obvious that in the beginning of the experiment that the patients lacked confidence to participate in the simple activities that were presented to them. By only one month on the medication, confidence in the patients has gone up by 97%. This experiment supports the claim that antidepressants are a reliable and effective treatment for depression. There has also been dependency feedback posted from antidepressant users. Dependency is the start of addiction which is something one should not be willing to be diagnosed with. ADAA also offers a page which ensures that all antidepressants included under the hyperlink are safe and have been tested. This kind of information gives the patient diagnosed a sense of ease that the medications presented are safe and reliable. Even though medication is being used, the main goal of this organization is to help depressed patients see the bright side of life and to help patients with anxiety to relax more by treating them with antidepressants. Addiction Hope is an organization that helps people with mental illnesses in a more natural way. This organization supports the idea that antidepressants are not good for human health and can cause people to become addicted to it. are considered to be non- addictive and non-habit forming, but through continued abuse, a dependency can be (Erken). This organization does not represent the use of medications to help treat a patient with a Student 3 mental illness. A common treatment available on this site is a rehabilitation center. There are plenty to choose from and the purpose serves to prevent patients from the temptation of using something they are addicted to whether drugs or alcohol. These centers allow patients that share the same mental illness to overcome their issue in a more natural way rather than relying on a medication that alters the human mind. The natural approach includes allowing the patient to reflect on themselves in the rehabilitation centers and replace the addiction with an alternative route. Addiction Hope also states that antidepressants are said to be non-addictive but the patients using it could, and usually do, develop a dependence on it. Self-medicating is also very common when prescribed antidepressants. Rather than having the drugs in handy to self- medicate, rehabilitation centers offer people to talk to and a safer environment rather than taking medications. Although Addiction Hope is against the usage of antidepressants, this goal is to help treat people diagnosed with a mental illness. It seems as if ADAA and Addiction Hope take a different approach on one effective treatment to help people with mental disorders because of their different beliefs on medication. ADAA is more in favor of prescribing medication to patients to help alter the way their brain functions rather than a natural way of healing like Addiction Hope offers. Even though they both do not agree on each treatment, both of their goals is to help treat mental illness and heal those in need. Mental illnesses may not be the exact same, but addiction and depression are both very serious and critical conditions that alter the way a human thinks and can have a serious negative impact on their lives. A common ground found here is to help those in need with a mental illness and give them a sense of hope. Both organizations also include articles that educate the public on the mental illnesses to clarify any misconceptions possibly heard or believed about the illnesses Student 4 In order for these organizations to compromise to have an effective impact they should collaborate and form free support groups, since each organization is non-profit, as well as having free classes on healthy living education. The overall goal for both organizations is to help heal those with mental illnesses. With support groups, the individual will recognize that they are not alone in their situation, they could make friendships with those sharing the same illness and they could feel comfortable with a support group as if they were a family. The healthy living education department would educate individuals on how to take care of their mental illness through more natural ways. These methods include reflecting deeply on what the individual interests are and to pursue them. It could be as simple as gardening or taking a daily jog to help boost up blood pressure and feel good about them. Overall, the organizations appear to not be willing to compromise with one wanted to prescribe patients with antidepressants and the other willing to send patients to rehab. With the compromise of both organizations, more people will get treated of their mental illness in a more natural manner and it will be more effective without the use of drugs or the isolation of rehab. With the knowledge that there is support on every corner without having to go to a rehabilitation center or taking a pill every single day for the rest of your life, more people will feel comfortable to admitting their mental illness and seek help. The overall goal for both organizations is to help people with mental illnesses and give them an effective treatment, and this can occur in a more natural way than the treatments currently readily available. (W.C. 1317 Student 5 Works Cited ADAA. Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. ADAA, 05 June 2010. Accessed. 22 Jan. 2017. https://www.adaa.org/ Charey, Michael. ArXiv.org Q-bio  A Computational Model of the Effects of Drug Addiction on Neural Population Dynamics. Cornell University Library, 15 Sept. 2012. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1209.3411>.. Ekern, Jacquelyn. Antidepressants Addiction Symptoms, Abuse Stats, Withdrawal  Addiction Hope. NCC AP, 22 Mar. 2015. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. https://www.addictionhope.com/antidepressants/ Evans, Elizabeth A. , Sullivan, Maria A. Substance Abuse and Rehabilitation. Annual, 2014, Vol. 5, p107, 14 p. Dove Medical Press Limited. 20 Feb 2017 http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=21&sid=ec0a4c08-ea64-4fdc-893d- fd17b0895b63%40sessionmgr103&hid=113&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d# AN=edsgcl.412982353&db=edsgao Gaspersz, Roxanne, Lamers, Femke Anxious distress predicts subsequent treatment outcome and side effects in depressed patients starting antidepressant treatment. Elsevier Ltd. Web. 20 Feb 2017. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=5&sid=f2aaaeaf-85b1-47c6- 89b5- Student 6 96f0165590fa%40sessionmgr4008&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=S 0022395616304095&db=edselp Haddad, Peter Do Antidepressants Have Any Potential to Cause Addiction? - Jul 02, 2016. Sage Journals, 05 May 2010. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. <http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/026988119901300321>. Hidalgo, J., Gallardo, Y., Treatment Satisfaction Among Patients Taking Antidepressant Medication Community Ment Health J (2016) Web. 20 Feb 2017. 52: 738. doi:10.1007/s10597-015-9865-5 T., Van Leeuwen Jayden. Antidepressants: Types, Efficiency and Possible Side Effects. New York, NY: Nova Science, 2010. Print