Bynon 1 Austin Bynon Professor Hanson ENC 1102 19 February 2017 Rhetorical Appeal The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) wants to protect the environment and they create strict regulations so situations like the ones shown in the photos occur. They must protect the environment because once gone no way of bringing it back. The two images show how people are destroying the environment and the wildlife living in it. EPA, an organization that protects the environment, believes humans need to stop polluting so the environment get ruined. The images use rhetorical appeals to convey which shows destruction in the environment. The first photo chosen was a photo from the website, it showed oil covering the top of the water and destroying the plants on the coast. This image shows multiple rhetorical appeals. It shows ethos by coming from the website. an organization in charge of the entire United States environment, so as credible as a source you can find. People would be concerned when they see such an image, since it came from the EPAs website. Pathos is also relevant by the image showing an oil spill in a body of water, a place used to swim and do other activities. Now people cannot enjoy the area due to the oil spill. It shows the rhetorical appeal logos by showing how the oil is destroying the environment. People would see the image and realize this is an issue, if obviously destroying the environment. It shows its logic people Bynon 2 have to stop situations like oil spills from occurring so the environment stays protected. The last rhetorical appeal it conveys is kairos. It shows they have no time to wait, people must do something now to protect the environment before completely ruined. The second picture shows all four rhetorical appeals. an image of pollution covering the top of the water and a dead fish floating on top of the surface. It shows ethos because from the website which is a very credible source. People would take the matter seriously since from the organization which is in charge of the entire United States environment. It also shows pathos by showing how pollution in an environment can kill fish which people are emotional about since it was once a living creature but now it died due to humans polluting. This would most likely have people angered which means they would act upon the issue. It displays logos because its logic that people must do something to better the environment before all the fish and other creatures that live in the water die from pollution. Kairos refers to timeliness, this is shown in the photo by showing a dead fish and a pollutant film covering the water. This shows individuals must act fast before the environment and the wildlife living in it is destroyed. The image is blatantly showing how people are ruining the environment and they must do something about it as soon as possible. The EPA is an organization that enforces and creates rules that protect the environment. This organization is in charge of the entire U.S. environment. They are the ones who tell companies how they must dispose of waste and to make sure their machines produce a lot of air pollution. The goals of the organization are monitoring climate control and making improving air quality, protecting all types of bodies of water from pollution, improving communities by cleaning them up and enforcing rules so it becomes good living conditions, and Bynon 3 making sure chemicals are properly disposed and prevent all types of pollution Strategic The goals from the organization benefit a lot of people and the environment. If the EPA create laws and enforce them the pollution in the U.S. would destroy the environment. Companies would just dispose waste wherever they pleased and have to monitor the air pollution they produce. This would save the companies a lot of money but would be terrible for the environment. People say the EPA abuses their powers and are too strict on their regulations they create. In the end the mission they strive for is protecting the environment. The EPA wants restaurants to stop throwing spoiled and left over food in the garbage (Jennings, 28). feed people, not landfills. By reducing wasted food in landfills, we cut harmful methane emissions that fuel climate change, conserve our natural resources and protect our planet for future  said Gina McCarthy, EPA Administrator, in a (Jennings, 28). Gina McCarthy is saying instead of throwing the food away the restaurants could either donate it to people that need it or compost it. This would save more space in landfills which benefits the environment. a statement, the departing administrator of the E.P.A. said the industry had proven it could consistently improve fuel economy and reduce greenhouse gases since the current rules were adopted five years Affirms Fuel-Economy Goals, Frustrating EPA sets goals so situations like the ones in the pictures never happen. In a book it says, goals have been met in corrective action program, but resource and technical challenges will constrain future This is showing they set goals but there are difficulties about passing new laws in the future. This is showing how the EPA tries to protect the environment by preventing air and all types of pollution. All in all, the main goal is to protect the United States environment. They set regulations and make sure businesses abide by the rules. People are ruining the environment by Bynon 4 disposing harmful waste into nearby bodies of water and by people not following the regulations like the BP oil spill which harmed the environment. People must stop doing negative things to the environment and they must protect it while they can, because once it is destroyed gone for good. a Bynon 5 Works Cited Vlasic, Bill. Affirms Fuel-Economy Goals, The New York Times. The New York Times, 13 Jan. 2017. Web. 19 Feb. 2017 EPA Strategic  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 07 July 2016. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Jennings, Lisa. Watching waste: USDA, EPA set first waste reduction goals, urge restaurants to compost and donate  Restaurant News 2015: 28. General OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Markey, Edward J. Hazardous  N.p., 2011. Web. 24 Feb. 2017.