Peterson 1 Rebecca Peterson Kimber Wiggs ENC1101 Section 713 March 25, 2017 Healthcare as a Universal Right Over the course of 8 years the conversation about healthcare has changed considerably with the talk beginning with how other countries were running their healthcare, and who was successful, to how can the United States fix or repeal the universal healthcare program The Patient Protection and Affordable Healthcare Act (ACA). The conversation about how to improve the system while also lowering costs has been the focus recently, when previously the dialogue was centered around healthcare being a right for all citizens. The cost of healthcare is the biggest talking point as both government and private citizen are affected. The United States had the highest average healthcare cost per person, and Peter Sherman calculated that cost in 2008 to be roughly $8,000 and Jost and Pollack in 2016 estimated that cost had risen to $9,695 in 2014 and that was both before and after the introduction of the ACA (Sherman 34) (Jost and Pollack 547). Within the American system there are issues with poor management and miscommunication that add to the growing cost of hospitals, doctors, nurses, and ultimately healthcare costs (Sherman 34). This excessive and costly spending is still not discussed among those involved in the field. Abroad, however, the conversation has been focused more on which universal system, which have already been implemented and are just being fine-tuned, is the best. Any new system, even the structure of an entire democracy, takes foreign perspectives or examples to act as a guideline to avoid similar mistakes. An example is the healthcare systems of Switzerland and Singapore. Peter Bessard in 2008 compared Switzerland and Singapore and Peterson 2 found that both countries offer universal healthcare, have strikingly similar average life expectancies, and have similar gross domestic products (GDP) but have distinct cost differences with their healthcare systems (Bessard18). Switzerland utilizes the third-party payer system which greatly reduced competition and drastically increased the waiting time for patients. Socialized coverage like moved the cost from the individual to the government and tied up 11.4% of GDP in covering the cost of healthcare (Bessard 16). The socialized system is not sustainable and healthcare costs are just a quarter of that of Switzerland. This is due primarily to a better allocation of resources with personnel after witnessing how a socialized system was a drain on the economy and government funds. The cost is spread throughout without placing too much of the financial burden onto one party (Bessard 18). Bessard analyzed the system of Singapore and the financial basis of their healthcare system noted as the philosophy of that has government playing a subsidiary making the patients focus more on preventative measures. The patients are still responsible for a percentage of their healthcare costs and these costs vary due to high degree of consumer choice (Bessard 19). These two countries have taken the healthcare debate and found two different solutions within their countries to offer universal healthcare to its citizens. The United States has offered universal healthcare since March of 2010 in the form of The ACA but costs are distributed unevenly. The ACA is based on the basic model that healthy people pay more in premiums, the amount needed to pay for the insurance policy, than the sick or elderly because they do not incur as much in healthcare costs. This rise in premiums affected mostly the middle class who bore much of the financial responsibility whereas before the ACA the premiums were set by the plan selected and the coverage offered for the individuals and their Peterson 3 families. Jost and Pollack in 2016, after almost 7 years under the ACA, explain that the Affordable Care Act reprieves the sick, high-risk, and elderly from high premiums and deductibles, the amount needed to paid for before insurance will cover any costs, because they do not have the means to be able to pay for the extensive and frequent medical bills that are accumulated. After 7 years Jost and Pollack notice the shift in conversational focus from having healthcare towards being responsible for paying others healthcare. It should be noted that those under Medicaid and Medicare are receiving their healthcare through the government and their money is not being contributed meaning half of the population spends almost nothing on healthcare in any given (Jost and Pollack 547). Healthcare has been universally offered within the United States since 2010 but the rise in premiums has middle class citizens demanding a shift back to privatized coverage to once again lower costs. The ACA was designed to lower the overall cost for healthcare by distributing the expenses over a broader area and having the government subsidize the difference. It offered coverage to those with a serious and costly medical condition to get health insurance and pay the same amount as someone considered low-risk; a low-risk individual is not elderly and/or has no medical conditions that have reoccurring costs. This was not an option through privatized plans where the individual paid for their health insurance without help from the federal government. While this does raise the overall price for someone who previously had lower premiums because of the pooling of different risk groups, Rosenbaum and Thorpe explain that it keeps the overall cost lower and allows those who previously could be rejected from coverage because of a pre- existing condition to get the same coverage for the same price (Rosenbaum and Thorpe 534). Most people overtime have agreed that every citizen should have healthcare and the conversation is shifting now to affordability for all parties involved. Peterson 4 The Affordable Care Act expanded the gap and gave the poorest access to decent and affordable healthcare for the first time. More people are being covered for basic primary care which alleviates the stress from worrying about hospital visits and bills. This allows individuals to focus on other areas of their lives. This shift in focus leads to innovation and creativity, because more of the basics needs have been met. The United States still has the highest cost per person for health insurance but with tweaking of The ACA and reorganizing the health system to reduce waste and mismanagement from all levels of the system then healthcare could become truly affordable for all. The conversation about healthcare has shifted from debating if everyone should have healthcare to finding new ways to make sure that healthcare costs lower while keeping universal healthcare for the citizens of America. Peterson 5 Works Cited Bessard, Pierre. of Mixed-Economy Solutions in Healthcare: The Examples of Switzerland and Economic Affairs, University of South Florida Online Database, volume 28, issue 4, 2008, pp. 16-21. Rosenbaum, Sara and Jane Hyatt Thorpe. Affordable Care at Six: Reaching for a New The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, University of South Florida Online Database, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 533-537. Sherman, Peter J. the Whole Quality Progress, University of South Florida Online Database, vol. 43, issue 9, 2010, pp. 32-36, 38. Stoltzfus Jost, Timothy and Harold A. Pollack. Health Care Truly Affordable after Health Care The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, University of South Florida Online Database, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 546-554.