Student 1 Student Professor Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 25 March 2017 A Compromised Plan for Veteran Healthcare Veterans have struggled finding adequate health care for many years. It was not until 2014 in Phoenix, Arizona where 300 Veterans died due to lack of care available, that organizations realized a change was necessary (CVA Memo). United States often find themselves waiting for over a month from when they apply for an appointment to receive treatment and one solution, creating privatized healthcare, has stirred up an intense stalemate. The American Legion believes that fixing the wait times begins with holding the VA clinics accountable in addition to advocating for legislation that puts veterans first. Another stakeholder included in this situation is the Concerned Veterans for America. They believe that privatizing the health care system for veterans will solve the extensive wait times as well as provide profit for their own organization. Although both stakeholders disagree with how to properly handle the veteran healthcare epidemic, they share an end goal of wanting to reduce the wait time and overall difficulty veterans face when requesting care. Implementing a shared system of both privatization as well as increased resources in federally funded Veteran Affairs hospitals/clinics will bridge the gap between these two stakeholders to create multiple solutions for veterans in need of healthcare. The American Legion has been a patriotic veterans organization since 1919 that strives for that put the interests of veterans (Mission). Since the 2014 event in Phoenix, Student 2 the Legion has recognized the extent to which the veteran healthcare system is flawed and believes the best way to solve the problem is to focus on the internal flaws within the VA clinics and hospitals. Many of the deaths in Arizona were caused by the medical care facilities having a waitlist of over 2 months in which case turned out to be too long for some patients. Since the incident, the Legion has found that working with the hospitals directly to improve staffing and necessary skills has resulted in the of 97% of appointments within 30 days of the preferred (Barnett). The vital difference that have compared to a regular institution is specified care for people that have been injured in the military and the Legion feels that ordinary facilities will not provide proper care for Veterans. Another stakeholder interested in improving veteran healthcare is the Concerned Veterans for America. The reason the hospital and VA clinic waitlists are so backed up is because those are the only facilities available for Veterans that will give them free or reduced healthcare. Thus, there are a large number of Veterans in need, with very few locations to receive care. The CVA have proposed the bill, for Our Heroes in the 21 st Century that suggests why and how to create private healthcare for veterans. One of the reasons they believe privatization is the correct solution is because it will Veterans a more widespread selection when trying to receive (PR, Newswire). If are not providing medical attention in a timely manner, then the patient should not suffer with the inability to seek affordable care elsewhere. The Concerned Veterans for America want to give Veterans the ability to go to any institution for care without being penalized financially. These two stakeholders are determined to fix the disastrous Veteran health care system, yet they have different methods of doing so. The American Legion wants to fix the flawed by holding them accountable, improving staffing, and advocating for future legislation for Student 3 Veterans. Alternatively, the Concerned for America prefer to privatize Veteran healthcare by eliminating and creating the opportunity to obtain care at any medical facility. Both of these methods have been suggested in the past, yet neither one are currently in action. Although the main argument for privatizing healthcare has been that it will create more opportunities to receive care, it will actually reduce them(Cohen). Switching to privatized Veteran healthcare will raise federal funding from $100 billion to $450 billion by 2034(Cohen). The more Veterans that decide to use private practices for care, the greater the current situation becomes because will have to close in order to support funding, resulting in a reduced number of institutions providing care. It has also been found that the care received from are 30% more efficient than private sectors (Should Veteran Healthcare System Be Privatized) demonstrating the effectiveness in Likewise, simply trying to improve staffing has not been an adequate solution in the past. Though waitlists have been a recurring problem, it took 2 years to fire and replace all of the individuals that contributed to the situation in Phoenix. $142 million was also given out as bonuses in 2014 although the employees were not doing a satisfactory job. (CVA Memo). The problems with VA healthcare cannot simply be fixed by advocating and firing, nor by privatizing the whole system. Instead, a compromise between the two plans must be made to create a successful change for healthcare. By creating a system where are grouped and staffed appropriately and doctors are part of the private sector, allows for a working compromise between the stakeholders that will give Veterans their necessary care. To satisfy the American Legion, will be worked on internally to train employees correctly as well as hold responsibility and fire any staff that do not perform at full potential. In addition to the training, all will be revamped to include a section. This part of the plan is what will satisfy the Concerned Veterans of Student 4 America. The money that would be used to create a complete privatized health care system will instead fund an area of the VA that comes at a discounted cost to Veterans. The doctors and staff in these areas of the will be part of the private sector, but will work off of the agenda. This is a concept similar to because the doctors(tenants) must work by the rules, yet they have the ability to utilize the space and charge their patients for the services they provide. If a patient believes their situation is serious and cannot wait for their normal appointment, they have the opportunity to go to a private doctor in the VA. In the event that waitlists become exceedingly long, the private VA can also take patients which will help to eliminate a repeat of Phoenix in 2014. Though Veterans have suffered greatly in the past due to a lack of solutions for their healthcare, both the American Legion and Concerned Veterans of America work to provide an answer for the situation. The common ground that these stakeholders share accompanies differing opinions on how to fix Veteran care. The Legion attributes the problem with to their staffing and within, and they must be fixed as so. The CVA believe that the only solution is to privatize the whole system so that waitlists do not become an issue in the future. These suggestions have been proposed in the past, but have failed. These suggestions, however, can be incorporated together into one plan that involves a complete re-staffing of trained employees as well as private doctors. This is a competent solution that will make both stakeholders and Veterans happy by compromising to eliminate future waitlist hassles. (WC: 136 Student 5 Works Cited Barnett, National Commander Dale. Privatizing VA is not the  The American Legion. The American Legion, 21 July 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://www.legion.org/magazine/233418/privatizing-va-not-answer>. Cohen, Tom. VA crisis: solutions exist, but happened, panel  CNN. Cable News Network, 12 June 2014. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. <http://www.cnn.com/2014/06/12/politics/va-reforms/>. CVA Memo: Why We Need The For Our Heroes In The 21st Century  Concerned Veterans for America. Concerned Veterans for America, n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <https://cv4a.org/press-release/va-reform-needed/>.  The American Legion. The American Legion, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <https://www.legion.org/mission>. PR, Newswire. AFGE: Inside the Koch Plot to Sell out Health  PR Newswire US, 14 Apr. 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=b wh&AN=201604141808PR.NEWS.USPR.DC72234&site=eds-live. Should the Veterans Health Care System be  The New York Times. The New York Times, 28 June 2016. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2016/06/28/should-the-veterans-health-care- system-be-privatized>.