Feindt 1 Austin Feindt 3/16/17 Professor Clague Final draft Should the United states government take more action on Human Trafficking? Millions of people are stripped of their rights every year, and forced into the human trafficking industry. Stakeholders use images and advertisements to deliver their mission statements to a designated audience. The Polaris Project is a non-governmental organization that works to end human trafficking. Their goal in their advertising is to use over exaggerated emotion to drive the point of pain and suffering that victims endure, so that the audience feels those emotions as well. Both images used are advertisements from The Polaris Project. The first image is a woman with a barcode on the back of her neck. The second image is a woman with dirty hands around her mouth. Overall, both the images use rhetorical appeals to get to the point that the stakeholder is trying to show, which is how immoral human trafficking truly is and how people should act to help end it. The first image is an impactful advertisement that shows a woman from the back and on her neck, is a barcode, with the words No. Human, End human trafficking and slavery. The woman has no clothes on which symbolizes her vulnerability in the trafficking industry. The barcode is tattooed on her back which shows how permanent the effects of trafficking are on victims. In article on how childhood sexual and physical abuse he states child sexual and physical abuse were associated with a doubling of the odds of both obesity and (Rohde 2008) showing how human trafficking starting from a young age, can have permanent damage on women throughout their life. This is in fact the focal point of the picture; it Feindt 2 contrasts with the skin of her body and makes the audience look at it first and then the rest of the picture. One important feature of the image is, the woman has her back toward the camera so we do not get to see her face. Her hands are clenched to her head showing her stress and possibly the pain she has endured. This image overall has a strong emotional persuasiveness, because humans should not be products, just like store items. The image makes the connection that human trafficking is so immoral that humans are just items with barcodes. The Rhetorical appeals of this image are impactful as well. The image has an overwhelming amount of pathos, the basic principle of what they are trying to deliver to the audience is exaggerated emotion as stated in article Polaris their campaigns of the victims of (Sneed 2015). The barcode on a human making them seem more of a product of a store than an individual. Also, there are smaller hits at emotion within the details of the image. The actions of her clenching her head with her hands shows her pain which the audience feels when they see it. The image does not give much logos and statistics so that rhetorical appeal is not used within this image. Being one of the largest organization that works against human trafficking the image has their name and website at the bottom and it adds credibility. The words add to the Kairos of the image showing that the audience that sees the image should act right now because women are currently being forced into this industry. The second image is from the same stakeholder (Polaris) but has different features and different emotions that are expressed. It shows a woman facing the camera with two large very dirty hand around her mouth. This contrasts with the first image by, the woman facing the camera instead of showing her back, so you can see her facial expressions. The dirty hands around the mouth symbolize the industries power and gross nature. Also, the hands that Feindt 3 are around the mouth are enlarged to show the power and force that these women involved with trafficking deal with. The eyes of the woman are wide open symbolizing her anxiety and panic like nature. This picture does not have any underlining message like the last image but it does get a point across to the audience. The Rhetorical appeals of this picture are different than the first image by including different types of appeals. This image includes a statistic at the bottom that says Number of men that a female prostitute can see in a This appeals to the logos by a large number that seems to be exaggerated. Even though this statistic is not given facts behind it, it still makes the audience think to themselves how many people that truly is. The main rhetorical appeal is pathos like the last image but this image comes off with a different type of emotion. The emotion that is expressed in the image is fear, the woman is being held by these large dirty hands that the audience feels they are witnessing the woman being taken advantage right in front of their eyes. Also, the inclusion of words such as and have negative connotations so the audience gets the ethos of this image is the same as the first image, Polaris uses their name as credibility to cover the statistic they made about the number of men a prostitute can see in a day. The last appeal is Kairos which the image shows it timeliness with the words still shows how this immoral industry which Polaris compares the women in trafficking to slavery of African Americans in early America. All together these rhetorical appeals the image presents prove it effective to persuade the audience. Together, these images are from the same stakeholder, so they share the same argument. However, they include different details and emotions. The small details in them can sway different types of people to act upon their overall main goal, which is to end human trafficking. Both images are sufficient and have enough rhetorical appeals to call themselves effective. Even Feindt 4 though both images are staged to show over exaggerated emotion the audience is persuaded with over the top amount of pathos. Altogether, I think the stakeholder did a good job of getting their argument across to the audience. Feindt 5 References Human Trafficking. (2017, January 10). Retrieved February 24, 2017, from https://polarisproject.org/human-trafficking Rohde, P., Ichikawa, L., Simon, G. E., Ludman, E. J., Linde, J. A., Jeffery, R. W., & Operskalski, B. H. (2008). Associations of child sexual and physical abuse with obesity and depression in middle-aged women. Child Abuse & Neglect,32(9), 878-887. doi:10.1016/j.chiabu.2007.11.004 Sneed, T, (2015, January 14). How Big Data Battles Human Trafficking. Retrieved February 24, 2017