Davison 1 Bradley Davison ENC 1102 De Carion 22 February 2017 Campus Carry Every advertisement you see on a daily basis is an extreme effort to manipulate your mind and emotions for the purpose of the advertisement. Visual rhetoric can be used to appeal to ethos, logos, pathos, or Kairos. In this essay I will be analyzing the use of visual rhetoric in the forms of pictures. The pictures will be from a stakeholder (Students for Concealed Carry) in the relevant issue regarding concealed carry of a firearm on campus. Concealed carry is the act of carrying a hidden handgun on your person for your right to self-defense. Some states have already passed laws allowing students to conceal a handgun on campus with the ownership of a concealed weapons permit, while others are not so keen on allowing this. The issue at hand is whether concealed carry on campus is a benefit to the safety of the student body or is a risk to the safety of the student body. Students for Concealed Carry (SCC) is an organization that advocates for the use of legal concealed weapons on campus in the united states as a means of strictly self- defense. This organization has to main purposes: to rule out any myths or common misconceptions about campus carry, and to push state and school administrators to legalize campus carry. In the first image you will notice an independent woman with what looks to be a blood colored tear. The second image seems to be a group of students studying in a park who are at risk to any possible situation, with no means of definite self-defense. I will be analyzing the Davison 2 use of logos, ethos, pathos, and Kairos in the two images and discussing how they are relevant to the purpose of the organizations campaign. Pathos is used in these two images to manipulate the emotional sensitivity to real world situations. The two images I have presented appeal significantly to pathos. In image 1 uses the element of pathos by creating a sympathetic feeling for the woman in the picture. You see a black and white image of a woman which creates a lifeless feeling, yet the only thing of color on the face is a red tear representing the sadness or fear that this woman has dealt with. The tear being red has some significance to blood. The text in the image also has all different shades of red. is the color of fire and blood, so it is associated with energy, war, danger, strength, power, determination as well as passion, desire, and (color wheel pro). Color wheel pro is a site that analyses the emotional relations to all different types of colors and explains why it is so. As you can see from this quote red is associated with the sense of fear, danger, blood, etc. when the audience views the picture they immediately feel a sense of sadness and fear for this woman and the red being a representation of blood they can see that this woman may have been hurt because she have the ability defend herself against a criminal. Image 2 Davison 3 displays the state of Florida in the foreground with the text have a right to self-defense sign this petition to support campus carry in In the unclear background you see a group of students sitting in the park possibly studying. The picture could create an emotional feeling of comfort that the students are all enjoying each safe because they have no means of self- defense. Company in the park, yet, none of them have a definite means of self-defense in such a shooter prone area. The bright colors in the background create a feeling of happiness and enjoyment but the very dull text makes the audience seem unsure that the students are Logos is a way of using strategies of logic to persuade an audience. Any statement that states a claim and offers support as to why that claim is accurate is a use of logos. Image 1 necessarily provide a logical argument through the picture but the text within the picture argues quite a logical point. The text in the image states does removing my right to defend myself from a rapist make you any this is a definite use of logic because the most common reason why people disagree with firearms being concealed on campus is that it will make the people around the person carrying the gun less safe. commonly thought that there is a possibility the person carrying the firearm could be mentally unstable and lash out and began firing on innocent people. But with how uncommon this is becoming with the strict laws and criteria you have to meet for getting a concealed weapons permit the only thing that one is doing by siding with anti-campus carry disarming the innocent law abiding citizens who would truly only be using the gun for self-defense purposes. Image 2 uses logical reasoning by presenting you with an image of many students in a park that are practically defenseless to any type of attack. The logical part about this picture is that most people feel that the more populated areas are periodically though to be the places that are targeted more by attackers or shooters. This Davison 4 would mean that the thing to do would be to give students a means of self-defense in these type of densely populated areas, making it easier to stop an attacker faster. The two images use ethos as a way to ensure the audience that the information presented is in fact accurate and truthful. Ethos is an appeal to the credibility of a piece of rhetoric. Without the credibility presented how does the audience know to believe what the image in this case is representing? Image 1 would be seen as a credible piece of rhetoric because in the lower right hand corner you can see that the emblem of the stakeholder can be seen. The reason this emblem is in the photo is so that the audience can be sure that the image just created by some low budget program that have any research involved in the process. Another way to determine the credibility is to see the actual house bill number for the law the stakeholder is trying to argue. Image 2 for the most part is the same case as image 1. Image 2 shows the stakeholder emblem in the lower center portion of the picture. This is also to create a feeling of belief that the photo was created by an organization that knows what they are dealing with. Image 2 also uses a picture of Florida in the foreground to create the feeling that this is being presented by the state of Florida or being funded by a portion of representatives along with the stakeholder. Kairos is an appeal to the timeliness of a piece of rhetoric. It refers to the desire to out or the Hurry while supplies aspect of a rhetorical piece. Image 1 uses Kairos by presenting an image of a woman with a tear running down her face. This is instant appeal to Kairos because the audience wants to quickly help this girl and dispose of the reason why she is crying. Secondly, the image presents in text the house bill number and says house bill number this appeals to timeliness because if the audience is in favor of this Davison 5 presentation they will feel the need to quickly veto the bill. Image 2 uses Kairos by showing a group of students surrounding each other possibly studying in a park on school property and in text says this petition to support campus carry in this makes the audience feel the necessity to join on the petition to ensure that the students can have a right to self-defense on campus as quickly as possible. In conclusion, you can see that there is much more involved with the presentation of a rhetorical piece. Every element from the color to the picture itself is meant to persuade of make the audience feel some type of emotion. In just these two images from a specific stakeholder you see the use of all rhetorical appeals including logos, pathos, ethos, and Kairos. Both of these images are specifically handcrafted to make you think twice before making your decision when it comes to campus carry, and the more you analyze the photos the more you see how. You can immediately tell what the organizations goals are, in this case the SCC, and how they stand on the topic at hand. Davison 6 Works Cited Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.color-wheel-pro.com/color-meaning.html>.  NRA Publications. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nrapublications.org/>. Students for Concealed  Students for Concealed Carry RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://concealedcampus.org/>.