Student !1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 4 March 2017 Helping Veterans Within the past couple of years, it has been no secret that there are systemic flaws within the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and Senator John McCain has expressed concerns for these issues and has taken action to try and fix them. Although there are issues within the system of the VA, the core values and principles of the organization are directed towards providing help and care to veterans. This goal is identical for Senator McCain although he sees that the VA is unable to provide stable healthcare to veterans. The points view that are taken from these stakeholders seem incompatible; however, the compromise of incentivizing VA workers through raising their annual budget, firing bad employees and encouraging more efficient work will lead to to an agreement between both parties. The first stakeholder, the U.S Department of Veterans Affairs, is a government-run military veteran benefit system with cabinet level status. This benefit system offers education, health care, life insurance, treatment for post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and many other benefits. The department of Veterans Affairs is federally funded by the United States government and in 2016 had a budget of $168.8 billion. The mission statement of Veterans Affairs, as labeled on their website, is fulfill President promise care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his by serving and honoring the men and women who are (U.S Student !2 Department of Veterans Affairs page). The core values are Commitment, Advocacy, Respect, and (U.S Department of Veterans Affairs page). In research comparing the quality of mental health care provided by the VA to that of the researchers found that VA performance was superior to the private sector by more than 30% (Watkins et al. 394). This information suggests that the VA is providing superior health care than other organizations. Senator John McCain served in the Navy from 1958-1981. He was a prisoner of war held in Vietnam for five and a half year (McCain usnews.com). McCain believes that the United States veterans are not receiving and timely from the VA (McCain Affairs). In her article Care Issues For Kristina Derro, a partner for legal help for veterans, addresses these issues; now, there is a tremendous backlog of claims at the VA, and it can take many years for a claim to work its way through the (Derro 15). She goes on to say that, of October 2015, there was a backlog of over 425,000 appealed claims and the number keeps growing. The BVA [Board of only reviews about 55,000 claims each (Derro 15). Because of this backlog, many veterans are not able to receive the urgent care they need which can result their illness getting worse, or in some cases, death. Within the VA, there has also been issues regarding the employees and their work ethic. staffers entered the wrong dates in the scheduling system in some cases and follow up on appointment requests in a timely way in there kept secret wait lists hiding how long were (Slack). This means that some employees have been lying about how long some veterans have waited to receive help from the VA. McCain has taken it Student !3 upon himself and his office to help these veterans. Senator office has helped veterans receive hundreds of thousands of dollars-worth of benefits and retroactive benefits payments in just the last year. The end goal of The United States Department of Veteran Affairs and John McCain is to help out U.S. military veterans. Though in recent years there have been issues within the VA system, the VA was created to and honor the men and women who are In an interview, McCain said VA administrators greater ability to hire and fire those charged with caring for our (Miller). This shows that McCain is not completely against the VA itself, just the problems that are occurring throughout its system. Both stakeholders are concerned with the health and treatment of veterans and they both believe that veterans deserve to get help. The needs of each stakeholder are very similar as well. Both the VA and John McCain need money and funds in order to give veterans the help they need. So although these stakeholders may not fully agree, they too different from each other which allows access to find a possible compromise between them. Due to the issues of the VA system, some solutions have been proposed by many different people and organizations. One of those proposed solutions is privatizing the VA, or transferring the service to private ownership rather than public. Some benefits of doing such process is that the VA would no longer be federally funded or run by the government. This proposition, however, is not actually a compromise for both parties. The VA would need to find a new way to be funded. This has not been the only possible solution. According to John website, Senator McCain led a bipartisan effort to address the scandal in delayed and denied care at the Student !4 Phoenix VA Health Care System. In the end the Access to Care through Choice, Accountability and Transparency Act of 2014 was passed. (McCain Affairs) Basically, the bill allows veterans more choice for their healthcare. This is not a bad solution as it necessarily directly effect either stakeholder, rather it gives veterans their own choice. But this does not solve the systemic problem at the VA. With this in mind, a new solution that has not yet been proposed is to incentivize the employees at the VA. Incentivizing workers is simply supplying employees with different benefits based on their performance. This is designed to motivate people to improve their outcomes. A case study done by Asaad Abduljawad found evidence showing, tend to motivate people to do more and to do it better or continue to do it better. Without rewards, workers tend to lose interest in excelling and (Abduljawad and Al-Assaf). The team tested this concept in the field and it was proven true. Workers work harder and more efficiently when they are incentivized. This case study provides ample information about incentives in health care This process of incentivizing, assuming it would work with VA employees, allows both stakeholders to be satisfied. The VA will continue to be federally funded, while McCain can see an improved system within the VA as veterans receive better care from people working harder. One issue that can be predicted from this incentivizing process is that there will need to be more money to provide the incentives. Because of this fact, the funding for the VA should be raised to $173 billion annually to allow for these benefits to take effect. The VA will also have to mandate customer reviews of their experience so the VA can properly reward their employees. With this system, both parties should be content with the outcome. Student !5 Incentivizing employees at the VA will end up helping veterans in receiving better health care. John main opposition is with the way veterans are currently being treated at the VA, not the VA itself. Although the VA does have systemic issues, the process of raising their annual budget, to be able to incentivize their employees, will help solve those problems. Both parties only want to help veterans, as President Lincoln said, is our duty to care for him who shall have borne the (Lincoln-Second Inaugural Address). WC:1280 Student !6 Works Cited Abduljawad, Asaad and Al-Asaaf, Asaaf F. for Better Performance in Health NCBI. 15 May 2011. Accessed 26 Feb 2017. Adsit D, Chingos P. for Performance: A Guide to Compensation 2nd ed. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley & Co.; 2003. p. 416. Accessed 26 Feb 2017. Derro, Kristina. CARE ISSUES FOR Vol. 45, no. 1, 206ADAD, pp. Ndex to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Accessed 26 Feb 2017 McCain, John S. McCain, Prisoner of War: A First-Person www.usnews.com/ news/articles/2008/01/28/john-mccain-prisoner-of-war-a-first-person-account. Accessed 25 Mar. 2017. McCain, United States Senator John. Veterans  Veterans Affairs - United States Senator John McCain. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Miller, Jake. McCain: Administration has failed to fix VA health care 17 May 2014 Office, VA Public Affairs. U.S. Department of Veterans  U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. N.p., 03 Oct. 2005. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Accessed 29 Jan 2017. Slack, Donovan. VA Wait Times Preclude Thousands of Vets from Getting Outside Care, Probe 3 Mar. 2017. Student !7 United States. Congress, House, Lincoln, Abraham. Lincoln: First and Second Inaugural Addresses: Message, July 5, 1861: Proclamation, January 1, 1863: Gettysburg Address, November 19, 1863, G.P.O., 1912. Watkins, Katherine E., et al. Quality of Medication Treatment for Mental Disorders in the Department of Veterans Affairs and in Private-Sector Psychiatric Services, vol. 67, no. 4, 2016, pp. doi:10.1176/appi.ps.201400537.