Samaniego-Ames 1 Adriana Samaniego-Ames Instructor Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 19 March 2017 Physician Assisted Death The Death with Dignity Organization was founded in 1993 to create an effective policy like the Oregon death with dignity act and to defend it against any type of legal challenges (Death with Dignity National Center). This organizations sole mission is to promote Death with Dignity laws based on the legislation and to provide a different option for dying individuals as well as promote improvement of end-of-life care Physician assisted suicide is the prescribing of lethal drugs to patients so that they can take themselves to end their own life. For more than 20 years this organization and national center have advocated the freedom of choice on own life. During this time, the organization is working to support multiple states towards achieving policy reform. The use of rhetorical images is one way that the Death with Dignity Organization advances their goals. The first image above from the Death with Dignity National Center portrays a woman of middle age smiling next to the quote, greatest human freedom is to live, and die according Samaniego-Ames 2 to own desires and By using this quote and image, the Death with Dignity Organization has illustrated ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. Along with this quote the Death with Dignity website URL is shown, therefore this creates a sense of ethos in the audience. Since this organization is a nationally recognized organization the audience will know that this image is represented by the Death with Dignity National Center. The quote that is presented, greatest human freedom is to live, and die according to own desires and shows pathos to the audience of this picture. The quote is reaching a need and want for freedom. As humans, we all enjoy our freedom and this quote does a good way of portraying it. It states that our greatest freedom is to live and die when we want and this should not be taken away. Also by saying that this situation should be according to own desires and beliefs, it makes the audience feel empathy for the individual because if it iswhat they truly want based on their own beliefs, the patient should be able to do as they want. One of the problems this stakeholder has had is with religious organizations that state that it should not be a decision to end life but only god. However, with this quote saying that it should be according to own beliefs it shows them that it will be done in good faith. This image also shows pathos when they present the smiling woman, the audience can sense happiness coming from the woman since she has the choice to make her own decisions about not only her life but also her death. When showing pathos in this image the stakeholder can make an emotional connection between the audience and the main goal. Another rhetorical appeal this image portrays is logos. By also stating that this is according to own beliefs and desires, it shows that it is logical to allow someone to make decisions about their own life. Only the individual should have a choice over their own life especially when the person is suffering and going through a lot pain. The last rhetorical appeal this image shows is Kairos. By including a Samaniego-Ames 3 younger woman in this ad, the audience is shown that this type of situation happens to anyone at any stage of their life but no matter what it should still be their choice whether they want to continue with their life or end it because of all the suffering they are going through. Including all these rhetorical appeals, the advertisement can get Death with mission across which is to allow individuals to have a choice in the matter of their own life and death, when suffering or in pain. The second image portrays an elderly woman with a sad or disappointed look on her face, while holding a sign that states me liberty at my One of the appeals this image has is an appeal to pathos. When the audience sees in elderly woman it evokes feelings of sympathy for her. It makes the reader understand that this is a topic that really affects multiple people of different ages. Also, the quote me liberty at my once again makes the audience feel sad that the right of life or death is being taken away from this elderly woman. The use of the quote on the elderly poster creates a sense of logos in the advertisement. me Samaniego-Ames 4 liberty at my is very similar to me liberty, or give me which is a quote from Patrick speech he made to the Second Virginia Convention on March 23, 1775 at St. Church in Richmond, Virginia (Patrick Give Me Liberty Or Give Me  Speech.) The soldiers in this situation could choose between life or death by entering this conflict, however this elderly woman cannot choose to end her life even though she could be going through a lot of pain or illness. The logic behind this is that no one should have their right of freedom of choice taken away from them. By showing an elderly woman the image shows Kairos to the reader. It creates a sense of urgency for this matter to be resolved since the woman is elderly she should know now whether or not she has a choice if she is ever in a life or death situation. According to the Death with Dignity Act now is the best way to give patients the choice in their lives, it is the time to decide and allow physician assisted death to be allowed, By using these images that effectively use ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos, the mission of the Death with Dignity Act is correctly portrayed. When the images used ethos, the audience knows that these images have credibility, and by using logos the reader could understand the logic on why such quotes were used. Also by using pathos the images were able create feelings of understanding towards this situation. Last, the use of Kairos in these images allows the audience to feel the sense of urgency on why this situation should be resolved and the Death with Dignity Act should be implemented. Both these images send a message to the audience that this should be an decision because of their desires and beliefs, which is the main goal of the Death with Dignity Organization. Samaniego-Ames 5 Works Cited  Death with Dignity. Death with Dignity, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.deathwithdignity.org/about/history/>. Patrick Give Me Liberty Or Give Me   Colonial Williamsburg. The Samaniego-Ames 6 Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.history.org/almanack/life/politics/giveme.cfm>. Death with Dignity National  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, 18 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.