Fennell 1 Anna Marie Fennell Andrew deCarion ENC 1102 26 February 2016 The Minimalists Everyone has heard the mantra, is but two men employ the phrase as a lifestyle. The Minimalists, Joshua Fields Millburn and Ryan Nicodemus, share their philosophy through their website, books, podcast, and documentary. Their promotional images appeal to emotions and timeliness, along with the authority that The Minimalists have built for themselves. Image I appears on their website and displays their logo, whereas image II is a poster for their documentary. The Minimalists educate their followers on how to simplify their complex lives. They share how employing a minimalist lifestyle has benefited their mental wellbeing and how it counteracts the persuasion big businesses have on our psyche. The duo have toured around the United States lecturing and explaining the tangible ways to change perspective. diverse crowd to ask about balancing minimalism with materialistic jobs, handling the overwhelming onslaught of digital clutter, social responsibility, and how to be minimalist in (Plumb). The independent duo claims they can incorporate the practice of minimalism into their lives despite the intricacies of consumerist society. They have a modern perspective on minimalism and aim for it to applicable to the everyday American. They are concerned with the wellbeing of the masses, and want to share their story. Fennell 2 Firstly, this simplistic shot exemplifies minimalism. The image is only black and white; it is a single snapshot of their lives as friends and coworkers. The two are in the middle of having a conversation, appealing to Kairos. The two men are depicted as carefree and truly living in this isolated moment. This snapshot displays the potential freedom one can develop from their lifestyle and perspective. The Minimalists believe that once one lets go of aspects of life that are unimportant, they have the freedom spend their time on goals that are meaningful to them. Furthermore, it appeals to the emotions the two are smiling and laughing. The members are smiling and seem like their livelihood has benefitted them, like they have it all figured out and anyone could as well. The viewer associates their joy with their ideology and brand. Image I being a branding image, another appeal is ethos. The font type incorporates the individuals into the logo as part of the lettering and reinforces their role as innovators for their mentality. Being an independent duo and having a developed this meaningful logo and produced an organic photo displays the prevalence of their brand and their hard work they have invested into their content. The two are incorporated into the logo itself, so they have Fennell 3 created and embody their brand that they have made for themselves and are experienced; they practice what they preach. Image II is the cover poster for their documentary, which could be found by anyone browsing Netflix or YouTube. The duo states themselves in their promo, is the thing that gets us past the things so we can make room for important actually things at (Millburn & Nickodemus). He plays with the word in this quote to exemplify the construct of materialism; using the same word, for abstract ideas and tangible goods. This is why there are alone and centered in the frame: their lives and relationships are important to them, not extravagant cars or clothes. It says that it is about the important things; it implores the viewer to question what they think is important and what will be addressed in the documentary. important is like a call to action, employing kairos. The viewer is urged to concentrate on the important things immediately instead of wasting their time on unimportant things; the sooner they start living like a minimalist the better their lives Fennell 4 will be. Once again, like in the previous image, the two are still, yet in motion. They are looking towards the sunset: a metaphor for the potential growth and opportunities awaiting them. Their shadow is cast behind them representing the past, possibly years of meaningless work and strife. Kairos is placed subtly into the image, with their nonchalant positioning, but it implies that there is hope ahead yet time is fleeting with the presence of the sun setting. The Minimalists employ pathos with the sense of peace and potential. The typical idea of minimalism is escaping society to meditate in a lush environment and reconnect oneself with the earth, but this image provides a more contemporary perspective. The duo chose to shoot this photo in a barren, dry landscape in the middle of an open road. This image focuses on the relationship between the duo, their friendship and partnership, amidst the barren landscape. With the clean and simple type face against the cloudy sky, it is meant to invoke peace, serenity, and freedom. Someone who may be stressed and trying to relax by watching Netflix could stumble upon this image and obtain an improved state of mind. The shot is composed of nature, with The Minimalists out on their own; thriving by themselves. Finally, Ethos is employed with a full body shot of the duo out in nature without any other props or crew. It is just The Minimalists embodying their philosophy outside of urban life, therefore they have the essential first-hand experience supporting their rhetoric. Furthermore, they have a symbol above them reinforcing their ability to consolidate their philosophy into a simple logo. It seems to be a minus sign, but it is encompassed in a circle, invoking wholeness. Therefore, one can become more whole by subtracting the meaningless aspects of life. The images want the viewer to wonder, makes these two dudes so special? What do they know that I Through these images, The Minimalists want the viewers to investigate what their brand is and hopefully latch onto something that increases their quality of Fennell 5 life. They want to share the impact mindfulness has had on their health and wellbeing. At first glance, the promotional images seem intriguing in their simplicity and clean aesthetic, but upon further inspection, they are clever in their subtle, yet effective, visual rhetorical appeals. Freelance writer, Michael Kwan, was inspired by The Minimalists and he has shared his experience in a similar fashion through his blog, Beyond The Rhetoric. get caught up in the destructive game of keeping up with the Joneses, because you compare yourself against your immediate peer feel compelled to drive the newer car or the more elaborate wardrobe. But none of those things will make you happy in the long (Kwan). Kwan came to a profound conclusion through The work and he continued to share his experience as well. The Minimalists want their followers to eliminate peer pressure and the psychological manipulation of advertisements and be able to focus on what is truly meaningful to them and what will really promote their happiness and wellbeing. Fennell 6 WORKS CITED Matt, director. Minimalism: A Documentary About the Important Things. 2015. Kwan, Michael. Snippet: Ryan Nicodemus, The Beyond the Rhetoric, 29 January 2017, btr.michaelkwan.com/2017/01/29/sunday-snippet-ryan-nicodemus- minimalists. Accessed 25 February 2017. Millburn, Joshua Fields, and Ryan Nicodemus. About the  The Minimalists, Accessed 25 February 2017. Plumb, Taryn. Henry David Thoreau, but with Boston Globe, 19 December 2012, www.bostonglobe.com/lifestyle/style/2012/12/19/like-henry-david-thoreau-but-with- wifi/AXbWgbzx9PLGwJ1jfgeQvL/story.html. Accessed 25 February 2017. Weaver, Joshua. Press Photos, The Minimalists, 29 August 2012, plus.google.com/photos/106741199058746497532/album/5782087879797426257/62361 13553547120178. Accessed 25 February 2017.