Ciabaton 1 George Ciabaton ENC 1102 Professor De Carion 19 February 2017 Image 1 Image 2 Juvenile Justice Reform Advertisements There are many issues concerning the current U.S. juvenile justice system, such as a high prevalence of re-offenders, which are attempted to be resolved by various juvenile justice organizations. The organization Justice Information aims to educate the general public and people associated with at- risk youth on the issues related to the current juvenile justice system The purpose of image 1 is to educate people about how correctional facilities are constantly failing to rehabilitate recently incarcerated youth in a way that allows them to be prepared for re-entry to their old environments and receive aftercare that aims at keeping them out of trouble (Chambers). The goals that are associated with image 1 include youth complete high youth for the job Ciabaton 2 mental health and substance abuse and the confidentiality of juvenile (Chambers). The purpose of image 2 is to introduce the issue of how youth with the status of having been incarcerated in a juvenile facility and involved in the child welfare system are more likely to have rehabilitation difficulties and failures when compared to other youth in the juvenile system Status Both of these advertisements incorporate the rhetoric appeals ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in order to effectively get their intended messages across through the use of adding a link to the website, emotionally liking each image to its caption, cleverly wording each caption, and seriousness in presenting the issues at hand. Both of the advertisements contain links to the website and a resource within the website called Juvenile Justice Resource Hub in order to use ethos and establish credibility. For both images, the part when the website is given in the lower right corner establishes credibility. This is because the website is representing the organization JJIE which is a key stakeholder on the issue of failing juvenile rehabilitation because it contains research and practice models created by experts in the field that are intended to be used by those involved in the juvenile rehabilitation process. The part on both ads that says More: Juvenile Justice Resource with big letters and arrows pointing at it really encourages further research to be done by those who view the images seeing that the Juvenile Justice Resource Hub contains tons of scholarly articles on issues concerning juvenile justice. This encouragement of further research shows that this organization has confidence in its own resources thereby making it seem more credible. The use of bold and large letters to serve as links to the website gives the advertisements more credibility by making it seem as if they really want the audience to pay attention to the website links. Meanwhile, advertisements that mention their source in small letters that are hard to see can seem as if they are trying to hide something Ciabaton 3 For both advertisements, the combination of pictures of the adolescents and phrases are what create pathos. The first ad which states Youth Aftercare Be Just An provides an image of a smiling teenager with books and a backpack. This suggests that he is just a normal kid that goes to school like everyone else his age and is deserving of aftercare provided by juvenile services. The fact that the adolescent is at school is a good sign in how successful his aftercare was seeing that of youth return to school after their release from secure (Chambers). Often times, people may judge juvenile offenders as crazy delinquent kids when in reality many are decently behaved kids who happened to make a bad decision or go through hardships during their childhood. The second ad that states Status provides a picture of two teens in hooded sweatshirts that have unhappy looks on their faces. The looks on their faces can evoke a sense of fear in others that could cause people to judge them as at-risk youth who need extra help through rehabilitation services. Even if the viewer of image two is unsure of what the indicated meaning of a Status is, they most likely are able to interpret that it is associated with a negative connotation. These advertisements were able to use logos through the wording of phrases and relation of caption to image. The comparison of and in the phrase of image 1 which states Youth Aftercare Be Just An provides a clever and effective claim that the current juvenile justice system is failing to provide adequate aftercare. This claim can be supported by the statement that practice, a rare youth receives the kind of planning, cross-agency coordination and support they need to be (Chambers). The implied answer of allows the viewer to think of multiple reasons as to why aftercare of at- risk youth should not just be an afterthought. The use of two teenagers in the image and the caption Status is very logically stimulating because the viewer most likely will not Ciabaton 4 be sure about what the phrase is referring to causing them to be more likely to look on the website. For example, they may think it concerns youth involved in partnered crimes when in reality it involves youth who have been involved with the juvenile and child welfare systems. Kairos appears to be the least used rhetorical appeal in both of these advertisements, but perhaps it could be said that the serious issues concerning a lack of quality rehabilitation services for juveniles (a theme presented in both advertisements) encourage people to take action on these issues immediately. A staggering statistic concerning image 1 is that not uncommon for as many as 75 percent of youth returning home from confinement to be rearrested within three years (Chambers). This statistic suggests that the current juvenile system is failing at a rate that requires immediate reform. Perhaps the reform could involve a solution backed by research having to do with empirically supported intervention practices must be adopted as an alternative to incarceration wherever ( Lambie, Ian and Randell, Isabel). Meanwhile, a statistic provided by a case study that shows an astounding correlation related to image 2 is that prevalence of dual-system involvement among youth referred to the juvenile court on a delinquency matter has been estimated as upwards of (Halemba). This suggests the need for a holistic approach on juvenile rehabilitation involving a focus on both the juvenile system and child welfare system. At-risk youth need to be given positive role models and a good support system which is very unlikely to happen if their parents or guardians are abusive or mentally unstable in some way. Overall, the credibility of the website link, emotional connection between the captions and images, intelligent wording of both phrases, and sense of urgency created by the seriousness of both issues presented suggests that rhetorical appeals played an extremely important role in allowing the advertisements to effectively get their messages across and serve their intended Ciabaton 5 purposes. Perhaps the similarities involved in all of the rhetorical appeals of both images reflect the common goal that the advertisements possess concerning the improvement of the current juvenile justice system. Although it is a sad realization that the current system is failing to rehabilitate juveniles, it is essential that the public and people affiliated with the at-risk youth in the U.S. juvenile system understand that the system is flawed. Having this knowledge can better allow people to implement new solutions or at least show support towards beneficial juvenile reform. It is crucial that a sense of urgency on improving the many issues concerning juvenile justice, including aftercare of previously incarcerated youth and prevalence of dual-status youth, is created seeing that there are already many well thought out solutions provided by experts in the field and supported by leading organizations such as the Justice Information These solutions need to be implemented more often on not just an individual level, but through the establishment of governmental policies. Works Cited Chambers, Benjamin. is Re-entry and Aftercare for Juvenile Justice Information Exchange. jjie.org/2015/03/23/what-is-re-entry-and-aftercare-for-youth, 2015, Accessed 2/26/17. Lamdie, Ian and Randell, Isabel. impact of incarceration on juvenile Clinical Psychology Review April 2013 Issue 33, Volume 3 pages 448-459 Halemba, Greg, et al. Systems Collaborate: How Three Jurisdictions Improved Their Handling of Dual-Status National Center For Juvenile Justice, 2015, Accessed 2/26/17 Juvenile Justice Information Exchange. jjie.org/about/, 2017, Accessed 2/26/1 Status Juvenile Justice Information Exchange. jjie.org/hub/dual-status-youth, Ciabaton 6 2017, Accessed 2/26/17