Student 1 Student 1 Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 25 March 2017 Working Together for a Greener Tomorrow Reduce, (Benton 42) has been a phrase many have used to discuss the process and mentality people should have towards their environment. Over the generations recycling has transformed on how it is perceived and incorporated into local households and various corporations around the world. As discussed on an academic journal, Ryan Benton explains that successful recycling campaigns have one thing in common-participation and support from the public (Benton 43). He discusses how paper recycling advertisement has changed throughout the years, but that through it all it has maintained the quality of team work to achieve the overall goal of a greener tomorrow. His main focus in the journal was to emphasize the key word which was team work because he argued that a company change its ways without the help of their employees due to the fact that employees are what build up a company. (Benton 45) This journal relates to both stakeholders on the level that both believe in the same thing which is the benefits of paper recycling and that they both think that working together is the best solution to the situation. But even though paper recycling can be the answer to many of the environments problems, not many would agree on the control or regulation over the process of paper recycling. The two stakeholders that will be discussed are the waste management company and the technical University of Denmark. The points of view that are taken from the two stakeholders seem incompatible; however, the compromise of enforcing more regulation and promoting more Last Name 2 awareness towards the side effects of production in paper recycling. Can be implemented through the same goal and mission both stakeholders are trying to achieve which is for a greener tomorrow. Also because both believe in the benefits of paper recycling and effects it can have in the environment. There are people who believe that paper recycling is beneficial to the environment but the way in which it is being handled can be improved (Pivnenko 134). This is what Kostyantyn Pivnenko argued in his case study Paper for recycling: Identification of potentially critical In Technical University of Denmark. They argued that paper recycling is in fact beneficial to the environment but that there should be concern on the potential chemical hazards it may contain. Their goal is to emphasize the importance of knowing what paper recycling implements and the certain harms in can do to humans. Both stakeholders have provided enough evidence to support their thoughts on the subject of paper recycling. Plus, both are credible due to the fact of the background of where it comes from. For example, the waste management company is a leading provider of environmental solution services to over twenty-one million people in North America. (WM Web) This provides the credibility the company has on the subject because enough population trusts the attempts on bettering the environment little by little. The other stakeholder also can be seen as credible due to the fact that a case study performed at a well-known institution as the University of Denmark. 2014, DIU was granted an institutional accreditation by the Danish accreditation institution (member of ENQA) this ensures that the quality assurance system of the institute is well described, well-argued and well-functioning in (DTU Web) This brings in credibility to their case study due to the fact that the university is well-known for their research. Last Name 3 Both could have already performed a compromise but what limits them too is the issue of how much control one should have over the other. To better explain it imagine two children which in this case both sides of the argument. They are playing a game of who gets the praise for winning or achieving a certain goal. The certain goal in this case is achieving a better tomorrow. Well who gets to decide if the waste management with their control over recycling have on the case study the students proposes. Both are on the same page of the benefits of paper recycling but the waste management company just showcases the luxury of recycling while the others showcase both the benefits of it as well as the consequences and the importance to seek regulations. overall goal of this study is to provide a basis for systematically addressing the recyclability of waste paper with respect to the potential presence of hazardous (Pivnenko 135) This demonstrates the goal of the opposing side because the mission is clear in that they seek to only improve paper recycling by first addressing the issue first. In the study they gathered enough data to come to the conclusion that there is a need for more comprehensive quantitative data documenting the levels of potentially hazard substances in paper that come primarily from printing in paper sent to recycling as well as the final paper (Pivnenko 140) The suggested compromise among both arguments is that there should be a balance as to the control of paper recycling and not only the benefits should be shown but also the consequences of its process. As waste goal states goal is to manage and reduce waste from collection to disposal while recovering valuable resources and creating clean, renewable (WM Web) After investigating both sides the argument, both seek for a greener tomorrow through the process of paper recycling but it is true in that some regulation Last Name 4 should be implemented in order to protect the people around because not only the environment can be harmed but also humans in the process of it. The solution is simple as long as all work together to achieve the primary and shared goal they both have. Which is to utilize paper recycling to limit waste but as well as regulate to contain its small yet harmful consequences. The compromise is simple because both seek the same goal so why not just work together instead of fighting over who can achieve the goal in a more productive or safer manner. Overall, Paper recycling is an issue that has changed over the past couple of years. At first it as widely used as today since it was much unknown to many but as time as gone by the issue of the environment deteriorating has become such a popularized issue among the population. The solution is simple and easy enough due to their shared final goal. Even though both may view it from a different perspective both still want to improve our planet. As long as both just learn to compromise among them by allowing the use of more safety regulations brought upon them, not much of an argument on paper recycling will be left. Last Name 5 Work Cited Page  About Waste Management, Practices, Ethics, Leadership and History. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://www.wm.com/about/index.jsp>. Benton, Ryan. Reduce. Reuse. Recycle. Cut Your Costs with Office Recycling ... Just Have Your Tenants on Board  Journal of Property Management, no. 4, 2008, p. 42. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&d b=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.181860677&site=eds-live. Pivnenko, Kostyantyn, et al. Waste Paper for Recycling: Overview and Identification of Potentially Critical  2015. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? Direct=true&db=edsagr&AN=edsagr.US201600276251&site=eds-live Services, USI Web. Main  University of Southern Indiana. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://www.usi.edu/recycle/paper-recycling-facts>.