Braganca 1 Marcela Tozatti Fiuza de Braganca Professor Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 9 March 2017 Visual Rhetoric Propaganda or any other type of visual advertisement is extremely important when trying to reach and to create an impact in the subconscious. Many organizations invest their advertisements in visual content that will influence the  process of the audience, and PETA does no different to turn attention to their cause. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is the greatest independent organization in the world that promotes animal rights awareness around the globe with the purpose of ending animal abuse by through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest  Our Mission Hence, the use of advertisements with different visual appeals is definitely one of their greatest tools to widely spread their missions across the world. In the first advertisement, PETA uses the celebrity  strategy and focus on Pamela image to capture attention to their mission. On the other hand, the second image uses the animal vulnerability by selecting a picture of a baby cow and the track of her beating  to make people sentimental towards their cause. As seen, PETA advertisements consists on different strategies to connect with the public, but they are all designed to provoke a change in behavior towards animals. Braganca 2 Rhetorical appeals are indispensable strategies that the stakeholder uses on advertisements in order to establish a connection between their mission and the audience. To call the attention to the cause, PETA has to be very authentic and understand that different people will be affected differently depending on which advertisement they are looking at. According to Emily Lane, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides, authors of the book Rhetoric Really Matters, Rhetorical appeals are how rhetoricians engage their  and for instance the organization has to, in a way, think with different brains. Some people may be more sentimental than others and some people may be more rational than others, for instance PETA have to propose a range of different advertisement to be able to engage different audiences. On the first image, as mentioned before, Pamela image is being used as a strategy to call attention; maybe someone might change habits just because one admires her and wants to be like her. On the second image, the strategy to persuade the audience is different, the focus is on the animal itself and not in the influential aspect that a celebrity owns. The image contains a baby cow and her heart rate that will cause greater impact on those people who are more sentimental. As seen, the two advertisements focus strongly on different rhetorical appeals, ethos and pathos respectively, but both succeed on promoting their message to audience. In their advertisements, PETA often uses female celebrity credibility as a strategy to enhance animal awareness over society. According to a research conducted by Corey Lee Wrenn that analyzes the strategy of using female figure in advertisements, she stated that The professionalized organization must prioritize survival, and female vulnerability is thought to ensure consistent revenue and public (Wrenn, 132). In fact, using Braganca 3 sexuality as an strategy might not be ethical but, as stated, it gives the organization what they want, attention of the public. In figure 1, the propaganda is composed by the four rhetorical appeals (logos, kairos, pathos, ethos) to challenge ethical beliefs regarding animal treatment, but Pamela image seemed to be the main element to reach that credibility. The image implies that the animals have the same body parts as humans and that is why they ought to have the same rights. Besides her image, the sentence ALL ANIMALS have the same  helps to reinforce the contradiction that classifies some living beings as a source of food and some not, when actually all living beings should be living under the same rights. Besides ethos end logos working together to point out that contradiction, other rhetorical appeals also have great contribution in spreading their mission. goal, as stated, is to spread animal rights awareness and the first step towards succeeding this fight is by encouraging people to disrupt traditional habits imposed by society and encouraging new ones, such as changing their eating diets. The sentences Go  or Go  have became their main statement by which many recognize them. This logo appeals to urgency, which in this case relates to kairos, encouraging the ethical lifestyle that people should follow; a life in which humans will not have any relationship with animals besides affection. In the sentence Have a Heart, Go  Braganca 4 kairos and pathos are placed together promoting love and change at once. They appeal to feelings just enough to make people question their own moral beliefs, as if they were heartless to be supporting the abuses of the animal industry. As seen, even though Pamela credibility happened to be the most influential strategy of the advertisement, every rhetorical appeal has its space to proceed the message from the stakeholder to the audience. While image 1 is using the celebrity  strategy to reach out to the public, image 2 prioritises the animal vulnerability. In this case, PETA focus on driving people into reality, making them think that a burger is more than a piece of beef; instead, it was a defenseless animal chosen to be killed by humans and for own pleasure. According to a research on the effectiveness of violent advertisements on the audience conducted by Hillary A. Leonard and Christy Ashley, found that consumers distinguished ads based on the perspective from which the violence is presented (the victim or the perpetrator) and the deservingness of the (Leonard, Hillary A. and Christy Ashley, 88). In other words, the advertisement claims the indignation of people that are consciously killing innocent animals only for the sake of their own pleasure, as if the purpose of lives were to fulfill our cravings. For instance, the heartbeat is also drawn in the figure to show that the piece of meat in plate was part of a living being that owned a heart and not merely from the shelf of a supermarket. In the sentence Braganca 5 you may not value our own life, but she values  PETA want to promote the sensation of guilt on people for taking ways lives of innocent creatures. The same way humans deserve a life to be living, animals do to. When people feel guilty about something, they will always tend to avoid the situation from happening again, and in this case the avoidance leads to a change in behavior. Just like image 1, change in behavior relates to change in eating habits. The sentence Go  promotes urgency to leave animal products behind, introduce a plant based diet, and finally save many innocent lives. Since people are moved by emotion and motivation, PETA has no other choice than promoting advertisement that messes with feelings to see the expected outcome. These two images have a lot to describe on their own, and no description was needed to the understanding. With the proper use of the rhetorical appeals any message can be encoded and processed with a positive outcome of the matter of that specific advertisement. performance and creativity have guided their fight over years and years that certainly had a participation on gathering the total number of 5 million members and  Our Mission fighting over this cause. These two advertisements show how the different use of visual appeals promotes different sensation in conscious, rather to be a reflection or a sentimental effect, but always leading to a change in attitude. Braganca 6 Work Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Leonard, Hillary A. and Christy Ashley. Exploring the Underlying Dimensions of Violence in Print  of Advertising , vol. 41, no. 1, Spring 2012, p. 77. Our Mission About PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Wrenn, Corey Lee. The Role of Professionalization Regarding Female Exploitation in the Nonhuman Animal Rights  of Gender Studies , vol. 24, no. 2, Apr. 2015, p. 131. .