Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 27 March 2017 SolarCity and BP Both Want the Best for the Environment In world, most of the electricity comes directly from the process of burning fossil fuels. Companies like British Petroleum (BP) believe burning fossil fuels is the best form of electricity. BP provides their with fuel for transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants to keep engines moving, and the petrochemicals (BP at a Glance). BP seeks to provide fuel to their customers for energy; they believe using and burning fossil fuels is the best choice in obtaining energy due to its availability and reliability. On the other hand, companies like SolarCity believe solar energy is the best form of electricity. SolarCity provides clean energy that is to homeowners, businesses, schools, non-profits and government organizations at a lower cost than they pay for energy generated by burning fossil (Learn More About SolarCity). SolarCity seeks to minimize their environmental footprint and provide cleaner energy by selling solar panels to their customers, they believe this is necessary to keep the planet healthy and prosperous. Despite the opposing ways SolarCity and BP provide energy, both stakeholders seek to provide their customers with cheap, affordable energy. Because they do share a common goal, one compromise might be to create a hybrid energy system for households and businesses that uses both solar energy and energy from fossil fuels. BP aims to provide their customers with energy through the process of burning fossil fuels. This is the complete opposite of plan of providing energy through solar panels. BP specifically choose to provide energy that way because it is more affordable. Unlike solar Student 2 energy, oil has a very high energy density, this vehicles go further on less weight and volume of fuel than alternatives. Also, liquid form makes it easy to move around, globally and (Energy Outlook). Because BP mainly seeks to provide their customers with the most affordable and available resource, they stay away from providing solar energy. This brings forth the main reason BP cannot make a compromise with SolarCity. Likewise, SolarCity has been unable to create a compromise with BP. SolarCity wants to provide their customers with cheap, clean energy. They are constantly concerned with the wellness of the environment as well as providing a cheap source of energy. By using solar panels, they can fulfill both of those concerns in an effective manner. SolarCity allows their customers to reduce the amount of emissions they make, reducing gas emissions will also provide benefits to natural systems by reducing the magnitude of climate change impacts to which they need to (Adaramola 49). By burning fossil fuels, there are a lot of emissions negatively affecting our ecosystem, fossil fuels indicates a high likelihood of dramatic increases in temperature, wet-bulb temperature, and precipitation, which will dramatically impact the health and well-being of many (Sommer). Unlike the burning of fossil fuels, solar panels do not give off harmful emissions. This is the main reason SolarCity seems to be incompatible with BP, but they still show some similarities. With BP and SolarCity having two completely different ways of providing energy, they both are concerned about the environment as well as providing affordable, reliable energy to their customers. Although BP deals with burning fossil fuels, they are actually concerned with the environment; believes global action on climate change is needed. a complex issue and all aspects of the debate should be considered in their (The Climate Challenge). With BP actively noticing the negativity involved in the climate change, they can help resolve Student 3 the issue by teaming with a company like SolarCity. On the other hand, SolarCity, much like BP, wants to provide affordable energy, but solar panels are not very cheap compared to fossil fuels. In the end both need to provide these things to their customers to stay alive and relevant, if they work together they can do this. A collaboration between BP and SolarCity could successfully help both companies grow while providing clean, affordable, and reliable energy. If BP were to try and decrease the amount of emissions they give off by burning fossil fuels, and at the same time, SolarCity were to be open to using some sort of energy from fuel, they could create a compromise. This compromise could be the idea of SolarCity offering a type of that uses both solar energy and energy from fossil fuels to power a house. They could use solar energy only for the day time, and at night the house would run solely on fossil fuel energy. They would also use solar energy in a case of power outage so the house would always have power. SolarCity already offers plenty of solar panel packages based on the size of house or business, so this could be completely viable. In the past and currently, this compromise has worked out tremendously. Numerous vehicles on the road everyday are powered by hybrid technology. Hybrid vehicles use both electric and internal combustion engines in order to be powered by both gasoline and batteries. Because they are using less gasoline, they produce less carbon emissions than gasoline-only vehicles, this helps conserve the amount of available fossil fuels as well as lower air pollution (Hybrid Vehicles). This compromise effectively provides consumers a vehicle that is environmentally friendly and reliable. It also works great because it gives business to both solar energy/battery companies and fossil fuel companies. A compromise between SolarCity and BP is completely feasible. It has already been done before with hybrid cars, so they should definitely be able to do it. Using similar technologies, Student 4 they can create a system that benefits both companies. Since houses are typically already hooked up to a powerline, they just need the simple addition of a solar energy system. Once the system is placed, the consumer needs to be able to easily change which power source the house is running on. Also a display that shows how much solar energy is available could be useful to determine which energy source to use. To make this compromise even more effective, BP can find a way to decrease the amount of carbon emissions that fuel produces. SolarCity could also try and find different, more affordable materials to produce their solar panels with. Making the solar panels cheaper will help bring in more customers. Likewise, BP could use natural gas instead of coal to lower their negative emissions; gas emits 50 to 60 percent less carbon dioxide (CO2) when (Environmental Impacts of Natural Gas). This compromise can work tremendously if done right by effectively allowing both companies to equally participate. Putting solar panels onto a house can be done easily by the company that sells them, but people often stray away due to the price of the unit. If SolarCity can produce cheaper solar panels, people will be more open to this compromise. With the house already having available energy, solar panels will help decrease the amount of energy from fossil fuels used, but not totally. This will give business to both BP and SolarCity. The system will help reduce the amount of emissions given off by the customer while still having readably available energy at all times, even through a power outage. The energy bills will also be noticeably cheaper, but they do have to pay a sum of money initially. Offering a financing option to the system will also attract buyers. They already pay for monthly electricity bills, adding the price of the solar panels while decreasing the price of the actual bill could become some sort of equilibrium. Both BP and SolarCity want to provide their customers with cheap, reliable energy. Student 5 SolarCity seeks to do this by using solar energy, which helps lower emissions, and BP seeks to do this by burning fossil fuels, which creates emissions. By integrating a system that uses both solar energy and energy from burning fossil fuels into a house, the two companies can effectively work together. With this compromise, both companies can continue to provide cheap, reliable energy while and at the same time, lower the amount of emissions the world creates. (Word Count: 1350) Student 6 Works Cited Adaramola, Muyiwa. Solar Energy : Application, Economics, and Public Perception. Waretown, N.J. : Apple Academic Press, Inc. ; Boca Raton : CRC Press, 2015. Blake, Kathy. Clean Sweep: Utilities Are Embracing Technology and Cleaner-Burning Fossil Fuels Such as Natural Gas to Help Protect the  Business North Carolina, no. 1, 2017, p. 38. BP at a  Bp.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. BP  Bp.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Curley, Robert. Fossil Fuels. [Electronic New York, NY : Britannica Educational Pub. in association with Rosen Educational Services, 2012., 2012. Energy  Bp.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Environmental Impacts of Natural  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Foster, Robert, et al. Solar Energy. [Electronic : Renewable Energy and the Environment. Boca Raton : CRC Press, c2010., 2010. Go Solar with SolarCity! Discover Solar Power Energy  SolarCity. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Keating, Christopher. Global  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science, January. Student 7 Learn More About SolarCity, the Top Solar Energy  SolarCity. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Mackay, Michael E. Solar Energy : An Introduction. Oxford : Oxford University Press, 2015., 2015. Shuman, R. Baird. Hybrid  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. Sommer, Alfred. Burning Fossil  International Journal of Health Services, vol. 46, no. 1, Jan. 2016, p. 48. The Climate  Bp.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Walker, Andy. Solar Energy : Technologies and the Project Delivery Process for Buildings. Hoboken, New Jersey : Wiley, 2013.