1 Brandon Wachtfeitl Adam Phillips ENC 1102 March 11, 2017 Rhetorical Appeals to DHS Images When it comes to the security of the United States, its citizens do not take it lightly. From the numerous attacks after 9/11, the U.S. has seen that although we are a well protected country, we still need to have the correct security and protocols set in place for if/when certain events take place. The Department of Homeland Security has been put in charge of all border control, internal safety and well being, as well as to control the immigration to the United States. Over the last twenty years the department has realized what a large problem our immigration system has become Apply. The DHS has presented images A and B on their website which display the daily activity of the department as well as the symbol they use to represent themselves. Through these images on their website, the DHS has made it clear that they plan to make changes through the use of the rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, in order educate people on what they plan to do to elevate the status of the United States. The Department of Homeland Security was founded in November 2002 after the Office of Homeland Security in the White House was assigned its own department. The mission includes, but limited to, preventing terrorism, enhancing security, and managing the borders of the U.S. Largely focused on immigration services, the DHS hopes to provide a safe and ethical process for potential immigrants to the U.S. In 2014 alone, the United States had over eleven-million unauthorized immigrants, which made up roughly 3.5% of the nations 2 population. To combat these numbers, border control and immigration services work together in order to reduce the amount of illegal immigrants entering the United States (Krogstad et al). Ethos can be shown through these images in the form of credibility (Lane et. al, 27). Within the first image, credibility can be seen simply because it is the first image seen on the DHS website. This image is conveying to the public all of the things that the DHS does in a single day. Within the image are different statistics from all of the different ways the DHS has helped the U.S. internal affairs within a 24-hour period. Some of these statistics include supporting communities with 4.4 million dollars in Homeland Security, grant over 1700 people asylum and give them refugee status, and screen over two million passengers These numbers are presented to the public in order to display what the DHS is doing without their knowledge and more importantly to convey the importance of their department. When looking for the ethos is the second image, credibility can be seen since the symbol for the DHS. Being one of the United States official top departments, the DHS must look and act official and professional at all times. Considering it is an official government department and it having consistent professionalism, the symbol is a very credible representation of the DHS. This symbol portrays an American bald eagle, similar to the eagle that is used on the quarter. It is clutching arrows in its right talon and olive branches in the other. Facing the olive branches to the left signaling we at war, the eagle is a representation of freedom as well as peace Credibility is a large part of gaining the attention of an audience but is complimented greatly by the emotion it can. Pathos is the appeal to the emotion. (Lane et. al, 37). The first image is displayed very well on the website and can be seen on the top of the homepage. This image is almost like an advertisement and uses attractive words such as support, 3 assistance, and security which appeals to emotion concerning the well being of the nation. It has great appeal to emotion because it is conveying what the department plans to do to help those in the U.S. every single day. The most emotional appeal though, will come from those who are being directly affected by the work the DHS is doing. They will see the benefits and the reality of the numerous capabilities that the department has to offer. Since the second image is a symbol of freedom, it can evoke emotion out of a large variety of people. People that may find appeal in the DHS symbol of the eagle may include refugees from oppressive countries, current active and retired military in the U.S., and those that are patriots who love their country and wish to see it grow and prosper. The pathos that this symbol invokes out of these people are joy, strength, and anticipation. Joy in that they live in a country that stands for freedom that embodies that principle; strength in our countries Military and its ability to protect the nation as a whole; and anticipation to make beneficial changes and grow the nation as a whole. An image may evoke the emotions but if it have logic how impactful can it be? Logos is the logic seen within information and/or an image (Lane et. al, 32). If logic was missing from these images the DHS put on their website, then the argument loses its validity and The DHS displays logic in image one by using statistical numbers of the things they do for the country every day. This evidence is supported by the DHS website and shows people why the department is necessary for the advancement of our country. Without these given statistics, people know the contributions the DHS is making which may circumstantially result in them getting a lower budget in tern slowing down the help they were providing. Logic can be seen within the second image in the symbol itself. The DHS seal represents logos in that we clearly see the eagle and what its holding. As mentioned before, the olive 4 branches represent a state of nationally peace while the arrows meant the country is at war. It is the goal of the DHS as well as all of the other departments to see to it that we start another war. The departments mission is to prevent attacks on American soil and protect American citizens. With this in mind, logic can be seen within this seal that the nation needs the DHS in order to protect, serve, and improve the state of the nation Kairos is the appeal to timeliness or seeing when the correct time to write something is (Lane et. al, 41). The first image shows good timeliness in light of the recent presidential election. Since the images are new, the timeliness of their appearance may be in direct correlation to the election. Some people may have a positive outlook toward newly elected Donald Trump and see all the beneficial tasks that the DHS is doing as apart of his work. For his followers, this is good news because Trump is providing support to the claims he made about what he would provide for this country while running for office. To those who opposed the views of Donald Trump this may be a way to bring up their hopes. If they see the work his cabinet is doing, they may be more open to the changes that Trump plans to make. Regardless of who became president, the timeliness of this image was crucial to show what the DHS was doing to escalate the state of our country. Since 9/11, people have looked at the United States national security and realized it needed some work. With the help of the many cabinets and specifically the Department of Homeland Security, our nations border control as well as the many internal affairs have begun to improve drastically. Using two images off of the DHS website, the department made it clear of the impacts made using the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Hopefully as our nation continues to grow and change so will the Department of Homeland Security. 5 Works Cited Citizenship and Immigration  Citizenship and Immigration Services Homeland Security. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Find. Apply.  Go to GRANTS.GOV. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Krogstad, Jens Manuel, Jeffrey S. Passel, and Cohn. 5 Facts About Illegal Immigration in the  Pew Research Center. N.p., 03 Nov. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides Rhetoric Really Matters. 1.1 The Rhetorical Appeals. Myreviewers. Web. #1 #2