Bello 1 Elmira Bello Professor Karen Hanson Composition II March 12 2017 Project 2 Final draft population is growing, our climate is changing, and we must take those are the words of Gabriela Burian, Monsanto sustainable Ag ecosystems lead. Today when we talk about genetically modified organisms some people would smile or just have a disgusted face, it is a controversial subject. Some argue that GMOs are artificial food and that it is not healthy while others believe that GMOs could bring a plus that some food cannot. However, living in a world where overpopulation and world hunger is becoming a bigger issue that the international community cannot seem to find a solution for, Monsanto decided to do something about it by using GMOs. Monsanto is a private company that focuses on the production and use of GM crops. Their goal is to produce as more as needed for the purpose of improving lifestyles of low-income families by using fewer resources and biotechnology (Monsanto). They believe that GM crops will help reduce world hunger and improve the environment and the population (Monsanto). The company wants to promote the benefit that GMOs have and make people understand that GM crops are not as bad as many seem to think they are because they can be a solution to a problem that has yet been solved. Monsanto fully supports its arguments that GMOs can be a solution to world hunger and so much more through two visual rhetoric that they created and used to reach the audience. One of the appeals that the company uses is a video named Who Is Monsanto where few employees explain their experience and the mission of Monsanto and how Monsanto plans to help Bello 2 agriculture with GMOs. In the video, the company uses a logos when the employee uses a rhetoric advice called enthymemes which three parts: the claim, the reason, and the unstated assumption that is provided by the et al.). In this case, the claim that they are arguing about is that we should choose Monsanto for agriculture and stand with them about GM crops. Then they give us reasons why, such as the growing population, other known facts such as that farmers are against some significant Is Monsanto ?). They also use charts and statistics to show that the reasons are multiple. The ability to feed the world population, to help the farmers to have a better production, the protection of natural resources and having balanced meal accessible to everyone, and doing it in a sustainable are part of the many reasons. The assumption here is that Monsanto is the way to go, the best choice to provide balanced meals in a sustainable way. With the claim, the reasons and the understated assumptions and the use of statistics and charts, it can be seen that Monsanto uses logos in this first video. In addition to logos, to promote its choice and its products, Monsanto in the video Is Monsanto also includes ethos through the video. Monsanto is building some credibility with the fact that in the video the main characters are employees of Monsanto who have been there, for most of them, for at least five years. Every employee is a specialist in a field connected to GMOs or agriculture. They are biochemists, nutritionists, molecular biologist, application architect, engineers and registered dieticians. Having experts in the field of GMOs to tell the audience that GMOs could, in fact, help not only the population but with the resources is a plus for the company credibility. They use the authority that their employees have, their experience and knowledge on the subject to influence the audience.It can also be seen in the video that the company provide more credibility with some honesty. People tend to attribute credibility to those who are honest, and through its employees, Monsanto uses true honesty Bello 3 to appeal to the audience. Through the video, one of the employees says, is not going to be easy, we do not have all the about the population needs. That can be seen as proof of honesty just admitting that they do not have all the answers because no one truly does. The use of a general truth also strengthens their credibility. To influence their audience Monsanto in the first video mainly uses ethos and logos, two appeals to logic and credibility to push their audience to feel the same way they do about GMOs, it might be able to provide in a sustainable way a balanced meal for the world. The second video of Monsanto Food is is about different moments of a life since childhood until adulthood. Monsanto uses this time pathos to reach to the audience. In the video, the company uses moments of life that bring happiness such as birthdays, family dinner, a baby being fed. All those moments include food. Through the series of event and moments, we can see that food is the connection. Food creates links and can be a factor of the love shared and the joy expressed. Through the commercial the stakeholder wants the audience to feel the love that they perceive in the video, the love that so many people share, the love and the happiness that those people feel through food, food that they were able to consume thanks to Monsanto. The feeling of warmth and love that is diffused through the video also build a sense of compassion to the audience. In a way, the company uses food as an allegory for love where the audience can associate the feeling of love to food, make the audience understand that love is food. Another pathos is when we notice that the video is all about a young boy growing to be an adult who at the end of the video goes back home to have dinner with his mother who at the beginning was feeding him. The video is about the love and joy that food brought in this life. Through this life story, the company looks to provoke a feeling of love, compassion and make the audience see the warmth of love that food can bring and also bring out the love of a mother. In the Bello 4 video, food brings out all sort of love and that food was able to be the allegory of love thanks to the provider of the balanced meals, Monsanto. Through the same video, Monsanto also uses kairos, which is an appeal to timeliness. Kairos can be perceived with the call of action that is used through the narrator saying the Is Love). Joining the conversation about food and what we can do to improve lives and also says what we think about a subject that is about helping our fast growing population and how to feed it in a sustainable way. Joining the conversation is about a current event: overpopulation. It is time to talk about it, and this is why the narrator also says in the video time to have a bigger discussion about Is Love). This sentence is another call to action because this is a pressing issue. Two calls to action in a video of one minute are kairos where it is the time to talk about how GMOs could or not, in fact, help the population and our earth in this crisis and how to provide balanced meals and all that with the aid of the community. To influence the audience, Monsanto used a rational approach and a charismatic approach. The rational approach was about using logos, ethos, and kairos to appeal the audience and make them react to the cause. Through the rational approach, the company used logos and ethos that are appeals to logic and credibility to advocate for a cause. As it can be seen in the video Who Is Monsanto the company used the rational strategy by trying to reach the audience through logic and enthymemes. Here the company appeals to the public rational nature. Still with the rational strategy the stakeholder use statistics, charts, and credibility and even time to encourage the audience to have to the same point of view about GMOs and its benefits. They also used emotion, a more genuine approach, especially in the second video. However, after analyzing each video, it can be perceived that the approach that was the more used was the rational approach knowing that according to philosophers Man is a rational animal Bello 5 so using all rational appeal was the primary strategy. Pathos was strong too since it at the same time implied to timeliness but also carried a message through a powerful feelings, love, and happiness. It was proven by experts that appeals influence decision-making et al.). So using kairos, logos and ethos was effective because it used human rational sense. However using pathos is equally effective because it is an appeal to emotion and Achar et al. in their article mentioned that emotions have an important role in the decision-making. Monsanto in its fight for the acceptance of GMOs and its claim that GM crops could provide sustainable, balanced meals used rhetorical appeals, logos, pathos, ethos and kairos in its commercial with the purpose to attract the audience and make them see GMOs food the same way the company does. They want the audience to understand that GMOs food is good for the health, is a good solution, and is the perfect choice when you love food. One of the videos also asks the audience to understand that GM crops are the thing that will help our growing population and in a sustainable way so the audience could stand with them, in the choice of choosing GMOs. They ask the audience to make the right judgment by selecting GMOs since it is the right choice and the conversation, and they do it with the use of emotions, enthymemes, time and credibility. Links to videos: https://www.ispot.tv/ad/7sD1/monsanto-food-is-love http://www.monsanto.com/whoweare/pages/default.aspx Bello 6 Works Cited Achar, Chethana, et al. What we feel and why we buy: the influence of emotions on consumer  Current Opinion in Psychology 10 (2016): 166-170. Burian, Gabriela. Helping Agriculture and the Food Sector Deliver Sustainable  Discover Monsanto . N.p., 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lane Emily, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 33-34. E-text. Osborn & Barr Communications, Inc., director. 2014. Digital video. Food Is Love , n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. < www.ispot.tv/ad/7sD1/monsanto-food-is-love.> Unknown. N.d. Digital video. Who Is Monsanto ?, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. <www.monsanto.com/whoweare/pages/default.aspx.> Who Is Monsanto ? . Monsanto . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.monsanto.com/whoweare/pages/default.aspx>.