1 Student: Esteban Ruibal Instructor: Sabah Firoz Uddin Composition I 3/26/2017 Though the definition of the American Dream has evolved over time, at its core most would agree that it refers to the idea that everyone should have an equal opportunity to achieve a level of wealth and prosperity in this country. Belief in the American Dream is still very much alive, however there are differing views on how to give everyone a chance to achieve it in modern-day America. Tracing the academic conversation surrounding the American Dream from 2000-2017, some scholars believe that when it comes to debt, little regulation and low barriers to entry may help provide opportunities for consumers to create long-term wealth. However, the vast majority of scholars disagree and warn that this approach is counterproductive and actually limits financial freedom. For example, there are vast differences in opinion among the scholarly community with respect to the democratization of credit as it relates to homeownership. While some critics argue that homeownership helps to create long-term wealth, others voice concern and warn of the enormous financial burden it can present for those living beyond their economic means. US Senator and author of Wealth creation in the new millennium: transforming poverty in America, Rick Santorum asserts that for most Americans the path to generating wealth is through owning a home, acknowledging that, most, it will be the largest single asset they have in their (Santorum 391). Santorum argues his belief that the government should be more present in helping struggling Americans more easily enter middle class by declaring, challenge is to make the American dream of home ownership accessible to all 2 (Santorum 392). Pointing to government-sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as successful examples of how to make homeownership a reality for more Americans, it is clear that Santorum views homeownership as an important pillar of the American Dream and feels that low barriers that make it easier to own a home (in this case through government relaxing lending regulations) are helpful in building long-term wealth. Similarly, Eric Best, author of Debt and the American Dream, agrees with Santorum by saying that the benefit of homeownership is deeply engrained in American culture. To support this argument, he points out the role that government has played in helping make homeownership more accessible through government financing programs, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (Best 350). At the same time, Best cautions against allowing such low barriers to entry by noting that Dream legislation and incentives have created a market where homes have almost doubled in (Best 350-351). This statement helps provide proof of concern by illustrating that when debt is easier to access it encourages homebuyers to consider more expensive housing options, oftentimes options they cannot afford. Similar to the issue of homeownership, when it comes to consumer spending (using credit cards, taking out loans), critics also have some differing views on whether low barriers to accessing credit help Americans achieve the American Dream. Michele Dickerson, author of Vanishing Financial Freedom, points to the Great Recession in order to show how people the freedom to bury themselves in debt gives them an illusion of freedom, but ultimately deprives them of any true sense of financial (Dickerson 1080). This suggests that the author believes that instead of relying on low barriers that perpetuate the debt cycle, consumers should change their consumption habits to be more in line with a lifestyle they can afford so they can save and build wealth over the long term. From this one can further speculate that in 3 society, financial institutions and companies concerned about their bottom line are not going to restrict people from consuming their goods and services, and therefore the responsibility of setting financial limits ultimately falls on consumers themselves. Critics, Randy Hodson, Rachel Dwyer and Lisa Neilson, the authors of Credit Card Blues: The Middle Class and the Hidden Costs of Easy provide support for this reality by quoting the following, It has been argued that taking on debt often reflects a cognitive disconnect between the immediately desired object or service to be purchased and resources for repayment (Manning 2000:101). This disconnect is argued to reflect a cultural accomplishment consciously engineered by lenders who seek to entice buyers to maximize their consumption, spend more than they can repay, and be converted into indentured debtors endlessly paying interest on purchases long since forgotten or used up (Baumeister 2002; Leicht and Fitzgerald 2006) (Hodson 317-318). Although Dickerson acknowledges that low barriers to accessing credit enable irresponsible consumer spending, she also asserts that financial freedom (the freedom to make financial decisions) and the concept of the American Dream are inextricably linked by stating, consumers greater access to consumer credit, and the higher household debt levels associated with consumer credit, are not by themselves bad things since consumer spending is a key to both the and this economic (Dickerson 1096). Hodson, Dwyer and Neilson agree with Dickerson in the sense that access to credit helps provide consumers with increased flexibility and availability of financial options. In support of this idea, the authors acknowledge the value that credit can provide to consumers by helping them, current consumption, either for necessities or for convenience or (Hodson 316). In this case, low barriers to credit give consumers the ability to choose, whether it be to build wealth or 4 maintain a certain lifestyle, for some there is a perceived value in the freedom of choice and having control over financial destiny. In conclusion, upon considering these different viewpoints, it seems the majority opinion is that low barriers to entry and little regulation around credit limit financial freedom. Although low barriers are intended to help make the American Dream more accessible, it seems that consumers need to be able to exercise a lot of responsibility and self- control in order for this approach to not be counterproductive. It is also evident that there needs to be more focus on the importance of financial education and helping people both learn the value of living within their means and how to make smart investment decisions for their financial future. 5 Works Cited Hodson, Randy, Rachel E. Dwyer, Lisa A Neilson. Credit Card Blues: The Middle Class and the Hidden Costs of Easy  Sociological Quarterly, vol. 55, no. 2, 2014, pp. 315-340. Santorum, Rick. Wealth creation in the new millennium: transforming poverty in  Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics & Public Policy, vol. 16, no. 2, 2002, pp. 383-393. Best, Eric. Debt and the American  Society, vol. 49, no. 4, 2012, pp. 349-352. Dickerson, Mechele. Financial Alabama Law Review, vol. 61, 2010, pp. 1079-1120.