Shackleford 1 Schea Shackleford Dr. K. Hanson ENC 1102 12 March 2017 SeaWorld of Hurt Cares Whales are animals that are meant to be swimming and feeding in the open ocean. They are not to be confined by tanks and be subjected to do shows and tricks for visitors of the park. The organization SeaWorld of Hurt stands for this notion. SeaWorld of Hurt speaks on the fact that SeaWorld keeps their animals to tiny cages and tanks, and [that are forced to perform tricks for tourists in exchange for They believe in the protection of these creatures. They are also a part of the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), a famous organization that fights for the rights of animals all over the world. The two images selected for this project evoke the exact feelings of SeaWorld of Hurt. The first goal is to compare the breeding of whales in aquariums to mothers having a baby in prison, which evokes the feeling of captivity. The second goal is to explain how inhumane it is to transport a whale from aquarium to aquarium for breeding. These images show that animals are meant to be free and comfortable in their natural habitat. The visual rhetoric of these images exhibit the feeling against animal confinement and the effects it has on them. The images on the website help to convey their message of whales being kept in captivity. The first image is of people pretending to be pregnant with signs protesting that a whale at SeaWorld, named Takara, that is breeding, is technically breeding in prison. This is because the whales are confined to small tanks which does not give them enough room to breed Shackleford 2 comfortably and have healthy babies. Instead they constantly have calves that die right after they get taken away. This is comparable to mothers having their children in prison where these children suffer the consequences of not having a motherly love to nurture them. In the first image, ethos is present because the protestors are using signs from the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). This is a well-known organization that protests against inhumane treatment of animals around the world. With the presence of this logo on their signs, it makes their appeal more effective and credible. According to K. G. Lee, J. Mcknee and M. McIntyre in the text, Rhetoric Really Matters, appeal to pathos is an appeal to emotion, and it is the rhetorical device that is most often used to help an audience connect with the argument or (37). In this image, pathos plays a big role in appealing to the emotions of the audience where these people are pretending to be pregnant mothers. This makes the audience sympathize with the whales because it relates to the feelings of a mother having her child in prison and having that child being taken away. Rhetorical appeals can capture their audience through the use of color and contrast Art of In this image, the use of black, white and bold writing will capture the audience and further appeal to their emotions, especially because of the words that are on the posters. For example, in a concrete box is no This makes the audience even more relatable to the notion that animals should not be kept in captivity. The second image speaks about another whale at SeaWorld that is used for breeding; however, he is transported amongst different aquariums using inhumane techniques unlike Takara, from the first image, who is stationed in one place. It gives information on how SeaWorld breeds their animals across the United States. This image speaks on one whale in particular named Nanuq, who was moved from aquarium to aquarium to breed other beluga Shackleford 3 whales. He was placed in a small tank that was barely bigger than him. This was a stressful process which resulted in his death. The appeal of ethos is not strong in regards to this photograph however, at the bottom right of it has the name of the organization that made the picture. The image has several aspects that appeals to pathos. The first aspect is the picture at the top left hand corner of a whale that looks distressed and sad. This evokes how the whale feels about being moved around to different aquariums. The second aspect is the picture of the tank that is used to transport the whale that is not much bigger than Nanuq. The last aspect is that the whale has to be sedated in order to be transported. These are inhumane practices for the treatment of the whales. The appeal of logos is present where the image tells you how often Nanuq has been moved from aquarium to aquarium for breeding. It also gives information that Nanuq has been sedated five (5) times before he died after his last trip. It gives the audience an understanding that this constant removal from home to another had taken a toll on him causing him to die from an infection. SeaWorld of Hurt used these images to evoke how they feel as an organization about how the animals at SeaWorld are treated and how they are being taken care of. The use of the rhetorical appeals through images is a good way to persuade their audience because each rhetorical appeal has its own effect on different people. The rhetorical appeal that is used heavily in both images is pathos. The first image has a stronger presence of ethos comparing to the second image. The second image has a stronger presence of logos compared to the first image. Kairos is not strongly used by the two. Both of the images adhere to the goals by telling the audience how the animals are treated and the effects that are caused on the animals. Shackleford 4 Works Cited When Fly. Digital image. Beluga Trapped at SeaWorld Has Lost All Five of Her Calves. N.p., 06 Sept. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. Campaign Against SeaWorld of Hurt. 29 Jan. 2017. N.d. seaworldofhurt.com/about The Art of Rhetoric:  The Art of Rhetoric: Ethos, Logos, and Pathos. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. mothers protest against SeaWorld. Digital image. Protesters Demand Mother Freedom. SeaWorld of Hurt, 07 Feb. 2007. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Shackleford 5 Image 1 http://www.seaworldofhurt.com/pregnant-protesters-demand-takaras-freedom/ Shackleford 6 Image 2 http://www.seaworldofhurt.com/features/martha-beluga-seaworld-lost-five-calves/