Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Trying to Ending Homelessness Homelessness in America is a very large problem that we face every day in our lives. Homelessness has decreased in 33 states, while 16 states increased according to the Homelessness report from the government (Thomas). The State of Homelessness in America 2016 is the sixth in a series of reports charting progress in ending homelessness in the United States. A lot of people now a overlook, the impact that homeless people have on our country. The two companies that have really impacted the way that can change the life of a homeless people person are National Alliance to End Homelessness and HandUp. Both companies share a common goal, but each one has different strategies for getting a result. The compromise for both companies is to bring up humanity and to make it more civilized. National Alliance to End Homelessness, examines trends in homelessness, populations at risk of homelessness and homelessness assistance in America. The organization primary goal is to raise awareness to people about homelessness and be able to get people to donate to the cause. Without raising awareness about homelessness than people would never recognize the issue and nothing would change (State of Homelessness). On the stakeholder website there is a link that you can click for donations. The way they have it set up is you can donate to a specific city or just help the entire country overall. They include a lot of statistics that attract people because they can actually see how bad homelessness truly is in our nation. Without people taking action to help people get off the street and actually have a chance in life. Student 2 The other stakeholder called, HandUp is a company that provides aid to specific homeless people throughout our nation (US Homeless Facts). There website is extremely user friendly by how they have a step by step on how to donate and the process that you have to go through. The primary goal is very similar to the first stakeholder by how they both want to raise awareness of what is happening in our country with homelessness. When donating you can look at specific people and it shows a background of the person with a picture. That is something that is very unique when it comes to a donating website to help people. Another cool feature on the website is on the homepage it shows how many cities, goals reached and how much was donated overall. That is something very informative to the viewer to see if they should or should not donate to your website. HandUp also has their own application, which makes it a lot easier to people to donate if they a computer that is accessible to them. Having a company like HandUp helping people that are less fortunate, they are setting an example for other stakeholders that they need to get more technological advanced (HandUp). Both stakeholders, National Alliance to End Homelessness and HandUp, have the same goal, but different strategies to reach that goal. HandUp, is very technological advanced website that is extremely user friendly. Whereas National Alliance to End Homelessness, is not as technological advanced but includes a lot of statistics on their front page to attract the viewers. The aspect that makes HandUp better is that fact that they have an app which means a lot in this generation. They are making it extremely easily for people to donate and be able to view the people that need help. When you donate on National Alliance to End Homelessness, you are not donating to a specific person, but instead an organization that helps a bunch of people out. That makes the experience less personal. No matter what stakeholder a person chooses to donate to Student 3 they are helping a person and that is what truly matters. Sometimes the websites that are less interesting and not as technological advanced get more donations and views than other ones. Homelessness is an issue that continues to grow over the years that a lot of people continue to just overlook. A lot of people have the impression that when you give a homeless person money they are just going to use it for drugs or alcohol. There are many factors that actually contribute to a person becoming homeless. They are the following; lack of affordable housing, mental illness, substance abuse and domestic violence (Freidman, Thomas). In the United States, homelessness is an undeniable reality that impacts people of all ages, ethnicities and life circumstances. In order for people to see the other side of helping homeless people, they need to understand that not all of them were drug addicts or just no college degree. Some of them went through a tough childhood and had to leave their house at a young age. Another big thing that people understand are that some homeless people include veterans that risked their life for us. There are 1.4 million veterans homeless. Research indicates that those who served in the late Vietnam and post-Vietnam era were at a great risk of homelessness. The veterans had war related disabilities, including physical disabilities, Post- Traumatic Stress Disorder, which caused depression and anxiety (US Homeless Facts). Overall homelessness is defined wrong a lot by people all over the world. There are people, good people that need help and some of them actually are people that came from a tough background which caused them to be homeless. So the next time you see a person on the side of the road, think to yourself if I give him a dollar how much will that change his life. People that are less fortunate, will take that dollar and be so happy that they received it, because a dollar to them means a lot more than a more fortunate person. Student 4 Overall homelessness is a huge epidemic in our world and continues to grow, due to the lack of attention it receives. Both National Alliance to End Homelessness and HandUp are great companies that are spreading the word about homelessness. In order to help people, get off the streets, there not only needs to be a few thousand people to help but instead close to millions of people. The more people donate the less homeless people. There will always be homeless people, but the goal is to shrink the amount. With the National Alliance to End Homelessness website showing statistics and drawing in the attention of viewers to want to help the cause is a great way. HandUp, is a company that is technological advanced with an application and visual images of the actual person that you help fund and hopefully change their life for the better. The homelessness rate hopefully will be lower than it is today which is, 17.7 homeless per 10,000 people (Homelessness Council). So get on these two stakeholder website and make a donation, remember big or small does not matter, it is the thought that counts and one dollar could have a huge impact on life. Student 5 Works Cited Thomas L. Friedman Homeless in  The New York Times. The New York Times, 08 Nov. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. HandUp  HandUp Campaigns. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Homelessness, Council On. 2016 ANNUAL REPORTCouncil on Homelessness (n.d.): n. Web. How Many Homeless People Are There in  The Economist. The Economist Newspaper, 22 Feb. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Obama , Barack. The 2016 Budget: Fact Sheet on Homelessness  N.p., n.d. Web. State of Homelessness in America National Alliance to End Homelessness, n.p, n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Shocking Homelessness  Social Solutions. N.p., 09 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. U.S. Homelessness  Front Steps. N.p., 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.