Chua 1 Jordan Chua Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 What is More Effective? Reducing Food Waste in a Household or a Larger Corporation The issue of food waste is very important as it is currently occurring all over the world. This is an enormous issue because some people who have millions of dollars are living lavishly, with the ability to attain anything that they want, travel wherever they please, and drive whatever car suits them, while some people within the same area are struggling to find their next meal. Because reducing the amount of food waste is contentious, the compromise of reducing food waste anywhere can be implemented by sharing the audiences of two stakeholders that focus on two different ways of reducing food waste to combine their efforts to have a compounding effect. The average American, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, eats an average of 1,996 pounds of food on a yearly basis (Aubrey). That is almost one ton of food per year that an average American consumes and this is not even a healthy diet. This number is more than the average food needed to survive. Putting this number into perspective, according to Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the average food that is lost or wasted in a year amounts to 1.3 billion tons (FAO). If this number is taken and divided by the average yearly food consumption of an American, the food that is lost or wasted in a year can feed more than 650,000 people. Keep in mind that the food needed to survive is considerably less than the amount of food that the average American consumes. Now according to Hunger and World Poverty, 21,000 people die every day of hunger or hunger-related (Poverty) so in a year, about 7,650,000 people die from hunger. If the food that is lost or wasted in year is saved and distributed out to Chua 2 people in need, the number of people who die from hunger every year will be decreased by 1/11. The issue that arises when people disagree about this issue is that the people that are struggling to get a meal throughout the day get hungrier and hungrier until help is reached. Two stakeholders, named ReFED and SaveTheFood, are trying to reduce and prevent food waste through different methods while attaining the same goal. method is by applying strategies to larger corporations as their methods will not only decrease food waste, but will also increase jobs and decrease pollution. method is by giving the average household tips and tricks on how to save food in a smarter and more efficient way that will exponentially decrease food waste if the number of households follow their tips and tricks. The effort to reduce the number of food waste needs to be combined with the help of both larger corporations and organizations as well as every household in order to exponentially reduce food waste around the world while still attaining both of the goals. The primary goal and the objective of ReFED is for larger corporations/organizations to use tactics and strategies in order to reduce food waste while helping the growth of the economy and the overall well-being of the planet (Vared). Their argument is that by having companies and organizations use strategies, they figured that it could exponentially decrease the amount of food wasted every year. One option that was suggested is that an organization could take unwanted food to areas where food poverty exists or is high. This is an example of how ReFED, plans to reduce food waste. Creating an organization or reaching out to an organization that already does this is one way that ReFED is going to reduce food waste as doing this will create jobs as it will require more people to distribute these food to those that need it. Another alternative that ReFED considers as a solution is to turn food waste into animal feed (Vared). This way, at least something else in the world is consuming it rather than being wasted. Another solution that ReFED suggests Chua 3 regarding larger companies is the improvement of inventory management (Vared). These improvements from areas such as grocery stores include tracking a average remaining shelf life. Once it has been sorted out whichever product expires the soonest, that product should be placed in front of the other products that have a longer shelf life as the ones in front will be chosen sooner. This will decrease the amount of food these stores throw away on a daily basis. While food waste is reduced, this option, according to own statistics, will save approximately 20 billion gallons of water (Vared). Another option suggested by ReFED is that food waste that are originally from larger companies can be sold to smaller retail stores where these extra unwanted produce can be sold at a discounted price. In terms of water saved, approximately 58 billion gallons of water will be saved (Vared). This is strange that doing these things can drastically impact the environment, possibly reduce climate change, and yet not a lot of people are contributing. This is probably due to the lack of information towards just how much food is wasted every year that can be saved, along with the thousands of starving, hungry people can be helped and saved, even throughout third world countries. As for SaveTheFood, their goal is to reduce the food being wasted through the help of each household by using strategies to help decrease the amount of food being thrown out as well as educating households on how to conserve food as well as increase the shelf lives of food (SaveTheFood). This stakeholder even has a link where they show you how food can be revived easily. For example, food that are stale such as chips can be toasted and it will be crispy again just like when it was first bought (SaveTheFood). If someone made a mistake with putting too much salt while cooking, a solution can be as simple as adding lemon juice, brown sugar, or vinegar and the problem can be fixed, leading you to keep the food rather than throwing it out (SaveTheFood). Another tip that they suggest is that if someone burns food, they can easily scrape off the burnt Chua 4 areas of the food and cover the fresher food with a damp cloth in order to remove the taste of the burnt food (SaveTheFood). Tips and tricks such as these are the main points that this stakeholder focuses on. If everyone does these types of tips in their own household, food waste can exponentially decrease. The power that a group of people can possess when they work together is unstoppable. Despite having incompatible goals, both stakeholders want to decrease the amount of food waste throughout the world. Both of the stakeholders have the same concern regarding the amount of food being wasted that is only increasing over time. At the end of the day, both stakeholders need the participation of both of their audiences in order to decrease the global food waste. One way for both of them to compromise is that the people who are working for the larger corporations can help decrease food waste in their own companies while also applying the principles and concepts that were suggested by SaveTheFood. In order for both of the stakeholders to help each other, they can share their audiences and educate them in their own way in how to conserve food. With this in mind, audience will have a new way of reducing food waste and SaveTheFood will receive helpful tips from audiences. This compromise can be as easy as sharing the URL (Uniform Resource Locator) of both of their websites to each audiences so both audiences will know more regarding food waste. (Word Count: 1283) Chua 5 References Aubrey, Allison. The Average American Ate (Literally) A Ton This  NPR. NPR, 31 Dec. 2011. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Estimating and addressing food  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Food, Save The. Save The Food 5 ways to revive  Savethefood.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Hunger and World  Poverty.com - Hunger and World Poverty. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Key facts on food loss and waste you should  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. hotel guests to reduce food waste as a environmental  hotel guests to reduce food waste as a environmental measure. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Parfitt, Julian, Mark Barthel, and Sarah Macnaughton. Food waste within food supply chains: quantification and potential for change to  Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. The Royal Society, 27 Sept. 2010. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Reasons for household food waste with special attention to  Reasons for household food waste with special attention to packaging. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The food waste hierarchy as a framework for the management of food surplus and food  The food waste hierarchy as a framework for the management of food surplus and food waste. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Vared, Sarah. ReFED Rethink Food  ReFED Rethink Food Waste. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.