Jacqueline Langley Prof. Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 March 5, 2017 Forty five years ago, Title IX, the law establishing equal funding for males and females was created. Times have rapidly changed and still are changing throughout the years especially when it comes to something such as gender discrimination. Different cases have been raised by the media that point out situations where schools have adjusted to make all genders feel fairly treated yet, there has also been a time where one gender is singled out and overshadowed by the other. With society growing more and more less discriminating by the day, it is dissatisfying that schools that our government funded schools are not following the ways of Title IX. With thousands of schools in the education system, we have seen cases of schools that have not changed and have changed over time. There are two cases at two different schools which prove that no matter what the written laws say, people still choice to disregard them or try and find a way around it. Sweetwater High School and some major universities male football teams have violated Title IX and have changed the way people look and how seriously they take Title IX. In 1972, Title IX was passed. This was one the grandest historical moments for gender discrimination Richard Nixon passed this law. According to Susan Ware, this law states that any circumstances you could not discriminate the schools finical funding because of race, sex, or type of under the sports aspect of it. Passing this changed many lives of women and men. Without this, who knows where we would be with gender equality in sports at schools. The president signing off on this bill was one of the greatest moments in life that shaped us. Located in California, Sweetwater High School is just one of the many high schools out there that fall under the regulations of Title IX. However, just because the laws say it must follow the equal funding aspect of Title IX does not mean it does. One father on the softball team had a casual conversation with someone who turned out to work for the court. This father had been coaching the softball team at the high school and was not getting a cent from the athletic program. Instead, his funds were heading towards improving the football teams equipment. This school did not change when the law of Title IX came out. Instead, it just kept doing whatever they want and spreading their funds unequally. Luckily, the conversation with the softball coach was brought up to the court. Once this situation was discovered, the court gave Sweet Water High 45 days to fix the situation before any real legal suits were pressed and charged. As of now, the high school has maintained to be fair to all sports. Now taking a step in the level of education, Auburn University is a huge school. Facts have shown that they spend of their athletic budget on the male football team. Scholar Kerensa Barr did her research and gathered these facts. More scholarships are giving to the football team over any sport. Yes, football might be the most popular and bring in the most earnings, but that should not decide whether and male or female gets the extra money needed to succeed in their college life. This discovery shows that not all schools change. People are always trying to find their way out of situations to avoid having to do it the right way. Although, some changes might not be being made when it comes to funding, participation rates are. One man went around polling people to find out the numbers of people who now play sports. Before Title IX, one in every twenty seven girls played sports. Now, an overwhelming drop now says the number is one in every four participate in sports. Finding out this information shows how Title IX is changing in some ways. The event of Title IX is the reason behind this change. Without it, girls still might have the option of playing one sport. Back then, while trying to test if sports helped your health, one said have largely looked at pre- Title IX sports participation when few females played sports severely limiting the power of any (Stevenson) Now times have changed and we can prove because of this scholar research that more girls are participating in sports. There is an abundant amount of information and research for people to dig up now when it comes to male and female athletics. In another article, about women rising up in Title IX, we learn facts for example like, on Team USA there is more women on the sports teams. Each player costs an abundant amount of money. These facts show that not 100% of the time males are favored. Without the changes due to Title IX, we would not see the empowerment of women moving forward in their careers as athletes. Source 1: Ware, Susan. Title IX: A Brief History with Documents. Boston: Bedford/St. Martins, 2007. Print. This article talks about the very early years and the basic written parts of the law of Title IX. The article starts before the law was even created and discusses why and how it was made. It discusses how sports are still not fair for women in the year this was written which was 1977. Football is a huge topic in this article. Football is supposed to have the same treatment along with all the other sports for male or female. Yet football programs in high school and college is the sport that pays the bills and makes the most money for all. The main purpose of this article is the topic of discrimination. The law says boys and girls under are not to be discriminated under any circumstances when it comes to the governments funds. Departments of health, education, and welfare all met to discuss this topic and came up with all the different parts. This book by Susan Ware gives a brief history of the law. She is a woman who lived in the times when Title IX was not a law and she is still living now that it is a law. Her living in both times helps her has a great idea of what times were like with Title IX and without it. Her object was to reach and get out the works behind Title IX to all people who are unaware. This source is all about Title IX. Source 2: Stevenson, Betsey. THE CLASSROOM: USING TITLE IX TO MEASURE THE RETURN TO HIGHSCHOOL The MIT Press. 2010. Web This article discusses statistics of Title IX. For instance, before the law was passed one in every twenty seven girls who attended public high school played a sport. Once the law was passed, the number changed to one in every four girls who participated. The boys remained at one for every two. Also in this article, they talk about the effects and benefits of Title IX for a body. By playing a sport it helps you get rid of certain aggressions and it also helps the body be healthy and fit for male and female. Therefore, high schools should do whatever they can in their power to increase participation in sports at their school. A chart is provided in this article that contrasts male and female are participation number before and after Title IX in sports, clubs, and others. This author is a reliable source because she has tested and proven facts related to my topic if Title IX is being carried out for males and females. This is also a fairly recent article that has been peer reviewed. The intent of the author was for people to gain knowledge about the effects of playing sports on the mind and body. Also, how post Title IX numbers are continuing to change. It gives you a visual look at important numbers and facts for Title IX. Source 3: Barr, Kerensa E. THE OF ARE FAILING TITLE UMKC Law Review, 2013/10/01, Vol: 82, p181. Web. This article talks about the boys of fall which is another name for the high school football team. It is known that football teams are the most popular most of the time at high schools all over. This article talks about how the boys football team is what is making title IX fail. Most of the scholarships and supplies needed go straight to the football team. They are first on the priority list. It gives the example of how at Auburn University and how they made of the athletic programs earnings. This article also gives examples of how women sports are more ahead than male sports in some ways. The Team USA in 2012 Summer Olympics out medaled the boys. Also, the Team USA soccer team for women had more players than the team. Each player on the team costs more money. It gives examples of accommodations that have been made by schools to reach the guidelines of Title IX. It also has a whole section on places where there is equal treatment for both genders in high schools and universities. This writer gives very informational facts and gives his readers much valuable information to use. His intent was for people to know facts that have been made post Title IX. This is new and relevant information to society. He makes good points that are helpful to my paper and topic as well as other people who just want to know more information on the topic of Title IX. Source 4: Stader, David L., and Jeanne L. Surface. Second-Class: Title IX, Equity, and Girlsa High School The Clearing House: A Journal of Educational Strategies, Issues and Ideas 87.3 (2014): 119-123. Web. This article shows the day by day life of one high school named Sweetwater. It talks about how like at most high schools, all the different types of sports such as basketball, football, tennis, swim, and so on all use the same practice and playing fields. A researcher noticed that all the teams were getting the first and best options and priority over the teams. Even the girls softball coach was not paid he was a volunteer dad. The salary that should have been for the coach was being used to buy other things for the sports programs. That is unfair treatment. People in the county put in a plan to even this out within 45 days at Sweetwater high school. Coaches and administrators need to take all of these laws more seriously all around the United States. Judge Lorenz was on this case immediately and helped mediate the terms for both sides for both gender. This article is very helpful because it is filled with information about Title IX. The author does a good job at being descriptive and giving very detailed examples. This is also very helpful because it is based on information all from Sweetwater High School so it is multiple issues all in one area and town. Instead of being spread out all over the United States, it is beneficial to have one article from one whole area.