Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2016 A Peculiar Idea for Pennies The one-cent coin, also known as the penny has been a rising issue in legislation. The idea of taking the penny out of circulation is beginning to sound more appealing to lawmakers, but there are some organizations who disagree (Americans for Common Cents). Americans for Common Cents is one stakeholder who believes in the value of the penny. Therefore, they are lobbying to keep the penny in circulation and persuade Americans of the value to the United States economy. However, there are some stakeholders, specifically Waiting for Change who feel eliminating the penny all together is more beneficial. Waiting for Change argues the value of the penny is less than its production cost and is harming the economy. The points of view that are taken from two stakeholders who seem incompatible; however, the compromise of losing the penny and keeping jobs for those who make the pennies can be implemented through understanding the importance of the jobs of those who mint the penny, understanding how the penny can be taken out of circulation, and how both sides want to raise awareness about the penny. Americans for Common Cents is a stakeholder that is lobbying to keep the one-cent coin in circulation (Americans for Common Cents). Their goal is to persuade Americans about the importance of the penny and why it should remain in circulation. They claim two-thirds of Americans support keeping the penny in circulation (American for Common Cents). Not only is the one-cent coin supported by Americans but it charitable causes, allowing Student 2 wonder charities to raise millions of (Americans for Common Cents). Penny donations are a leading innovation to encourage donors to conveniently support charities without the donor paying a huge lump sum. Therefore, pennies provide a substantial amount of a charities donations, the absence of them would result in a decline of available charitable money. (American for Common Cents). This organization reaches out to Americans in hopes that they will fight to keep the penny in circulation. They keep their followers updated on their website by providing information on current legislation and what has been done to the penny so far, including changing the metals it is made from (American for Common Cents). Americans for Common Cents is not the only organization standing up for the penny. The article Headed for Trouble, written by The Examiners, is also on the side of keeping the penny. The penny is not the only part of the currency that is costing the United States money (The Examiners). The dime and the one dollar bill are also costing more money than their worth (The Examiners). Corey Alexander also wrote an article stating why the penny should stay in circulation. He states, the penny was pulled from circulation it could cost consumers an additional $600 million a year in rounded-up costs and would have a notable effect on the (Corey Alexander, Penny-ante feud riles lobby groups). With this thought, Americans will still be losing money as citizens and as the government. Lombra created a study that stated citizens would be extremely affected because roughly 93 percent of prices would be rounded up (Alexander). American for Common Cents, Alexander Corey, and The Examiners all support the idea of keeping the penny in circulation. On the other hand, Waiting for Change, written by Josh Sanburn, speaks up in hopes that Americans understand the idea of taking the penny out of circulation (Josh Sanburn, Waiting for Student 3 Change). The idea is to slowly take the penny out of circulation, beginning with the step of no longer making the penny (Sanburn). This will help Americans save money because the penny costs more than double its actual cost to make (Sanburn). Sanburn talked to a big penny company in Tennessee, run by Mark Weller, to hear about the concerns of losing the penny (Sanburn). The biggest concern from Weller was employment for all of those who work in this factory; claiming the city lives of the income brought in from the company (Sanburn). Americans has held on to the idea of keeping the penny because they know this is a big concern. However, other countries have begun to get rid of their lowest denomination coin and America is starting to pay attention (Steven Chase, The One-cent Solution). Steven Chase and Kevin McManus both have written an article about Canada and their ability to get rid of their one-cent coin. Chase states that when Canada decided to lose the penny, it was helping both the government and the citizens; taxpayers are saving on average $11 million a year (Chase). McManus claims that even though there is not a border between the United States and Canada, Canada functions much differently than the United States (Kevin McManus, The Great Penny Elimination). McManus fears that Americans would make losing the penny very difficult because he claims they do not work well with changing their everyday habits (McManus). Although, he does think it would be better to follow the Canadians and lose the one- cent coin; claiming Americans could prosper like Canadians (McManus). Time magazine also states that the penny was made from 95 percent copper and five percent tin and zinc (Time, Making Cents). Now, due to raise in cost of copper, the penny is made of 97.5 percent zinc and only 2.5 percent copper, and the penny still exceeds one cent (Time). With so many doubts, the loss of the penny has not been put to action, but many more people are starting to see the benefits of the idea. Student 4 The discussion of whether the one-cent coin should stay in circulation or not has become a greater issue that has opposing sides. It is hard to find an appropriate compromise that will benefit both sides. Tim Cavanaugh states that in years to come, the penny will fade out of circulation (Tim Cavanaugh, Penny Reign: Least Valuable Coin Endures). The one- cent coin has brought much controversy and no action has been taken because no compromise has been raised. Previous legislation has only changed what the penny is made of and what is on the face of it (Americans for Common Cents). However, the idea of changing the material completely has not been brought up. If the coin were made from aluminum, money would be saved but many more coins would have to be created because they would not last as long. Another compromise is to lose the penny completely and to follow the steps given by Sanburn; where pennies are no longer made, then Americans slowly stop using the penny, and eventually prices would be fixed to the nearest nickel. Then, credit cards would still use one-cent increments instead of five-cent increments because no coins will be used in these transactions. This means those with jobs in the penny industry would lose their jobs; however, we could keep the factories, using the same material to create other items or to mint other coins for the United States and other countries. Americans for Common Cents and Waiting for Change seem to be incompatible stakeholders when it comes to pennies. Americans for Common Cents believes in keeping the penny in circulation, because jobs are important to citizens and the economy. They fear the economy would diminish if the pennies were to be taken out of the currency. On the contrary, Waiting for Change feels the penny is no longer needed in the currency and Americans could thrive without it. With both ideas put together, the penny could be taken away while the penny industry keeps its jobs. This compromise helps both stakeholders and both sides of the issue Student 5 prosper while still having to lose something that was important to them. A compromise for the one-cent coin used in the United States. (Word Count: 1,293) Student 6 Works Cited Americans for Common  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pennies.org/>. Cavanaugh, Tim. Penny reign: least valuable coin  Reason, Jan. 2011, p. 70+. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/A243525211/OVIC?u=tamp44898&xid=c7dec6e5. Accessed 2 Mar. 2017. Chase, Steven. The one-cent  Globe & Mail [Toronto, 30 Mar. 2012, p. A11. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/A284637600/OVIC?u=tamp44898&xid=0dd84d73. Accessed 2 Mar. 2017. Corey, Alexander. feud riles lobby American Metal Market 2001: General OneFile. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 for The Examiner, Independence- Blue Springs- Grain Valley, MO, 19 Jan. 2017, inforweb.newsbank.com/resources/doc/nb/news/162055B9F4FC930?p=AWNB. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Time 170.22 (2007): 18. Academic Search Premier. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 McManus, Kevin. great penny Industrial Engineer 2013: 16. Academic OneFile. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. SANBURN, JOSH. Waiting for  Time, vol. 181, no. 4, 04 Feb. 2013, pp. 36-40. EBSCOhost, Student 7 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=r m&AN=85504546&site=eds-live.