1 Adam Ghabour Professor Uddin English Composition 26 March 2017 Founded in 1906, The National Collegiate Athletics Association (NCAA), gives athletes the opportunity to go to school for free. It was not until the that the question of whether these athletes should be paid started to be talked about more and more by the general public. Considering the amount of work it takes to be a top athlete, it requires consideration. While athletes work on the court/field, they also generate enormous amounts of money for their respective school. Consider Kentucky basketball for example, every year they are one of the top teams in the country, having made appearances in the NCAA tournament final four from 2011-2015 and winning the National Championship in 2012. With that said, the answer to the question of whether student-athletes should be paid has gone from irrational, to quite reasonable over time. There are simply too many facts nowadays to overlook when it comes to what the student-athletes deserve. Over the many years of the existence nobody in their right mind thought about paying student-athletes. But when the discussion first came up, there was a simple answer agreed upon by no. No, student-athletes should not be paid. Now the discussion is different because of just how the sports have changed the universities they represent, says assistant professor at Bowling Green State University, Raymond Schneider. athletics have changed dramatically over the past ninety-five years. Presently intercollegiate athletics generate 2 tremendous amounts of gross revenue, especially football and basketball (Schneider, 232). It seems that a large part of what has spurred protests by athletes and others, is the cause and basis to do so. With more and more publicity and outreach the conversation has spread, and various people are pushing for more athletes rights, and the right to be paid. Most recently, former Michigan Tight End, Jake Butt, has spoken out on the topic, fighting for money he believes athletes deserve, and he is not alone. Dr. Earl Smith, a professor of sociology at Wake Forest University, has supported the idea as well. is not contested is that current research is showing that the value of the sport scholarship is insufficient for all of the (Smith, 3). This is precisely what many are arguing, and on the basis of Smith is in agreement. The majority of athletes do not come from money, and the tiny bit of support by their University that they do receive simply is not enough. minimal benefits appear particularly inequitable when contrasted with the billions of revenue dollars flowing to the NCAA and its member- institutions because of the hyper-commercialization of college (Brown, 1858). Athletes provide so much, not only for the NCAA, but also their respective schools and deserve a reward. The fact that athletes are not being properly compensated for their work is even more concerning presently because more international students are coming from overseas for sports than ever before. With this new and evolving trend, there are many of these athletes that need the compensation in order to live comfortably. This is something that has not been talked about quite enough, but is a very real and new problem. current NCAA amateurism rules inadequately address the potential amateur issues related to prospective student-athletes from various 3 (Abbey-Pinegar, 341). These athletes are not given the rights they may need to support their living issues while at their University. Not only are many athletes desperate for support, they also deserve more. State and the University of Michigan are just three examples of schools signing sponsorship agreements, worth over $2 million each, with the shoe and apparel company (Schneider, 232). Schneider cites apparel bonuses to universities as evidence of an great contribution. Not only is this true, but presently, The University of Michigan holds a 169 million dollar deal with Nike, over a 15 year period, showing a huge growth in revenue towards Michigan. This type of deal would have been unheard of, even as recent as 5 to 10 years ago. In addition to the massive amounts of money athletes provide their there is also the argument due to a large workload. The athletes are given a serious task to perform in their sport while also maintaining grades in the classroom. though college athletes often commit more time and effort to their sports than many employees commit to their jobs, they receive limited benefits that fall short of fair (Brown, 1858). The pressure for competing and doing well simply was not there in the past, and is ever-growing. The rapid changing of minds on whether or not paying student-athletes is a good idea cannot be overstated. In just a few years the discussion has evolved immensely with more and more reports of athlete mistreatment, or even misconduct as an indirect result of not having any money. At one point, athlete were slaves to their university without even realizing it, but now one can sense that in the foreseeable future there will be a big change in regards to this topic. 4 Work Cited Abbey-Pinegar, Erin, Student author. Need for a Global Amateurism Standard ; International Student-Athlete Issues and Journal of Global Legal Studies, 17, no. 2, Summer 2010 pp. 341-365 EBSCC 2979/GLS.2010.17.2.341 Schneider, Raymond G. Perception On The Payment Of Intercollegiate Student Journal (2011): 232. Search Premier. 13 Feb. 2017. Smith, Earl. College Athletes Be Paid To Play? (june 23, 2011 Diverse issues In Higher Education (2011): 3. OneFile 29 Jan. 2017. Tyler Brown, M. Athletics Internships: The Case for Academic Credit in College University Law Review 63, no. 6 Aug. 2014, p. 1855