Nicholas Chiaramonte Sabah F. Uddin Composition 1 March 25, 2017 Project 2 Gun control Scholars, over the past decade, have disassembled the arguments for gun control and have made impacts on how we view it today. Over the past years, the arguments have be shifting their focus from 2 nd amendment heavy to more crime related subjects. Gun related violence is a major topic and problem for cities in America. These Scholars have taken it upon themselves to introduce their arguments on how to solve this problem and why gun control is, its self, and issue. Major arguments from the early 2000s show how heavily the 2 nd amendment was brought up but since around the 2010s scholars have moved on and focus more on how gun control relates to crime, whether it would amplify or decrease it. Nevertheless, the point of this paper is to sow how overtime, scholars making the argument for gun control focus less on the second Amendment, and instead, focus on making the case that guns help reduce crime rate and protect citizens. Franklin E. Zimring wrote a paper on violent killings and published it in 2006. Author study explains where crime is committed in cities and why crime happens. The paper is called of In this paper, Zimring goes through how impractical it would be for the government to take away firearms and often brings up the second amendment. basic strategies of firearms control are (1) limiting gun acquisition and ownership and (2) attempting to limit the times, places and manners in which firearms can be (Zimring 345). Here, Zimring talks about how the only way to enforce any restrictions on guns are those. It would be unconstitutional and in his words for our government to start taking guns from households. Zimring talk much about terror attacks but did touch on murders. He talks about murders and how they would still be a huge issue like it is today even if guns were out of the question. Zimring, like other scholars at the time, talked more about the constitution and would just touch over some parts of crime. Zimring started and ended with murders but talk about armed robberies or grand thefts. Gary Kleck and Britt Patterson conducted a thorough survey in 170 cites. Their study have much of an argument but it was presented as a factual analysis on gun control and crime rate. The study was conducted in 2010 and this is when crime rate became the bigger argument over the second amendment. They mention much or anything on the second amendment but the entire study was the effects on gun control and crime rate. They were looking for correlation on the two subjects and made somewhat of an argument on their findings. They relied on their findings and focused on all gun related crime. As we move closer to present day the topic of gun control focuses less on the second amendment and more on crime rate. The argument turns from gun control is becoming to gun control help reduce crime This way of thinking has be shown through more modern papers. The Author of More Guns, less Crime, John Lott, focuses heavily, like in the title, on crime rate. Lott talks about crime rate and have any say on the second amendment. He does talk on current laws and given examples on current lawed like Chicago and how crime is the biggest issue right now. This paper, written by John Lott, is still very controversial between scholars. His statements of how more guns would reduce crime is obviously not realistic and be cut and clean as he says. However, he does take in some parts of what recent papers on the subject are using. He used statements of school shootings and how big of an issue it is for our youth. 7. results on multiple-victim public shootings, presented in chapter 5, were obtained long before the first public school attacks occurred in October 1997. Since that time, two of the eight public school shootings (Pearl, Mississippi, and Edinboro, Pennsylvania) were stopped only when citizens with (Lott 105). Here Lott takes examples of citizens taking actions with their guns lawfully. The point, however, is that Lott is looking farther into crime. He just going over just crime but major things such as shootings and acts of terror. This is more common in papers produced recently. Authors Emma McGinty, Julia Wolfson and Tara Sell, have taken a deeper step on gun control. They look into reasons why the crime was committed and focus heavily on mass shootings. They stop looking at all crime and look at major events trying to solve those cases. Their paper, released in 2015, talk about windows that opened after a major shooting. They make arguments on whether guns should be more restricted to prevent these disasters. 2012 mass shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, opened a rare window of opportunity to strengthen firearm policies in the United (McGinty 4). They take a look at our failing of helping people with mental illnesses and discuss how easy it is to get a gun and bring it into a state that might have stronger laws. How our state borders have changing laws and that federal government should be enforcing stronger laws. Not one time did the words second amendment pop up and they shifted their entire focus on mass shootings. Since the 2000s, the ideas with the second amendment have lost some if their meaning. It is an old argument and it is a bit out dated. Making the second amendment a major argument viable anymore. This about our big of rights are out dated and we should be looking to more modern means. Today there are major events happening of terror happening and guns are defiantly involved. These Scholars have slowly shifted the arguments, as long standing debates do. Gun control is a major topic for America. Whether you are for it or not everyone wants the same thing, to have crime rate to drop. There is no easy or clear answer for what would be the best for cities with high crime rate but the argument has changed from what the years show. Maybe the continuation of growing the argument will help us on a path for better life in a city with high crime rate.