Shaheen 1 Ferris Shaheen Prof. Karen Hanson ENC 1102 26 Feb 2017 Electronic Frontier Foundation For Internet Liberty When the internet became a function of society in the mid-1990s, no one had anticipated that being a citizen online would have its own civil liberties. Nowadays there are plenty of internet freedom and liberty advocacy groups in favor of keeping the internet open and equally accessible to everyone. These groups argue against a multitude of government legislations that would limit the accessibility to the public. Such legislations would censor, block access, or reduce transparency of certain websites on the internet. Nonprofit organizations such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation fight these legislative actions in courtrooms to keep the internet unrestricted and protected from spying The Electronic Frontier Foundation argues that national and international law have yet to catch up with the quickly advancing need to protect online privacy and that the transparency of government information domains is in conflict with the Freedom of Information Act The group displays and effectively reinforces their attitudes towards keeping the internet free through imagery related to their work. The Electronic Frontier Foundation displays an authoritative tone which reflects their standard for arguing for ethical reform through several aspects of the two images. In the first image, the author makes use of pathos by using black and white tones to grab the attention. This imagery puts the audience on edge as the lack of bright colors Shaheen 2 symbolizes a serious or even grim tone. Color choices have different meanings that may implicitly deliver a message (Pack 350). This reflects how the Electronic Frontier Foundation wants the audience to react to their imagery and appeals to pathos. The Electronic Frontier Foundation attempts to have the audience side with their opinions and to recognize how serious of a matter it is they argue for. Next, author of this image uses ethos to strengthen their claims by featuring the executive director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Cindy Cohn. appearance adds to the credibility that the organization is trying to convey. This is a good display of the intrinsic authority, which effectively adds ethos to the imagery (Mckee et al. 28). The function of this imagery is to show that the Electronic Frontier credibility adds to their views that the internet should remain free. When the audience sees that the Electronic Frontier executive director is involved with the court case it shows that they personally care to represent the opinion, rather than hiring lawyers and sending lower position employees to represent the views. The organization could have just as easily sent lawyers and any member of the Electronic Frontier Foundation to argue for liberty in the courtroom, but they chose to send one of the most important board members. That represents a great deal of credibility and ethos to the audience. Lastly, the use of quote over the dark imagery of the courtroom drives the audience to associate that the Electronic Frontier Foundation stands by the protection of internet users from government intelligence spying. This example of borrowed credibility helps reinforce the argument by adding to the ethos of the imagery (Mckee et al. 29). To some members of the audience who are unaware of such actions by the government, this may serve as a major point where they may align their opinions with those of the stakeholder organization. This image overall provides a Shaheen 3 dark yet credible tone alongside revealing information that shocks the reader and has the potential to change the opinion of the public. This is a great use of pathos and ethos to represent the authoritative tones. The stakeholder displays this same kind of authority directly through text and representations of their work in the second image. The second image uses facts to reinforce the ethos of the imagery, rather than examples of intrinsic authority or borrowed credibility. The infographic displays a list of politicians that lead organizations which are being sued by the Electronic Frontier Foundation. This shows the attitude towards the initiatives that these organizations are taking. Along with this information of who the Electronic Frontier Foundation is suing, the infographic provides data about their work in lawsuits with the Federal Aviation Association for denying to provide information, which is in violation of the Freedom Of Information Act. Though the second image is much brighter and provides a lot more visual appeal, this reduces the authoritativeness of the image and rather substitutes a somewhat faux appeal to pathos. This imagery displays a great deal of ethos, yet differs from the first image in that it lacks the authoritative tone. The authority and credibility from this image mainly stems from the information provided itself. Furthermore, these images display the dedication the Electronic Frontier Foundation has for internet liberty. The images exhibit logos implicitly through their credibility. In the first image, Cindy presence in the courtroom to personally advocate for the stance on internet privacy just represent the kind of dedication she has for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, but also the dedication the organization as a whole has for their core beliefs. As mentioned previously, the organization could have sent anyone to represent them in court, yet they chose a high-tier official. Also the act of litigation in and of itself is a symbol to the Shaheen 4 determination the stakeholder has to influence public policy regarding internet freedom. Any nonprofit can simply protest and voice their opinion towards legislation, but not any organization sues government agencies in order to achieve reform. This is especially solidified in the second image. The list of organization heads being sued in the infographic adds to the fact that this organization is greatly dedicated to their purpose. This kind of dedication displayed in the imagery may lead the audience to reason that the Electronic Frontier Foundation is an organization that fights for the good of the people. This is a prime example of appeal to logos. reasonable for an organization that fights for the good of the people to be dedicated and to display their passion publicly. The audience assumes this because secrecy is considered to be negative by the public. This satisfies an enthymeme to prove the image contains logos (Lane et al. 32). The audience can draw that the stakeholder appeals to their reasonability by seeing that the Electronic Frontier Foundation harbors no secrets about its efforts. Lastly, these two images display the Electronic Frontier argument for freedom. The ethos is demonstrated even further in the two images in the sense that they both attest for liberty. The first image displays a courtroom, a common setting for the idea of freedom. Courtrooms represent the legal process and decision making, and the audience associates concepts such as liberty and justice with them. The audience is also reminded of how rights are something that can be fought for in this country, unlike many other countries around the world where the right to trial before conviction may not exist. In the second image we have information that the Electronic Frontier Foundation is suing politicians and federal agencies over information that is withheld from the public. This very act can be seen as a direct movement for freedom and liberty. The actions of these politicians and agencies seem to contradict policy Shaheen 5 which allows the public to access government information on the internet is These strides towards freedom and liberty made by the Electronic Frontier Foundation add a great deal to the appeals that audience receive by analyzing the imagery in their propaganda. Firstly, their efforts reinforce their credibility as an organization by showing the audience that the stakeholder is dedicated to fighting for internet rights. This is especially solidified when the audience observes the timeline at the end of the second image that displays how long the organization has been in some of their cases. This appeal to ethos in turn affects the way the audience feels towards the Electronic Frontier Foundation. When the audience views the stakeholder as credible, they tend to draw the conclusion that the views are reasonable and logical. The imagery provided by the Electronic Frontier Foundation does an excellent job in displaying these two rhetorical appeals hand-in-hand. The Electronic Frontier Foundation effectively argues that internet liberty should be advocated for by displaying these images. Both of these images represent the goals of advocating for a safe and free internet accessible to the public by using themes of authority, dedication for their beliefs of civil liberty, and the representation of the image of freedom. These appeals and themes work together to reinforce the argument made by the stakeholder and is likely to persuade their targeted audience. In the future the Electronic Frontier Foundation will likely continue to fight for internet liberties as technology continues to become more complex and requires more interpretation when it comes to writing legislation regarding such internet technology. Shaheen 6 Works Cited Although You May or May Not Agree with the Philosophy of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (www.Eff.Org), the Website Has some of the Best Available Information and Tips on Protecting Your  Phi Delta Kappan, no. 3, 2006. Lane, Emily, Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. Print. McKee, Jessica and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. Print. Pack, Jenna. Down An Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 345-351. E-text Frontier Foundation. Web. Accessed 26 Feb 2017 Frontier Foundation. Web. Accessed 26 Feb 2017 is Of Information Act . Web. Accessed 11 March 2017 Shaheen 7 Image 1: Image 2: Shaheen 8