Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Reviving the Brain The brain provides the energy one needs to live life with ease. Without proper mental health care, one can be subjected to depression. Even when a person has already fallen to depression, proper mental health care will help he/she be happy in life again. To treat depression, there are many different treatments that one can go about. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA) and Food for the Brain are two stakeholders who thrive in providing different treatments for people who are depressed. Because receiving treatments for depression is contentious, the compromise to encourage people to seek treatments can be implemented by providing a full education about depression and its possible treatments to show the benefits and positive outcomes one will receive once he/she are in a healthy mental state again. In spite of the idea of trying to help people with depression, many people still oppose the need for treatment due negative stigmas associated with depression (Takashi et al 2). It is unethical to not allow people the opportunity and choice towards a healthier life. Because of people who discourage the need of treatments for depression, organizations such as the ADAA and Food for the Brain strive to encourage people to seek treatments for depression. The ADAA encourages a therapy-based and medication approach, while Food for the Brain seeks an organic approach using nutrients to help people overcome depression. As stated above, regardless of how different the methods may be, the two stakeholders share the same goal. Student 2 The ADAA is an international nonprofit organization that has been working towards the quality of life for those with (ADAA). To do so, they believe in educating their viewers about depression and its treatments. The ADAA advocates towards therapy treatments such as cognitive-behavioral therapy and the use of medication to improve the minds of those who are depressed. The mission is entirely focused upon their well-being and works towards providing quality information about treatments for their patients. The use of therapy has been justified as a useful treatment especially with the combination of medication through many studies. Brown University conducted a study to see if treating depression is effective with a combination of therapy and anti-depressants. The results displayed great success with of the participants recovering from (Price 5). Having the evidence to support the advocation for therapy and medication will give people hope for a new beginning. Furthermore, not only does the ADAA provide credible information for their patients, but they also highly encourage their viewers to be educated about depression and the positive outcomes when seeking out treatments. The ADAA believes in education being the foundation to the path towards a healthier life. There are many people that lack the knowledge about depression and its treatments, and as a result, they oppose it. With the lack of education, develop a stigma of being against depression and (Takashi et al 2). This stigma prevents these people from having the opportunity to make peace with their mind. Thus, it is the mission to educate and help more patients to become healthy again. Student 3 In contrast to the ADAA, Food for the Brain is a non-profit educational charity that people on the relationship the mental mind has with (Food for the Brain). Food for the Brain understands that there are many contributing factors that lead to depression, however, their main arguments is that the nutritional imbalance is a major reason why one becomes depressed. Therefore, to help treat depression, people need to fix their nutritional imbalance with nutrients that can stimulate a positive atmosphere in specific regions of the brain associated with the nutrients. Food for the Brain provides a list of acceptable nutrients and food to consume on their website to inform people of the proper nutritional diet to carry out while on depression. One major nutrient that is advocated is omega 3 fats. With an increase on omega 3 fats intake, mood will increase exponentially. Examples of such type of food include salmon, tuna, and pumpkin seed (Food for the Brain). A reduction in 3 fats intake correlates with an increase of (Harbottle and Nicola 579). By following this nutritional diet with other nutrients, mental mind will be more positive towards life. As a result, there are many studies that justify this perspective in treating depression. Mental health is not just cognitively based and should not be dependent on drug usage. Even though therapy and anti-depressants have proved to be effective towards treating depression, nutrients have been shown to be equally effective to lessen depression symptoms. One study has shown that in omega 3 fatty acids results in an improvement in brain and nervous (Truesdell 63). Some reports also demonstrate the effectiveness of other nutrients such as B12 and its correlation with depressive (Truesdell 61). Nutrients are important to body in general, thus will help improve the mind tremendously when depressed. Student 4 All things considered, the two one common goal is for patients to be healthy and happy. The ADAA and Food for the Brain are both interested in new research and are concerned over their health because they believe people need to understand the importance of treatments and a healthy lifestyle for those with depression. Due to their common end goal and their passion about educating about depression and its treatments, a suitable compromise that these to stakeholders could settle upon is incorporating education on all types of treatments before a patient decides on a treatment. Along with education, stakeholders should encourage patients to go through a trial and error process to find out which treatment they are most comfortable to perform. This educational plan will help increase awareness on how important it is to treat depression, especially with the most suitable treatment (Van Voorhees 746). This compromise does not force patients to side with either of the stakeholders but rather gives the patients a higher understanding of the type of treatments available and which could be suitable based on their own needs. Moreover, compromising is about gaining and losing. Fortunately, both stakeholders will benefit from the compromise more than lose. The ADAA gains new information to relay back to the patients, while Food for the Brain can continue to be an educational charity. Unfortunately, they lose the significance of their treatments being the only treatment available to the people. Despite the losses, the compromise bring education that would benefit most for the viewers and patients. The viewers and patients are allowed the opportunity to seek treatments after being educated about the variety of treatments available to proceed towards a healthier and happy life. It has been proven that giving lectures about the importance of treating depression can change attitude positively towards receiving treatments (Takashi 6), which in turn can bring one closer towards achieving the happiness they deserve. Student 5 At this point, practical measure to proceed towards this compromise lies within the ways to educate people. Free lessons should be held at local clinics, libraries, and/or schools to provide full education about depression. To go about with the trial and error process, the stakeholders should create pamphlets containing information about all types of treatments, therapy, medication and nutritional, to give to doctors and psychiatrists to provide for patients. There was a study on providing information about the importance of nutrients during family therapy for those with depression, and the results showed that using both treatments and having the education brought healthier minds and relations (Edwards 248). This educational compromise will allow people to realize what works for them and what does not while being exposed to all type of treatments. Ultimately, treating depression is a controversial topic that many agree with and many do not. It is challenging to bring everyone to the same belief in receiving treatments. However, even if someone still does not believe in treatments, they would still have the opportunity to receive a full education about depression and the possible treatments. Both stakeholders, despite the contrasting methods, can and will uphold their most precious goal in giving their patients a healthier and happier life. (Word Count:1364) Student 6 Work Cited Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, 2010, https://www.adaa.org . 24 Mar. 2017. Edwards, Todd M. A Place at the Table: Integrating Diet and Nutrition into Family Therapy  American Journal of Family Therapy, vol. 30, no. 3, May/Jun2002, pp. 243- 255. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/019261802753577566. 24 Mar. 2017. Food for the Brain. Food for the Brain, 2012. Web. http://www.foodforthebrain.org. 24 Mar. 2017. Harbottle, Lynn and Nicola Schonfelder. Nutrition and Depression: A Review of the  Journal of Mental Health, vol. 17, no. 6, Dec. 2008, pp. 576-587. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/09638230701677746. 24 Mar. 2017. Price, Lawrence H. Depression Study with Flexible Design Shows Benefit of Combination  Brown University Psychopharmacology Update, vol. 25, no. 12, Dec. 2014, pp. 1-6. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=cin20&AN=103920769&site=eds-live. 24 Mar. 2017. Takashi, Yakushi, et al. Usefulness of an Educational Lecture Focusing on Improvement in Public Awareness of and Attitudes toward Depression and Its  BMC Health Services Research, vol. 17, 10 Feb. 2017, pp. 1-9. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1186/s12913-017- 2071-0. 24 Mar. 2017. Student 7 Truesdell, Delores D. The Efficacy of Nutrition Arid Lifestyle Approaches in the Treatment of  Topics in Clinical Nutrition, vol. 24, no. 1, Jan-Mar2009, p. 55. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=edo&AN=36672153&site=eds-live. 24 Mar. 2017. Van Voorhees, Benjamin W., et al. Attitudes and Illness Factors Associated with Low Perceived Need for Depression Treatment among Young  Social Psychiatry & Psychiatric Epidemiology, vol. 41, no. 9, Sept. 2006, pp. 746-754. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s00127-006-0091-x. 24 Mar. 2017.