Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 4 March 2017 Arts vs Sports: Who Reigns Supreme? Students from all over the world are missing out on arts and sports programs that only some get to have and enjoy. The National Endowment For The Arts is an organization that shows schools how important arts programs are for the students (home). On the other side Herts Sports Partnership shows schools how important sports programs are for the students. Both organizations believe that their goal reigns supreme over the others but in fact both of their goals are equal and just. The points of view that are taken from two stakeholders seem incompatible; however, the compromise of having both organizations host an event with a school promoting each other equally can be implemented because both schools believe what they are promoting will benefit the school and the student because with both programs, a student can choose either or both programs to join. The National Endowment For The Arts believes that the arts program should be implemented in every school around the world and that art helps the student discover their true self (About the NEA). They see that schools are forsaking the arts program, because the program itself is being diminished. These schools believe that the program is not wanted by the students or some schools just have enough money to keep the program. Therefore, the (National Endowment for the Arts) goal is to fund, promote and strengthen creative capacity of communities by providing all Americans with diverse opportunities for arts (home). This organization hosts many events around the U.S. to promote the Student 2 awareness that the arts programs benefits both the student and their schools. They believe that it benefits the student by opening their mind to something new and hoping that the student will discover their true self. They believe that the schools will be benefited by having more students attend their schools because they will have an arts program. The NEA is a program that only deals with the arts but combined with Herts Sports Partnership, the NEA will be able to help more students and more schools and achieve their goal more thoroughly. Since some schools are dismissing their arts program, there are also some schools that are trying to promote their art programs because they have reached a higher success than others. The article by Elizabeth Crane, Quantifying the Arts, is a great example on why schools should keep their arts program. It gives an example of innovative school that treasures, and benefits from, its wide-ranging art (Crane). A school in San Francisco, Alvarado has a program that challenges the students in different ways that will test their abilities. The students are made to work ideas and materials in order to produce something (Crane). This article also gives reasonable ways for schools to start from the ground up, showing a way to start an arts program that will help the students, teachers, and administration. Equally there is an article by Kent Fischer, School arts, sports programs survive cuts, that describes in detail how schools can keep both their arts and sports programs. It shows the benefit of having both programs at schools and how it truly helps both the student and the faculty, (Fischer). These two article mainly show how schools with an arts program thrive and excel compared to schools without it. The Herts Sports Partnership is an organization that deals only with sports and being active (About Us). Their goal is, together to encourage more people to be more active more (About Us.). Since HSP is more on the smaller end of companies, they have been reaching out and merging with other companies to promote their goal. Recently the way they Student 3 have been achieving this goal is by hosting events at schools and showing the students why it is important to exercise daily and why it is important for the schools to have these programs. They believe that schools with these programs will benefit themselves and their students. It will be benefiting the schools by having more students participate in their extracurricular activities and it will benefit the student by staying active and being fit. This company only deals with sports and exercise which is why if combined with the National Endowment For The Arts, HSP will be able to broaden out and reach more schools and in return reach their goal by spreading their word. There is an article by Ian Janssen, Systematic review of the health benefits of physical activity and fitness in school-aged children and youth, that talks about how beneficial exercise is for young children, especially those in middle school and high school (Janssen). It explains why there are students that participate in active activity achieve higher test scores. It shows the between physical activity and (Janssen). This meaning that if the student is more physically active, the healthier that student is. This article that physical activity is associated with numerous health benefits in school-aged children and (Janssen). With this saying, if a student could receive that benefit of exercise by playing in a sport and the benefit of being in an arts program, that student would be able to achieve more than just the average student and can strive throughout school. Since there are many schools able to keep both programs, they should be able to have the student participate in both (Fischer). There has been the excuse that the student participate in both because of time limiting reasons, but according to Marcia Rosal, the arts program should always be there. The arts program should be during the school day to give the student an edge on the rest of their day. Also, the arts program benefits the student in their attitude with their family and friends, (Rosal). Art also can be used as an anxiety reliever with college aged students which Student 4 means it can benefit the student in that aspect also (Sandmire). The sports programs are generally always after school so there should be no excuse for the student not to do both. The sports and arts program are equally beneficial to the student and the school. Both can help the student achieve more and find their true self, which means both organizations should work together to benefit the student more. Since both organizations have great goals and both are trying to help the student, if joined together they could immensely help the student and their school. The reason why they have not been able to join yet is because both are on their own path and are only involved with one idea. The National Endowment For The Arts only focuses on the arts program and how that benefits the student, the Herts Sports Partnership only focuses on the how sports programs and exercise can benefit the student. Both organizations have been separated, having their own events at different places but if they tried having an event together explaining to the students and their schools why both the arts and sports program are beneficial to them, both organizations could reach their goal with flying colors. If both organizations would work together and host a fair as one, they would be able to reach to more students and help more schools rather than hosting separate ones. The best way for both organizations to achieve their goal, which is to help the student and their school, is to host an event together at the school and explain why both the arts and sports program can benefit everyone. Student 5 Works Cited About the  National Endowment for the Arts. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Mar. 2017. About  Herts Sports Partnership. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Crane, Elizabeth. Quantifying the  Focus Art Education. EBSCO, 2002. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. 26 Feb. 2017. Fischer, Kent. School arts, sports programs survive  St. Petersburg Times [St. Petersburg, 9 Dec. 2001: 1. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. National Endowment for the Arts, NEA, https://www.arts.gov/. Accessed 10 Feb. 2017. Janssen, Ian, and Allana Leblanc. Systematic Review of the Health Benefits of Physical Activity and Fitness in School-Aged Children and  School Nutrition and Activity (2015): 183-219. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Kanters, Michael A., Jason N. Bocarro, Mary Filardo, Michael B. Edwards, Thomas L. Mckenzie, and Myron F. Floyd. Shared Use of School Facilities With Community Organizations and Afterschool Physical Activity Program Participation: A Cost-Benefit  Journal of School Health 84.5 (2014): 302-09. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rosal, Marcia L., Sue Mcculloch-Vislisel, and Susan Neece. Keeping Students in School: An Art Therapy Program to Benefit Ninth-Grade  Art Therapy 14.1 (1997): 30-36. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Sandmire, David A., Nancy E. Rankin, Sarah R. Gorham, Daniel T. Eggleston, Cecelia A. French,Emily E. Lodge, Gavin C. Kuns, and David R. Grimm. Psychological and Autonomic Effects of Art Making in College-aged  Anxiety, Stress, & Coping29.5 (2015): 561-69. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.