Student 1 Student Doctor Thornton ENC 1102 3 March 2017 The Ultimate Compromise to Conquering Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, known as PTSD, is a chronic illness that affects many veterans due to the graphic images and unforgettable traumas they witness. Of the many affected, those exposed to combat trauma accounts for the highest degree and severity of this disorder (Jakob). These victims of PTSD struggle to assimilate themselves back into their everyday lives and have a hard time maintaining healthy relationships and employment (Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy). While everyone can agree that efforts should be made to help those suffering, there is a degree of disagreement when it comes to what the most successful and efficient treatment is. PTSD Foundation of America and Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy are two stakeholders that both strive to offer a treatment for suffering PTSD veterans. The first mission is to combat PTSD, to give back to those who have given of themselves so selflessly, and to increase public awareness of this disorder (PTSD Foundation of America). Their preferred method of dealing with this disorder is by therapy and rehabilitation in their facilities. The second mission consists of treating PTSD with a more innovative and new alternative, MDMA (Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy). The points of view that are taken from the two seem incompatible; however, the compromise of both facilities promoting both treatments can be implemented through their mutual mission of Student 2 treating PTSD, their concern for suffering veterans, and their desire for a greater public awareness. The PTSD Foundation of America is a non-profit organization that has a great history of providing hope and healing to those combat veterans suffering from their past (PTSD Foundation of America). They are faith-based in their approach and offer a safe place where nobody is judged. One of their methods of treatment includes a healing and therapeutic facility called Camp Hope. It provides housing for the both the veterans and their families while maintaining a positive environment as they go through the healing process (PTSD Foundation of America). Therapy is a traditional treatment plan that has been used for many years and has had a vast amount of research done to determine its effectiveness (Ahmadizadeh). A study performed by Baqiyatallah Medical Sciences University showed that therapy does indeed correlate with better quality of life. A pre-assessment was performed on PTSD patients, and after 15 therapy sessions their post-assessment showed significant improvement (Ahmadizadeh). This study, along with many others, confirms the effectiveness of therapy for treating PTSD. The stakeholder Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy has a similar mission as the PTSD Foundation of America however it supports a breakthrough drug treatment that is offering a promising solution the PTSD (Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy). Research has proven that the use of MDMA makes patients more comfortable in daily situations and also promotes oxytocin release which in turn triggers a greater sense of trust and bonding (Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy). important to note that the MDMA used for treatment is in its pure form and is not the same as the street drug ecstasy, which contains MDMA along with other stimulants (Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy). According to a journal article by Bruce Jancin, this close name association is the Student 3 reason that MDMA was not followed up as a potential treatment about ten years ago. However, scientist have looked past that and have performed placebo-controlled studies where MDMA group of patients showed major improvements in just two sessions (Jancin). While their methods of treating PTSD differ, these two stakeholders share some common interests, concerns, and needs. Both strive to treat PTSD and are concerned with the large number of suffering veterans. They hope to improve each quality of life and allow them to regain the ability to function efficiently in everyday society. Each stakeholder promotes a specific treatment in which they believe is the best protocol for doing so. In addition, they both need greater public awareness to spread the word about their methods of treatment. Many victims of PTSD are silent sufferers that are not aware of the different treatment options and the vast amount of help that is available to them. Unfortunately, a compromise has not been able to be reached due to the fact that using MDMA to treat PTSD is still a relatively new concept and is not completely accepted by the community. It is difficult for people to accept this major change in medicine and some are weary of its ability to combat PTSD without experiencing any major side effects or causing another serious condition. Also, facilities under the PTSD Foundation of America take pride in their traditional and holistic counseling approach which is incredibly different from a drug assisted treatment option (PTSD Foundation of America). An ideal compromise to utilize the views of both stakeholders would be to form a therapy facility that also offers the MDMA therapy. They can promote both types of treatment options fully and let the patient decide which one they would like to try. In addition, if the first treatment option fails, the can recommend the other. Both stakeholders would benefit because MDMA would gain a better reputation through the world and the therapy facilities would be able to offer an additional treatment option for patients that are not responding well to Student 4 therapy. In some cases it might even be possible use therapy session and MDMA treatment to combine for a greater outcome. A study by S.G Hofmann once tested the use of the medication D-Cycloserine as an enhancement for therapy sessions in patients with anxiety disorders (Bernardy). The follow-up results showed a significant reduction of symptoms for the patients that received both the medication and the therapy sessions (Bernardy). Studies like this confirm that positive outcome that would arise if both stakeholders combined their treatment plans into one facility. This solution is relatively feasible because it simply involves adding the drug option to pre-existing facilities and not building completely new institutions. A previous concern between these stakeholders was the slim public knowledge about the new drug treatment. To overcome this, the researchers for the MDMA psychotherapy must continue their research and present their results to prove that this treatment can do great things. This compromise is ideal because it combines both psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy approaches and allows a suffering PTSD victim to have the opportunity to determine which treatment works best for their personal situation. A scholar article highlights that fact that both of these techniques are effective treatments for PTSD patients. Studies are also being performed to determine if the preference of treatments options come from demographic or psychological factors (Haller). In the end, the goal of both is to successfully treat patients with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD Foundation of America; Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy). By joining forces, the percentage of suffering veterans with this disorder could significantly lower. As previously mentioned, PTSD is a disorder that negatively impacts the lives of many individuals, specifically post war personnel. Traditionally, counseling and therapy was an approach used to help assist these patients and make their lives easier (PTSD Foundation of America). However, new research has proven that the use of MDMA can also successfully treat Student 5 patients by increasing their levels of oxytocin and maintaining a more stable mental state (Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy). Both are capable of helping a patient with PTSD and which one works best depends on many factors of the individual and the severity of the disorder. Thus, the best compromise between these two stakeholders would be for the existing therapy facilities, such as Camp Hope, to expand their treatment options and include MDMA Psychotherapy. It is an ideal solution that does not include any sort of large expenses and would benefit both stakeholders. Creating more resources at a single facility will make things easier for the patients to exploit their options. It will also contribute to the research of PTSD with the combination of treatment options. Every PTSD case is different so why should patients be limited to just one treatment solution? By combing treatment methods, PTSD can be a problem of the past. Student 6 Works Cited Ahmadizadeh, Mohammad Javad. WCPCG-2010: Improvement in quality of life after exposure therapy, problem solving and combined therapy in chronic war-related post traumatic stress disorder. Exposure therapy, problem solving and combined therapy in war-related  (2010). Electronic. Bernardy, Nancy C. Pharmacological management of posttraumatic stress  Current Opinion in Psychology (2017): 116-121. Electronic. Haller, Moira. Predicting engagement in psychotherapy, pharmacotherapy, or both psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy among returning veterans seeking PTSD  Psychological Services (2016): 341-348. Jakob, Jeanne M. D. The Impact of Trauma Type or Number of Traumatic Events on PTSD Diagnosis and Symptom Severity in Treatment Seeking  Journal of Nervous & Mental Disease (2017): 83-86. Electronic. Jancin, Bruce. MDMA making a comeback: the love drug explored as PTSD  (2017). PTSD Foundation of America. n.d. 5 March 2017. <http://ptsdusa.org/>. Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy. n.d. 5 March 2017. <http://www.mdmaptsd.org/about.html>.