Cruz 1 Alan Cruz Mrs. Hanson Section 013 12 March 2017 Media Influence A child is watching the television and a commercial is shown during the break with that same favorite athlete wearing green and drinking from a can of Pepsi, now that same child wears green and only drinks Pepsi. The influence of mass media on society whether it be in movies, TV shows or commercials has a significant impact on decision making. Mass media has infiltrated all areas and aspects of life, so it is hard to control what should be broadcast, particularly in regards to the media young children are exposed to. As a result of this, families are not able to protect their children from certain subjects that they have not yet been introduced to. The Parental Television (PTC) overall goal is to protect families from graphic sex, violence and profanity that is prevalent in the media, this includes; video games, television shows, and movies. Additionally, both images shown by the Parental Television Council use different rhetorical approaches to achieve the same goal; which is to explain how exposure to media violence can affect and impact lives, behaviors and attitudes. Firstly, image A demonstrates how playing video games can affect children by making a comparison to the effect that smoking cigarettes has on an adult. This concept targets parents through the use of logos. The image correlates smoking cigarettes and playing video games, drawing a parallel between the addictive nature that both activities exhibit. This parallel of the negative effects of playing video games makes the comparison with the intention of emotively Cruz 2 effecting parents who see this image. The proposition of using an emotive device on parents is to try and convince parents to think twice and really contemplate whether to allow their children to play video games to the extent that they do. This not only effects the child when they are young, but impacts them in the future and their development. The more games a child plays when they are young, the more of an addictive personality they will develop due to the addictive attributes video games have. Furthermore, a study has shown that smoking cigarettes and playing video games are correlated because they tend to release the same sensations during the course of activity, such as relief and relaxtion (Raiff 1453). The question that arises now is whether video games are a gate way to smoking cigarettes. The same rhetorical approach of an emotive appeal is seen in image B which shows a little girl looking outside the window. The picture contains a text that states, protect their children from tobacco, drugs and drinking, and pornography; yet millions allow their children to watch violent This quote makes the audience reevaluate how they are raising or going to raise their children because these violent programs contribute to bad decision making and bad habits as much as drugs and pornography do. However, both images contain text that tries to convince and grab the attention by emboldening the letters and trying to portray an ardent tone. It could be interpreted that because some the words are emboldened the organization is trying to call for action through the use of Kairos. This will lead the audience to act upon the issue. Next, in image A where both of the children are playing the video game; one of the children seems to be very focused and stressed while child the other seems to be enjoying the misery. Due to the fact that there are to two contrasting moods in this image there could be many speculations for the reasons of this, and the audience could relate the moods to negative connotations. For instance, the boy on the left who is focused and stressed could give the Cruz 3 audience a sense of sorrow because the child is actually dwelling over something that is not real. Pathos is being shown because of the different emotions being brought out of the image in order to support the goal of diminishing violent media. In addition to this, the boy who is enjoying the game could be enjoying it for the wrong reasons. This bad sportsmanship could also lead to bullying or finding happiness through down falls. Even though it may seem drastic, it is a plausible comparison to make. Sanne Nikkelen, Helen Vossen, Jessica Piotrowski, and Patti Valkenburg examined 1,017 adolescents to show how watching television can corrupt children. Studies showed that frequent acts of violence can affect the arousal function, (Nikkelen 659). As a result of this, the children are exhibiting behaviors related to those of ADHD. More importantly, both images A and B demonstrate credibility through the portrayal of information in the image. Firstly, image A has text underneath the image that states of Experimental Social this references the credibility of the institution that is responsible for comparing video games and cigarettes. The text at the bottom gives the image meaning in the sense that an actual experiment was executed comparing the two different aspects. Secondly, image B states 3,000 studies in the last 50 years have PROVEN CONCLUSIVELY that children are adversely affected by exposure to media As soon as the audience reads the last 50 years have their attention has been grabbed because of the use of statistical information that proves and validates the studies. Overall, both images utilize the rhetorical appeal of ethos in order to persuade the audience and make sure they are actively paying attention to what the images are trying to portray. The Parental Television Council are trying explain and demonstrate how media violence is Cruz 4 corrupting the youth of today through the images, comparisons and emotive language. Both images show the different ways media can affect a overall outlook and perception on life. For instance, image A shows the two boys are trying to win a game while one is miserable and the other is reveling in the upset and loss while playing the game. Image B, shows a little girl staring out the window with a sense of regret and sorrow. In addition, both images are showing how decisions are impacting their lives. The PTC is trying to help by targeting the main source, which is the parents, because they are the ones who enforce the rules in their households and can make decisions to help positively influence their children and minimize their exposure to violent media. Ultimately, The PTC want to protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media because of the proven long-term harmful effects. Their overarching mission is to provide a safe environment. Both of the images portray their messages with similar appeals, but presented in different ways. These images play a significant role in determining how an audience will form their opinion; whether they are for or against the issue. Cruz 5 Cruz 6 Parents Television Council -  Parents Television Council - Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Nikkelen, Sanne, et al. Media Violence And ADHD-Related Behaviors: The Role Of Parental  Journal Of Broadcasting & Electronic Media 60.4 (2016): 657- 675. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Raiff, Bethany R., Brantley P. Jarvis, and Darion Rapoza. Prevalence Of Video Game Use, Cigarette Smoking, And Acceptability Of A Video Smoking Cruz 6 Cessation Intervention Among Online  Nicotine & Tobacco Research 14.12 (2012): 1453-1457. Academic Search Premier. Web. 21 Feb. 2017