Aird 1 Imani Aird ENC1102 Dr. Thornton 03/05/17 Arts in Public Education: To Be or Not to Be The arts should remain implemented as a key part of public education as much as math and science are. Arts education has dealt with much controversy as to whether it should be treated as a core subject or not. The Americans for the Arts Action Fund advocates that the arts are necessary to public education and argue that parents want to see more than just academic achievement in their kids. The and can be interpreted as two very separate things. President Obama had restored funding for the NEA (National Endowment for the Arts) but did not provide for the restoration of funding in arts education. The Anti-Art Education Stance discusses the problems with welfare and availability that come with trying to support keeping the arts in education. This stance, however, does not wish to fully get rid of the arts has a whole; support for the NEA is mentioned. Some individuals believe that the arts do not need to be kept as a part of core school curriculum and support developing skills such as social, cognitive and creative thinking, can be done using out-of-school art programs. The Americans for the Arts fund stress how the lives of at-risk youth can be changed through art programs. Although not all art classes implemented in public schools suit the passions of young children and many grow disinterested by the time they are in high school. The Anti-Art Education Stance and the Americans for the Arts Action Fund both use different approaches in arguing the significance of art in public education. Aird 2 It is natural for an automatically favor an idea that is their own regardless of the output it produces. Cherry-picking evidence is a common method in delivering data when you make a claim. Anti-Art sees arts education as a financial burden but fail to recognize lower-income class families who cannot afford out-of-school programs that are not already implemented into public education. The Arts Action Fund argues the importance of arts in education because of the cognitive development benefits and its ability to make students more well-rounded by not letting test scores define their character (Americans for the Arts). Advocates for art in education neglect the greater value art can bring students. Most opposed to public school arts argue for the need for more courses that implement useful career skills. They preach that those who support keeping the arts in education have very loosely based research to back up their high claims, accusing them of only giving emotional and anecdotal evidence. Despite having two very opposing ideas, both stakeholders discuss the effect keeping the arts in public education has on the students and on the economy. Anti-Art education criticizes supporters for lowering the quality of true art while Americans for the Art vouch on the psychological aspect that benefit young minds (Kirchner, 2014). However, one thing is missing from both sides of this argument: the useful tool of creativity. To be a great artist does not necessarily only involve being able to create paintings and sculptures. Artists are able to use their creative skills to build a business, solve problems, and fabricate new theories. The subject of somehow being implemented into our core education could generate a whole new world of methods for problem solving, collaboration and so much more (Danny Gregory, 2016). Both supporters and adversaries will find the results that they seek on this topic of arts in education. Anti-Arts will receive the skills needed to succeed in careers while Americans for the Arts will have the meaning of art broadened an even higher degree with both reaping appreciation. Teaching creative process while in a more Aird 3 stretched out range of art subjects will teach ore collaboration and teamwork skills. This compromise could also improve improvisation and challenge students to test their new ideas. Aird 4 Works Cited Americans for the  Americans for the Arts. Robert L. Lynch, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://www.americansforthearts.org/>. Kirchner, Nicole. The Anti-Art Education  Powered by Sites at Penn State. Penn State, n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <http://sites.psu.edu/nicolekirchnerrcl/2014/03/06/anti- art/>. Get Rid of Art Education in  Danny Gregory. N.p., 05 Oct. 2016. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <https://dannygregorysblog.com/2016/04/15/lets-get-rid-of-art- education-in-schools/>.