Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Homelessness: Finding the Balance Between Differing Viewpoints The topic of homelessness is a serious one that has been controversial throughout the whole world, and specifically the United States Global Homelessness ). It is a concerning fact that there are 564,708 individuals living in the United States that are homeless, as of January, 2015 Care and Homeless: Foundation Ways on how to reduce or end homelessness has differed among many different individuals, and also many stakeholders. An important stakeholder that exists, concerning homelessness, is the Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative (THHI), who believe that homelessness should be reduced through the use of dedicated volunteers and partners Hillsborough Homeless A different stakeholder that believes a different approach than the first stakeholder is the Weingart Center, who believe that homelessness should be reduced through investments by individuals, and also through programs and services that directly help the homeless Homeless Services in Los ). The points of view that are taken from two stakeholders seem incompatible; however, the compromise of combining their strategies can be implemented through the use of their similar goals, mindsets, and dedication to resolve the issue of homelessness and to help reduce it. The first stakeholder presented, THHI, carries strong goals towards reducing homelessness. This organization was established in 1986 with an intended vision to improve the treatment of homeless individuals, through the use of several methods and strategies to help Student 2 towards their goal. Some of these methods entail bringing forth dedicated volunteers and partners to help in the fight to help reduce homelessness. The history of this stakeholder has been very successful in combining efforts from the community and also with willing partners. Since the establishment of this organization, the THHI has grown in size and efforts, including the increase in number of partners involved in helping to achieve their goal Hillsborough Homeless The methods and strategies toward the issue of combating the spread of homelessness is effective because are leaders in producing innovative and collaborative solutions to the challenge of (Baker et al. 10). The THHI is strongly dedicated in reducing homelessness and helping homeless individuals, and it is evident through their efforts in the community. Their intended vision not only makes them an important stakeholder towards their issue, but it also presents an interesting take on resolving it. It is stated that through their efforts, the of homeless people in Hillsborough decreased by 5.9% between 2015 and Hillsborough Homeless This helps to highlight their hard work, as well as their credibility towards resolving the issue of homelessness. Another stakeholder with a different view on reducing homelessness is the Weingart Center. This organization was established in the early 1980s, when widespread homelessness was very prevalent in the city of Los Angeles, California. It was created with the primary goal or objective to reduce homelessness through summoning individuals to make investments to aid the homeless, as well as through programs and services that directly help the homeless. They believe that individuals should not just donate, but should instead make investments towards helping homeless individuals. Since first opening up, the Weingart Center has become increasingly more innovative and larger in size Services in Los It is said that through Student 3 programs and services that help the homeless, it not only helps them financially, but it also helps them emotionally The New Approach: The Emergence of a Better Way to Address ) This not only supports the strategies of the Weingart Center, but it also proves that they are helpful and effective for improving care for the homeless. Although these two stakeholders carry different views towards reducing homelessness and may seem incompatible, this issue can be resolved by combining the strategies of both of the stakeholders. This can be done by having these stakeholders both use programs and services that directly help the homeless through the use of volunteers. This helps to support THHI because they strongly believe in the use of volunteers towards helping with the issue of homelessness Hillsborough Homeless Also, this proposed compromise supports the view of the Weingart Center because they value the method of providing programs and services that aid the homeless directly Homeless Services in Los ). This would be an effective method because both stakeholders have similar goals towards reducing homelessness, have similar hard-working mindsets, and also extreme dedication towards this issue. This proposed compromise would be effective and successful because these efforts would [the get themselves off the streets and back into New Approach: The Emergence of a Better Way to Address There are several steps that need to be taken in order for this compromise to work between the two stakeholders. First, the stakeholders must address this situation with each other and their beliefs on how to reduce homelessness. By addressing the situation with each other, both stakeholders will be able to understand the viewpoint and strategies. Following this step, both stakeholders should slowly incorporate the use of the other method on reducing homelessness. By doing so, this would be practical and also effective in allowing the Student 4 stakeholders to come and meet in the middle of their methods. Instead of quickly incorporating the methods of each stakeholder into the it is more effective to do it gradually because it will help reduce chaos and distress in either organization. It has been known that service integration can be effective to combat large problems or issues (Guerrero, et al. 45). The THHI and the Weingart Center clearly have different methods concerning the reduction of homelessness in the United States. The THHI believes in the use of dedicated volunteers and also local partners to help towards their goal. In contrast, the Weingart Center supports the method of investments by willing individuals, as well as programs and services that directly help the homeless. Although these stakeholders have differing methods on reducing homelessness and may seem incompatible, a proposed compromise would be through the use of volunteers to provide programs and services to the homeless. This would be effective due to their shared goals, mindsets, and dedication towards reducing homelessness. These stakeholders are strongly dedicated and value helping the homeless and their wellbeing every day; however, it is important to consider if oneself would join the fight with these stakeholders to reduce homelessness. (Word Count: 1211) Although these stakeholders have differing methods on reducing homelessness and may seem incompatible, a proposed compromise would be through the use of volunteers to provide programs and services to the homeless. This would be effective due to their shared goals, mindsets, and dedication towards reducing homelessness. These stakeholders are strongly dedicated and value helping the homeless and their wellbeing every day; however, it is important to consider if oneself would join the fight with these stakeholders to reduce homelessness. Student 5 Works Cited Baker, Lisa A, et al. MANY PATHS, ONE DESTINATION--New Opportunities and Directions for Ending Homelessness: Part One of a Two-Part  Ed. Sylvia Gimenez. Journal of Housing & Development (2016): 6-15. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Brown, Molly. Opening More Doors to End Homelessness Through a Shared Housing  Psychiatric Services 67.10 (2016): 1161. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Guerrero, Erick G., et al. Service Integration to Reduce Homelessness in Los Angeles County: Multiple Stakeholder  Human Service Organizations Management, Leadership & Governance 38.1 (2014): 44-54. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Global Homelessness  Homeless World Cup. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. Health Care and Homelessness: Foundation  Health Affairs 35.3 (2016): 544-45. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Homeless Services in Los  Weingart Center for the Homeless. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hillsborough Homeless THHI. N.p., 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://thhi.org/>. The New Approach: The Emergence of a Better Way to Address  National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Web. 3 Mar. 2017.