Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 March 2017 The Sides to Paper Recycling Paper recycling is one of the biggest and most concerning issue in the world. Many people around the world have learned to recycle plastic, metals, and most importantly paper. Paper is used every single day globally. Not only are there individuals that practice paper recycling, but also there are companies that make that their living. Accu-Shred (http://accushred.com/.) is a company that practices paper recycling by shredding papers and then selling that shredded paper to recycling companies. On the other hand, American Recycling (http://americanrecyclingca.com/category/paper/) is a company that travels around the U.S looking for plastic, metal, and paper to recycle them and make the environment a better place. The points of view that are taken from two stakeholders seem incompatible; however, the compromise of recycling paper can be implemented through: recycling paper, making the world a better place, and saving trees. main goal is to get paper, shred it, and then sell it a practicing paper recycling company that will take care of the rest of the job to better the environment So, their objective is to maintain this environment and make it a better place; however, to achieve their goal in the long run and keep it consistent they must find a new way of recycling paper, instead of selling it to a company that pays the most for it to recycle it and do their job for them. Accu-Shred is a great company that does a lot for the environment, but trying to rise financially with a goal like paper recycling is not a very good way to do so Student 2 American main goal is to recycle paper every single day to better the environment. Their objective is to travel around the U.S and find as much metal, plastic, and paper to recycle Paper ). American Recycling does it all by themselves, they scavenge looking for all these resources, and then they recycle it all by themselves Paper They keep growing as a company and their name has been capitalized throughout the U.S. They are a very well-known company that is known for what they do. Indeed, their job is a very important one and that everything they do betters the environment; however, American Recycling needs to get in contact with other big companies so it facilitates their job and that way they can recycle more and more paper on the daily. Both stakeholders share the interest of wanting to better the environment by recycling paper. Their concerns include the environment rotting and getting worst due to people not recycling and slacking off the important needs. Both stakeholders share the need to spread the word out there, and make sure that people are following or practicing paper recycling because it is a very important need in this world. The more the world recycles the longer this world will exist with its beauty and health. Some past or current solutions to this incompatibility includes: People not recycling on the daily and not caring to at all is the number one issue why the environment is hard to fix. To create a compromise, both sides must bend. A compromise cannot be reached if one stakeholder is simply being asked to submit themselves to the goals and purposes of the other. Instead of one just shredding paper and selling it to other companies, they should each have their own recycling industry so that they argue about pricing and keep their goals and missions straightened out. When it comes to different companies, each company wants to benefit in some sort of way when it comes to money. Both stakeholders have their own way of making money, and by compromising into an agreement it will cause their income or Student 3 salary to go down, which might destroy the company in the long run, which in result of that the company closes and no more paper recycling from that one company and so on. When it comes to companies that have a purpose in saving the world and making it a better place, there be conflicts when it comes to money because how this world just becomes worse. Instead, they should agree to do the same thing, and undergo the same goal under the same terms and authorities. When both stakeholders follow their goals and missions and not worry about achieving their financial goals, they could make sure that their goals are achieved in an incredible way, and that no other place could ever compete with them when it comes to paper recycling. The compromise about worrying about their goal and nothing else will be implemented on a practical level by convincing the stakeholders to hold on to their main mission and objective and to focus on that and nothing else. To fix this issue both stakeholders must meet up and set each other towards the right picture, that way they see what they are doing wrong, and both know how to fix each gaps. When reasonable people disagree about this issue, the topic about cutting more trees arises; in which in result of cutting more trees will end up with a loss of oxygen. People tend to say that by practicing paper recycling, companies are damaging the environment rather than making it better. main argument is that industries make global warming worse. To recycle paper, it must go through machines in an industry, which in return produces a lot of pollution which enhances global warming and makes the environment worse and shorten the lifetime on earth. Paper recycling is a very concerning issue that could be interpreted in both ways, because whether it is practiced or not, it could damage the environment somehow or make it better. The pros overcome the cons when it comes to paper recycling, because it has been Student 4 proven that in the short and long run, recycling paper is very important to the environment and this world. Paper recycling is a huge factor to consider when it comes to making the environment better. Many people have learned to make it part of their daily habits, and others tend to ignore it. Both stakeholders share the same mission and purpose, but both reach their goals in different ways. Accu-Shred is a very good company that practices paper recycling by selling their shredded paper and having it recycled. On the other hand, American Recycling find their own paper, recycle it on their own, and go on the search for more. Both companies share the same goal and interest in what they do, but they both reach their goals in different ways. Being different is good, if they were all the same there be different companies but rather there would just be one big company that does it all. If both stakeholders want to achieve their goals, and want to be one of the best out there, then they both must come down to that compromise. If they want to prove that paper recycling can benefit this world, then they need to remove all obstacles, and focus on important, to achieve their goal and change the minds of many people that tend to disagree with the topic of paper recycling. Paper recycling is an important necessity to undertake to better the environment, and the only way that could happen is by convincing people that the right way. With the approval and mass practicing of it, companies could help make this world a better place. (Word Count:1241) Student 5 Works Cited Academic Press. Journal of Environment Management. Burlington, 1973. AccuShred. http://accushred.com/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Eekhout, M. Cardboard in Architecture. Amsterdam: IOS Press, 2008. Kumar, Pradeep. Programming model for paper recycling system. Omega, 2008. Paper  Category Archives: Paper. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Roberts, J. C. (John Christopher). The chemistry of paper. Cambridge: Royal Society of Chemistry, 1996. Smith, Maureen. U.S paper industry and sustainable production. Cambridge: Mass MIT Press, 1997. Virtanen, yrjo. Environmental impacts of waste paper recycling. London: Earthscan Publications, 1993.