Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 To Art, Or Not To Art? Whether or not to keep funding the arts in schools is something that has been the topic of controversy lately. On one hand, people are saying that the arts are something that will help a child be more successful throughout and after school and help with important social skills needed in the work force Why Arts Education is ). On the other hand, people are saying that money used in funding arts programs like the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) should be cut and used for something they believe is more important (Butler). Although these are on completely different sides of the spectrum, they do share a common belief. How can the arts affect the public? Whether it be through the fact that arts programs like the NEA help or prohibit arts education, both stakeholders believe that the arts are in some way important to the public. The points of views that are taken from the two stakeholders seem incompatible; however, the compromise of keeping the arts in school can be implemented through the fact that both stakeholders have the best interest of the public in mind, that the arts do have an effect on students, and that funding is the key part of the arts. The first stakeholder, L.A. Country Arts for All, believes that the NEA and arts education should be funded. They indicate that what students learn from the arts will help them get into the work force, explaining that one out of six jobs in the L.A. Country are generated by the creative Student 2 industry Why Arts Education is ). The goals of this organization are to establish a strong foundation and deepen school capacity to implement art education, improve the quality of teaching and learning, create and empower advocates to conduct ongoing research and evaluation, and to ensure sustainable funding partnerships for arts education ). L.A. County Arts for All believes that through funding, students have more access to the arts because of a wider variety of resources and that they receive quality arts education. They explain that organizations that provide funds provide grants that end up impacting whole school systems for the better. By mentioning this goal, L.A. County Arts for All is hoping to help create a steady funding stream for the arts by educating these funders about how important it is to continue funding the arts and to make them feel that they are doing the right thing ). The second stakeholder, The Heritage Foundation, believes that the funding for the NEA should be cut (Butler). They explain how the United Stated Congress is battling to successfully balance the federal budget, and they believe that completely cutting out the funding for the NEA would be a big help to the budget (Butler). The Heritage Foundation also believes that the NEA wastes resources and tax dollars on administration. The NEA uses about nineteen percent of their total budget to cover administrative expenses, and that is an unusually high number for programs funded by the government (Butler). Butler goes on to explain how at one point, the American taxpayers paid $1,500 for the poem  (Butler).  was not just the name, but the entire poem. It is also stated how about half of the funds go towards other associations that influence the government for more money (Butler). On top of that, Butler believes that the arts will have enough support without funding from the NEA. The largest amount of funding goes to New York City where the New York Public Library raises $430 million, the Museum of Modern Art raises between $300 million- $450 million, and the Student 3 Metropolitan Museum of Art raises $300 million (Butler). All these raised funds show that without the funding of the NEA, the arts would still survive. After lots of going back and forth about whether there should be funding to support the arts, a compromise has not been made. I think that no compromise has been made simply because the two sides both feel very strongly about their opinion. Right now, there is a strong divide and tension between liberal (pro-funding) and conservative (anti-funding) sides making, a compromise seemingly impossible. In order for a compromise to be introduced, both sides will have to understand and realize that they will not get everything that they want. The compromise will have to make sure that the arts do stay funded and stay in schools, but there will have to be some type of cut to the budget funding the NEA. They will have to civilly sit down and talk about what common ground they have, and make a plan of action that suits both of their needs. As for common ground, both L.A County Arts For All and The Heritage Foundation have the best interest of the public in their minds. While L.A. County Arts for All believes that the public will benefit from continuing to fund the arts, The Heritage Foundation believes that the public will benefit if the NEA gets defunded because there will be more money in the federal budget for things deemed more important. Both of the needs have to do with the funding of the arts. L.A. County Arts for All feels that there needs to be funding in order to support the arts in schools and The Heritage Foundation feels that there does not need to be any funding to the arts. Finally, this leads to the concerns of both organizations. Both of their concerns are about how the arts can affect the public. Of course, L.A. County Arts for All believes that organizations like the NEA will help the arts while The Heritage Foundation believes that the NEA will actually prohibit the growth and success of the arts. In the end, they both want the arts program to be successful. Student 4 In order to come up with a compromise, the pro-funding side can agree to not need as much money and try to cut down on resources while the anti-funding side can agree that some money does need to go into supporting the arts in schools. This would accommodate both of the sides needs while still addressing both of their concerns. This compromise would benefit L.A. County Arts for All because it allows for art based classes to still be available for students to take, and it benefits The Heritage Foundation because it will allow for some funds to be cut and used for something else. In order to implement this compromise, schools should not make student have to take art credits in order to graduate. They should still be available for students who want to take them, but there is no reason to force students to learn about something they do not care to learn about. The main, and biggest, step that will need to be taken is changing the graduation requirements for students in each state and the country. Taking an art based class might have to be considered an elective course, and students will still need to find a class to fill those credits. This will allow students to take a course that will help them with their future career. Having to choose one side of this debate and have everyone follow it is something that should not have to be done. L.A. County Arts for All believes that there should be funding for the arts because they are important in helping children develop socially Why Arts Education is ) and The Heritage Foundation believes that the NEA does not deserve the funding it receives and the money should be used for other things (Butler). In order to make sure everyone gets a little of what they want, a compromise has to be made. The compromise may not completely satisfy the need of a particular side, but it will allow both the pro-funding and anti- funding side to get what they want. The proposed compromise requires art to be funded in schools (pleasing the pro-funding side) while still cutting some funds and makes the art classes Student 5 not a requirement for students to take, saving some money in the federal budget to be used elsewhere (pleasing the anti-funding side). This compromise will hopefully bring peace between the two sides and allow our children to thrive in the arts. (WC: 1385) Student 6 Works Cited Butler, Stuart M. Ten Good Reasons to Eliminate Funding for the National Endowment for the  The Heritage Foundation. The Heritage Foundation, 29 Apr. 1997. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Cornwell, Kasey. Arts Education Policy: Is it Beneficial or Detrimental for School Arts  Thesis. Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Affairs, 2012. Web. Creativity in Every  L.A. County Arts for All. L.A. County Department of Education, n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Davis, Jessica Hoffmann. Why our schools need the arts. New York: Teachers College Press, 2010. Fowler, Charles. Strong arts, strong schools: the promising potential and shortsighted disregard of the arts in American schooling. New York: Oxford U Press, 2001. Gregory, Danny. get rid of Art Education in  Web log post. Danny Gregory. N.p., 15 Apr. 2015. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Mollick, Ethan, and Ramana Nanda. Wisdom or Madness? Comparing Crowds with Expert Evaluation in Funding the  Management Science62.6 (2015): 1533-553. Web. Student 7 Rabkin, Nick, and Robin Redmond. The Arts Make a  The Journal of Arts Management, Law, and Society 36 (2010): 25-32. Web.