Running Head: MEDICINAL PRICING 1 ENC 1101: Medicinal Pricing Daniel C. DeJesus The University of South Florida Medicinal Pricing 2 Medicinal Pricing Over the years medical pricing has only gotten worse, the pharmaceutical industry remains unregulated in terms of product pricing, and as a result overpricing is rampant in the commercial drug industry within American. In all essence the conversation has not changed one bit, the lawmakers have no desire to help the poor and middle class fight back against overpricing of medication, they refuse to step in and regulate pricing or do anything for that matter to help the average American afford medication without it costing an arm and a leg. Prior to 2010 statistical research was done to determine why prices are so high. However, it is not the companies fault if a price is large because of how much it costs to create and get a drug FDA approved, ultimately one must remember it is still a business and the main goal of a business is to make more money than what you put in. After 2010 there was research done on the effects of pricing being so overwhelmingly steep, one effect that should not be happening in a first world country let alone one of the richest countries in the world is that people are so impoverished that they have trouble affording their medication and sometimes even their food. The conversation on medicinal pricing has not changed, the pharmaceutical industry reigns supreme over people who are in need of medication, and no effort is put forth by the government to assist the American people. To be fair to the pharmaceutical industry, it is quite difficult to develop drugs and have them FDA certified, it can cost millions to develop a drug over the course of years but if the FDA approve then all that money is down the drain. The amount of money, time, and effort put into creating a drug means nothing if not FDA approved, FDA approval is very rigorous which it should be to make sure the drug works and is not dangerous but, the process is far too difficult to be justified. America and Europe have contrasting methods for approaching Medicinal Pricing 3 the issue of medicinal pricing, America leaves it unregulated and essential gives all the cards to the companies leaving the average person to the wolves. Europe regulates the prices to make them affordable for the people; they do not allow companies to exacerbate the people of all their money. There are reasons for American companies to charge large sums of money for their product; one is for the purpose of expanding the company to further research and development (R&D), The U.S. produced more new medications, and jobs but grew about (Golec, 2010, p. 627) regulation of drug prices force pharmaceutical companies to slow down because they cannot charge outrageous prices for their product so they can speed along to creating the next drug in a never ending race to create as many drugs as possible, Though they do not make any huge leaps and bounds like the U.S. in terms of creating more new drugs and jobs, but their prices have not (Golec, 2010, p. 627) and remain affordable by the average European. America has a very serious issue on its hands; pharmaceutical companies are taking advantage of being in a baron wasteland in terms of competition for their respective drug(s), companies charge whatever price they so desire because who is going to stop them in non- competitive free market. There needs to be some form of government involvement in the pharmaceutical industry that prevents such scandalous actions from taking place, bleed people dry of their hard earned money, so much to the point where they cannot afford their medication and sometimes food. of the chronically ill study participants reported cost- related medication underuse and 11% reported food insecurity as (Medical Economics, 2014, p. 1), these are chronically ill they need the medication to try to lead a normal life and these companies do their best to make it hard. One way to get around the outstanding prices of medication in America is to import the medicine from another country like Canada where they Medicinal Pricing 4 regulate drug prices so they are actually affordable to the people, it is the same exact drug and in most cases sold by the same exact companies selling them in the U.S. for huge amounts of money but they cannot do that in places like Canada or Europe because they regulate the prices. In conclusion, there are some components of drug pricing that are understandable because it is a business trying to make money but this does not excuse the pharmaceutical industry from being held accountable for how they run their business and how it effects their customers. There are far too many people impoverished in America to be considered one of the richest countries in the world, 1 in 4 chronically ill patients cannot afford their medication on a regular basis and 1 in 10 cannot afford food on a regular basis. American companies should not be allowed to walk all over the people, their needs to be some form of government intervention and regulation. Medicinal Pricing 5 References Financial hardship linked to medication underuse. (2014). Medical Economics, (8), 36. Golec, J., & Vernon, J. A. (2010). Financial Effects of Pharmaceutical Price Regulation on R&D Spending by EU versus US Firms. Pharmacoeconomics, 28(8), 615-628. Hooper, C. L., & Henderson, D. R. (2016). Want cheaper drugs? More competition, not more government coercion, would greatly benefit consumers. Regulation, (1), 20. Tinsley, H. a. (2004). Prescriptions without Borders: America Looks to Canada for Answers to Solve the Prescription Drug Pricing Predicament in the U.S., But Is Importation Really the Solution?. Hamline Journal Of Public Law & Policy, 25(2), 437-479.