Guimaraes 1 Henrique Bevilacqua Guimaraes Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 03/06/2017 Outline 1. Introduction - The sugar consumption has seriously increased over the years in America and in the world. - Before 2000 there a lot of scientific evidences that proved that Sugar drinks influences obesity. - Both period of times of 2000-2010 and 2011-2017, the researchers agree that consuming exaggerated amounts of soft drinks it can lead to several diseases and obesity. - Thesis: Therefore, while the studies between 2000-2010 focus more on the results of regular consumption of sugar drinks, the later research focuses on explaining why it leads to obesity. 2. Body A. Early Research (2000-2010) 1. Relation Relation Between Consumption of Sugar-Sweetened Drinks And Childhood Obesity: A Prospective, Observational Analysis. David Ludwig. a. Written in 2001, Ludwig explain a study done in the 1994 to 1997 that was made with the objective to see the relationship between consumption of sugar drinks and obesity in kids. Guimaraes 2 b. A total of 548 students were analyzed for the period of one year and seven months to see if those drinks was having a significant effect on changing the body of the kids. c. was increased for each serving per day at baseline, and further increased for every additional (Ludwig 3). d. The chances of being obese increases for each serving that was intake, also the body mass index (BMI) of the children was raised per each serving consumed. 2. Reduction In Consumption Of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages Is Associated With Weight Loss: The PREMIER Trial. Chen Liwei a. Written in 2009, a study by Liwei Chen had the goal to provide more evidences to the field. In this study, they observed 810 adults (25-79 years) in a period of 18 months, with the objective to determine what are the effects by changing the number of liquid calories. b. reduction in liquid calorie intake of100 kcal/d was associated with a 0.3-kg weight loss at 6 months and a 0.2-kg weight loss at 18 mo. A reduction in SSB intake of 1 serving/d was associated with a 0.5-kg weight loss at 6 months and a 0.7-kg weight loss at 18 (Chen 6). c. Chen states that a reduction in liquid calories intakes gives more results than the same reduction in solid calories. When drinking, there mastication, therefore, less pancreatic exocrine and endocrine responses. Transition: After 2010, Research started to focus more on the reasons that make sugar drinks influence obesity. B. Later Research (2011-2017) Guimaraes 3 1. Effects of Carbohydrates on Saciety : Differences bettwen Liquid and Solid Food. An Pan a. Written in 2011, The article by Frank Hu and An Pan explains how liquid carbohydrates differs from solid carbohydrates, analyzing a series of studies. b. Appetite is a major factor when it comes to food intake regulation, it is clear and simple: the more you feel hungry, the more you eat. c. The liquid carbohydrates, especially sugary drinks, are known for producing less satiety than solid carbohydrates. Even though the body receiving great intake of calories, the feeling of hunger go away and the individual proceeds to consume more calories, which eventually, and in most cases, leads to an unbalanced nutrition. d. Several feeding studies show that individuals who consume caloric beverages shortly before or with a meal eat the same amount of calories as individuals who have a calorie-free drink, thus increasing total energy (Pan 387). e. When consuming a sugary drink, for instance, the lack of a feeling of satiation causes people to continue to eat, even though the body has already absorbed enough calories. 2. Calorie-Sweetened Beverages And Fructose: What Have We Learned 10 Years Later. Bray G a. Written in 2013, This study, by George Bray and Marry Popkin, states why the High Fructose corned syrup(HFCS) is bad for health and that can relate to a lot of health diseases. Guimaraes 4 b. HFCS is one type of sugar that has been worrying a lot of nutritionists, that is a sweetener made from corn. Those sugars are founded in a lot of sugar drinks and sodas. b. Those beverages that contain HFCS are contributing to the obesity epidemic, consuming it can lead to metabolic syndrome and the appearance of a non- alcoholic fatty liver disease. c. The relation of these beverages to obesity can be attributed to an increased caloric intake and to the fact that beverages do not suppress the intake of other foods to an appropriate degree thus beverage calories serve as calories enhancing the risk of obesity 2). 3. Conclusion - The studies from both period times agree that obesity is influenced by sugary drinks, but the later studies add more explanation to the topic, because the earlier researches had already proved with several studies that soft drinks contributes to increase the obesity epidemic. Guimaraes 5 Sugar Beverages and Obesity Over the years, the sugar consumption has seriously increased in America and in the World. One of the contributions for this increase is the big consumption of soft drinks, which contains a lot of sugars. A lot of nutritionists and researchers in the area started to worry about the consequences of this exaggerated consumption of sugar, and studies have been made to prove that Sugar drinks were affecting the body of the population. Before 2000, there a lot of scientific evidences that proves that Sugar drinks influences obesity. So, the goal for the period of 2000-2010 was to prove with controlled analysis that obesity was being influenced by this big amount of consummation of sugar drinks. Both period of times of 2000-2010 and 2011-2017, the researchers agree that consuming exaggerated amounts of soft drinks it can lead to several diseases and obesity. Therefore, while the studies between 2000-2010 focus more on the results of regular consumption of sugar drinks, the later research focuses on explaining why it leads to obesity. One of the early research, written in 2001, by Ludwig explain a study done in the 1994 to 1997 that was made with the objective to see the relationship between consumption of sugar drinks and obesity in kids. A total of 548 students were analyzed for the period of one year and seven months to see if those drinks was having a significant effect on changing the body of the kids. The results were positive according to what was expected, was increased for each serving per day at baseline, and further increased for every additional (Ludwig 3). The chances of being obese increases for each serving that was intake, also the body mass index (BMI) of the children was raised per each serving consumed. Analyzing the findings, the consumption of sugar-sweetened drinks has a big impact on the childhood obesity. In 2001, Ludwig contribute with a scientific evidence that the sugar drink is a big causer of the obesity. Guimaraes 6 With the goal to provide more evidences to the field, Liwei Chen made a study written in 2009. In this study, they observed 810 adults (25-79 years) in a period of 18 months, with the objective to determine what are the effects by changing the number of liquid calories. The results were positive, reduction in liquid calorie intake of 100 kcal/d was associated with a 0.3-kg weight loss at 6 months and a 0.2-kg weight loss at 18 mo. A reduction in SSB intake of 1 serving/d was associated with a 0.5-kg weight loss at 6 months and a 0.7-kg weight loss at 18 (Chen 6). Moreover, Chen states that a reduction in liquid calories intakes gives more results than the same reduction in solid calories. Compared to the study back in 2001, this research contributes analyzing adults, and proving how it is possible to lose weight if no sugary drinks are consumed. After 2010, Researcher started to focus more on the reasons that make sugar drinks influence obesity. Written in 2011, The article by Frank Hu and An Pan explains how liquid carbohydrates differs from solid carbohydrates, analyzing a series of studies. Appetite is a major factor when it comes to food intake regulation, it is clear and simple: the more you feel hungry, the more you eat. The liquid carbohydrates, especially sugary drinks, are known for producing less satiety than solid carbohydrates. Even though the body receiving great intake of calories, the feeling of hunger go away and the individual proceeds to consume more calories, which eventually, and in most cases, leads to an unbalanced nutrition. feeding studies show that individuals who consume caloric beverages shortly before or with a meal eat the same amount of calories as individuals who have a calorie-free drink, thus increasing total energy (Pan 387). In simpler words, the article argues that, when consuming a sugary drink, for instance, the lack of a feeling of satiation causes people to continue to eat, even though the body has already absorbed enough calories. Guimaraes 7 In addition, written in 2013, the study by George Bray and Marry Popkin, states why the High Fructose corned syrup(HFCS) is bad for health and that can relate to a lot of health diseases. HFCS is one type of sugar that worried a lot of nutritionists, that is a sweetener made from corn. Those sugars are founded in a lot of sugar drinks and sodas. Those beverages that contain HFCS are contributing to the obesity epidemic, consuming it can lead to metabolic syndrome and the appearance of a non- alcoholic fatty liver disease. relation of these beverages to obesity can be attributed to an increased caloric intake and to the fact that beverages do not suppress the intake of other foods to an appropriate degree thus beverage calories serve as calories enhancing the risk of (Bray 2). George bray adds why the consumption of soft drinks is a dangerous activity and why it leads to obesity. To conclude, the studies from both period times agree that obesity is influenced by sugary drinks, but the later studies add more explanation to the topic, because the earlier researches had already proved with several studies that soft drinks contributes to increase the obesity epidemic. Obesity is a serious issue that influences the life of a lot of people in the world. Something must be done to minimize this problem. Guimaraes 8 Work cited Bray, G. A., and B. M. Popkin. Calorie-Sweetened Beverages And Fructose: What Have We Learned 10 Years  Pediatric Obesity 4 (2013): 242. Academic OneFile. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. Chen, Liwei, et al. Reduction In Consumption Of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages Is Associated With Weight Loss: The PREMIER  American Journal Of Clinical Nutrition AJN 5 (2009): AGRIS. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 Ludwig, David S, Karen E Peterson, and Steven L Gortmaker. Relation Between Consumption Of Sugar-Sweetened Drinks And Childhood Obesity: A Prospective, Observational  Lancet 357.9255 (2001): 505. Academic Search Premier. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Pan, An, and Frank B. Hu. Effects of Carbohydrates on Satiety: Differences between Liquid and Solid  Current Opinion in Clinical Nutrition and Metabolic Care 14.4 (2011): 385- 90. Web. 30 Jan 2017