Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Mending More Than Just a Mental Illness If the ADAA, Anxiety and Depression Association of America, and the opposing organization come together and create an agreement to educate the public about depression, they will then be able to come to a compromise. After researching the issues that depression can cause, deeper issues can be observed. Opposing sides will argue that depression is only a fad and figure of the imagination; however, arguments stir from the rise in the disorder in the last several years. Some blame social media for the sudden increase of depression, although most people are well informed on the side effects and long lasting mental issues. The ADAA is an organization that advocates for open arms and helps when a person is battling depression. Finding a common ground for these two extremes- between helping those with anxiety and those who believe the disorder is not real- includes educating the public on depression. If people are misinformed or uneducated, they are not able to take an informed stance on the situation. Janet Street Porter for the Daily Mail states that, misery movement has rapidly gathered is the latest must-have accessory is a big dose of and the primary goal is to convince the audience that emotional disorders are not real. Porter wants to convince the reading audience that depression and anxiety is a completely fake emotion expressed by overly privileged individuals who value the wrong things in life. When observing her quote, depression is viewed as the latest trend, instead of the latest issue. The author of this piece seems to believe that if a person is considered in poverty or lower class, Student 2 there is no possible chance that he or she can be depressed. Her article states that poor people have not been exposed to the media or internet and therefore have not seen the horrible events going on in the world. The ignorance and uneducated vibe that comes from this article is what proves that the ADAA is one of many organizations that will benefit society. After reviewing the website, the organization is seen as built upon the idea of helping the people who need it most. ADAA hopes to inform the public on how and where to seek help for their mental illness. The community, background, or wealth of the affected person makes no difference, Unlike Ms. Porter, to those working with ADAA. The professionally train therapists, as listed on its website, are ready to provide aid at any time even if it is a short notice. Seeing that depression and anxiety usually go hand in hand, they are willing to adhere to every accommodation a client or patient may have. When reviewing the visuals on the website, bright colors and open hands are used to symbolize positivity and help. By offering their services in a variety of places, as well as services from the internet at the convenience of a home, the ADAA will stop at nothing to overcome mental illnesses. In the United States, suicide is the 10th leading cause of death, and that statistic is alarmingly high (CDC 2015). Depression can lead to suicide; therefore, if a depressed individual is not able to seek out professional help, he or she could potentially harm themselves. The ADAA, being a nonprofit organization, takes donations to keep the site and services up and running. When reviewing the website, support groups and testimonies from those affected and helped are available for viewing. This can be useful for those that are hesitant in asking for help. For example, an individual can post a scenario anonymously and receive advice from a professional where the person may feel more Student 3 confident to seek more help. Asking for help can be extremely nerve racking at first as most say, so this online conversation can help a depressed individual. Creating a general compromise between organizations who believe depression is a fad and organizations who devote their time to helping these people, they must first create an informational session to exchange reasoning. Being open to hearing both sides of the situation will create the best outcome and a face to face conversation will create a better atmosphere for the parties. The ADAA and Porter of the Daily mail must come together to create an agreement on researching mental illnesses and educating the public on signs and symptoms. They both share a common interest in mental illnesses, specifically depression associated with anxiety. The ADAA should try to convince the second party that depression is a real issue that people of all economic backgrounds can face. The opposing side is also concerned with how much money is spent toward depressed patients. A meeting must come to order for ADAA to explain how it is run. Proof of donations will show Porter how money can be gifted. Both parties require equal support from each audience. The ADAA relies on its audience for finances, help, and involvement. Without these allies, it would not succeed as an organization. The opposing view must rely on people to read their articles and published pages on their take on depression. If they were to lose their audience, they would not have the support needed to continue writing about depression. The two must collaborate to educate both audiences to better inform society of the help available. The two stakeholders could take their differences to make a compromise and decrease the number of depression cases leading to suicide. Preventatives and tactics for coping with stress can be beneficial to both audiences. After the meeting can finally come to a close, the end goal is for the ADAA to have support from Porter in helping to combat depression. Student 4 To help each party benefit, the ADAA will support one other organization of choice with 7% of the profit made. The proposal of educating both sides will benefit the first stakeholder because they will be able to advertise their services. By having a larger audience, they will be able to have more clients and donations to increase their widespread aid. The second stakeholder will benefit because they will be able to see that not all health care funds go to things like this. They would be able to become educated on depression as well. Both stakeholders will be able to learn things from one another, and then hopefully join to create a thriving environment for depression victims. In conclusion, both stakeholders will be able to mutually benefit each other. Through the educational factor that stakeholder one can provide, stakeholder two can be persuaded in the right direction. The two stakeholders can create a compromise that will mutually benefit not only themselves, but the lives of the people who are dealing with depression. The spread of knowledge between the two stakeholders will give them both an edge that they were lacking before. Seeing the people suffering from depression seek aid without being seen in negative light will provide enrichment for society in general. This could be a start to building a bridge for not only mental illness, but other religions and sexualities. Exemplifying that people are there for one another is detrimental to success. After the merge of the ideas the quality of life for victims of depression. Mental illnesses are only to be perceived as something that needs improvement, instead of someone seeking attention. (1200) Student 5 Proposed Source List America, M. H. (2014, March 13). Depression. Retrieved January 18, 2017 Bianchi,Renzo, et al. and depression:Label-Related Stigma, Help-seeking and Syndrome Psychiatry Research, vol. 245, 30 Nov. 2016, pp. 91-98. EBSCOhost. Doi:10.1016/i.psychres.2016.08.025. Boerema, Anke M., et al. of Help-Seeking Behavior in Depression: A Cross- Sectional BMC Psychiatry, vol. 16, 23 Mar. 2016, pp. 1- 9.EBSCOhost.doi:10.1186/s12888-016-0790-0. Bram, Lisa. About  About ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. Depression :Living with Depression. [San Fransisco, California, : Kanopy Streaming, 2014., 2014.EBSCOhost. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=cat00847a&AN=usflc.033630659&site=eds-live. Morton, J.L. Welcome to Color  The Meaning of Colors. N.p., n.d. Web.