Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 GMO Compromise The population is growing more and more each year. How are we going to be able to keep up with food production? Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) could be the answer. GMOs are a very controversial topic dealt with in society. There are many different organizations that support the use of GMOs and many that do not. Gmoawareness.com is an example of an organization that does not support the use of GMOs. Gmoawareness provides the audience with articles about the effects that GMOs have on humans and the environment. This organizations main goal or mission is to raise awareness about the risks of GMOs. On the contrary, factsaboutgmos.org is an organization that supports the use of GMOs. This website presents the audience with numerous amounts of external links as to why GMOs are beneficial to humans and why they are harmless. This main goal is to make sure consumers understand GMOs are beneficial to humans. The point of views that are taken from these two stakeholders seem incompatible; however, the compromise of producing only GMOs that will benefit ending world hunger can be implemented through both stakeholders wanting to help the world, keep people safe, and spread the word about GMOs. The organization Gmoawareness does not support the use of GMOs because they believe it is harmful to humans(Gmoawareness.com). This website has an abundant amount of information about the risks of GMOs spread out through their website. Throughout this website there is information about how GMOs have environmental risks, human health risk, and Student 2 economic risks. According to Krystele B. Blanchard, author of The Hazards of GMOs, studies have shown that one commonly used genetic modification method is likely injurious to human (Blanchard 138). As it turns out the method that is dangerous to human health is the insertion of Bacillus thuringiensis into the plant, better known as B.t. This is most common in corn, or now known as B.t. corn, a type of GMO. According to Margie Kelly is the No. 1 crop grown in the U.S. and nearly all of it 88 percent is genetically (Kelly 1). With that being said there is a very high chance the corn that is being consumed is actually B.t. corn. All in all, this organization does not agree with the use of GMOs and believes that they are unsafe for humans. Stakeholder two has the opposite belief, factsaboutgmos.org believes that GMOs are safe and beneficial to humans. This organization presents the audience with information as to why GMOs are safe, how they have been around for a while, how they protect the environment, and finally how they feed the worlds hungry. In a recent study of looking at genetically modified soybeans, maize, and cotton there was a 22% increase in crop yields (Bennett 1). The golden rice project can help feed the worlds hungry. The golden rice project is the genetic modification of rice so that it will contain provitamin A which could end up saving 2.8 million lives (Mayer). All things considered, this organizations main goal or mission is to engage in an informative dialogue with our consumers so that they understand the safety, prevalence and benefits of GM technology and can make informed choices for themselves and their families. Although both these stakeholders have very different ideas and goals in regards to GMOs, a compromise could still be found. Both stakeholders do share common ground in the fact that in the end they both want to help the world. A compromise of only using GMOs to help those in need, those who are starving across the world, and cut the GMOs that will not end up Student 3 saving lives of the hungry. According to Tom article, Gengyun Zhang, the head of life sciences for a genetic engineering center states technology, I have no doubt that we can feed the (Parrett 31). Both stakeholders are benefitting from this because there will be a limit on GMOs that being produced but important foods such as rice and corn will be genetically modified to help with world hunger. An example of how Genetically engineered foods can help save lives comes from article explaining the possible results of The Golden Rice Project, Golden Rice, for example. basic rice, but modified to produce its own vitamin A, potentially saving up to 2.8 million children a year from blindness and a million of them from (Parrett 30). Limiting the amount of GMOs that are not beneficial to helping world hunger will benefit stakeholder main goal because the amount of GMOs that will be produced will decrease drastically. However, there still is a problem concerning this compromise, many of the GMO companies such as Monsanto and DuPont are just in it for the profit and may not be willing to provide for the hungry. In John Robbins article, Are Genetically Altered Foods the Answer to World Hunger Dr. Vandana Shiva, an expert on world hunger and transgenic crop states the investments in agriculture are about increasing chemical sales and increasing monopoly control. All this is taking place in the private domain, by corporations that are not in the business of charity. They are in the business of (Robbins 1). What is being said here is GMO corporations are only in it for the money and will not be willing to help other countries. However, if companies like Monsanto would be willing to put the business aspect of things away, a solution can definitely be found in regards to world hunger. This is the main reason why these 2 stakeholders are not able to reach a compromise because the companies that are in charge of producing GMOs are just in it for the business rather Student 4 than doing to help people. If GMO companies would be willing to set aside the business side of things and people who agree with stakeholder one would be willing to allow a few important GMOs to be used, this compromise will end up saving millions of lives. Pamela Ronald, a plant geneticist states describes the benefits that GMOs can deliver to American farmers and how they might help feed the growing population, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, where millions of people remain at risk for (Ronald 3) With that being said, what foods can be used for the production of GMOs. There have been recent findings in foods that could have potential in helping world hunger. As mentioned before the Golden Rice and a special type of tomato called Flavr Savr Tomato are two types of foods that have potential to solve the world hunger crisis. The Flavr Savr Tomato is a special kind of tomato because it can last weeks in a kitchen while normal tomatoes will rot and shrivel up in no time. However, Flavr Savr Tomato is no longer sold in stores because of high production cost but because how long the tomato stayed fresh it may be used to increase the food supply in underdeveloped countries (Gerry 1). Although both stakeholders have incompatible goals, the compromise of only producing GMOs to help those who are hungry is still an option. This compromise will only work if both stakeholders accept each ideas. GMO producing companies like Monsanto need to quit focusing so much on the business aspect of producing GMOs but realize they can change the world and help other people. However, we need people who support GMOs to let companies like Monsanto do their job. If both of these things happen, this compromise will be successful and could solve world hunger. (WC:1253) Student 5 Works Cited Bennett, Drake. GMO Crops Increase Yields, Benefit the  Genetic Literacy Project. 19 Nov. 2014. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Blanchard, Krystele B. The Hazards of Gmos: Scientific Reasons Why They Should Be Regulated, Political Reasons Why They Are Not, and Legal Answers to What Should Be  Regent University Law Review, no. 1, 2014, p. 133. EBSCOhost Courtesy Www.openwebdesign.org / Modified: Jorge Mayer. Golden Rice  Vitamin A Deficiency. Web. 01 Mar. 2017 Gerry, Christopher. Feeding the World One Genetically Modified Tomato at a Time: A Scientific  Science in the News. 10 Aug. 2015. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. GMO  GMO Awareness. https://gmo-awareness.com/ Accessed Web. 2 March. 2017. Kelly, Margie. Top 7 Genetically Modified  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 30 Oct. 2012. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Parrett, Tom. GMO Scientists Could Save the World from Hunger, If We Let Them; the Gene- Editing CRISPR Technology Will Create Crops That Can Feed Us  Newsweek, no. 21, 2015. EBSCOhost Robbins, By John. Are Genetically Altered Foods The Answer to World  Earth Island Institute. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Ronald, Pamela. THE TRUTH about Gmos. (Cover  Boston Review, vol. 38, no. 5, Sep/Oct2013, pp. 16-32. EBSCOhost The Facts About  The Facts About GMO. Web. 02 Mar. 2017.