Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Children vs. Parents: Which One the Community Saves First Around the country and even the world, people contemplate whether the home is the safest place for a child. A common argument is that removing a child from their home will cause more harm than good because doing so will detach the family and place the child into the foster care system (DePanfilis). However, in times of need, this may be the best option for the child. But what if the parent were properly trained beforehand? Would there be a difference in their parenting techniques or is it possible there would be the same results? This is the argument the two stakeholders, Parenting and the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services, present in both of their websites Families + Fresh Department of Family and Protective Services Parenting skills and child safety can be seen as a global issue that needs to be addressed and has been by both Parenting and the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services, TDFPS, in incompatible ways; though one promotes practice for parents and the other the removal of the child, both stakeholders attempt to protect the child and provide them with the safest environment. There are many stages in the life of a parent; at each stage, a different responsibility is given to the parent Importance of Infant Though Parenting suggests that the first stage of a life is the most important, the TDFPS believes that if at any point there is suspicion of maltreatment, that is the most important stage in the life. Student 2 The first stakeholder, as mentioned above, is Parenting, a website in the format of informative blogs made by parents and medical professionals for the interests and benefit of soon to be and new parents. The primary goal of this stakeholder is to ensure that these soon to be and new parents are given all of the materials needed to be successful in raising their newborn baby in the most efficient and safest way Families + Fresh One of the important topics this stakeholder presents is the importance of mother-infant bonding in the early stages of a life. According to the staff at the Mayo Clinic, mother-infant bonding can be the most effective healing process for newborn babies who are born prematurely or with some sort of illness (Staff). Another way Parenting presents this information and support is by addressing the benefits of breastfeeding as presented by specialist, Sarah Raymond. Raymond suggests that breastfeeding not only has positive effects on the baby but also the mother (Raymond). Because of things such as stronger immune systems for babies, prevention against diseases such as cancer, and nutrition specialized for that baby, mothers tend to be persuaded to continue with breastfeeding (Raymond). The mother not only can lose weight from breastfeeding, but the oxytocin released when doing so help the uterus contract back to its original size which the risk of excessive bleeding and (Melainine). Contrary to beliefs, the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services sees removing the child from a hazardous home as the best option for them Department of Family and Protective Services If there is any reason to believe maltreatment is being practiced in the home, the TDFPS will start an investigation in order to bring upon hard facts and evidence that the child in fact needs to be removed from their home and placed in either Student 3 a health care system, foster home, or a new permanent residency in which their standard of living is much higher than it was beforehand Department of Family and Protective Services Child protective services in the main part of the department that focuses on the safety of children. They attempt to reach their goal of child safety in three steps: removing the child from their home, providing the child with services in the foster care system, and then finally helping them find a new foster family and home Department of Family and Protective Services In a study done by Julia Kobulsky et al., children were examined in a longitudinal study about the outcomes of a child protective services investigation on their family (Kobulsky). The National Survey of Child and Adolescent Well-Being (NSCAW-I) followed up with the children at five different times: 2-6 months, 12 months, 18 months, 36 months, and 59-96 months post investigation (Kobulsky). It was found that over the course of time, those children who went back into an abusive home were more likely to develop substance abuse problem in their adolescent years (Kobulsky). The substance abuse is not only a coping method for the physical pain of abuse but also the mental pain of feeling neglected. The TDFPS could prevent an issue like this from arising by the removal of the child in the first place, however, some families will lie in the presence of a judge in order to keep their child at home. Sometimes in group decision making, the family may decide to place the child in the hands of an extended family member (LaBrenz). In some cases, the family may not be abusive or neglectful but actually want what is best for their child; in this situation a mother may chose to give her baby up for adoption before even taking him or her home in the best interest of the baby. Student 4 The two stakeholders could come to a compromise in situations like this. Although stakeholder one, Parenting, advocated for the proper training of parents and stakeholder two, the TDFPS, advocates for the removal of the child from an unsafe home, they both are determined to reach a common goal. This goal is to provide a child with best and safest upbringing whether that be in the home of their biological parents or a new set of parents who have their best interest at heart Families + Fresh Department of Family and Protective Services Instead of bickering about which stakeholder has the approach on child safety, the audience should view them as equal and weigh the positives and negatives of each. Parenting.com serves more as a blog based site that through the use of anecdotal approaches is able to reach out to parents about tips and skills for being the best parent they can be. The Texas Department of Family and Protective Services applies a more medical and official outlook providing their reader with terms and definitions, statistics, and studies that support their stance. In order to reach a viable compromise, a third party website should be created that takes aspects from each of the two discussed stakeholders. In this way both the blog and professional approaches will be met. This site could provide articles from medical professionals such as psychologists who weigh the benefits of child protective services and also the outcomes of proper parental training. In addition, anecdotal articles could still be provided from not only parents but the children of these situations. Within their own websites, Parenting and the TDFPS can incorporate the tools of the opposing stakeholder. Parenting would gain ethos and credibility of medical professionals and the TDFPS would gain pathos through the stories their audience could relate to. Student 5 In the end, the audience should be able to evaluate both stakeholders for their strengths and weaknesses instead of claiming one is right and the other is wrong. A challenge for readers would be to look at all sides of an argument; the fault in the situation may not all be the result of bad parenting but of a misbehaving child who needs not to be removed from home but to find help. Not everything is black and white and may need further investigation in order to come up with a solution. If there was to be a compromise in the two stakeholders, it would make situations like this less prevalent and opinions more objective. David Hartstein states that if you know your audience you can create a site to their meaning you can make your site playful and professional without compromising the integrity and validity of the information provided (Hartstein). Always ask are trying to needs to visit your and do they care (Hartstein). With this in mind, the suggested compromise should be able to provide readers with what they need to know about parenting and child safety. (Word Count: 1,398) Student 6 Works Cited DePanfilis, Diane, and Marsha K. Salus. Child Protective Services : A Guide for Caseworkers. Washington, : U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Bureau, Office on Child Abuse and Neglect, 2003, 2003. Print. Hartstein, David. Ways Knowing Your Audience Impacts Your Wired Impact, Wired Impact, 19 Mar. 2014, wiredimpact.com/blog/knowing-audience-impacts-website/. Accessed 4 Mar. 2017. Importance of Infant Bonding - UC Davis Medical Center - UC Davis Health The Importance of Infant Bonding - UC Davis Medical Center - UC Davis Health System, UC Davis Health, Public Affairs and Marketing, Kobulsky, Julia M., et al. Physical Abuse After Child Protective Services Investigation and Adolescent Substance  Children and Youth Services Review 71 (2016): 36-44. Print. LaBrenz, Catherine A., and Rowena Fong. Outcomes of Family Centered Meetings for Families Referred to Child Protective  Children and Youth Services Review 71 (2016): 93-102. Print. Melainine, Mariem. Motherforlife, Mother for Life, 2017, www.motherforlife.com/pregnancy-and-maternity/giving-birth/progress/8367-oxytocin-s- role.thtml. Accessed 4 Mar. 2017. Student 7 Families + Fresh Parenting, Meredith Corporation, www.parenting.com/. Raymond, Sarah. to Choose-and Use-a Lactation Parenting, Meredith Corporation, 2016, www.parenting.com/baby/feeding/how-to-choose%E2%80%94and-use%E2%80%94-lact a tion-consultant. Staff, Mayo Clinic. High-risk Pregnancy: Know What to  Mayo Clinic. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER), 1998. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Steinfeld, Mary. Department of Family and Protective Services DFPS - Child Abuse and Neglect Investigations, Accessed 24 Feb. 2017.