Santana 1 James Santana Professor Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 27 February, 2017 The ugly truth behind GMO foods In America, the saying goes, the bigger the better. With people rushing in stores trying to find the best bang for their buck. However, as our nation started to industrialize, so did our agricultural techniques and many new advances came to rise. With farmers now a days able to farm on smaller amounts of land, for longer periods of time, and produce larger, tastier, products than ever before. This, unfortunately, is not a coincidence and the product of better global temperatures, richer soil, or just advanced farmers logic. It has to do with GMOs, or, Genetically Modified Organisms, which did not come about until the 90s and was not looked further into until the later 2000s. Even so, the use of this method is banned in almost every single country besides our own. Which leaves me wondering, what health risks GMOs really cause to its consumer, and what recent scientific studies have to say about them. Before about 2012, GMOs were fairly overlooked. Many people were uneducated about this new method and only readily focused on the good they brought to the farming industry and Santana 2 our economy. As written by John Shaw, in his web article, We Care About Genetically Modified  it reads that GMOs have the to save money, eliminate poverty, reduce hunger and malnutrition, and promote innovative (Shaw, par.9). This is because GMO foods, as Shaw also wrote, are and have resistance, herbicide tolerance, disease resistance, cold tolerance, drought (Shaw, par.5). Meaning that this method of farming nearly makes the crop indestructible. Saving farmer tons of money by eliminating the cost spent on pesticides for their crops per year and maximizing the amount of crops that grow full and healthy in order to reach consumer markets. Even so, with further scientific research, the glimmering positives are becoming over shadowed by the negatives. For instance, after recent discoveries on the health risks GMOs pose to us, the consumer, Norway (among many other European Union affiliated countries) decided to make a change. As evidence in Assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable written by Kristin Rosendal states that the Norwegian Gene Technology Act that bans all GMO products in Norway was not yet passed prior to 2010. But after much needed scientific research, Norwegian people and even local farmers themselves were opposing such a method of farming and vouching for a change. In response, Norway proposed and passed The Norwegian Gene Technology Act. Which calls for all food products that are genetically modified to be thoroughly assessed for its health dangers before being distributed. Ironically enough, no GM foods make it to the markets and for good reasons. Written in 2015 by Alana Burke for Newsmax magazine, Ways GMOs Affect Your states specifically some of these new scary findings. For one being, mammals fed with commercialized GM soy and maize that are already in our food and feed chain found consistent toxic effects on the liver and (Burke, par.5) As if this bad enough, Santana 3 Burke goes on to also pointing out that GMOs are linked to the rise of gluten sensitivity in the United States, and infertility in animals as well as humans! However, like in every Oxiclean commercial ever made, GM food not only cause the health risks previously stated but are linked to birth defects, known to increase your risk of cancer (or in some cases give you cancer), and alter your DNA through the consumption of these foods which are injected with foreign DNA. All of this was nearly unknown to the typical consumer before this decade and hid from by the FDA (and other powers), which are only in it for economic benefits and could care less for the health precautions. Another article written by Christina Sarich, May Be To Blame For Spike In Kids Suffering From Inflammatory Bowel explores what many consider the main health issue behind GMOs. Which is their link to IBD or what most people know as Disease. An incurable, sometimes fatal disease, which affects the lining of the digestive tract. Sarich writes, has been a 65% increase in IBD hospital discharges from 2000 to 2009. The number increased from 11,928 discharges in 2000 to 19,568 discharges in (Sarich, par.2) This the only evidence however, as she writes in this article, farmers noticed the same problem in their pigs who were fed GMO feed they were affected so badly that their guts were bleeding in many cases, and they also suffered increased fertility issues. Many piglets were even born par.3) Not only showing how animals fed these foods reacted to them, but also giving evidence of the health risks previously stated in my essay and showing how the number of IBD discharges from the hospitals drastically increased the same time as the rise of GMO foods on consumer shelves did. In conclusion, GMOs have their positives and they have their negatives. Although they drastically help farming and our economy they are also attributed to severe health risks such as Santana 4 IBD, cancer, and birth defects (among many others). In addition, the foods we eat should keep us healthy and not hurt us, but ultimately your decision. Neglect the downside of GMO foods or take in all what was said. But no neglecting that GMOs, if anything, should be regulated. As the health risks attributed to them are more catastrophic than the true physical benefits they bring to this country. Santana 5 Work Cited Page Burke, Alana M. 7 Ways GMOs Affect Your  Newsmax. N.p., 09 Feb. 2015. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Rosendal, Kristin G. GMO assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable  GMO assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable development EMBO Reports. Anne Ingeborg Myhr, 21 Aug. 2008. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Sarich, Christina . Kids Suffering from Inflammatory Bowel Disease from  Natural Society. N.p., 25 Oct. 2014. Web. 08 Mar. 2017. Shaw, John N. Should We Care About Genetically Modified  Food Safety News. Food Safety News, 01 Feb. 2010. Web. 06 Feb. 2017.