Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 The Difference between Mental Health Treatments: the Choice. There are many controversial beliefs that are formed around mental disorders and the effective treatments patients should have. While some mental illness patients have effective treatments, others are harmed through pharmaceutical drugs and psychotherapy. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs: National Center for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) look to cure mental health disorders through medical and psychotherapy research. On the contrasting side, the Citizens Commission on Human Rights (CCHR) warns the public of the expense and harm inflicted on those who receive psychiatric treatments. Because mental health treatments are contentious, creating a compromise that allows patients to have more control over their mental health choices can be implemented by giving both the National Center for PTSD and the CCHR the choice to continue helping patients in need, while still being able to proceed with their beliefs and studies. The National Center for PTSD main goal is to encourage the need to raise the awareness, have patients reach out for help, and find an adequate treatment for PTSD and other mental illnesses (PTSD, National). According to the organization, they achieve this by translation of science into practice, ensuring that the latest research findings inform clinical (PTSD, National). The National Center for PTSD believes every patient who has experienced trauma or any mental health issues should undergo treatments, including psychotherapy and taking pharmaceutical drugs. As mentioned on their website, the National Centers purpose is to Student 2 advance the understanding of PTSD and traumatic health disorders through research and educational awareness (PTSD, National). Developed in 1989, the organizations ultimate purpose was to the well-being, status, and understanding of Veterans in American (PTSD, National) without physical treatment centers. Now they work with serious mental health problems within seven states to give all patients adequate treatments. By out the two largest psychotherapy and participating in a psychopharmacological clinical (PTSD, National) for mental health and traumatic knowledge, the National Center for PTSD provides treatment for patients and continue to conduct research on PTSD, stress disorders, and other mental health related illnesses. Through these studies they believe they will conduct the perfect treatments for everyone suffering from mental disorders through therapy and prescription drugs (PTSD, National). Differentiating from the national center for PTSD, the Citizens Commission on Human Right influences the rights for individuals who are forced into treatments and medications (Citizens Commission). CCHR is an organization that has to restore basic inalienable human rights to the field of mental and is solely to eradicating mental health abuse and enacting patient and consumer (Citizens Commission). This nonprofit organization works with medical professionals that do not believe in the distribution of psychiatric and pharmaceutical industries as an adequate way to improve mental disorders. CCHR uses their website to portray the immoderate expense and maltreatment given to mental disorder patients (Citizens Commission). Continuing since 1969, the CCHR has worked towards saving the life of many individuals and preventing suffering from harmful psychotherapy and pharmaceuticals (Citizens Student 3 Commission). For decades, they have thousands of individual cases that demonstrate psychiatric drugs and often-brutal psychiatric practices create insanity and cause (Citizens Commission). This organization has stopped several unconsented treatments that harmed the patients without them knowing. For example, the Deep Sleep Treatments was used to knock out patients for weeks at a time and used electroshock therapy daily without their full consent (Citizens Commission). In the early it was CCHR that banned this treatment for mental health patients (Citizens Commission). Today, they still work alongside professionals and create numerous laws that protect victims from foul practices (Citizens Commission). Furthermore, both the National Center for PTSD and the CHHR share an interest of mental illnesses and how they affect health. They hope to help those in need and find adequate treatment through both of their studies. The National Center for PTSD (PTSD, National) and the CHHR (Citizens Commission) is concerned about the health of individuals, and want to help by treatments they believe are best. These organizations both see their work and program as right, and prosper through the support of the awareness of their beliefs. However, because mental health treatments are a controversial debate it is impossible to know exactly the best treatment for patients. From the World News Digest, to emotional and mental disorders through psychological means date from ancient (Psychotherapy). Due to a treatment being around for centuries, many people believe it is the safest bet to getting better. Although most cases of psychotherapy add pharmaceutical drugs to enhance the effects of treatment, it can cause harm to many individuals. There are around six pharmacological classes of drugs used to treat mental disorders. These drugs believe to be helpful in terms of calming others, helping them focus, or any way to alter consciousness (Psychoactive Drugs). Yet they can be toxic to the body and cause severe side effects that can Student 4 often lead to suicide (psychoactive Drugs). Jane Tanner wrote about a young schizophrenic who, after being forced into 28 mental hospitals and given every drug known to help her disorder, had disfigurement from uncontrollable movements often caused by the [severe side effects of (Tanner). She was put on a psychosis drug that finally benefitted her with no side effects, she is now living by herself and fully functioning in society (Tanner). Each organization has a view in how treatments effects the body, both pharmaceuticals and therapy can be harmful and helpful to individuals. It is important for the National center for PTSD and the CCHR to understand the side effects patients can have regarding their form of treatment. Creating a compromise between the national center for PTSD and the CCHR has its indisposition. Both organizations want to be taken seriously and help patients with mental disorders the way they believe is best. Every individual reacts differently to medications and treatments, and many people want to have full control and knowledge of their body and health. Professional opinions and many laws- such as the Baker Act Law- created a wall between patients and their knowledge of mental health treatments. The American Psychological Association stated, patient who does not receive proper medication may become homeless or end up in (Tanner), while the CCHR disclosed, represent that these troubles can only be alleviated with dangerous pills is dishonest, harmful and often (Citizens Commission) shows that there are completely different views and ways to be treated for mental disorders. To compose a common good between these two stakeholders would be to allow citizens to have complete control of the mental health treatments they undergo, like they do with their physical health. The compromise of giving mental health patients more rights will give equality to individuals while still allowing both organization to continue their research and awareness of Student 5 what they believe is right. people who need mental health services are not able to make the same choices about their care and The Department of Health stated, any group of patients could benefit from being empowered by taking control of their own care, it is people with mental (Department of Health). Telling patients of their rights and giving them more authority in their decisions will benefit their health in more ways than one. They will be able to decide if they want to go through therapy and take pharmaceutical drugs, or if rather lean on friends and family for support. The National Center for PTSD (PTSD, National) and the CCHR (Citizens Commission) would both have to consider that not everyone has the same beliefs as them. They will each have to put aside their completely incompatible goals and be helpful while listening to the needs, depending on what they believe is best for themselves. By not forcing the organizations beliefs on every and understanding where each side is coming from will allow for an easier settled compromise. To summarize, mental disorders are serious to health and it is important for patients to receive adequate treatments that suits them. Although the National Center for PTSD and the CCHR both want what they feel is best, it is important to allow a compromise for the sake of all mental health patients. Allowing people to choose their treatments helps everyone in the long run, both organizations can continue helping and protecting patients while the patient will not be harmed by being forced into a treatment they do not want. Similarly, both stakeholders want effective treatments and research for individuals who suffer from traumas and mental health issues, this compromise will allow both organizations to reach their main goals. (WC: 1396) Student 6 Works Cited: Advancing psychology to benefit society and improve  American Psychological Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. http://www.apa.org/. Citizens Commission on Human Rights, CCHR - Nonprofit Mental Health  Citizens Commission on Human Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. http://www.cchr.org/ Department of Health UK: More Choice in Mental  LexisNexis Academic. N.p., 13 Dec. 2012. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. http://www.lexisnexis.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/. Encyclopedia. World News Digest. Infobase Learning, n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. http://wnd.infobaselearning.com/recordurl.aspx?wid=98122&nid=17849&umbtype=2 Encyclopedia. World News Digest. Infobase Learning, n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. http://wnd.infobaselearning.com/recordurl.aspx?wid=98122&nid=17851&umbtype=2. Encyclopedia. World News Digest. Infobase Learning, n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. http://wnd.infobaselearning.com/recordurl.aspx?wid=98122&nid=17857&umbtype=2. PTSD, National Center for. PTSD: National Center for  PTSD: National Center for PTSD Home. N.p., 15 Aug. 2013. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. http://www.ptsd.va.gov/. Tanner, Jane. Mental Illness Medication  CQ Researcher 6 Feb. 2004: 101-24. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/cqresearcher/document.php?id=cqresrre2 Student 7 04020600&type=hitlist&num=0.