Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thorton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Finding Common Ground: Treatment for Soldiers with PTSD The treatment of soldiers with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) represents a significant undertaking. Engagement of the patient in treatment can be a painful process that results in a low rate of retention (Brown et al. 419). If soldiers leave treatment before therapeutic results are achieved, deleterious outcomes can result including the relapse of the patient and an increase in psychopathology (Szafranski et al. 269). In response to this reality, the Soldiers Project supports the use of an individualized treatment plan for each client seeking care Although the Soldiers Project asserts that ten years of experience made it clear that each person requires a treatment plan that is tailored to his/her unique other experts in the field of psychology contend that standardized treatment for PTSD is required to produce the best possible outcomes. Specifically, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) argues that the gold standard for the treatment of PTSD in combat veterans strictly involves a combination of medication and cognitive-behavioral therapy (4). The differing opinions of the Soldiers Project and the Department of Veterans Affairs on the treatment of combat veterans with PTSD represents a significant issue of concern for improving the mental health outcomes of patients. In particular, this difference suggests that treatment offered by both organizations may result in significantly diverse outcomes for those seeking care. Even though both organizations are focused on addressing the devastating impact of PTSD on the lives of soldiers, both present Student 2 markedly unique ways to address the problem. While it is evident that there is a lack of consensus between these two organizations regarding how treatment can and should be provided they both clearly share the same goal and finding a common ground for the treatment of soldiers with PTSD is imperative in successfully achieving that goal. The Soldiers Project A review of what has been noted regarding the Soldiers Project indicates that the organization was founded in 2004 The organization is dedicated to providing lifelong support for soldiers with PTSD and is committed to delivering these services free of charge for as long as the soldier requires them Because the Soldiers Project is a nonprofit organization it relies on the contributions of volunteers including mental health professionals who are willing to treat soldiers at no cost The organization was developed based on the philosophy that the needs of each soldier are unique, requiring an individualized approach to therapy Mental health counselors who volunteer with the organization come from a wide range of backgrounds with expertise in EMDR (eye movement desensitization reprocessing), cognitive behavioral therapy, cognitive processing therapy, prolonged exposure therapy, integrative treatment of complex trauma, and mindfulness-based stress reduction Critical to the process of healing is the development of the therapeutic relationship with the client which serves as the basis for treatment The Department of Veterans Affairs The Department of Veterans affairs is part of the US Department of Defense and represents the largest organization currently working to meet the health needs of the veteran population in the United States. Operating in concert with the federal government, the VA is responsible for acquiring evidence-based information to inform the care of veterans (3). Current Student 3 guidelines issued by the VA focus on the use of cognitive behavioral therapy as the principle approach to treating veterans with PTSD (4). According to the VA the decision to recommend cognitive behavioral therapy for the treatment of PTSD is based on current evidence-based practices for ensuring the best outcomes for the veteran (4). More specifically, the organization argues that current evidence indicates that cognitive behavioral therapy is the most effective approach to treatment producing significant declines in PTSD symptomology and improvements in patient functioning (4). The use of evidence to support practice demonstrates the rigorousness of efforts made by the VA to meet the needs of soldiers with PTSD. Support for Treatment Interestingly, the viewpoint of both organizations have been supported in literature. Schoorl et al. notes that treatment for PTSD may be impacted by the personality of the veteran (240). As a result, individualized approaches to treatment may be most effective for ensuring the best outcomes for veterans with this disorder (241). Schumm et al., on the other hand, argues that cognitive behavioral therapy for the treatment of PTSD is the most widely researched approach reported in the literature (277). Schumm and coworkers contend that evaluations of this approach have consistently demonstrated marked improvements for patients with PTSD, making this the most viable approach for treatment (278). This is commensurate with what the VA notes regarding its decision to employ this approach for the treatment of PTSD in combat veterans. Determining why a compromise has not yet been reached between the Soldiers Project and the VA proves challenging as these two organizations are not directly opposed to one another. What is evident from reviewing the background of both organizations is that the Soldiers Project has only been in operation for slightly more than a decade and is operated based on a network of volunteers. The VA, on the other hand, has been in operation for several decades Student 4 and has the resources and capabilities to identify evidence-based practice for soldier treatment. Because both individualized treatment and cognitive behavioral therapy have been supported in the literature for the treatment of soldiers with PTSD, it is possible that both organizations could benefit from reviewing each expertise. The Soldiers Project may benefit from evidence- based practice while the VA may benefit from the direct knowledge garnered from professionals working directly with veterans to meet their mental health needs. Combining methods and ideologies could benefit both organizations in achieving the goal they share of treating soldiers battling PTSD. Common ground for the organizations stems from the fact that both are focused on providing the best possible care for alleviating symptoms of PTSD in the soldiers they serve. Further, each organization has promoted a plan of treatment that it believes will best meet the needs of patients with the idea that their approach will be effective. However, because both organizations address the same problem in markedly different ways it is possible that treatment offered by one of the organizations may not be as effective as treatment offered by the other. With these issues in mind, the compromise recommended for the two organizations is the combination of cognitive behavioral therapy and individualized approaches to treatment. Both the VA and the Soldiers Project should utilize standardized cognitive behavioral therapy for all clients seeking care with the idea that if treatment failure occurs, efforts will be needed to individualize care. This compromise for treatment appears to be one that could be effective for ensuring that all veterans receive the same level of care for PTSD. Initially, all veterans would be provided with cognitive-behavioral therapy to address their mental health needs. Treatment failure including the decision of the soldier to leave treatment would be cause for changing direction for Student 5 the patient to determine what individualized approach to therapy may work best for them. Taylor, Abramowitz, and McKay argue that treatment failure in patients with PTSD can occur in approximately one-third of those seeking treatment (583). Thus, providing alternative supports to help meet the needs of soldiers who do not respond to cognitive behavioral therapy would ensure that treatment failure does not lead abandonment of treatment by the soldier. Further, by making this compromise, treatment for PTSD would be standardized across two of the most prominent organizations providing care for soldiers with PTSD. The proposed change appears to be feasible. The VA, working in cooperation with the Soldiers Project could provide information regarding evidence-based practice to ensure that cognitive behavioral therapy is used as the first line of treatment for all patients seeking care. This partnership would also be useful for the VA to help identify individualized approaches to care that could be utilized if treatment failure using cognitive behavioral therapy occurs. Both organizations would be responsible for sharing information and resources to standardize treatment and to build treatment programs that meet the needs of soldiers with PTSD. Finding common ground between the VA and Soldiers Project for the treatment of PTSD in soldiers represents an important step forward in ensuring that the best possible treatment is provided for those struggling with this mental health issue. Veterans deserve the best possible care and through compromise, both organizations will be able to claim that they provide this care to those seeking service. Although the compromise will require change in both organizations it represents a step forward in building better care for those who have served. Both organizations share a common ground and goal, with the proposed compromise of the two organizations taking advantage of the others methods they will be more apt to achieving that goal with every soldier they treat. (WC: 1461) Student 6 Works Cited About. The Soldiers Project, 2017, https://www.thesoldiersproject.org/about-the-soldiers- project/. Accessed 5 March 2017. Brown, Wilson et al. between Service Era, PTSD Symptom Expression, and Treatment Completion among Military Psychology, vol. 28, no. 1, 2016, pp. 418-428. Print. Homepage. The Soldiers Project, 2017, https://www.thesoldiersproject.org. Accessed 5 March 2017. Schoorl, Maartje et al. Bias Modification in Dutch Veterans with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder-A Case Series with a Personalized Treatment Journal of Traumatic Stress, vol. 27, no. 2, 2014, pp. 240-243. Print. Schumm, Jeremiah, A. et al. Conjoint Therapy for PTSD: Initial Findings for Operations Enduring and Iraqi Freedom Male Combat Veterans and Their American Journal of Family Therapy, vol. 41, no. 4, 2013, pp. 277-287. Print. Szafranski, Derek D. et al. of Inpatient PTSD Treatment Noncompletion among OEF/OIF/OND Military Behavioral Health, vol. 4, no. 3, 2016, pp. 269-275. Print. Taylor, Steven et al. and Non-Response in the Treatment of Anxiety Journal of Anxiety Disorders, vol. 26, no. 5, 2012, pp. 583-589. Print. Student 7 VA/DoD Clinical Practice Guideline for Management of Post-Traumatic Stress, 2010, Accessed 5 March 2017.