Alkazemi 1 Hasan Alkazemi Professor Mark Nusspickel ENC1101.019 February 27 th 2017 Historiography: Abortion. The debate over abortion rights remains a hot topic over the centuries. This sensitive topic perceived many different views and perspectives around the world consisting of supporters of the ideology of pro-choice which encouraged individuals to have the freedom to act with their bodies. On the other hand, there is the group of supports which encouraged the ideology of pro- life that promotes the idea of saving the harmful unborn which committed no mistake. Opinions based on these two categories have varied for several reasons. First, medical concerns seem to be the major factor affecting the procedure. Second, the process of decision-making represents a critical role to make the decision. Last but not least, political views certainly set the direction of the government to provide the financial support. Before 2010, abortion has been stigmatized by the society and has been seen as morally wrong taking away an innocent soul. Also, it is considered as a high-risk operation especially under degraded environments. However, the shift in research present evidence that abortion can be beneficial in solving societal issues, promoting better health care, and changing the economy positively. Therefore, the discussion of abortion in the last twenty years has been consistently deemed as repugnant, nonetheless, the recent research focus has shifted recently towards unexplored areas that reflected partial change in perceiving the idea of abortion. Alkazemi 2 A: 2000-2010 Although abortion can be seen as risky and dangerous, yet some people would rather undergo abortion rather having a child that have a great chance in lacking support whether it is financially, medically, or as such. Because of these reasons, a movement toward fully legitimatizing abortion has taken its path roughly eleven years ago. According to the article by David Grimes, to safe abortion improves health, and vice versa, as documented in Romania during the regime of President Nicolae (David 2006). Hence, highlighting the importance of accessibility to this operation in a safe environment promotes a better future for health. In contrast, those who does not have access face crucial outcomes involving risks such as death. Referring to the article by Grimes, all unsafe abortions (97%) are in developing countries. An estimated 68,000 women die as a result, and millions more have complications important causes of death include hemorrhages, infection, and (David 2006). In other words, undergoing abortions in an un-qualified environment is fatal. Three years later, further research is conducted setting its emphasis on the results of patients who have been through the surgery. Moreover, the conceding influences on the society as whole through an economical configuration based on numerical evidence. For instance, reducing the chances of being a single parent, fewer use of welfare, and increased number of college graduations. Referring to Ananat Oltmans in her research, the statistical significance of our findings depends on the particular outcome under consideration, it is robust to the choice of instrument, and the pattern is clear: when abortion costs are lowered, cohort outcomes Alkazemi 3 (Oltmans, 2009). Henceforth, a new societal perspective took on to support abortion vanishing its stigma and it is less perceived as immoral. B: 2011-2017 In 2016, efforts are put in place embracing the idea of anti-abortion remarking old traditions and religious beliefs glorifying a movement in Australia in the 1960s. At that time, abortion has been deemed as immoral and a source of grief and regret. Also, focusing on medical concerns and personal perspectives. According to the article by Erica Miller, is highly significant that depictions of foetocentric grief have increased the more women have been addressed as subjects of choice and capacity rather than bearers of a maternal (Millar, 2017). Therefore, the foetocentric grief illustrates the position of women as mothers in matter of fact to take a decision of taking away a blameless soul that has done no mistake. Throughout the years, women have suffered getting their rights to act in regards to this matter. Thus, recent research glorifies those countries that support rights in making private decisions such as abortion without restrictions. According to the research by Johana Erdman this day, the European Court of Human Rights refuses to engage in the abstract review of abortion laws and has never stated whether the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees a right to (Erdman, 2016). In the meaning, that the concerned party has not yet received full support but it looks into the issue as a matter of their private life without bias to achieve ensure the best outcomes. Additionally, right variably protects a physical and mental integrity, as well as her personal autonomy and (Erdman, 2016). Alkazemi 4 In Conclusion, the topic has been in a fluctuate trend through time. Nevertheless, the idea of abortion is being more accepted in the societies at a slow pace in regards to its benefits to the society as whole. After continues denials, hereafter, easy accessibility to safe abortion is spreading on a global level to ensure a better health to the other half of the society. Additionally, further research is being conducted to explore new fields in the issue are ongoing to guarantee the best results and to view new perspectives on the matter. Word Count (842). Alkazemi 5 Work Cited Ananat, Elizabeth Oltmans, et al. AND The Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 91, no. 1, 2009, pp. Erdman, Johana N. The Politics of Global Abortion  Brown Journal of World Affairs (2016): 39-57. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Grimes, David A., et al. Unsafe abortion: the preventable  The Lancet 368.9550 (2006): 1908-1919 Millar, Erica. Choices and Grievable Lives: The Anti-Abortion Influence in Defending the Abortion Experience in Australia Since the (2016). Web. 6 Feb. 2017.