Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 24 March 2017 Treating Depression with Antidepressants or Psychotherapy is estimated that 16 million Americans suffer from depression (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). major lifestyles factors that contribute to depression are diet, exercise, and (Lopresti). If an individual has a poor eating habit, lacks exercising and does not receive the right amount of sleep the likelihood of them developing depression increases significantly. These factors then result in the individual to develop common characteristics of depression which are: in attitude such as feeling melancholy, loosing interest in daily activities, having trouble falling asleep and many other (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). Individuals who fail to treat their depression may lead themselves to take their life away or inflict severe harm to themselves. Therefore, many people seek treatment options to cure their depression; often resorting to antidepressants or psychotherapy. As stakeholders, pharmaceuticals companies such as H. Lundbeck believe that their antidepressant, Trintellix, should be prescribed to treat individuals with major depression (Trintellix). On the other hand, the American Psychological Association is another stakeholder that believes that people should participate in psychotherapy to manage their depression (American Psychological Association). The problem with these two stakeholders is which treatment option is more effective for people with major depression. Though these two viewpoints are significantly different, a compromise between the two can be accomplished by the means of incorporating both treatment options. Student 2 When a person is officially declared depressed, they usually want the quickest treatment option to cure themselves. In this case, it will be being prescribed with some type of antidepressant. The stakeholder H.Lundbeck believes that individuals should be given antidepressants because there are substantial amounts of evidence that back their claim that they are effective. A study was conducted by Bret R. Rutherford and his colleagues to see if a placebo is more effective treating depression than an antidepressant (Rutherford). He evaluated a group of individuals suffering from major depression. In the study, he randomly assigned citalopram (an antidepressant) to a group of people while the other group were given citalopram, but were told it might be a placebo. This study was done for a duration of eight weeks. In his conclusion, it was discovered that the group given citalopram significantly reduced major depression by six points from the Hamilton Depression scale (HAM-D). In total, there is 24 points in the HAM-D and if citalopram decreased it by 6 points then it reduced major depression by a factor of one- third. This shows how effective antidepressants are when it comes to the treatment of depression. Although there are many studies that show how effective antidepressant medications are, few mention the treatment satisfaction from individuals. Therefore, a study was conducted by Jesus-Lopez-Torres Hidalgo to evaluate treatment satisfaction with people who suffer from depression. In the study, he obtained a sample of 564 individuals who were declared to have depression. They were studied for over a course of a year, interviewed, and asked a set amount of questions that measured the overall satisfaction. It was discovered that those who were taking the antidepressants for the longest amount of time showed signs of mild depression or were absent of it. While those who have taken an antidepressant medication for a brief period showed more signs of depression (Hidalgo). The study also discusses some limitations that could have affected the data, such as many individuals that were taking antidepressants withdrew early from the Student 3 study. This could have underrepresented the amount of people who were unsatisfied when taking antidepressant medication. However, most people were satisfied when taking their antidepressant which suggests that antidepressants are an effective treatment option for depression. Even though there are evidence that support the claim that taking antidepressant medications is effective in treating depression, there are repercussions with this treatment option. Side effects are a major repercussion when taking antidepressant medication and can sometimes be the reason why individuals stop taking their medication after some time. The five most common side effects antidepressant medications can cause are headaches, nausea or vomiting, agitation, sedation, and sexual dysfunction. Over a course of 11 years a study took place to obtain the statistical evidence to determine the likelihood of developing one of the common side effects. 40,017 people were observed and it was concluded that the most common side effect to occur were headaches followed by nausea and vomiting. The chances for a headache to happen is 16.8 percent, which is almost a one-to-five chance, while the chances of nausea and vomiting is 7.2 percent (Anderson). The chances of the other side effects are significantly lower than nausea and vomiting. It can be argued that the two common side effects that occur are with the antidepressant medications because they can often be cured by taking an ibuprofen; however, ibuprofen cannot treat the other side effects. In the other hand of the discussion, the American Psychological Association is a stakeholder that believes that many people should take the treatment option of psychotherapy because they have quantitative and qualitative evidence that suggest it is more beneficial to the individual. There are several types of psychotherapy treatments for individuals to select. In a study performed by Yves de Roten, two types of psychotherapy were selected to see which one was more effective treating depression. The first was the treatment-as-usual (TAU). In this type Student 4 of psychotherapy, the patients underwent an that discussed their treatment plan, followed by two weekly supportive interventions that last for 20 minutes, two 30 minute sessions with a nurse that will develop the psycho-educational skill, and were requested to participants in six group session of (Roten). The next psychotherapy treatment option was intensive and brief psychodynamic psychotherapy (IBPP). The second treatment option is the same as the TAU, but this one contains 12 sessions of intervention over 4 weeks. In these sessions, the participants built a relationship with a therapist. Then the next sessions discussed about the contributors that lead them to have depression. Finally, the last sessions were about the feelings and their decision if they want to continue this kind of treatment after the study was completed. It was concluded that individuals that underwent the IBPP treatment reduced their depression significantly. The post-evaluation revealed that the IBPP individuals maintained their level of depression after three months and continued for twelve months. This suggested that psychotherapy is effective and allows individuals to gain the skills to handle their depression without the use of antidepressants. Although the process of psychotherapy is extensive, the outcomes from it will benefit the individual in the long run. Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is another type of psychotherapy that focuses on helping the individual gains the abilities to handle their (French). Lydia R. M French, conducted a study to investigate if people will continue using it after they have completed several sessions. They were asked nine questions which will be used to determine their depression from a rating scale. Most respondents discussed how CBT was either a talking or leaning type therapy. These findings were later assumed that the individuals used the skills they learned from CBT session in their daily lives. This thus shows the long-term effectiveness of psychotherapy. Student 5 In recent years, there has been a debate whether antidepressants were more effective than psychotherapy. Therefore, a study was conducted by Steven D Hollon. In the study 452 individuals who suffered from major depression were selected to participate. The individuals were put in randomized groups that focused mainly on the treatment of antidepressants or antidepressants with psychotherapy, in this case CBT (Hollon). It was discovered that the average rate of recovery for people who were assigned to the combined treatment was higher than the group of people who were assigned the antidepressant medication. The combined treatment had a success rate of 72.6% versus the antidepressant which had a 62.5%. It was also noted that fewer people dropped from the study and experienced less remission of major depression if they were in the combined treatment. With all the evidence presented, it appears that both antidepressants and psychotherapy are effective treatment options for depressions. Both treatment options differ from one another significantly, but both goal is to treat the depression. Overall, the method that is the most effective is a combination of the two. Psychotherapy allows people to develop the necessary skills needed to overcome their depression while the antidepressant can act as a safety net if the psychotherapy is ineffective at the moment. (1406 WC) Student 6 Work Cited Anderson, Heather D., et al. Pharmacotherapy: Rates of 5 Common Antidepressant Side Effects among New Adult and Adolescent Cases of Depression: A Retrospective US Claims  Clinical Therapeutics, vol. 34, 01 Jan. 2012, pp. 113-123. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.11.024. Bret R. Rutherford, M.D., author, et al. Patient Expectancy as a Mediator of Placebo Effects in Antidepressant Clinical  American Journal of Psychiatry, no. 2, 2017, p. 135. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1176/appi.ajp.2016.16020225. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips/diseases/depression-anxiety.html>. de Roten, Yves, et al. Research Paper: Efficacy of an Adjunctive Brief Psychodynamic Psychotherapy to Usual Inpatient Treatment of Depression: Results of a Randomized Student 7 Controlled  Journal of Affective Disorders, vol. 209, 01 Feb. 2017, pp. 105-113. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jad.2016.11.013. Depression can be a tangle of multiple symptoms,  TRINTELLIX (vortioxetine) Official Site. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <https://us.trintellix.com/>. French, Lydia R. M., et al. Long Term Use of Cognitive Behavioural Skills to Manage Their Depression: A Qualitative  Behavioural & Cognitive Psychotherapy, vol. 45, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. 46-57. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1017/S1352465816000382. Hidalgo, et al. Treatment Satisfaction among Patients Taking Antidepressant  Community Mental Health Journal, vol. 52, no. 6, Aug. 2016, pp. 738-745. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s10597-015-9865-5. Hollon, Steven D., et al. Effect of Cognitive Therapy with Antidepressant Medications Vs Antidepressants Alone on the Rate of Recovery in Major Depressive  JAMA Psychiatry, vol. 71, no. 10, Oct. 2014, p. 1157. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed o&AN=98644345&site=eds-live. Lopresti, Adrian L., et al. Review: A Review of Lifestyle Factors That Contribute to Important Pathways Associated with Major Depression: Diet, Sleep and  Journal of Affective Disorders, vol. 148, 15 May 2013, pp. 12-27. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jad.2013.01.014. Pardon Our Interruption. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. <http://www.apa.org/helpcenter/understanding-psychotherapy.aspx>. Student 8