Student 1 Student Professor Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Finding Place in the Military In age women and men are seen, and advocated for, as equal members of society. This originated in the sixties and seventies when women were fighting for their place in the work force. Careers are a large part of what it means to have an important, defined role in society. However, many manual labor jobs, especially in the military where combat roles are particularly taxing, seem to be the last place where there are still arguments over the true, biological differences between men and women. This disagreement leads to many women being locked out of an entire sector of employment based on their sex. There have been great efforts to equalize the treatment of both sexes in the military. The work done by groups like Service Action Network (SWAN) and Sisters in Arms focus their attention on this gender disparity. However, there are still restrictions that prevent women and men from certain career paths based on their sex, some have even argued that these restrictions have been placed here because of legitimate biological reasoning, such as groups like Sisters in Arms. However there may be an opportunity to compromise by allowing people, regardless of gender, the ability to apply for any position as long as they meet universally held requirements. The points of view that are taken from these two stakeholders seem somewhat incompatible; however, the compromise of allowing women to apply for military positions with by the same standards of men can be implemented because both want women to be seen as equal and innate biases within the military abolished. Student 2 SWAN seeks for equal treatment for all women in the military. This organization states that women are a fundamentally important part of the military, contributing as much as their fellow male colleagues. They want women to be seen as equal and given the same opportunities as men in the military, particularly in combat roles, where women are often overlooked. They want the needs of female soldiers to be met, such as for feminine hygiene products and such. Their essential premise is that women have the ability to achieve the same levels of success as men, and therefore since they contribute the same in practice, they should be treated with the same respect. Even more so, the group argues that combat positions should be made open to female military personnel, as these restrictions are a grave unjust bias against military women. The primary objective of Sisters in Arms is similar to SWAN, in that they seek equality in the military. This organization wants all military divisions to open up positions for women because they see women as being a vital form of diversity in the military. They advocate that women have a unique set of skills that they can offer, and although they may be different, they are of the same fundamental value. However they have acknowledged on many occasions that limitations may be set because of the physical differences between men and women. They state observations and research which shows that women always succeed in the military in the same ways that men do, perhaps because of psychological reasons. They also cite the biological differences between men and women, for example on average men are stronger than women and develop less long term damage from demanding military lifestyles. They both wish to see women in the military in some form and they are both concerned about the treatment of women in the military. Each has been very vocal in their desire to have respect for women in the military and moral obligation to meet their needs while they are in service. Most importantly they both think that women have something of value to offer the Student 3 military. By the merit of contributing to the high goals they have earned the right for equal treatment. One major step taken originally was that women were equal but not entirely the same. Therefore it was seen as fit to set different standards for them. It was decided that women would have to compete for the same job as a man with different standards; they would therefore set the minimum physical requirements for women lower than men. Many physically taxing positions in the military have lowered their physical requirements, for example they lowered the requirements of upper body strength for women so that more women would be eligible to take on combat positions that require them the track for miles in the field with heavy equipment. It was justified that the new requirements were suited proportionally to the body size of a woman, and therefore it was deemed equal. This is not entirely fair, and in order for this proposed solution there will need to be compromises on both sides of the argument. SWAN will have to acknowledge that some positions have unjustly lowered their standards for women. This does not help them in combat positions when applied practically on the field and does not ensure they a prepared for the same positions as men. This is not justifiable in a combat setting and should not be considered a good position. This will need to be adjusted, which means that fewer women are likely to get into the military than was previously noted. This may be considered a grave loss, however those that do enter the military will have met the same requirements as men and can not be challenged on that fact. In positions like these, there should not be considered a of people of diversity that should be met, although there should definitely be an open environment that is tolerant of diversity; women should no longer feel threatened to apply for a military position and this change should not be marketed or advertised as a potential deterrent. Student 4 However Sisters in Arms will have to concede that while there may be physical limitations between the sexes, there are women out there who can and will meet the same requirements that men do and should be given the same opportunity. It is fair to ascertain that they do believe in equality of the sexes, however generalizations that comes from arguments of our differences is not a universal truth and should be questioned. I suggest that they have equal base requirements for both men and women, that way anyone who is fully capable of fulfilling a position will be considered on completely equal and fair terms. It allows women to be eligible for every position that is currently available to men, and it treats them as equal participants. It takes under consideration that women may not always be able to meet the physical requirements of men, and allows them to undertake positions that they are capable of fulfilling. Ultimately this compromise will allow women to be treated equally and respectfully, in positions that they are fit to fulfill in the military. This will essentially be a blind program, and there will be difficulties in lessening the potential bias that may already exist in people in the military today who deem soldiers as fit for a career in the military, especially in combat positions. Women will complete their training under the same circumstances as men, such as entering the same academy and training in the same courses. This will inforce the sense of equality as a something entirely reasonable because any male soldier that may have a bias against females will see them going through the same settings as them. This will potentially form a bond of pathos as well that will also inforce a sense of equality. This can also easily instill a sense of ethos as well, as that any soldiers that see bias arising in some situations may speak up in a sense of comradery of their fellow colleague. They will likely need to be evaluated in a blind judgement, where the evaluations of their training sessions and other testing scores are undertaken without consideration of their sex. Student 5 This topic is important because it shows that there is still meaningful disparity between the sexes that are not being consulted properly. This solution will open up an entire sector of careers and employment to women. This proposed solution allows women to be treated in wholly equal terms as men, and ensures they have a place in the military that they have earned. (Word Count: 1,398) Student 6 Proposed Source List of the Military Women, Paradoxical Individuality, and the Transformations of the Argentine  American Anthropologist 117.1 (2014): 86-99. Web. English, Allan. How the military can support military, Veteran, and family health  Journal of Military, Veteran and Family Health1.2 (2015): 81-82. Web. Miller, L. E. Women in Military Service for America  Journal of American History 102.1 (2015): 193-98. Web. Orr, R., R. Pope, V. Johnston, and J. Coyle. Gender differences in load carriage injuries of Australian army  Physiotherapy 101 (2015): n. pag. Web. Service Action  Service Action Network. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Studio, Pixel Theme.  Sisters In Arms RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Vaara, Jani P., Jarmo Viskari, Heikki and Matti Santtila. Perceptions and Attitudes of Female Soldiers Toward Physical Performance and Fitness Standards in  Military Medicine 181.10 (2016): 1218-223. Web. Wootton, J. Book Review: Women in Army: Gender and Equality in the Early Salvation  Feminist Theology 14.1 (2005): 151-52. Web.