El Akhal 1 Mohamad Prof. Roth ENC 1101 3/11/17 Genetic engineering Genetic engineering was first introduced in 1972, when scientists implanted some DNA into lab rats and observed the results. Genetic engineering has been under the spotlight for as long as it was introduced because it had great potential but at the same time posed a lot of threats. Over the past couple of years, a debate has been going over if we should consider genetic engineering as a part of our daily lives or is it too dangerous. Consumers have always been worried that genetically modified food will, one day, harm them in some way, because it was considered unnatural. Some religious groups agree with genetic engineering because they think it is mutilation of products and it is unacceptable. The use of genetic engineering should be prohibited unless absolutely necessary. Any mistake or error can cause extinction of a certain species, which is not an acceptable outcome. In 2003, the Public Perceptions of Agricultural Biotechnologies in Europe project (PABE) discovered that the idea of genetically modified organisms was neither accepted nor rejected, but it was questioned a lot. The most common questions were: Why do we need GMOs? Who benefits from their use? Who decided that they should be developed and how? Why were we not better informed about their use in our food, before their arrival on the market? Why are we not given an effective choice about whether or not to buy these products? Have potential long-term and irreversible consequences been seriously evaluated, and by whom? Do regulatory authorities have sufficient powers to effectively regulate large companies? Who wishes to develop these products? Can controls imposed by regulatory authorities be applied effectively? Who will be accountable in cases of unforeseen  Marris C (July 2001). They also found that the public knew that GMOs (genetically modified organisms) may be harmful, but they accepted the fact that the risks are worth the benefits. The view of the public changed since then; in 2006 a survey was held by the Pew Initiative on Food and Biotechnology and the results indicated that most of the people familiar with GMOs, but they think it was harmful or dangerous. In an attempt to establish genetically modified products as safe, E. Ann Clark wrote an article in 2006 about the necessity of testing any products that have been genetically modified for safety purposes. She also mentioned that some crops would have a negative impact on some ecosystems because it will decrease diversity. In 2009, two scientists by the names of Artemis Dona and Ioannis S. Arvanitoyannis argued that excessive intake of genetically modified foods can promote the growth of cancer and other fatal diseases. To prevent such disasters every company that produces GMOs should be monitored carefully to ensure the safety and quality of their products, and if a company pass a quality check, it should be shut down immediately. In Europe, people did not avoid GMOs when they were shopping, in fact some were selecting it because they thought it had better quality. Human cloning and stem cell research were big aspects that raised concerns in the field of genetic engineering. In 2001, US President George W. Bush signed a law that bans any research on stem cells because it was believed that the research will lead to reproductive cloning. But in 2009, President Obama lifted this ban because research into this subject was considered of importance as they discovered that they can clone organs for people who have a defect in their natural organs. Cloning humans has always been a mystery in the minds of curious scientists. What sparked this curiosity was an experiment back in 1996 by the University of Edinburgh, were they cloned a sheep, Dolly, and had her live her life in captivity until she died of arthritis in 2003. Scientists have been researching cloning intensively because they think it can be a cure for a lot of diseases, but In fact it can cause catastrophes and possibly extinction of some species. The risks that are involved in cloning are very high because it affects the biodiversity of humans directly in a huge way. In 2015 a Chinese group from Sun Yat-sen University created the very first genetically modified embryo which raised a lot of ethical concerns. The scientists used 86 embryos and only 28 succeeded which means that the other embryos were a waste of human life and the success rate is way too low. The object of this experiment was to eliminate a gene in some DNA responsible for beta-thalassaemia, a fatal disease that is not very common. In conclusion, genetic engineering has two major fields, genetically modified foods and genetically modified humans or cloning. In genetically modified foods, the primary concern is having the food cause cancer and other diseases that could harm the consumers, also the fear of using too much genetically modified food might be too expensive for the average customer. On the other hand, genetically modifying humans would affect the biodiversity greatly. Maybe in the near future people will look identical which can be very problematic. Also, failed experiments of human cloning or modifying is considered waste of human lives and acceptable. I believe that genetic engineering is still in its early ages and it should be stopped before it causes a disaster that could lead to extinction. Word Count: 907 Works cited: 1. E. Ann Clark. risks of genetic Euphytica, 148(1), march 2006, 47-60. Hazards of Human Developmental Gene Stuart A. Newman, 16 May 2016 www.councilforresponsiblegenetics.org/ViewPage.aspx?pageId=108 3. Modified Humans? No Richard Hayes, 15 April 2008 www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2008/04/15/AR200804150 1620.html 4. Artemis Dona and Ioannis S. Arvanitoyannis. Risks of Genetically Modified Critical Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition, 49, 2009, 164-175. 5. ResearchSEA. first genetic modification of human embryos reported: Experts consider  ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 24 April 2015. <www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/04/150424122312.htm>.