Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2017 There Room For Both of Us on the There is an under laying conflict within our society that has consumed many individuals within our military, as well as within the civilian sector as well. The conflict arises from the issue of whether or not women should be allowed or can be on the battlefield in a combat role and be as effective as their male counter parts. Many people within our society are concerned with the fact that their and sisters could be sent off to war and have to endure the same horrors and hardships that our men have had to face for the last 250 years, and it is an issue that has never been a reality until the last decade when our government has decided to implement policies within our military that could let women be placed into direct combat. Also, for some people who are against it, it is not an issue of whether or not women should be allowed to be placed in combat, but whether or not they can from a mental and physical standpoint. This also brings the issue of whether or not they would help the military or just be a liability. When the topic or conflict of whether or not women should be allowed to or can perform on the same level as men in a combat situation or battlefield, there are two organizations which have decided to take opposing stances on the issue: The federalist, who is a media network that appears to have taken the stance that women do not belong in combat, and NOW, or the National Organization for Women, who have taken a stance to fully support women who wish to engage in combat alongside their male counterparts. Last Name 2 The first stakeholder within this conflict is The Federalist, a news media organization who has decided to take the stance that women are not physically strong enough to endure combat due to the fact that they have less muscle and a much more frail and slender skeletal structure than men. Also, they suggest since women tend to think with their emotions, or in other words wear them on their sleeve, the mental and emotional toll that combat takes on even the strongest of men would be too much for women to bare. According to an article titled, The Science Says Putting Women Into Combat Endangers National Security, found on the website, have stronger bones than women, as well as stronger tendons and ligaments. Males have more muscle fibers, and because of this have greater muscle mass. Men have about 40 percent more muscle mass than (Scott). The article also states that of their weaker bone structures, women are more prone to injury then men are. Many women in sports and other physical activities experience injury rates at levels that have been described as by some medical (Scott). The Federalist and its authors and contributors do have some valid point which can be backed up by other sources. According to a study titled Combat Exposure May Jeopardize the Behavioral Health of Women in the  which is documented and can be found on the University of South library resources site, a recent study, combat exposure among Army enlisted women was associated with an increased likelihood of developing behavioral health problems post-deployment, including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, and at-risk (Pulse International). And, findings suggest that injuries, assaults, and combat exposures experienced by women during deployment may have an additive, negative effect on their post-deployment behavioral health, said Dr. Rachel Sayko Adams, lead author of Last Name 3 the Journal of Traumatic Stress (Pulse International). Another source which can enable The Federalist to back up their stance on the subject, which is a periodical which examines the pros and cons of having women in combat, states that a few female trainees are able to perform in physically demanding events at the same levels as average males, but policies must be based on the majority of average soldiers, not the exceptional (Brower and Donelly). There is another organization that has decided to take a stance for women in combat and for what they seem to believe is their right to serve in the military and in combat. NOW, or the National Organization for Women, who have taken a stance to fully support women who wish to engage in combat alongside their male counterparts, has a series of articles and reports on their site which aim to prove that women do in fact belong in combat, and to prove that women do in fact not only have the right to but can be successfully placed in combat alongside their male counterparts, and not only not be a liability but also become a valued resource within our armed forces. One resource that they have decided to use to prove that their stance on the subject is not only valid but is also correct, is an article written by an author at the Huffington Post, which is titled, On Women In Combat Is Discriminatory, High-Level Military Panel (Terkel), and states that, draft report by the Military Leadership Diversity Commission, a group established by Congress in 2009, concludes that the current policy is outdated and discriminatory. Commissioners include 24 senior retired and active-duty members of the military, in addition to leaders in the business community and (Terkel). And goes on to state that, a study by the Defense Department Advisory Committee on Women in the Services (2009) actually found that a majority of focus group participants felt that women serving in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan have had a positive impact on mission accomplishment. Additionally, panel members on this topic at an MLDC meeting cited the need Last Name 4 to bring to bear all talent: The blanket restriction for women limits the ability of commanders in theater to pick the most capable person for the (Terkel). The article also references the stakeholder by stating that National Organization for Women first passed a resolution supporting women acting in combat roles in 1990. in the military are exposed to the same kind of dangers that combat service exposes a soldier to, but the difference is that the women are not getting combat pay, and not getting combat-related opportunities for NOW President Terry said in an interview with The Huffington Post. only fair to recognize that women belong, as much as men do, in combat (Terkel), which just goes to show that this organization and stakeholder does not only just report on the subject of women in combat, but has decided to take a stance on the subject and imbed themselves in the issued, for close to three decades now. Now although they have taken a stance to support women in combat, what evidence would suggest to most people that the point that they are trying to make is a valid and articulated one? Well, according to an article located on the University of South library resources list, titled Repealing the Direct Combat Exclusion Rule: Examining the Ongoing Invisible  against Women  (Prividera and Howard), further examination, the myth unravels. One of the strongest cases for participation in military aviation has been size. Ever since the development of fly-by wire (electronic) systems, physical strength has been a decreasing factor for successful piloting and is today a virtual non-issue. Agility, deft of touch, and trainability in maneuvers have reigned supreme for successful combat pilots. Furthermore, larger size is an impediment in this context (indeed in many equipment contexts including tanks, armored personnel carriers, and other (Prividera and Howard). This is one source that does in fact contradict and give a valid counter argument to the first claim that Last Name 5 women lack the size and strength to adequately handle combat. Another source that can support the second stance is an article titled Warriors: Female Accession to Ground which is located on the University of South library resources list, and states that talked to a lot of male Marines about it and almost all say that, as long as females pull their weight and do what needs to be done and not create a spectacle of themselves, the guys see the This statement seems to suggest that, in fact, marines do not just see females as equivalent but actually (King), which would also suggest that the cultural aspect of integrating women into combat with male units may not be as far-fetched or as difficult as previously suspected. Although this issue has appeared to be ongoing with no solution in site, recently there has been some compromise on both sides. Our society is changing rapidly and along with it so are our ideals of what makes an effective soldier. As these ideals change so will our policies as to whether or not women can be in combat, and soon after a compromise will be reached. One suggested may be that the military allow women to have certain combat jobs such as artillery or pilots that would allow them the same opportunities as men, but at the same time, not fully place them within the infantry on the front lines or they could select certain combat jobs such as in armored tanks and door gunners on helicopters that would not require women to physically have to keep up or prove themselves to their male counter parts. This could benefit both stakeholders by allowing women to be in combat, but restricts certain jobs where they would have to be physically impacted by combat such as in the infantry, but they would still be allowed to fight in combat support roles such as in the artillery, air wings, and in the armored divisions. There is always the possibility that some individuals may not be satisfied with this, but as long as both Last Name 6 sides are willing to make a compromise and give a little bit of leeway on their stance, then progress can be made. (WC: 1676) Last Name 7 Works Cited Scott, Travis. Science Says Putting Women Into Combat Endangers National The Federalist, http://thefederalist.com/2016/12/09/science-says-putting-women-combat- endangers-national-security/. Accessed, 05 March, 2017. Combat Exposure May Jeopardize the Behavioral Health of Women in the  Pulse International, no. 18, 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.465115753&site=eds-live. Brower, J. Michael and Elaine Donnelly. Examining the Pros and Cons of Women in  The Officer, no. 2, 2005, p. 38. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.130468819&site=eds-live. Terkel, Amanda. On Women In Combat Is Discriminatory, High-Level Military Panel Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/01/14/women-military- Accessed, 05 March, 2017. Prividera, Laura C.1 and John W.1 Howard III. Repealing the Direct Combat Exclusion Rule: Examining the Ongoing Invisible  against Women  Women & Language, vol. 37, no. 1, Spring2014, pp. 115-120. EBSCOhost, Last Name 8 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=hft&AN= 96586096&site=eds-live. King, Anthony C. Women Warriors: Female Accession to Ground  Armed Forces & Society (0095327X), vol. 41, no. 2, Apr. 2015, pp. 379-387. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/0095327X14532913.