Jenkins 1 Jarek Jenkins Mark Nusspickel ENC 1101 February 27, 2017 OUTLINE I. Once the topic of global warming became political in the it sparked the debate about if fossil fuels were really in the future. Renewable energies such as solar, wind, and natural gas prove to be much cheaper and disappearing anytime soon. In the early the rhetoric about renewable energy use in replacement was marked by tons of skepticism scientifically as well as, faint optimism since there was a chance fuel costs could go down. The wars in the Middle East most likely played a role in the quest to find new sources of reliable energy. From 2011 to present day, the language on the subject has been spoken more from a business perspective instead of the theory perspective of the previous decade. How the Rhetoric About Renewable Energy affecting Fuel Cost Has Changed Over Time A. Bolinger, Mark. Balancing Cost And Risk: The Treatment Of Renewable Energy In Western Utility Resource  The Electricity Journal 1 (2005): SciTech Connect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 1. In the article, Mark Bolinger displays an overview of the cost for new power and the technology to see if it is worth implementing. He believed the plans to be risky because renewable energy cost prices were relatively unknown at the time, resource plans are becoming increasingly sophisticated in their treatment of risks, it is Jenkins 2 important that the high degree of natural gas price uncertainty is fairly addressed in resource planning (Bolinger 1). This shows that experts of the time thought that supplanting traditional fuel systems had its share of risks but is worth it since it could possibly help in the future. Furthermore, he also added, steps should be taken to ensure that each risk has, as is warranted or appropriate, an opportunity to impact portfolio selection. Finally, to help utilities make the difficult tradeoffs between the expected cost and risk of different candidate portfolios, utilities and regulators might consider conducting research to further evaluate ratepayer risk (Bolinger 4). This further explains that although he believes many risks are present, the tradeoffs could be worth it in the end. B. Wyland, Jessica. Is Renewable Energy the Impossible Dream? Science Offers Insight on Wind  Electric Light & Power, no. 2 (2009), p. 44. Web. 6 Mar. 2017. 1. The article explains the possibility to use wind power to steadily supplant fossil fuel electricity by 2030-2050. However, Wyland struggles to understand how this can be accomplished in a little under half a decade. The United States relies heavily on fossil fuels so it may be difficult to introduce a full-scale alternative at the moment. For example, the author says, criticism, wind power is touted as one of the cleanest, most reliable renewable resources dreamed up so far. But is harnessing wind power on a wide scale as quixotic as dreaming the impossible The quote shows that even though renewable energy is an excellent alternative, it may be impractical to implement. The science behind the use of wind power is promising, but not always beneficial to use. Furthermore, Wyland also writes, wind farms crop up across the windiest terrain, critics point to the need for new Jenkins 3 transmission lines and the variability of the wind. Many citizens support the idea as long as in my to reaffirm the assertion that it would be hard to overcome many of the obstacles changing energies has. Although this would all change by 2010-2011. II. Around the start of the new decade, the rhetoric about renewable energy became less about scientific implementation and more about the economic opportunities it possessed. The cost competitiveness of the new systems was overwhelmingly the most important thing to developers except for a select few countries wanting to decrease pollution. A. Amin, Adnan Z. How Renewable Energy Can Be  UN Chronicle 52.3 (2015): 8-11. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 1. Adnan Amin really as concerned with the application of renewable resources as much as Mark Bolinger in 2005. Instead he focused on the economic implementation of systems to see if renewable resources could be competitive with fossil fuels. For example, he states, cost-competitiveness of renewable power generation has reached historic levels. Biomass for power, hydropower, geothermal and onshore wind can all now provide electricity competitively compared to fossil fuel-fired power generation where good resources and cost structures (Amin 9). By saying this, Amin shows that all that matters at this point is the cost saving methods that clean energy has to offer. In this decade, we have already figured out to effectively use most forms of renewable energy, so all left to do is format plans to make the new systems cheaper. In addition, he adds, the installed costs and the performance of renewable technologies, and the costs of conventional Jenkins 4 technologies, the fact is this: renewable power generation is increasingly competing head-to-head with fossil fuels, without financial (Amin 11). This quote backs the assertion that the efficient performance of renewable energy systems is an easy and cheaper way to cut down costs of fossil fuel. He does not speak about if it is possible to implement, he speaks on the future profits unlike past researchers. B. Gowrisankaran, Gautam, et al. Intermittency and the Value of Renewable  Journal of Political Economy, vol. 124, no. 4, (Aug. 2016), pp. 1187-1234. Web. 9 Mar. 2017. 1. article breaks down the value renewable resources such as solar energy has over fossil fuels. He discuss the science behind it like the previous decade but instead worries about the money in the study. By is well understood that the average accounting cost of solar is higher than for fossil fuel generators. Not surprisingly, we find that the gross social costs of solar are high and increasing in penetration, going from $126.70 per megawatt hour (MWh) with 10 percent penetration to $138.40 per MWh with 20 percent penetration. The increase in cost from increased solar penetration is caused by solar generation substituting for cheaper fossil fuel plants as penetration (Gowrisankaran 1190) he shows that social costs will be the deciding factor. This is important to know because when renewable energy was first introduced, it was to decrease greenhouse emissions, now for helping a economy. In addition, he says, perfect storage of solar, social costs would drop by $46 per MWh, implying that intermittency overall is quantitatively much more important than unforecastable (Gowrisankaran 1192). The quote explains the priorities the companies have. They are willing to pay for renewable energy only for direct profits. Jenkins 5 Works Cited 1. Bolinger, Mark. Balancing Cost And Risk: The Treatment Of Renewable Energy In Western Utility Resource  The Electricity Journal 1 (2005): SciTech Connect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2. Wyland, Jessica. Is Renewable Energy the Impossible Dream? Science Offers Insight on Wind  Electric Light & Power, no. 2 (2009), p. 44. Web. 6 Mar. 2017. 3. Amin, Adnan Z. How Renewable Energy Can Be  UN Chronicle 52.3 (2015): 8-11. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 4. Gowrisankaran, Gautam, et al. Intermittency and the Value of Renewable  Journal of Political Economy, vol. 124, no. 4, (Aug. 2016), pp. 1187-1234. Web. 9 Mar. 2017.