Guillermo !1 Nathan Guillermo Professor Roth ENC 1101 26 March 2017 The Use of Nuclear Energy The immense power of nuclear fission is nothing to be trifled with. History has shown over and over again that the improper use of nuclear power gives way to catastrophic consequences. For this reason, scientists, politicians, and environmental activists have deliberated for decades about whether or not nuclear energy should be used on a commercial basis. In the 20th century, the topic of nuclear power lost most of its relevance as it seemed that the use of nuclear power was too dangerous for utilization on a widespread scale. However, despite the subject having little traction during this time period, the topics emphasized among nuclear power supporters in the 20th century are the same topics being emphasized in the 21st century. With the growing issue of climate change, nuclear power has been pushed back into consideration as the renewable source of energy, and the conversation has gained resurgence on the world stage. All pro-nuclear entities of this rejuvenated discussion linearly express the importance of the safety of nuclear reactors, the management of radioactive waste, and how nuclear energy compares to other renewable energy sources. As a result, the modern conversation on nuclear energy has remained unchanged. When a single nuclear reactor is at work, it can generate 1,000 megawatts of power which is enough to provide electricity for around 600,000 people (Ferguson 41). A reactor producing this intense amount of energy is highly dangerous if the proper precautionary actions Guillermo !2 are not put into place. All researchers and nuclear activists have recognized this and have come to the conclusion that the safety of nuclear reactors is significant issue that needs to be addressed. As author and nuclear activist John Tabak said in 2009, must be the most important consideration in the design and operation of nuclear power (Tabak xv). Professor Raymond Murray reemphasized this statement in 2014, proclaiming that the production of nuclear energy has inherent hazards that need to be suitably maintained to prevent the endangerment of life (Murray 289). As seen in these examples, the safe containment of nuclear reactions is a theme that has been echoed by multiple sources over the course of several years, displaying a consistent conversation on nuclear energy safety. Furthermore, in order for nuclear power plants to create electricity, they require highly radioactive fuel to drive the reactions that produce energy. After this nuclear fuel has been used up by the nuclear reaction, it becomes waste and which is still very radioactive (Ferguson 189). The radioactive nature of these products can be very harmful to the public and those working in proximity it. Therefore, advocates of nuclear energy have continually stressed that this radioactive waste must be handled with the utmost caution. In 2011, author Charles D. Ferguson stated that radioactive waste should be adequately managed in order to keep exposure to people as low as reasonably achievable (Ferguson 193). Three years later, Professor Raymond Murray mirrored declaration, saying that, use of nuclear processes must be accompanied by continuing safe management of materials that are potentially hazardous to workers and the (Murray 361). Several other sources have proclaimed the need for proper radioactive waste management and its continual prominence in the conversation amongst Guillermo !3 nuclear energy spokesmen provides further evidence that the nuclear power discussion has remained unvarying throughout its existence. Additionally, the comparison of nuclear energy to other renewable energy sources has been a subject that is uniformly discussed throughout the timeline of the nuclear power conversation. Nuclear power is not the only renewable energy source in the field, and must contend with competitors such as solar panels, coal plants, and wind turbines. John Tabak included this comparison in his 2009 analysis of nuclear power, stating that, power is just one of several methods for producing electricity and in this sense nuclear power plants must compete with other power-generation (Tabak xvi). In 2017, the same comparison of nuclear power and its alternatives was mentioned when one climate expert Kerry Emmanuel stated, you shut down a nuclear power plant somewhere and replace it with coal or even gas, and generate the same amount of electricity, a lot more people will (Stover 12). In addition to these experts, multiple other renewable energy activists over the years have included this same comparison in their research. Such consistency in subject matter provides further evidence that the modern nuclear power discussion has remained unchanged. In conclusion, the conversation on nuclear energy has remained consistent throughout the duration of its existence. Time and time again, sources showed uniformity in the subject matter they chose and the issues they emphasized. However, despite the linear nature of the discussion on nuclear energy, there is still uncertainty about whether or not the use of nuclear energy is right or wrong. Even though the modern conversation on nuclear power continually mentions nuclear safety, proper radioactive waste management, and energy source comparison, will such things bring us closer to a new source of power that can save us from climate change? Until further Guillermo !4 research in the nuclear energy field is conducted, we will never know for certain if nuclear power can take the mantle as the renewable energy source of the world. Guillermo !5 Works Cited Ferguson, Charles D. Nuclear Energy: What Everyone Needs to Know. Oxford: Oxford U Press, 2011. Print. 29 January 2017. Murray, Raymond L. Nuclear Energy : An Introduction to the Concepts, Systems, and Applications of Nuclear Processes. Kent: Elsevier Science, 2014. Print. 5 February 2017. Stover, Dawn. Kerry Emanuel: A climate scientist for nuclear  Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists 73.1 (n.d.): 7-12. General Science Full Text, 2017 . Web. 5 February 2017. Tabak, John. Nuclear Energy. New York: Facts On File, 2009. Print. 29 January 2017.