Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 03 March 2017 Pro-GMO, or Non-GMO? Genetically Modified Organisms have caused much controversy since they were introduced in 1994 (Hemphill, 2015; Potenza, 2016). It is so important that this issue be addressed because a lot of the food consumed by people today contain The main problem that arises when reasonable people disagree about this issue is whether or not affect our health, and how it might be affecting the environment. According to Nodoushani et al, when an organism is modified, composition of the original organism causing harmful side effects and producing harmful (2015). In contrast, believe that could potentially end world hunger and provide bigger and better produce to consumers (Nodoushani et al, 2015). When viewing the Monsanto website and The Non-GMO Project website, it is clear that are an important topic. While Monsanto believes that are a very important resource when it comes to feeding the population and maintaining the health of the environment, The Non-GMO Project believes that are harmful towards farmers and the health of individuals (Monsanto; The Non-GMO Project). Even though both of these stakeholders seemingly have opposing views, common ground can be found by simply educating people about and giving people the freedom to choose what they eat. When viewing website, their stated objective is to provide enough food to feed the increasing population, and to maintain the health of the environment. Student 2 One principal argument used by the stakeholder to support their position is that the population is increasing at a faster rate than the production of food. According to Potenza, the population expected to skyrocket from 7 billion today to 10 billion by (2016). Therefore, will need to become more productive and more sustainable in order to keep pace with rapidly increasing (Monsanto). With this in mind, Monsanto states that everything people consume comes at a cost. Since food requires land, water and energy to grow, it is crucial that the production of food is done using as little resources as possible. Therefore, developing a more efficient crop, that requires less of these resources, is essential in order to sustain our planet. Watts states that human populations are important not only in relation to agricultural food production but also in terms of their impact on the (2016). This statement supports next principle contributes a lot towards climate change and Monsanto wants to do as little damage as possible. Monsanto states that agriculture is critical to protecting the planet that feeds With the development of sustainable crops, Monsanto has allowed farmers to produce more while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Moving on to the second stakeholder, The Non-GMO Project states that their primary goal is to educate people about and their consequences, and make sure that people will always have the right to choose whether or not they eat GM (genetically modified) food. One of their principal arguments that they use to support their position is that most nations have high restrictions on therefore they must not be good for you (The Non-GMO Project). According to Nodoushani, countries ban the production or selling of genetically engineered foods require extreme testing and Student 3 detailed (2015). Restrictions are set so high because of the lack of research done on GM especially on how they affect the health of humans and the environment. As noted by Domingo, review articles published in international scientific journals during the current decade did not find, or the number was particularly small, references concerning human and animal toxicological/health risks studies on GM (as cited in Arcieri, 2015). Moreover, The Non-GMO Project also argues that are responsible for and These and develop resistance to herbicides, and therefore require more toxic poisons to kill them off (The Non-GMO Project). These toxic poisons have led to unintended consequences, including the 90 percent decline in the Monarch butterfly population (Potenza, 2016). Being such an important, controversial topic, The Non-GMO Project firmly believes that people should have the right to choose whether or not they consume GM foods. When finding shared common ground between these two stakeholders, it is important to look at the shared interests and concerns that they have. One common interest that both stakeholders share includes maintaining the health of the environment and the people. Shared concerns between the stakeholders include the future of this planet and the affects that could potentially have on the health of people. Both stakeholders clearly express how they feel about these topics, when viewing their websites. Finding shared common ground can also be achieved by looking at the shared needs of the stakeholders. The shared needs that the stakeholders have in common includes the support from the people and the government. Without this support, the stakeholders would have nothing to work for, let alone have the opportunity to work. Student 4 After viewing the two stakeholders and finding shared common ground between them, a compromise can be formed for the seeming incompatibility. One to this incompatibility is to label foods that contain giving people the option to choose what they eat. Although this statements provides an exceptional solution that benefits the people, it does not ease tension between stakeholders. A new and previously untried approach to creating a compromise between the two stakeholders includes providing unbiased information about allowing people to form their own opinions about them. The encouragement of labeling food containing should also be done, allowing people to choose what they want to eat. In order to ease the tension created by their incompatible goals, Monsanto could encourage GMO labeling, while The Non-GMO Project could provide unbiased information regarding When considering the rationale behind the proposed compromise, it is important to consider how it benefits Monsanto and The Non-GMO Project, separately. The compromise benefits the Monsanto because encouraging the labeling of food containing adds to their trustworthiness. Giving the company a trusting image could potentially lead to more investors for their company. For the second stakeholder, the compromise benefits them because providing unbiased information on their website follows their pledge regarding the choice of the people when it comes to consuming GM foods. This gives the stakeholder more ethos because their allowing people to make their own decisions, rather than persuading them. The proposed compromise could also benefit both stakeholders because giving the people more reason to trust them might bring them more investors for their cause. Bringing them more investors, while also easing the Student 5 tension between the two could potentially lead to the collaboration of new research on In order to implement this compromise, it must be viewed at a practical level. One way to implement this compromise requires the use of their websites. The internet proves to be a perfect place to implement this compromise because of the amount of people that use it on a day-to-day basis. Specific, practical, realistic steps that might need to be taken in order to implement this compromise include Monsanto providing information regarding how they encourage the labeling of GM foods on their website. Doing this gives The Non-GMO Project a reason to trust Monsanto since it is something that they can both agree on. The Non-GMO Project could also reword their articles on their website, making them unbiased. Providing unbiased information about rather than only presenting negative information, relieves Monsanto of feeling attacked. Altogether, the proposed compromise allows for a more mutual relationship between the two companies and allows people to form their own opinions about GMOs. Gostin questions, we yield to consumer preferences absent scientific evidence, would this really benefit the health and (2016). This is why it is essential to create a more mutual relationship between the two room for more growth in the research of GMOs, rather than disagreement between the two. Furthermore, when the time comes, labeling foods based upon whether or not they contain GMOs is not going to matter as much as maintaining food production. Therefore, focusing the attention on educating people and working together is what is going to help out in the end. As people continue to work together towards a solution, the willingness to Student 6 compromise and set aside differences is what will lead to an agreeable consensus. (WC: 1400) Student 7 Works Cited Arcieri, Margherita. and Potential Risks of Genetically Modified Sustainability of Well-Being International Forum, 2015, ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.aaspro.2016.02.072. Accessed 23 Feb. 2017. Gostin, Lawrence O. Modified Food Labeling: A to Journal of the American Medical Association, 2016, CINAHL, doi: http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1001/jama.2016.17476. Accessed 23 Feb. 2017. Hemphill, Thomas A., and Banerjee, Syagnik. Modified Organisms and the U.S. Retail Food Labeling Controversy: Consumer Perception, Regulation, and Public Business and Society Review, vol. 120, no. 3, 2015, pp. 435, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=8e15 8ea0-7c5d-4fbf-91b1-f0adbbf59943@sessionmgr101&vid=2&hid=121. Accessed 23 Feb. 2017. Monsanto. Monsanto Company, 2002-2015, http://www.monsanto.com/pages/default.aspx. Accessed 23 Feb. 2017. Nodoushani, Omid, et al. Engineered Food and Genetically Modified Competition Forum 2015, vol. 13, no. 1, 2015, pp. 136, http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?ty=as&v=2.1&u=tamp44898 Accessed 23 Feb. 2017. Student 8 Potenza, Alessandra. battle over GMOs (Genetically Modified Organisms): are GMOs the answer to feeding a hungry world, or Frankenfoods that put the New York Times Upfront, vol. 148, no. 8, 2016, The Non-GMO Project. The Non-GMO Project, 2016, https://www.nongmoproject.org/. Accessed 23 Feb. 2017 Watts, Christine. Modified Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science, 2016, Research Starters, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=cc62f60f- cef6-48e3-b56d- 12b392fbab08@sessionmgr103&vid=2&hid=121&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWx pdmU=#AN=89250472&db=ers. Accessed 23 Feb. 2017.