Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 26 March 2016 Psychiatric Treatment for Mental Illness Mental illness is a problem that our society faces every single day. With there being a serious stigma and a lack of understanding of the issue as a whole, it is difficult for somebody who suffers from a mental illness to get any better. In the article Belittled, Avoided, Ignored, Denied: Assessing Forms and Consequences of Stigma Experiences of People With Mental Illness, it states with mental illness experience discrimination, paternalistic treatment, and (Ilic 1). Treatment options are currently available to treat mental illness. Though these options were proven to be effective, there are some that are not effective to some people. In particular, psychiatric treatment is a treatment that causes different opinions in the mental health community. Stakeholder One, named the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, claims that psychiatric treatment has been proven to improve the lives of those with a mental illness. In contrast, Stakeholder Two, named The Antipsychiatry Coalition, states that psychiatric treatment can lead to detrimental life long effects. Though they have differences, both Stakeholders could again that they want the best for those who need help with their mental health. The American Psychiatric Association defines Psychiatry as branch of medicine focused on the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of mental, emotional and behavioral (APA). The word is defined as a medical doctor Student 2 who specializes in mental health, including substance use (APA) Psychiatrists are to assess both the mental and physical aspects of psychological (APA). Many people go seek psychiatric help when they feel as if they are facing long term or sudden problems that distort reality (APA). Psychiatrists are similar to therapist, but psychiatrists can diagnose and prescribe medicine to treat these illnesses. Founded in 1979, the Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA) is an nonprofit organization dedicated to the prevention, treatment, and cure of anxiety, depressive, obsessive-compulsive, and trauma-related disorders through education, practice, and (ADAA). This association focuses on the improvement of lives for those who suffer from mental illness. The organizations primary goal is provide helpful guidance and understanding of anxiety and depression. It provides treatment options and support for those who suffer from these mental illnesses. It also works to reduce the stigma surrounding these illnesses. The ADAA believes that psychiatric treatment is proven to be very effective to treating mental illness. They believe that with the right psychiatrist, it is easy to have a successful treatment. This association has conducted multiple extensive researches on this topic. They found that psychiatric treatment really was effective in treating mental illness. Also, many of the founders and doctors of the website are either a psychiatrist or are part of a psychiatric association. People like Helen Blair Simpson, Peter Roy Byrne, and Abby J. Fyer all have a background in psychiatry, which makes their claims a lot more reliable. Also, the president of the website, named, Karen Cassiday, PhD, works at The Anxiety Treatment Center, and studied at Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Sciences. She approves the information that can be displayed on website. By Student 3 approving this, it makes it seem like she supports psychiatry and its benefits. This is relevant since she has spent almost her whole life studying this topic. In an academic journal titled Boundary Debates: The New Challenge of Psychiatry, it explains how the development of new sciences has helped create more effective psychiatric drugs. The author states, emergence of the science of and its neurological substrate has finally enabled exciting breakthroughs in psychopharmacology. These advances created the availability, by design and not serendipity, of successful drugs in (John 12). By discovering this, Philip John opens the doors to new ways psychiatry can help people who have a mental illness. Stakeholder Two, named The Antipsychiatry Coalition, is a volunteer group consisting of people who feel we have been harmed by psychiatry - and of our supporters. We created this website to warn you of the harm routinely inflicted on those who receive psychiatric  and to promote the democratic ideal of liberty for all law-abiding people that has been abandoned in the U.S.A., Canada, and other supposedly democratic (The Antipsychiatry Coalition). This is a group of people who have personally been through psychiatric treatment that have been effected in a long-term aspect. Through their experience, they have first hand experience on what psychiatric help can do to people. On the website, it is easy to find information of people explaining how ineffective psychiatric treatment is. Some even say that it made their life worse than it was previous to the treatment. Rae Unzicker, one of the creators and writers for the website, wrote a poem titled To Be a Mental Patient. This poem summarizes his experience with psychiatric treatment in a psychiatric facility (Unzicker). He uses figurative language to give the poem a sadder tone. This makes their claim a more Student 4 personable and relatable feel to it making it more acceptable. Something that is argued frequently is the ineffective and multiple side effects of psychiatric medicine. There has been a correlation between psychiatric drugs and percentage of people with mental health. In the article Anatomy of an Epidemic: Psychiatric Drugs and the Astonishing Rise of Mental Illness in America, it states percentage of Americans disabled by mental illness has increased fivefold since 1955, when today as first  introduced into the (Whitaker 1). What Whitaker is trying to prove is that psychiatric drugs do not work. Though they have differences, they still have some similarities. They are both interested in finding the best treatment options for those individuals who have a mental illness. This can be seen in their efforts to let their stance be heard by the public. They are both concerned about not being able to help those who are looking for help. They want to make sure that they have the right information so those who are looking for help can get the right information. Both stakeholders can agree that it is the jobs of friends and family to help those who need help. They both need people to spread awareness on their stance so more people can hear them. A compromise that could be introduced to both stakeholders is that they focus their time on finding new alternative treatment options that are better than the ones that are currently in place. By doing this, they are able to find something new that they both could agree on. This benefits the first stakeholder because it allows them to help more people who are seeking something new. This benefits the second stakeholder by allowing them to not focus as much on psychiatric help but instead focus on the new information coming to light. This benefits both stakeholders by allowing them to keep an open mind Student 5 on new treatment route. In a practical setting, this compromise would allow the public to be more aware of the new treatment options while also educating them on how they can help their family, close relatives, and friends who may have a mental illness and have tried current treatment options that have not work. On the National Institute of Mental Health (NIH) website, it states has opened a new frontier in mental health support and data (NIH). With the new development of technology, both stakeholders can incorporate that to find new treatment options. To conclude, Stakeholder One, which is the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, has a favorable opinion about psychiatric treatment and recommends this treatment route to some people. Stakeholder Two on the other hand believes that psychiatric treatment is bad and can cause long term effects. The Antipsychiatry Coalition does not recommend this as a treatment option. They can both agree that they want the best for those seeking information on mental illness or seeking help. As for a compromise, they should come up with a new treatment option, that way those who cannot find the right treatment options can go seek new help. (1341) Student 6 Work Cited American Psychiatry Association . APA. n.d. Web 26 Feb. 2017. Cassiday, Karen. Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Adaa, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gordon, Joshua. Technology and the Future of Mental Health  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Ilic, Marie. Belittled, Avoided, Ignored, Denied: Assessing Forms and Consequences of Stigma Experiences of People With Mental  Basic and Applied Social Psychology. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Jan. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. John, Philip. Boundary Debates: The New Challenge of  Indian Journal of Psychiatry 52.2 (2010): n. pag. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Unzicker, Rae. The Antipsychiatry  The Antipsychiatry Coalition. The Antipsychiatry Coalition, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Unzicker, Rae. To Be a Mental  Letter. 1984. MS. N.p. Whitaker, Robert. Tomy of an Epidemic: Psychiatric Drugs and the Astonishing Rise of Mental Illness in  Ingenta Connect. Springer, 1 Jan. 2005. Web. 26 Mar. 2017.