Prasse 1 Logan Prasse Professor Roth ENC 1101.018 26 March 2017 Unearthing an Idea: How Society Has Changed Dinosaurs Over Time It is no secret that dinosaurs have been at the forefront of human awe and wonder since their fossils were first discovered. Without fail, they have continued to aid in captivating imaginations and propelling scientific discovery and advancement from beyond the grave. Although dinosaurs are long gone, the conversation surrounding them continues to develop into one of projection on current state of affairs. They are no longer being studied solely for science and subsequently placed into museums; dinosaurs are being used to give understanding and comfort to increasingly vague ideas. With the rise of a popular culture devotion to dinosaurs, academics have used dinosaurs as a means of comfort. Historically, dinosaurs have been used as a means of making sense out of vague and abstract ideas and making these abstract ideas more open and available to a broad unacademic audience. Recently, however, academics have started to think more critically about the modern effects of dinosaurs and how they can be used as a scientific and educational tool for garnering support for their causes, promoting understanding, and engaging in interdisciplinary interactions. When ordinary people think of dinosaurs, what do they think of? Most likely, they are reminded of fantastic images and representations of dinosaurs from film, books and even toys. In his article A Dinosaur: Authenticity Run Amok in the Of Michael Jurassic Park and Julian England, author James Miracky makes clear how these imaginative images or representations of dinosaurs have Prasse 2 been used in modern times. In the form of a case study, Miracky uses the famous Jurassic Park franchise of 1990 to stress this idea: is, in the words of Richard J. Lane, reversal of in which model precedes the and yet produces from both reality and representation the reversal becomes (Miracky 163). Miracky very clearly quotes such strong verbiage to criticize the way in which society has conducted itself. Specifically, he criticizes how the use of theme parks, whether Disneyland, or Jurassic Park, creates tangible yet fictitious worlds to run away to and avoid having to face its problems directly. Miracky draws comparisons through the interpretation of the idea of a Jurassic Park by using creatures that have become fictionalized in popular culture as a means of mirroring society itself. In simpler terms, Miracky is noting how ideas and representations of dinosaurs have been used as spillways for emotions and uncertainty regarding complex ideas that society struggles to cope with and seek to answer. In 2001 article, Raymond Gozzi noticed how popular culture advanced dinosaurs from not even being an afterthought to being nearly enshrined in and at the forefront of the common vernacular. With respect to the frequency in which dinosaurs are mentioned in news articles starting in the 1990s, Gozzi states, were more metaphorical uses, and more emphasis on the supposedly sudden, cataclysmic end of the (Gozzi 353). Evolving from the more literary and complex use of the dinosaur as a projection of current state, research shows the growing about and presence of dinosaurs in the sphere of common, everyday life. This change from fiction to reality regarding the study and overall referral of dinosaurs in many works is evident as article marks how comfortable particularly, reporters and with using references to dinosaurs in everyday language in the 1990s. Prasse 3 As time moves on, intriguing to see how society as a whole has viewed and understood dinosaurs. This perspective differs with respect to time period and current events. In his article, Between Alexis Dwarsky places an emphasis on how the scholarly conversation in general has changed over time. In a particular example, he notes how it is nearly impossible to research the impact dinosaurs to what dabbling in nearly every scientific field the creatures have touched beyond the grave. He writes, primeval world can be seen as a projection surface of the corresponding present (Dworsky 38). Here, Dworsky supports the observation made from reading Miracky and works from nearly two decades earlier because it claims that dinosaurs can serve as not only a lesson. However, it is worth noting how these projections also change over time and how they have evolved to lead to real world they have become not only a lesson, but a tool. In Aspects of the Lufeng Dinosaur National Geopark in Yunnan Province, authors and Petr Skupien provide a case study on an archaeological, paleontological and dinosaur themed national park in China and the implications of such geo- tourism. They state that focused on the geological heritage of an area and oriented on sustainability, conservation, education, and community 51). As this work was published in 2016, it would seem that people have become more concerned with their environment and are genuinely interested in an educational and value added experience that can provoke thought and discovery. This is a stark difference compared to 2004 portrayal of dinosaur-themed entertainment as a dulling of the senses and a blindness to reality. Despite the change over time in the conversation about and perspective on dinosaurs, there seems to be a single common element throughout the scholarly conversation of the dinosaur: that dinosaurs have and seemingly always will be used as a tool for comforting people Prasse 4 and allowing them to process and come to understand obscure concepts. The regular image of a dinosaur, something that has often been depicted as a ferocious beast, has historically been used as a coping mechanism for making sense of ideas. The conversation, however, is still evolving into something more. With a rise in calls to action regarding ever burgeoning environmental concerns and global citizenship, the reality and accuracy of dinosaurs will become ever more important as researchers come to realize the scientific potential of dinosaurs and begin to make use of the social clout dinosaurs hold with society. Prasse 5 Works Cited and Skupien, Petr. Geotourism Aspects Of The Lufeng Dinosaur National Geopark In Yunnan Province,  Geoscience Engineering 62.1 (2016): 51-57. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.< http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aci&AN=117419175&site=eds-live> Dworsky, Alexis. Alexis Dworsky: In Between  Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 41.1 (2016): 37-43. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. < http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aph&AN=118064400&site=eds-live> Gozzi, Raymond.  ETC: A Review Of General Semantics 58.3 (2001): 351-355. Humanities Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=hft&AN=510075974&site=eds-live> Miracky, James J. Replicating A Dinosaur: Authenticity Run Amok In The Of Michael Jurassic Park And Julian England,  CRITIQUE: Studies In Contemporary Fiction 2 (2004): 163. Literature Resource Center. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.< http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=edsglr&AN=edsgcl.113681350&site=eds-live>