Rodriguez 1 Keanna Rodriguez Alison Missler ENC1102.044S1713 16 March 2017 This is Personal Of the enacted 1,074 abortion restrictions since the Supreme decision on Roe v. Wade, 288 were enacted between 2010-2015 Five Years This means that about 27% of all abortion restrictions came from this five-year timeframe alone, which is more than any other five-year period has done in the past. Moreover, current Republican lawmakers are planning to defund Planned Parenthood, a provider of abortions and other reproductive health care services, to further restrict access to such care. To combat this rise in limitations, the National Law Center (NWLC), an organization dedicated to defending rights, has launched the is campaign. According to the NWLC, the goal of this campaign is to, educate, and activate young women across the country as they faced attacks on their reproductive health is In order to accomplish this goal, the NWLC relies on the widespread of images that utilize rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, to show how nonsensical it would be to take away or limit access to reproductive healthcare. Although the National Law Center strives to advocate for women of all ages, the is campaign aims to target millennials. In order to appeal to such an audience, the images released by this campaign tend to include some reference to pop-culture media. For instance, one of the images produced by this campaign focuses on American actress, Jennifer Lawrence. In this image, Lawrence is the centerpiece, and beside her lies a quote from Rodriguez 2 her describing how non-threatening Planned Parenthood is: seriously, what harm comes from supplying people with birth control, condoms, pap smears, and cancer The purpose of this image was to undermine the politicians who are working toward finding a way to defund Planned Parenthood (Dias, Take Upper Being most noted amongst millennials for her role as Katniss Everdeen in the films, having Jennifer Lawrence in this image appeals to credibility because the audience will interpret her statement as being logical because since she has experience playing someone who fought against the injustices of their society, she must be reliable when pinpointing the injustices or misconceptions within our own society (Guanio-Uluru, Another appeal to ethos in this photo involves the is logo which ensures that it is associated with the is campaign. Such a campaign is not only supported and created by the National Law Center, but it has already been successful at stopping the Louisiana Board of Health from placing restrictions to shut down abortion clinics and pushing Congress to allow military women who are victims of rape and incest, to have access to abortion coverage is Also, the blue border that encloses the main photo may appeal to ethos as well, because according to the Wagner Color Research Institute, the color blue is associated with meanings such as trust and security, which will make it easier for the audience to trust the reliability of the information being presented (Madden 91). In addition to appealing to ethos, this image also utilizes elements of pathos and logos. In Jennifer quote, she says, seriously, what harm comes These words can appeal to pathos in the sense that it will make the audience feel guilty about having an opposing view on whether or not access to reproductive health care should be limited or taken away. In a Rodriguez 3 similar manner, facial expression in the photo provided may also cause audiences to feel this way because of the way mouth is opened and how she stares at her audience. Such a look appears as though she disapproves of those who have opposing views. Furthermore, the audience may experience anger or confusion over how some people consider people with birth control, condoms, pap smears, and cancer as being harmful. This same quote may appeal to logos as well, since the services that Lawrence listed are not harmful and are factual in regards to how they are actual services that are provided by Planned Parenthood. Along with the image of Jennifer Lawrence showing support for Planned Parenthood, the is campaign published another image of a male employer sitting at a desk with an arrow pointed at him that states: guy [should be making your birth control With the belief that birth control is necessary for health and to secure their autonomy, this second image was released in response to the businesses and nonprofit organizations that filed lawsuits against the Affordable Care Act (ACA) The argument for these lawsuits was that the requirement for employers to provide their employees with comprehensive health insurance that includes no-cost birth control, opposes their religious beliefs Birth Control The goal of this second image is to ridicule such an argument for being illogical in the sense that these employers want to push their religious agendas at the expense of their access to reproductive healthcare. Corresponding with the first image, the second image also targets millennials by using Michael Scott, the central character from the show, as its focus. The use of this reference appeals to pathos because since is a comedy and Michael Scott is a rather Rodriguez 4 eccentric manager, the audience may find it humorous that some employers think it is acceptable to limit their access to birth control, especially if they are similar to Michael Scott. Likewise, the fact that Scott is a male and is portrayed as having authority over birth control access, may inflict anger upon the audience because the decision to use such a contraceptive should be up to the individual and not determined by someone else Birth Control Additionally, this image also appeals to ethos similarly to the first image by using the Is logo and a blue border to show that the information provided is both trustworthy and supported by the NWLC. Aside from pathos and ethos, the second image also utilizes elements of logos and kairos. This image appeals to logos by drawing on how unreasonable it would be to allow male bosses to make decisions for their female employees since it should solely be up to the employee to decided what they should or should not do with their bodies. This is especially fitting in cases where the employer is as much of an imbecile as Michael Scott because the employer would most likely make the wrong decision. The Best mug in front of the Scott also appeals to logos by showing how regardless of an quality, he should not be able to restrict his employees from having access to birth control because of his own personal beliefs. Another appeal to logos would be the bright light/lamp that is to left. Since light bulbs are often associated with bright or logical ideas, this lamp appeals to logos by illuminating how the best solution to the problem presented in the image, would be to not allow employers to make birth control decisions for their employees (Slepian 696). Additionally, the clock in the background appeals to kairos by showing how the issue presented in this image is a timely problem and encourages its audience to take action before it is too late. This is especially important since the Republican proposed American Health Care Act plans to reduce Rodriguez 5 government funding for reproductive health care by $177 million (Hersher, Parenthood The National Law Center (NWLC) is an organization that has been working towards diminishing barriers and expanding the possibilities for women and girls, for over 40 years Is With the increase in the amount of enacted abortion restrictions, the NWLC not only aims to decrease such limitations, but to ensure that the targets of such restrictions, millennials, can join them in such a fight. In order to ensure that their target audience is prepared when speaking with friends, families, or elected officials, the NWLC started the is campaign to release images to not only promote its mission to and promote equality and opportunity for women and but to supply women with the necessary tools and information they need in order to make a difference in their communities Rodriguez 6 Works Cited  NWLC. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Birth Control  NWLC. National Law Center, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Dias, Elizabeth. Defund Planned Parenthood Plan Moves Forward in  Time. Time, 7 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Guanio-Uluru, Lykke. Female Focalizers and Masculine Ideals: Gender as Performance in Twilight and the Hunger  Literature in Education, vol. 47, no. 3, 01 Sept. 2016, pp. 209-224. EBSCOhost. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hersher, Rebecca. Planned Parenthood Would Lose $178 Million In Payments Under GOP Health  NPR. NPR, 14 Mar. 2017. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Last Five Years Account for More Than One-quarter of All Abortion Restrictions Enacted Since  Guttmacher Institute. Guttmacher Institute, 06 Dec. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Madden, Thomas J., et al. Images in Different Cultures: A Cross-National Study of Color Meanings and Journal of International Marketing, vol. 8, no. 4, 2000, pp. 26 Feb. 2017. Slepian, Michael L., et al. Shedding Light on Insight: Priming Bright  Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, vol. 46, no. 4, July 2010, pp. 696-700. EBSCOhost. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. The Birth Control Battle: Courts Must Safeguard Religious Liberty for  Church & State, no. 2, 2013, p. 16. EBSCOhost, Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rodriguez 7 This Is  NWLC. National Law Center, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.