Todd 1 Elijah Todd Dr. Uddin ENC 1101 The conversation of marijuana has been a hot and controversial topic in the United States for decades. For years the perspective has been that the drug was harmful, and was a gateway drug towards the use of harder illegal substances. Thus, marijuana had been considered as bad as drugs such as heroine and cocaine in the criminal justice system, and people were sentenced to a ridiculous number of years in jail for just possessing a small amount of the drug. (Blumenson 43) In recent years, with continued research on marijuana, it has been found that the substance has many beneficial medicinal effects, and the stigmas that were placed on marijuana were mostly unfounded. In fact many states have allowed for the medicinal use of marijuana to be legal, while states such as Colorado and Washington have gone so far as making the use of the substance legal altogether. Due to the shifting legal landscape surrounding marijuana, the perspective on marijuana shifted towards decriminalizing it between 2000-2017. In the early talks on decriminalizing or legalizing marijuana were met with much scrutiny and apprehension because no state or country had completely decriminalized or legalized the substance. Also, many people were worried that the legalization of marijuana would end up being similar to that of alcohol and tobacco, in that it would be easy to access and abuse. According to Joffe, adolescents and young adults in states or countries that had lower offenses for the possession of Todd 2 marijuana were reported more likely to use the drug. Youths caught with possession of marijuana would still have to face the penalty of offense of marijuana possession, which would have a negative effect on their lives. Joffe points out that legalizing marijuana could lead to the advertisement of the drug across various media platforms, influencing more young adults and adolescents to use the drug. (634) Although Joffe believes that alcohol and tobacco cause more harm to members of society, and they are legalized, he does not think that it is logical for marijuana to be legalized since it is still considered a psychoactive drug. (636) Instead of legalizing marijuana, Joffe says that the laws regulating alcohol and tobacco should be enforced more strictly, and similar should be done to marijuana to reduce the chance of adolescents and young adults using marijuana. (636) Blumenson counters Joffe by stating that although there have been heavy marijuana control efforts along with recent decriminalization to a degree, the amount of twelfth graders using marijuana has remained the same since 1975 (48). Blumenson continues by saying that more Americans use marijuana than those that live in countries with far less penalization laws on the drug. Bushan also presents a counterpoint to Joffe. While Joffe says that legalizing marijuana would increase the risk that more adolescents will abuse, Bushan says otherwise. According to Bushan, with marijuana being illegal, it actual increases the risk that teenagers use hard drugs. (Bushan 50) Bushan continues by saying that teenagers would be pushed to reach out to criminal dealers in order to get access to marijuana, exposing them to other, harder drugs that the dealer may sell, such as cocaine, heroine, and meth. Todd 3 Blumenson and Bushan agree that the enforcement of marijuana criminalization laws have been a wasteful use of law enforcement resources. Bushan mentions that part of the reason Colorado and Washington legalized marijuana was because they found that previous marijuana regulatory laws were an inefficient use of law enforcement personnel, funds, and resources, that could be instead used to combat violent crimes. (Bushan 192) Rosenbaum would disagree with Joffe on stricter enforcement of marijuana criminalization laws. According to Rosenbaum, The current state of drug laws, especially on marijuana, has had a disproportionate effect on minorities. (2) African- Americans and Latinos have been more likely to get arrested and receive longer sentences than white people since the on drugs began. (3) Bushan makes a similar statement, as she says that members of minority groups are arrested for drugs at a rate that is much higher than the actual use of drugs. In conclusion, since 2000, the conversation on decriminalizing marijuana has gone from apprehensive, and leaning towards not doing so, to being in favor of it. As shown by Joffe, early on many people were worried about the perceived negative effect it would have on the youth, adolescents and young adults, if the penalty towards the possession and use of marijuana were decreased. On the opposite end, Blumenson, Bushan, and Rosenbaum argue that decriminalizing marijuana would actually lead to less arrests of minorities, and people in general. Also, decriminalizing marijuana would lead to better use of law enforcement resources, and legalizing would not have any affect on the actual use rate of the drug, but would make it safer for people to obtain the drug. Todd 4 Todd 5 Works Cited Joffe, Alain and W. Samuel Yancy. of Marijuana: Potential Impact on Pediatrics, vol. 113, no. 6, June 2004, pp. e632-e638. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aph&AN=13164462&site=eds-live. Blumenson, Eric and Eva Nilsen. Rational Basis: The Pragmatic Case for Marijuana Law Virginia Journal of Social Policy & the Law, vol. 17, no. 1, Sept. 2009, pp. 43-82. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=a2h&AN=48617742&site=eds-live. Bushan, Aparna. An Evaluation of the Effects of the Legalization of Marijuana in Colorado and Washington From An International Law Canada- United States Law Journal 39. (2015): 187-201. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. Rosenbaum, Carrie. (And Whom) State Marijuana Reformers Forgot : Crimmigration Law and Depaul Journal for Social Justice 9.2 (2016): 1- 52. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web.