1 Kevin Morrissey Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 3/21/17 How Scholars have been talking about the relationship between guns and mental illness The articles that speak about mental health are critical for the society we live in today. Just a simple article about the effects of anxiety can open wonders to an individual struggling with it. When guns get involved, it becomes even more crucial to get this information to someone who will really need it. And what scholars have been doing recently as the focus in gun violence has shifted towards talking about the mental health of the shooters and how to prevent future attacks and suicides. As mass shootings increase at a steady rate, the media will have no choice but to discuss the motives behind the shooter and scholars believe the attacks stem from mental health issues. In articles from the to now, the conversation has relatively been the same. Scholars believe that putting an emphasis on mental health can help stop future shootings from happening. not just mass shootings that scholars are writing about, suicide is a huge risk when it comes to gun violence and most scholars take the time to research and write about it. Alison Knopf stated in an article from 2014, lives in the past decade could have been saved without access to a firearm, 90% being suicide, and 10% being homicides by people with mental 2 disorders. That statistic is based on over 300,000 deaths from 2004-2014, and it really shows how much of a factor mental illness can play in shootings. In an article from 2009, Julio Arboleda Florez describes the typical shooter as a a loner, depressed, a mad man, and so on that he has been affected one way or another in his mental Most scholars would agree with that description of a shooter. Jefferey Swanson who has a Ph.D. at Duke said this, average 17-year-old has a good chance of living in a home with multiple firearms. Add to that the characteristics of young men who have had some psychopathology, are isolated, probably angry, and perhaps delusional, perhaps something not a very small Scholars also seem to write about this topic more after a big shooting happens, especially ones that get national media attention. The Sandy Hook shooting garnered a ton of media coverage just because it appealed to much of the United States. It was a tragedy that involved children in a school which glued viewers to their seats. Hundreds of articles all around the globe were written about the tragedy with popular press articles telling readers what happened while scholars were more interested in writing about why it happened as they tend to do. Most of the scholars wrote about Adam Lanza and what his mental state was like at the time of the attack. Another thing that most scholars write about is suicide and how much it relates to gun violence. A vast number of articles include the topic of suicide in their articles and scholars tend to say most of the same things. The scholars talk about how much suicide affects mental illness related violence and that conversation stays relatively the same as the progressed. Reasons for that include neither a decline or increase in suicidal activities, just a constant rate of deaths every year and it worries scholars that a big change occurred. Some scholars believe that suicides still occur at a high rate due to guns being present in the home. A study conducted in 2008 revealed that a gun in the home can increase a suicide chance by 2 to 10 times then in homes without them. Other 3 scholars believe that suicide rates increase from environmental reasons such as the social life. Some scholars believe that shooters are a result from a failing health care system. In an article written this year, the scholar mentions that the shooters involved in massacres did not receive any treatment from any mental health facilities. Whatever the reason, scholars still come to same conclusion saying that mental health needs to be near the top when stopping gun violence. In the four articles written by scholars, the conclusions were all the same with minor differences in each. Most of them included suicide and mass shootings that have occurred and the reasoning behind them. While every gun death is tragic, refreshing to see scholars taking the time to research and write about the mental health of people to try and protect themselves or the individuals they can potentially harm. Whether the scholars were talking about signs of a potential mass shooter or the signs that one could take their own life, the scholars all were concerned with bringing the mental state to light and that could potentially save a plethora of lives in the future. Even the Government has begun to listen to some of these scholars and enact acts to improve mental health facilities and give more funding to mental health organizations to cure these damaged individuals. 4 Works cited Faria Jr, Miguel A. Shooting rampages, mental health, and the sensationalization of  . Surgical Neurology International 4.1 (2013):85-92. Web. 26 Mar. 2017 Arboleda Julio. Mental illness and  Current opinion in psychiatry 22.5 (2009):475-476. Web. 26 Mar. 2017 Knopf, Alison. Untreated mental disorders, unchecked guns: the combination poses a clear threat to our children, but not the one we  Behavioral Healthcare . . 34.2 (2014):32-35. Web. 26 Mar. 2017 Miller, Matthew, and David Hemenway. Guns and suicide in the United  The New England Journal of Medicine 359.10 (2008):989-991. Web. 26 Mar. 2017 .