Kozma 1 Robert Kozma Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Violence in Video Games Violent video games have been the target of blame for violence in youths by overbearing parents since the early 2000s, when the first case was brought before the U.S. Supreme Court (Gardner). To say that violent video games does not cause any increase in violent behavior would be off the mark, however there is no evidence linking violent video game to long-term effects such as crime and violent behavior. Both of the images bring up the idea that children do not realize that the games they play can have adverse effects on them, while addressing the bigger problem of video game addiction. The stakeholder Media Information for Parents tries to inform the public about the issues with allowing children to play violent video games at a young age. The stakeholder uses the two images to bring up the idea that children playing violent video games can have adverse effects on them. The first image uses vague wording in order to get the attention of a bigger audience to address the bigger problem, video game addiction. The intended audience for the first image are parents who are raising a child of a relative age of 6 to 15. The message that this image is trying to get the intended audience to realize is the bigger problem that video games in general cause which is the addiction to them. The first image uses a combination of logos, ethos, and pathos through the conflict of children being effected by violent video games. By using the phrase surprising truth about violent video in order to appease to logos by having parents think Kozma 2 that they were right about the effects that violent video games have on their children. Another form of logos that the image uses is the message of Theft in order to appeal to people who have a bad predisposition towards violent video games, so that they feel that the image is agreeing with their thoughts on the subject, while addressing the time lost playing video games. By using the phrase what parents can to appeal to logos, the image gets the audience to want to know what they can do to fix the problem that they see. The image appeals to logos and ethos by having the titles of Ph.D. and Sc.D. on the bottom to have it backed by people who would be considered intelligent, so that the image feels reliable. The image uses a small child staring intently at the message to appeal to pathos by addressing the fact that children cannot see what the parents see the video games are doing to them, even though it is just an illusion, so that parents will feel bad for their children. The second image uses a relatable scenario to the audience in order to bring up the main issue they may have had playing video games. The intended audience for the second image are parents who have children of the relative age of 11 to 15. The second image uses a combination of logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos through the conversation of the oblivious children. By showing the children playing the games a and while talking about the topic of a student shooting up their school to appeal to logos and pathos, as the audience will see the reasoning for the children being violent are the games that they are playing, while also making the audience feel bad for the oblivious children who are playing the violent video games. The image shows the two children acting normal, to be more specific not violent, to appeal to logos to show that the issue is not the violent video games but the addiction to them. The image has the child on the right with his backpack sitting next to the arcade machine, meaning that he probably just came from school and instead of using the time after school to Kozma 3 study or do homework he is using it to play video games. The image has one of the children say kooky kid fired shots in his school. I suppose there were more to appeal to logos by having it address the fact that those who do shoot up their school are considered weird and out of the norm for even them. While the other child says do these weirdos come to appeal to ethos by making the audience feel sympathy for the child not realizing that the games they play may have something to do with that. The image uses its backing by the journal of Middle East and North Africa Sciences (MENA Sciences) in order to appeal to ethos as the image is backed by a reliable science journal source, which leads parents to think of it as trusting. The image uses the style of clothing, the backpack design, and the design of the arcade games to appeal to kairos by having a 1980s to 1990s style that the parents may relate to, having grown up in those times. The stakeholder uses both of these images in order to address the bigger issue to their audienc. By making both images applicable to the idea that violent video games have adverse effects on children it gets people to realize a bigger issue. Both images use the logos appeal in order to get a attention who believes that violent video games are bad for their children so that they will go along with the article. Ethos is used in both images to show that they are supported by people who have either done research into the subject and have firsthand knowledge on the subject. The images use pathos in order to get the audience to feel bad for the children, as they see them as being oblivious to what is right in front of them. Using both of the images the stakeholder address the problem of how people assume that the problem is violence in video games when it is actually the addiction to them. Kozma 4 Works Cited Gardner, Joshua. Video Games Make Kids ABC News, ABC News Network, 17 Dec. 2012. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Kleinman, Zoe. Do Video Games Make People  BBC News. BBC, 17 Aug. 2015. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Pack, Jenna. Breaking down an  Myreviewers. USF, 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Rockfeller, Jay. Effects of Violent Video Games on Children -  Why Do People Deny the Harmful Effects of Violent Video Games. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: The Rhetorical Situation. Purdue OWL, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Kozma 5 Kozma 6