Liam 1 Liam Travers Oana Cimpean Composition 2 Feb 27, 2017 Promoting Animal Equality Through Advertisements Many people interact with a variety of animals on a daily basis. Some people wake up and are greeted by their pet cat, dog, or even parrot, which they take care of. A majority of people visit zoos from time to time and view and animals as an activity for recreation. Some people who neither have a pet nor go to the zoo have eaten some meat. Animals are part of our daily lives and PETA, a stakeholder widely notorious for their extreme activism, promotes animal equality. According to their mission statement on their website, they oppose any animal cruelty including animal testing in laboratories and animals being kept in confined environments like zoos. PETA fights to shut down all companies and organizations that resort to animal cruelty for profit and are known for using shocking pictures and ads, strongly appealing to pathos. PETA endorses their idea of animal equality using rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos, kairos, and ethos to try and sway certain targeted audiences into supporting their campaign. They use these rhetorical appeals in the two advertisements I have selected to capture audiences and promote the ideal of animal equality. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that targets emotion in a person. My first picture appeals to pathos through sexual appeal. It has Pamela Anderson, who is a model, on what appears to be white bedding. This ad would most likely be directed toward a target audience of males because of the appeal of the opposite sex. On the first photo there is also a blue cow with a heart in the middle of it located in between the words, a heart, Go This also would appeal to pathos because the words, a have emotional appeal. Most people innately want to be good so the Liam 2 words, a would be appealing to the emotion of guilt and suggests people are doing wrong by not being vegan. The heart in the middle of the cow could be an arrangement to amplify the guilt people would feel from not turning to veganism and it suggests that cows have hearts too. The second image appeals to pathos by Yasmien Kurdi, a Philippian actress and singer, petting a chicken. This image is front and foremost on the ad to stress its importance. This is an appeal to pathos because of it triggers protective emotions in the audience because the chicken could be seen as These can be defined in, Studies: An Emerging by Joshua Dale of Tokyo Gakugei University. The article describes that, is in nature to present in animals such and birds as well as children that trigger a cuteness (Dale 6). According to the article it is in our biological wiring to be against harming cute things so this strengthens argument of not hurting animals. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal for the credibility of a work to the audience. Both of the two advertisements display ethos in a way that is effective to the audience by using popular figures to promote their ideals. Celebrities are often looked up to by many of their fans and even non-fans may recognize the familiar face and acquire a sense of credibility from that. The first image uses Canadian model and actress Pamela Anderson. Pamela Anderson is known for her acting in Baywatch and is a well-known celebrity in America. In the first image it also shows Pamela name in what appears to be cursive, suggesting a signature. This typography indicates that Pamela endorses this product on her own will. Although fame does not always correlate to credibility, she is instantly recognizable, appealing to the sense of ethos. Similarly, in the second advertisement, Filipina actress and singer/songwriter Liam 3 Yasmien Kurdi was depicted petting a chicken. Both of these actresses are in the middle of both advertisements displaying the importance of them. Logos is a rhetorical appeal that stimulates logic of situation and argument with the audience. My first image uses logos in a way that compares how humans are also animals. It depicts Pamela Anderson covered in black lines indicating the individual parts of the body, similar to how a cow is labeled to show the different kind of meat from its cuts. The depiction of Pamela Anderson with the black markings on her appeal to logos because it introduces the argument that people are the same as animals and that moral citizens mark a human this way. It displays this argument through the big letters, animals have the same This text is large and used in the top of the page to signify its importance. The color white used in the bedding might also be an appeal. White is mostly associated with virtuous and holy things such as the dove and light in the Christian religion. The color might be suggesting that Pamela Anderson is good and the audience should listen to her/PETAs argument that animals are equal to humans. The second photo appeals to logos through this same argument by the big headline, Chicks, go In the text, the word is larger and colored orange so it really pops out to the audience. This headline appeals to the target audience of feminists because they want equality. PETA tries to integrate this ideal with theirs in the headline so they can promote that animals should be equal to humans. Kairos is the rhetorical appeal to timeliness and being in the moment. Usually there is a call-to-action or an appeal to a situation that is timely. Both of advertisements exhibited have little to do with kairos, reliant more on its big hitting pathos appeal. Both of these images are relevant in modern life but kairos is not the strongest rhetorical appeal in these advertisements. The tone of both the Liam 4 advertisements suggests that the author firmly believes that humans and animals should be equal which makes the message that PETA is trying to convey strong Animal cruelty should be avoided when possible and PETA really stresses this idea through their campaigning. Out of all the rhetorical elements listed, pathos through outrageous images is something that PETA does best. Such images are effective because they make the audience stop and stare, which gives the advertisement attention. PETA has become very well recognized in popular media because of their ability to use advertisements that have strong rhetorical appeal. Liam 5 Liam 6 Works Cited About  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Dale, Joshua Paul. Cute Studies: An Emerging  Galegroup. East Asian Journal of Popular Culture, 2016. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Rebecca Vipond Brink 1.28.15 4:50 Pm. PETA Made Me Do It: The 7 Types Of Sexist PETA Ads That Turned Me To  The Frisky. N.p., 28 Jan. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.