Mousa 1 Mohamed Mousa Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC1102.024 12 march 2017 National Collegiate Athletic Association Student-athletes are considered the future of sports. They are student they are either born with a unique talent towards a sport which is then improved and enhanced through the passion, dedication and hard work they put into their practice. However, with this talent comes responsibility, student-athletes are required to go through a series of events which are often packed between practice and studying and most importantly their personal life, this also means that these events may or may not be easy. The National Collegiate Athletic Association is a non- profit organization that organizes the athletic programs of many colleges and universities. Student-athletes are considered young as they are students, in other words, many are still teenagers. The NCAA came up with rule called the this rule backs up the idea of how student-athletes are still young and that they are not yet responsible enough to make critical actions on their own, such as managing money, fame and professional signing as of yet, when stated NCAA membership has adopted amateurism rules to ensure that priority remains on obtaining a quality educational experience and that all of the student-athletes are competing (Amateurism 1). The NCAA is responsible for all actions, furthermore, they strive to turn student-athletes into professional athletes. The NCAA believes in the term speaks louder than therefore, what they are trying to achieve may not be briefly explained in the images but the images provided reflect to their goals in a way that it Mousa 2 matches a sport and the student-athletes themselves in the struggle of peeking both in the sports and in person. In the first image, provided by the NCAA website, shows a basketball stadium with colorful seats, a cameraman and tickets being sold, with prices labelled under each of them. The entire theme relates to logic as a sport must include a stadium or a field and different methods of watching, which are in this case; the television and the tickets indicating that people would go in person to watch the sport. The use of logos in this concludes what type of sport is in the picture which is basketball with the help of the outlined court. By showing the type of sport used with the indication of the profit gained through live television and stadium tickets, reflects to one of the goals as they are known to be a non-profit organization, yet as stated NCAA supports operational expenses and student-athlete travel (The NCAA Budget). As this profit is filtered through many segments, meaning that whatever income the NCAA obtain is not directly going to their bank account but instead it is once more spent on the student-athletes, as stated in the quote by the NCAA. Furthermore, the image shows a colorful bench which may indicate that the stadium is filled all around, in a way the job is to prepare student- athletes to such occasion, parents, fans and scouts are people who are usually the people that interested in the sport and are the main reason behind the filled stadiums. As many emotions are moved in this matter, more specifically student-athletes train their whole life for the moment where they get to play in front of numbered crowd therefore, the appeal to pathos shows how students are usually motivated when they whiteness that much interest is being put onto them and the sport, mainly them. furthermore, the parents, the fans and the scouts all want to see their kids/athletes in the best state possible and the numbers provided in the image indicate how much people are willing to put into watching the student-athletes play. Mousa 3 The intended audience include the student-athlete themselves, the parents and the sports fans. What the NCAA aim to do is provide the people with the best image of the student-athletes and show how much work and money is being put into providing the sport with the best student- athletes possible. As for the student-athletes themselves this should be considered a motive to them as they are viewing what is the feedback behind their hard work and dedication. In the second image, it shows a series of words in different colors, fonts, and formation. They are considered to be the thoughts that go through the mind in the time of them being student-athletes. The use of different fonts helps indicate what is most to least important to student-athletes. Words such as teammates and provide an idea of what is known to be mostly important to student-athletes. The use of ethos, relates to the words provided in big fonts, proving that the NCAA are keeping their promise, which is looking out for the student-athletes and help them maintain a safe and healthy mentality, keeping them focused on what is important. Throughout the string of thoughts, the image shows other thoughts that go through the mind of a student-athlete. Through the pressure and the tight schedule this leads to student-athletes wondering what more can they do, more specifically what other activities can they do, such as other sports for fun, maintain a social life and managing their grades. It is logical for teenagers to have such thoughts, as they will only mature and become more familiar with situations through experience, as the NCAA stated experience of college athletics and the life lessons they learn along the way will help them peruse careers in other (Probability of Competing Beyond High School). Thoughts such as trips, fun and bonding all play a role in the mentality of student-athletes besides the help of the NCAA, it is up to the student-athletes to choose the right environment to surround themselves with. Furthermore, in the image the NCAA used specific words and painted them with the color green, these often Mousa 4 refer to the most important part of their lives. As family, friends, love and sports all emotionally affect the student-athletes, factors are associated with stress in collegiate student athletes despite support from institutions and (Comeaux and Harrison). Although the quote does mention the word it is still clear that parents are known to be a main source of motivation and the safest source they lead to in a time of need. The outcome of any change in the thoughts mentioned can affect a point in their either positively or negatively. The appeal to pathos, includes what the student-athletes rely on as their sense of motivation and what they consider is a safe environment. To the audiences they are usually reflecting to these thoughts, as they may be parents, kids, positional student-athletes and more. This image, is very close to the first image when it comes to the audiences. It specifically mentions the future student-athletes and the parents. Advertising how important the student- athletes to the NCAA and that they will support them at all costs. The thoughts that go through the mind is very detailed and well themed out, it makes it easier for the future student-athletes to relate easily. These two images illustrate the intentions of the student-athletes. Both images send a message clarifying the concerns and care the NCAA puts into the student-athletes. Overall, the NCAA hopes that they continue to do what they do best which is to turn student-athletes in professional athletes. The NCAA is an organization the works with many facilities, high schools, colleges and universities and tend to spend a lot of money to provide the student-athletes with the best facilities possible. Student-athletes bring joy to the millions that support sports and they tend to the play with the emotions of the dedicated fans. Therefore, it is very important that they are prepared in a civilized, classy way that fits with their talent, and represent the school they learnt everything from. Mousa 5 Works Cited Hwang, S., & Choi, Y. (2016). Data mining in the exploration of stressors among NCAA student athletes. Psychological Reports, (3), 787. Doi:10.1177/0033294116674776 Lodge, Alexander. Afraid of the Big Bad NCAA? ... The Ed Impact on the Amateurism the journal of corporation law, 2016/04/01, Vol: 41, p775 Rifenburg M. (2016). Supporting Student-Athletes Writes: A Case Study of a Division I Writing Center and NCAA Academic Mandates. Writing Center Journal, 37(1/2), 61-84. Mousa 6