1 Thiago Leal Figueira Instructor: Sabah Firoz Uddin ENC 1101 Composition I Economic impacts of high skilled immigrants in the United States Immigration is a polemic subject, particularly in the United States. This polemic is, in part, due to its social aspects, since immigrants come from other countries, bringing different cultures, thoughts, and physical features. They can promote a healthy cultural exchange or they may not be well accepted and racism issues may appear. However, one of the main discussions concerning immigration is about its economic aspects, and what effects it has on native employment. Over the past two decades to the present, scholars continue to debate about the labor market impact of high skilled immigrant professionals in the United States. Depending on the economic model and on the U.S. born skill level, they predict different effects on American wages and job opportunities. A economy is a complex system, and it is not easy to predict the results for an input, like immigrant inflow. In the paper Do Concerns About Labor Market Competition Shape Attitudes Toward Immigration? New Evidence, Jens Hainmueller, et al. say that main theoretical models used to study the impact of immigration generate divergent predictions about its likely effects on the wages and employment of native (193). It means that different models are going to take different assumptions into evaluation, depending on what each one of them considers to be important, thus, different results might be expected. 2 A closed-economy model, also known as factor-proportion analysis, is a model that does not take international trade market into consideration and it claims that immigrants pose as substitutes for native workers (Hainmueller, et al., 194). In Labor Market Competition and Individual Preferences over Immigration Policy, Kenneth Scheve and Matthew Slaughter say that this is one of the models most used by labor economists to analyze the impacts of immigration inflow into a country (133). The authors also say that, according to this model, immigrants are going to compete with native workers on the labor market, resulting in less job opportunities and reduction of wages. They also claim that these effects are going to be particularly more intense among workers that have the same skill level of the immigrants (Scheve and Slaughter, 133). Therefore, considering this labor market competition hypotheses, the inflow of high skilled immigrants would supposedly contribute to decrease wages of high skilled native workers. The author April Linton, in Immigration And The Structure Of Demand: Do Immigrants Alter The Labor Market Composition Of U.S. Cities?, agrees with Scheve and Slaughter that the immigrant presence has a negative effect on the U.S. born workers that shares the same skill level. The authors observes that an in the number of comparably skilled would decrease the wages and employment opportunities of natives they (59). They make a point that, considering that they have the same level of skills, immigrants might pose as competitors to native workers, and this would be prejudicial to the U.S. born labor force. The author Neil Malhotra, in Economic Explanations for Opposition to Immigration: Distinguishing between Prevalence and Conditional Impact, also endorses the position that immigration can be harmful to wages and job opportunities if the labor market competition is a valid hypotheses on the analysis (392). 3 On the other hand, Hainmueller, et al. say that considering an open-economy model, the effect of immigrant inflow might be neglected or even beneficial to U.S. native workers, in some circumstances (194, 195). In this economic model, also known as model, the authors say that offsets the impact of immigration as the economy adjusts to any change in factor supplies by importing less of the goods that can now be produced locally at a lower (194). According to the authors, the immigrants might supply a labor force that were not present in the country before, working in a sector that used to import some good or perform part of a service overseas. Their presence would make possible for this good or service to be performed within the country, thus, reducing costs. The author claims that in this situation, the effect on native wages would be neglected and the presence of immigrants could also raise wages of workers with a different skill level from them (Hainmueller, et al. 195). Similarly, Linton observes that if the immigrants have different skills from the U.S. born workers, they might pose as complements on the labor market, presenting no effects on employment opportunities or wages (59). The author states that immigrants fill occupational niches that would not exist in their (58). The author points out that there might be situations in which the sector may not exist, at least not in the same scale, if it were not for the immigrant presence (59). Additionally, besides the predictions made by the theoretical models, Malhotra et al. observes that even in situations where there is labor market competition, whose impact is meaningful and quite (392), the effects might not be noticeable because this is generally not prevalent among (392). It means that, when the immigrants represent competitors, their presence can be harmful to native wages and employment opportunities, however, this competition scenario has not been largely found in the United States, i.e., the phenomenon has not been 4 (392). In accordance with it, Linton says that occupational distribution of the foreign born is indeed quite different from that of (59). By this, the author means that the scenario of immigrants as complements is more present than as competitors (Linton, 59). Therefore, despite different points of view, the conversation can achieve a common point, that can group all their claims. High skilled immigrants might contribute to lower wages e reduce job opportunities of native workers, if a closed- economy model is considered, and the immigrants pose as competitors to the native counterparts with same skills. Conversely, considering an open-economy model, and situations where the immigrants have different skills from the U.S. born labor force, they are going represent market complements, with economic effect that can be neglected or even positive. Moreover, the economic impact of high skilled immigrants as competitors has not been prevalent in the United States, thus, it has not presented meaningful effects in the labor market. 5 Works Cited Hainmueller, Jens, Michael J. Hiscox, and Yotam Margalit. Do Concerns About Labor Market Competition Shape Attitudes Toward Immigration? New  Journal Of International Economics, vol. 97, 2015, pp. 193-207. Scheve, Kenneth F., and Slaughter, Matthew J. Labor Market Competition and Individual Preferences over Immigration  The Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 83, no. 1, 2001, pp. 133-145. Linton, April. Immigration And The Structure Of Demand: Do Immigrants Alter The Labor Market Composition Of U.S.  International Migration Review, vol. 36, no. 1, 2002, pp. 23-58. Malhotra, Neil, Margalit, Yotam and Hyunjung, Cecilia. Economic Explanations for Opposition to Immigration: Distinguishing between Prevalence and Conditional  American Journal of Political Science, vol. 57, no. 2, 2013, pp. 391- 410.77