DOES TRYING TO HEAL RESULT IN HURTING? 1 Jennifer Moreno Casey Clague ENC 1102.076 28 February 2017 Does Trying to Heal Result in Hurting? At this point in time, most people are aware of the existence of mental illnesses. They are diseases that can be just as detrimental as a physical ailment, and they affect the families of those that are diagnosed with it, as well as the people who are diagnosed themselves. However, the topic of health insurance and care for those with mental illnesses is debated. Those that support mental parity, or the legislation that allows mental health to receive the same amount of insurance coverage as physical health, believe in the idea that people need to treat mental illnesses with the same concern that they do with physical illnesses. Organizations such as the United States Department of Labor support mental parity and choose to use images that use logos, ethos, and pathos to convince their audience to support it as well. On the other hand, those who are against mental parity, such as The Alliance for Human Research Protection, feel that mental health treatment can be damaging on the patients and that mental parity can result in a heavier monetary burden. For this reason, this organization also uses logos, ethos, and kairos to support their idea. Both sides of these argument use similar rhetorical appeals in order to support their beliefs, though they use them in different ways. The United States Department of Labor chooses to use a picture that informs the reader and provides their credibility to persuade their audience to agree with them and see the benefits related to mental parity. This image uses the rhetorical appeal of logos through the words that are on it; these words say one in five American adults will experience a diagnosable mental DOES TRYING TO HEAL RESULT IN HURTING? 2 health condition this and than Half of all Americans know someone in recovery from a substance abuse These statistics are used by the Department of Labor to establish a common ground between them and their audience that they are trying to convince. Though everyone in their audience might not have personal experience with mental health issues, providing numbers, like 1 in 5, or saying more than half of the population are familiar with this experience will make this situation more relatable. This could lead the audience to consider that, with these statistics, it is likely that one of their loved ones is familiar with this experience. With this new perspective, they may be more likely to consider the impact of supporting and embracing mental parity, as it could provide much needed help for anyone they know that is dealing with a mental illness or mental health issue. In addition to using facts and statistics to make their information relatable to readers, the Department of Labor also uses their credibility to convince their audience and some coloring to evoke emotion. On their image, they provide a source of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration as well as a link to the Department of website. Both of these sources are reputable and this will help to convince their audience that their information is valuable. Seeing that this information is coming from a credible, reliable source confirms the validity of the information, so the consumer will consider this information more seriously, and will feel more inclined to agree with their argument. In addition, though the image might seem a bit plain to be using pathos, its design fits its purpose and there is usage of a very strong color (red). The picture has a very straightforward design that is packed with a lot of information. Though some people may lose interest because there are so many words present, they do provide two graphics representing a mental process and pills. Aside from these images to draw in the audience, the Department of labor also chooses to use bold font, with some words also in DOES TRYING TO HEAL RESULT IN HURTING? 3 red. According to Raetta Parker, red is a highly visible color that brings text to the foreground and it represents strength, power, and danger (1). The organization chose to use this vibrant color to attract their attention on this possibly dangerous topic. They are discussing the large amount of Americans that deal with a mental illness or substance abuse, and these problems are so prevalent that they could very well be affecting many people in their audience. Since they are supporting a program that will be assisting those in this situation, they would like their consumers to support this topic strongly. On the contrary, The Alliance for Human Research Protection does not support parity, and they choose to use different methods to persuade their consumers to agree with them. The image that they choose also uses a logical appeal, however they portray their statistics differently. This image uses bar graphs and a bar chart rather than just words and images. These visual representations make the information especially clear, particularly through the use of color-coding. This image specifically uses these charts to describe information concerning suicides in Chicago, separated by race, age, and method. This method of portraying the information allows the consumer to feel that they are truly learning substantial information, while also giving them some perspective on what percentage of suicides can apply to them or their loved ones (in terms of race and age). This connection can allow the audience to take the information more seriously, and at the same time, with more personal emotion. Considering emotion, this image uses the colors light blue and red-orange to evoke emotion. The color light blue is associated with healing, understanding and softness, while red- orange is associated with passion and aggression (Parker 1). They chose to use these colors to indicate how they are understanding of these people, but they are passionate towards and angered by their deaths. Perhaps they are also trying to indicate that their deaths might have been DOES TRYING TO HEAL RESULT IN HURTING? 4 prevented should they have received more healing. The Alliance for Human Research Protection states on its website some of these reasons that they oppose parity: one of those being that they feel that mental health services and treatments can be more hurtful than helpful to some people. They cite several examples of health declining after undergoing mental health treatment, some of it being physical and some of it mental. Therefore, the audience can understand the message that parity is not always helping to heal people who are afflicted with a mental illness. In conclusion, though both those that support and oppose mental parity use logos and pathos in images to portray their beliefs, they both use these methods differently. The different applications of these similar methods make the message and the meaning of their messages different, and this allows each of them to provide effective images to persuade their consumers. Regardless of a opinion on this topic, it is clear that there is evidence to support each side. DOES TRYING TO HEAL RESULT IN HURTING? 5 DOES TRYING TO HEAL RESULT IN HURTING? 6 References 4 compelling reasons against Mental Health Parity. (2014, November 21). Retrieved from http://ahrp.org/4-compelling-reasons-against-mental-health-parity/ Loose Screws Mental Health News. (2009, July 30). Retrieved from https://depressionintrospection.wordpress.com/2009/02/17/loose-screws-mental-health- news-3/ Mental Health and Substance Use Disorder Parity. (2017, January 25). Retrieved from https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa/laws-and-regulations/laws/mental-health-and- substance-use-disorder-parity/ Parker, R. (n.d.). The Meaning of Colors. Retrieved March 17, 2017, from meaningofcolors.htm