Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102.704 26 March 2017 Homelessness: The hope for living in a Better Tomorrow As of 2007 twenty-three percent of homeless people in America are part of a family and 1,682,900 are unaccompanied youth. As stated on nationalhomeless.org, the percent numbers might actually be higher; homeless families often double up with other When this happens, it makes it harder for to calculate. On nationalhomeless.org they continue to state that due to this are exempt from the federal definition of chronic This issue is important because the number of homeless families are continuously on the rise. Children of homeless families are more likely at risk for health issues such as asthma because of their environment. As stated on nationalhomeless.org children also experienced more mental health problems such as anxiety, depression, and When it comes to the parents of these homeless families, they tend to suffer from depression. On the other hand, of the millions of unaccompanied youth who are homeless, about 6% are a part of the LGBT community. A lot of these homeless unaccompanied youth fall victim to homelessness due to three reasons problems, economic problems, and residential as stated on nationalhomeless.org. Dealing with homelessness as an unaccompanied youth makes them susceptible to mental illnesses such as anxiety and depression, along with sexually transmitted diseases due to exchanging sex for necessities like clothes. In order to make the best possible Student 2 solution for those less fortunate there has to be a compromise between the two organizations; providing housing programs as well as educating the public. There are several organizations who strive to combat these issues. First one being the National Coalition for the homeless at http://nationalhomeless.org who strive to create a where everyone has a safe, decent, affordable, accessible they do this through education and bringing awareness. National Coalition for the homeless was founded in 1981 by Robert Hayes. The whole push behind this organization was a lawsuit that he was a part of. The case allowed homeless people to shelter in New York City as stated on the website. The National Alliance to End Homelessness uses the same concept of education to get the results that they want. An advocate for this is Nan Roman Plenary who just last year held a conference where she educated thousands while advocating for the millions of homeless people in America today. Due to this there has been an increase in the amount of funds to support them. On the National website, they state that House of Appropriations Committee voted to provide $2,487 billion for McKinney in FY 2017, a $237 million The website also states how with this money it will communities to house $40,000 more homeless With these examples the community is able to see how much educating the public has great results. By siding with this organization there will be more conferences as well as potentially stronger advocacy. The problem arises with the question the money produce Basically how will the community know if the money will be used effectively? Honestly, there is not a right answer to the questions. Especially if the amount of homeless people continue to rise, it will be harder and harder to support those in need. This is where the community will look to another organization. One that constantly provides results. Student 3 Another organization that wants to combat homelessness is the U.S. Department of housing and development www.hud.gov. This organization wants to a strong, sustainable, inclusive communities and quality affordable homes for In order for this to work this organization provides various housing programs. In contrast to the coalition who educates, this organizations does a little of both. By educating as well as providing a lot of people will find this more effective. An advocate for this organization is Ben Carson, who was appointed to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Due to the drastic need for more housing programs, Ben will begin the push for change and reform by Rather than holding conferences and such, HUD takes the issue into their own hands. The HUD as three different housing programs for the millions who are on the street; emergency, transitional, and permanent housing. They also include things such as food stamps that help provide food and necessities for those in need. The HUD is very dedicated to ensuring the best for people. One of the many programs they have is the Youth Homeless Demonstration Program (YHDP). With this program they grants to communities to support the development and implementation of a coordinated By adding this method to the one of the Coalitions, there would be the first steps to providing a better tomorrow. In order to provide a possible solution, there needs to be a compromise. The common ground for these two organizations is to create housing for all people. Although both organizations want the same outcome they both go about it in different ways. The national Coalition for the homeless uses education and advocacy to make progress while the housing department actually provides housing. The first step would be to educate those who are more fortunate. In order to do this there would be conferences held by advocates from each organization. That way both sides are able to give their plans on the future on homelessness. By Student 4 educating others, the population will be more aware of what is actually going on in society and realize that many are not homeless because they are or but because they fell on hard times. The next step would to be to ensure that all money being collected has obvious results. Meaning that there is an increase in housing programs and programs that help parents of families and the youth get back on their feet. The programs for the youth would be somewhat like starter programs. Ones that they can go to and pick up where they left off in school, receive their GED and begin thinking about what they will do in their future. The programs for the parents will provide temporary housing while helping the parents find jobs. That way there is one less thing for the parents to worry about. In addition, there can also be programs that benefit the 6% of youth who are a part of the LGBT community. Outreach groups that will allow the youth to feel like they are cared for and not alone. This will potentially help decrease the number of homeless youth who decide to take their own life. The groups will be beneficially for everyone, especially the ones who turn to illegal actions in order to survive. Such as theft, prostitution, and the selling of illegal substances. If the two organizations come together and help those who have fallen through the cracks there will potentially also be a decrease in the number of homeless youth involved in illegal activity. Furthermore, in order for there to be hope for living in a better tomorrow the compromise needs to be enforced. The amount of homeless families and youth can drastically decrease if the compromise is implemented. Twenty-three percent of homeless people in America are part of a family and 1,682,900 are unaccompanied youth. It is time to take the necessary steps towards improvement for a better tomorrow. Student 5 Works Cited Foscarinis, Maria. Ben Carson, Housing, And Homelessness: Opportunities And  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 05 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Homeless Assistance/U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development  Homeless Assistance/U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). HUD, 2017. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. HUD Policy  HUD Exchange. HUD, 2017. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Klein, Julie. Contact Your  FY2017 Funding. N.p., 2017. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. National Coalition for the  National Coalition for the Homeless. N.p., 11 Oct. 2011. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Student 6