Sherer 1 Julie Sherer Professor Pearlstone ENC 1102 11 March 2017 The Campaign to Stop Killer Coke Coca Cola is one of the most recognizable and profitable brands in the world. Yet, the majority of consumers know the behind the scenes of the creation of favorite soda. There have been many reports of violence, water pollution, discrimination, child labor, and unsolved deaths throughout the overseas Coca Cola factories In India, there have been accusations of Coca Cola draining the local groundwater and virtually dehydrating the local farms. There are many organizations across the world that work to put an end to the unfair treatment towards those who are affected by Coca Cola. The Campaign to Stop Killer Coke is a worldwide movement that is committed to seeing justice prevail for those who are affected by the gruesome cycle of violence We By using these advertisements, which contain ethos, logos, and pathos, The Campaign is raising awareness to the abundant amount of water Coca Cola is taking from India. Through the clever representation of Coca Cola as a greedy parched man and a mosquito, these two images, as posted on The Campaign to Stop Killer Coke website, utilize the rhetorical appeals to inform the general public of the unfair treatment in India. The Campaign to Stop Killer Coke uses an image of an underprivileged community to represent the overwhelming amount of water Coca Cola is consuming. The audience can see two individuals: a local woman and a man, representing Coca Cola by drinking from the community well. The woman is walking bare foot to the well with a bucket on her head; the look on her face Sherer 2 is horrified as she see a billion dollar company drinking from her limited water supply. In the background, you see a small house that appears to be built out of straw. This woman clearly lives in an underdeveloped country; therefore, this image appeals to pathos. These design choices make the audience feel sad for not only the poor woman, but the entire community whose water is being taken. In addition, there is a glass bottle of Coke replacing the tie. The brand name appeals to ethos through establishing a level of credibility of this well-known corporation. Overall, this image sends a message to the audience that shows the unthinkable act of a company draining local groundwater in a third world country, which once again, produces an emotional response from the audience. In the second image, Coca Cola is being represented by a mosquito sucking water out of India. Coca Cola is in a desperate need for a steady water flow in order to create their product. It takes three liters of water to create one liter of Coke Cola: Drinking the World Although Coca Cola is originally an American company, they are taking water from India since it is easier than taking water from American soil. This is a very simple image that tells a bigger more powerful story through the rhetorical appeals, logos and pathos. As a successful company, Coca Cola was not happy when they saw The Campaign to Stop Killer Coke represent them as a blood sucking pest. Logically, the mosquito also represents reasonable doubt in discrediting Coca Cola as a people first company. However, they have been accused of dehydrating local farms and putting them out of work. In appealing to pathos, once Coca Cola or the mosquito leaves India, there will not be any water left for the local communities to drink or for the farmers to use. This image provokes a sympathetic response from the audience by presenting a factual situation between Coca Cola and India. Through these two rhetorical appeals, The Campaign to Sherer 3 Stop Killer Coke sufficiently relays the message to the general public that Coca Cola is draining India dry. The purpose of creating these images is to not only inform the public, but for the public to take a stand against Coca Cola dehydrating foreign communities. The intended audience for both photos is the general public and companies who have contracts with Coca Cola. The Campaign to Stop Killer Coke was intending that the viewers would either refrain from drinking Coke products, or would protest against these unlawful actions. In addition, there are many companies that serve Coke products; therefore, The Campaign to Stop Killer ideal outcome when creating these images was for these companies to cancel their contracts with Coca Cola. All in all, these images were created to produce a reaction out of the viewers in order to raise awareness and for the consumers and companies with contracts to take action. Water shortage is a serious problem for poverty stricken countries. These two images adequately convey a strong message about the water crisis in India. The images are very simple, but the meaning as whole is what sends a strong message. Through the use of ethos, logos, and pathos, The Campaign to Stop Killer Coke informs the general public on the water crisis in India. One of their goals is to encourage the general public to take a stance on the unlawful actions committed by Coca Cola. Coca Cola should consider other ways or other places to obtain the water needed to create their products. Sherer 4 Works Cited Who We The Campaign to Stop Killer Coke About. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Coca-Cola: Drinking the World  War on Want. N.p., 23 June 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  Campaign to Stop Killer Coke. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Sherer 5 Sherer 6