Zeinab 1 Talal Zeinab ENC1102 Noah Pearlstone February 24 2017 The Power of Twitter Twitter is an online news and network service that is considered as one of the most popular social networking sites on a global scale. It is agreeable that the daily usage of Twitter has become the norm in the contemporary world. The social networking features are what make it captivating to its users, providing them with an outstanding platform for communication. most popular feature is the which is a message or a post restricted to 140 characters, which users share to express themselves and interact with others. The idea of a started small, but progressively grew to become a worldwide trend for people of all ages, leading to the ultimate success of Twitter. Over the years, popularity only grew larger amongst people. According to Shannon Greenwood, Andrew Perrin and Maeve Duggan of the Pew Research Center, 24% of online adults (21% of all Americans) use  (7). Evidently, Twitter grew to become somewhat of a necessity in the lives of Americans. Based on this notion, Twitter has become a leading force in the world of communication, a power that should not be ignored due its preference as one of the best means of interaction and socialization. The first image produced by the Twitter company is the illustration of a study, showing how active Twitter users are and what they have to say about the site. The second image is Cameron very first tweet, a cartoon showing Diaz using her Twitter app on her phone while on a vacation. Zeinab 2 Both images use varied rhetorical strategies, including pathos, ethos, logos and kairos, to further empower message; to attract as many potential users as possible. Twitter advertises images targeted specifically to potential customers. The first chosen image represents statistics on usage of twitter, and with the provided statistics, the image is highly appealing to the targeted audience through the use of various rhetorical strategies. Pathos is one of the rhetorical strategies that is present in this image. According to James Jasinksi, author of a book titled Sourcebook on Rhetoric,  Pathos is commonly used to ensure that the target audience can emotionally relate with the  (421). The way this image incorporates pathos is through this specific statistic, which states that 47% of the users agree that Twitter means  or a cure for . When seeing such a great percentage of the current Twitter users expressing the emotional relief they experience when accessing Twitter, the targeted audience will most certainly become encouraged to join the social network in order to receive the same satisfaction as the current users. Another rhetorical strategy that is present in the image is ethos, which is the appeal to credibility. What makes this image easily credible and believable to the audience is the fact that it was produced and published by Twitter themselves. The fact that a powerful and popular network such as Twitter is presenting this image along with these statistics implies credibility. Logos is also presented in the image through other provided statistics. The research experimented by the Twitter company states that 81% of users check Twitter once a  and that 60% tweet at least once . These statistics provide logic to the audience. The fact that the statistics show how highly active the current Twitter users are must indicate that Twitter is a superb social networking site. Although not explicit in the image, kairos is somewhat used to further attract the audience. Seeing all these statistics and how satisfied the Twitter users are Zeinab 3 energizes the audience to join the social network as soon as possible in order to catch up on all the enjoyment. These different rhetorical strategies used in only one image all play a part in empowering ability to advertise and attract. The second image is Cameron very first tweet on Twitter. This image, also produced by the Twitter company, uses various rhetorical strategies to achieve purpose of attracting new users. mission statement is, To give everyone the power to create and share ideas and information instantly, without  (About Twitter). Twitter, through its mission statement, implies that anyone is welcome to joining the Twitter world, encouraging celebrities to get involved. Cameron Diaz is a famous American actress, and no one can help advertise any campaign like a celebrity. Her earliest tweet is a cartoon of her holding a cell phone and scrolling through the Twitter feed while on vacation. This image is abundant with various rhetorical appeals. The initial rhetorical appeal that can be spotted is pathos, the appeal to emotion. The fluorescent colors along with the surfboard and palms trees in the background, insinuate something unique about Twitter that makes the network stand out between all other social networking sites. Getting on Twitter is like going on a mini getaway, making the users feel as if they are on a vacation, away from all the burdens and whelms of their regular daily lives. An image like this one will easily grab the attention of the audience, and encourage them to get on Twitter to live the advertised experience. Logos, the appeal to logic, is another strategy used in this image. Celebrities are known to have a busy life, always being caught up with preparations and rehearsals for movies. The fact that Cameron Diaz, a celebrity with a prolific stature, has time to get on Twitter and stay active, strongly suggests that Twitter is something no one wants to miss out on, a no-brainer for the targeted audience. Ethos, the appeal to credibility, is clearly presented in this image. The fact that a celebrity like Cameron Diaz is an Zeinab 4 active Twitter use indicates that Twitter is the real deal. Like the first image, although not explicit, kairos is presented within the second image. Celebrity activity, staying updated on local and global news through the Twitter news feed, and the feeling of being on vacation when active on Twitter are all things that make it hard for the audience to resist. The image indirectly urges the audience to join Twitter as soon as possible, stressing the enjoyment that they are missing out on. Clearly, the images advertised by Twitter strengthen their campaign and allows to succeed in attracting as many customers as possible. Decisively, the paramount intention of the presented images are to attain as many potential customers as possible. Both messages incorporate the use of various rhetorical strategies to accomplish this intention. Pathos, logos, ethos and kairos are all used in different forms to grab the attention of the audience, whether through statistics, eye-catching colors or even celebrities. Ultimately, the way these images are interpreted and understood by the targeted audience will dictate how many users the stakeholder succeeds in attracting. Zeinab 5 Works Cited About  N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Greenwood, Shannon, Andrew Perrin, and Maeve Duggan. Social Media Update  Pew Research Center. N.p., 11 Nov. 2016. Web. Jasinski, James.  Sourcebook on Rhetoric. California: Thousand Oaks, 2001. 421. Print. Zeinab 6