Abdulrahman Alharbi 3/8/2017 ENC1101 Intermediate Draft Human and the environment Through the history, the way of expression, writing and talk change.some time it chamge to be more scholer or more bias. No matter waht it change to it focus on getting the attention and also gaining his trust. By comparing four article, two of them published between 1993 and 2005 and the other two are published between 2010 and 20017, we can see the similarity between the four articles and the difference. In first two articles, Effects of Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals in Wildlife and by Colborn, T, FS vom Saal and Human-caused environmental change: impacts on plant diversity and by These two article are focus on the environment change that happened. The first article was published in 1993s and talked about the amount of chemical that realest in the air during the world war 2 or in other word during the industrial revolution in 1940s. Before the author published the article, he noticed what is happening to the environment and did search for it and found that the amount of chemical that released in the air during 1940 was one of reason for the environmental change that happened in 1993. In second article was published in 2001 and the author was aware of the environmental changes that happened and he tried explaining that this changes that happened in the environment until 2001 are because of human and happen by itself. By comparing the two articles, you can see they are similar to each other and they are both agree that the environment changes is a real thing and people should be more aware of it. Like in the first article when the author write about the amount of chemical that released in the air since world war 2, he want to give the reader the choice to imaging the amount of chemicals that the author talks about, industrial revolution, wappens factory, and the worse the invention of nuclear bomb. All of that was reason for change of environment that the author want to put it in reader mind and short it by saying world war In the second article, it was published in 2001. The author start his article by accusing human for the environmental change and start to pointing out that these changes are going to take some time to appear. Then he started to warning the people that if these changes stop, it well lead to Then the author start to explain how can these modification (changes) could let to human extension like how it did to some plans and some animals and human are the responsible for it. Difference between the two articles that are in the first article the author started his article with an information then he start to warn the people if the problem continue what would happen next. In the second article the author started with accusing human then started to warn them about the consequences. Both article left the reader to deep thinking about the future. But there was different in the sound in both article. The first article sounds in the begin normal but when continuing reading it turned more serious. Though in sconed article the author start with a serious sound, then turned in warning sound, then continue the his article with normal sound. The second two articles Future of the by Gregory J. Vogl, the Paris Climate by Coral Davenport are different from the first two These two article are showing that people are becoming more aware about the changes that are happening to the environment. In the first article, the author talks about how people are becoming more aware about the environmental and how after 1970 there has been rise in the awareness. Cars, homes, and business are becoming more environment friendly. In the second article, the author talks about the Paris climate agreement. It was a conference that discussed an important issue that concerned the environment. Mostly, the conference focus on global warming and how people the governments can face it. Both two article are agreed that people and government are becoming more aware of the climate change thing and start to working together to reduce the problem. After the paris . conference countries agreed to reduce deforestation. That is going to help reducing air pollution. That show that in this time, governments are concerned about the environment and start working limiting human effects on earth. In the second article, the author noted that after 1970 the rate of awareness has increased. Probably because the war world II ends in that time. By locking to the first two article, one of them talked that the lots of chemical has released in the air since 1940. Between 1940 and 1960, the war was on but after the end of it, people start to be aware of the mess that the war caused during that time. By locking two the all four sources, you get some time connection in it. It start at 1960 war world 2 like the first article mentioned that a lot of chemicals has been released in the air in that time. Then the environment started to change because of the chemicals like the second article mentioned. the n people and the government start to be more aware of these changes and start work together to save the environment by creating less polluted home, cars and decreasing deforestation like the last two articles mentioned. Work cited Colborn, T, F S vom Saal, and A M Soto. Effects of Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals in Wildlife and Health Perspectives 101.5 (1993): Print. Coral Davenport, Justin Gillis, Sewell Chan and Melissa Eddy. Inside the Paris Climate  New York Times . The New York Times, 12 Dec. 2015. Web. 08 Mar. 2017. Sharpe, Richard M., and D. Stewart Irvine. How strong is the evidence of a link between environmental chemicals and adverse effects on human reproductive  British Medical Journal 328.7437 (2004): 447. Tilman, David, and Clarence Lehman. Human-caused environmental change: impacts on plant diversity and  of the National Academy of Sciences 98.10 (2001): 5433-5440.