Alomar1 Bander Alomar Anastasia Khawaja 03/10/2017 Equality and rights Almost in every culture or country equality has become one of the most essential part of human lives. equality is not a concept. not something we should be striving for. a necessity. Equality is like gravity. We need it to stand on this earth as men and women. (Whedon) Gender equality is still an issue in many countries. The United State for instance, has suffered from gender equality for many years. Long time ago, Females were not a major part of the society as males have, they have lacked of rights in many spheres. Nowadays women have many accesses to equality than before. How this fascinating shift has happened overtime, and how the injustice between genders can affect their creativity and productivity. Therefore, equality and right will be discussed along with scho Women has made many movements to liberate themselves to earn equality with men. Many women activists have sacrificed the most to move their gender into a better level in societies. to Lind, looking at the efforts of females to share in governing the American society despite the objections of ruling groups, we can better judge what the women of the last two centuries accomplished by focusing on the voting right as their path to Women in the United States in the past were not allowed to vote, 1920 was one of the greatest shifts for women where they earned the right to vote. According to History.com, War slowed the campaign but helped them advance their argument Alomar2 nonetheless: work on behalf of the war effort, activists pointed out, proved that they were just as patriotic and deserving of citizenship as men, and on August 26, 1920, the to the Constitution was finally Was a great achievement for women gender after many sacrifices done by many activists and organizations. Moreover, women have faced many obstacles to demand their freedom. However they were allowed to join the military just before the WWI ending. Thousands of women served as nurses and proved that women can manage crucial tasks. Furthermore, in the 1960s women gender have earned many rights than before, inside homes or even in work or business fields. According to T. Walsh, of the most profound changes was happening in the bedroom. By the end of the Sixties, more than 80 percent of wives of childbearing age were using contraception after the federal government in 1960 approved a birth control That could illustrate how females suffered from the lack of rights until the day they decided to demand their equality. Moreover, during the 1960s women have limited access to many jobs such as nursing and teaching. In addition, Women genders nowadays in the United States are in a better position in the country or society than decades ago. As their almost equal to men in terms of family roles or work fields and many other individual tasks. Equality lately has given women the motivations to be creatives for improving the country. Women lately have proved themself socially and politically, fascinating that women were not able to vote in the past and nowadays being a presidential candidate. According to Chu and Posner, are also stepping up to lead the country; a record number of women ran for public office in 2012, and a record-high percentage of women are serving in Alomar3 Interesting how individuals from various race, colors, and sexual orientations have earned their rights when we contrast the past and the present. How the United States constitution moved extra minutes to give rights and balance to every individual citizens. Amazingly those domestics who pushes laws to ensure their rights and the concept of equality. Beside men, women suffered the most regarding their rights in many spheres in society. Alomar4 Work Cited Lind, JoEllen. Dominance and Democracy: the Legacy of Woman Suffrage for the Voting  By JoEllen Lind :: SSRN . N.p., 15 Aug. 2009. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Posner, Anna Chu and Charles. The State of Women in  for American Progress . N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. History.com Staff. The Fight for  . A&E Television Networks, 2009. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Walsh, Kenneth T. The 1960s: A Decade of Change for  News & World Report . U.S. News & World Report, 12 Mar. 2010. Web. 10 Mar. 2017.