Al Murshidi 1 Malik al Murshidi ENC 1102 Adam Phillips February 26, 2017 Animal Testing Millions of animals suffer from cruel testing methods for research purposes. Animals are forced to undergo harmful procedures that may cause them extreme pain, while some might not even make it. Many types of experiments are used on animals in labs; experiments include force feeding animals and even injecting them with harmful substances, exposing animals to radiation, subjecting animals to scary scenarios to cause fear and depression. PETA (Peoples ethical treatment of animals) is an active animal-rights organization with a goal to end the suffering of animals in laboratories, clothing industry, and the entertainment business. Founded in 1980, Virginia, PETA fought many lawsuits, organized protests and used education as a tool to raise awareness on animal abuse. PETA had some success and won major victories, PETA helped enable over 1,000 victories for the (PETA 2017). PETA won many lawsuits against the government and research centers, making them the largest and most successful animals right organization till this day. PETA used rhetorical appeals such as Kairos, pathos, logos and ethos on their ads and website to raise awareness on animal testing. The two images from the source are both graphic and sensitive intended to cast sympathy into the audience. Al Murshidi 2 PETA gained so much publicity over time, with global supporters and members from all over the world, PETA achieved many of its main goals like pushing government agencies to stop conducting experiments on animals and funding them, and also by funding humane non-animal research. PETA mostly focuses on working with research center issues, healthy beings from a completely different species, artificially inducing a condition that they would never normally contract, keeping them in an unnatural and stressful environment, and trying to apply the results to naturally occurring diseases in human beings is dubious at (PETA), PETA contributed to the scientific field by working on non-animal testing methods, by using computer models to simulate a human body. PETA claims this method is the most effective and will be the future of biochemical research. The Pathos used in the first image is noticeable right away, the graphic image of a mouse that went through cruel scientific experiments, showing clear signs of chemical burns and other disfigures caused by the tests. Pathos works by evoking emotions from the audience the first image is emotional and makes the audience feel sad, and feel sympathy towards the abused animals. Just by looking the at the image, people can tell that the mouse suffered a lot which makes them, the audience, feel angry and upset. In the second image, it shows different species of animals holding a sign saying your own which basically means that humans should stop killing animals just to use their fur as clothing or decorations. This image targets the clothing industry. The clothing industry use fur from a variety of animals, every year, millions of animals die for the clothing industry, all the slaughtering in the name of fashion. The purpose is to remind the audience about the ongoing killing of animals for clothing purposes, making the audience feel a sense of duty to boycott fur products. Al Murshidi 3 The image contains logical information that backs up the argument. This can be defined as the images rhetorical appeal, Logos, for logic. The quote on the image, history of cancer research has been the history of curing cancer in the mouse. We have cured mice from cancer for decades and it simply work on (PETA).This gives the image a strong appeal to Logos; why continue experimenting on animals if the results work on humans? This is basically the main argument used by the stakeholder in this image. The second image contains logic found in the sign that the animals are holding. Using animals for fur and clothing has been a long use going back thousands of years, this led to many animal species becoming endangered or even go extinct. your own is the main logical statement aimed at the public. The main statement is followed by another one at the bottom of the image saying the skin in, let animals keep Both statements add up to make the images logical appeal. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal to credibility, which in this case means the creditably of the images and information. PETA use their main logo on all images for credibility. Also, PETA includes their website under each advertisement, adding more credibility to the image. The main purpose for ethos to be present on all images and advertisements is for the credibility to gain the trust. In the second image, the logo of PETA is found at the bottom of the image, hence adding credibility to the image to inform the audience that the image is legitimate and to gain trust. It is common to hear about animal testing, whether an advertisement or on the news, it remains one of biggest debates. According to PETA year, more than 100 million mice, rats, frogs, dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs, monkeys, fish, Al Murshidi 4 and killed in U.S. laboratories for biology lessons, medical training, curiosity-driven experimentation, and chemical, drug, food, and cosmetics for PETA, a fight for ethics and animal rights. Their main goal is to end animal suffering by using education, and raising awareness on the issue by organizing protests and holding public events. PETA uses credible sources and figures to back up their arguments; for example, PETA used the animal deaths from animal figures to build their main argument on. PETA provides information to the public on how they can help fight the cause, this is where PETA utilizes the rhetorical appeal Kairos, they mention that each of us can prevent animal suffering and deaths by buying cruelty-free products, donating only to charities that experiment on animals, requesting alternatives to animal dissection, demanding the immediate implementation of humane, effective non-animal tests by government agencies and corporations, and calling on our alma maters to stop experimenting on . The call to action is present in the quote making it the main Kairos. By using all the rhetorical features, pathos, logos, Kairos and ethos and utilizing them on their ads and campaigns, PETA sent a successful and clear message to the public. Al Murshidi 5 Works Cited Page: Pearl, Larry and Elizabeth Buckley. PETA Urges Non-Animal Testing for  Pesticide & Toxic Chemical News, no. 17, 2007, p. 22. EBSCOhost PETA Seeks Less Animal Testing by National Toxicology  Pesticide and Toxic Chemical News, vol. 36, no. 24, 14 Apr. 2008, pp. 6-7. EBSCOhost Using Animals for Drug Tests Is  The London Evening Standard (London, England), 2016. EBSCOhost Image 1: http://www.peta.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/Animal-Research-Quotes6.jpg Image 2: http://www.peta.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/Nev-Schulman.jpg Al Murshidi 6 Image 2 Al Murshidi 7 Image 1