Luosang Immigration And Technology ZhuoGe LuoSang ENC1101 03/03/2017 Apparently, massive immigration has been a common concept in the history of the world. The most industrialized and politically stable countries have experienced immigration of skilled and unskilled workforce in search for employment opportunities. The massive immigration has had a significant impact on the industrialization, economic and technological milestones that have been achieved by U.S over the history. Immigrants have played a substantial role in submission important labor and technology that has placed the United States as the world super power. The debate on immigration of foreigners has continued to revolve around the analysis of positive versus negative impacts it has on the host country and its citizens. This research, therefore, endeavors to explore how migration in the United States has changed over time and to explore various present works on the matters of immigration and their overall effect on the technological development of the United States. The history of immigration has evolved over time in the United States forming various transitions referred to as of An article by Martin and Midgley explores the various major waves that have occurred in the US history. In the history of America, there have been four major waves of immigration, The First Wave, The Second Wave, The Third Wave, and The Fourth Wave (Martin and Midgley 10). The First Wave of immigration occurred between 1790 and 1820. The push/pull factor for this immigration was majorly attributed to the various political, religious, and economic issues. By 1790, the United States population comprised of more than 60% of English settlers (Martin and Midgley 12). The Second Wave of immigration took place between the periods of 1820 and luosang2 1860 (Martin and Midgley 13). This resulted from the agrarian revolution in Europe which lead to the enclosure system and agricultural mechanization rendering the peasants landless and jobless. They were forced to migrate to the New Land where they transferred their agricultural mechanization techniques. Through this immigration, the technology and mechanization of agriculture used in Europe were transferred to the US. The Third Wave of immigration occurred later between the periods of 1880 and 1914 in the quest for job opportunities and religious freedom (Martin and Midgley 13). Most of these immigrants were Chinese, Japanese, and other Asians. Most of these immigrants were specialists on meat-packing, mining, and steel manufacturing. Through their movement into the United States, such expertise were adapted resulting into the improvement in mining and steel industry in the US. By 1910, more than 24 percent of the US labor force were immigrants (Martin and Midgley 14). Through this immigration, new technologies were borrowed and transferred from other countries. Currently, the United State is under the Fourth Wave of immigration which started in 1965. This majorly resulted from the new laws that altered the immigration procedures. For example, people who already had their families in the US were given higher priorities in their immigration endeavors (Martin and Midgley 14). Another important aspect has been labor and transfer of technology. People with labor skills and technological expertise have been given even higher priorities to move to the United States. This immigration, therefore, has resulted in massive technological accumulation which has augured well with the technological expansion of the country. The massive immigration in the United States has resulted in a healthy labor competition pushing for creativity and innovation. Card and David in their article concentrate on evaluating the positive or negative impacts that massive immigration of labor force in U.S has impacted on the economy of the country. The main analysis of their study focuses on the evaluation of possible threats that are associated with the immigrants into America. The luosang3 author further observes that the kind of the competition for labor that such immigrants bring is healthy for creativity and innovation. When the competition for labor increases people strive to enhance their skills that make them outstanding and most preferred by the employers (Card and David 116). The results are the creation of a highly skilled labor force which has been a recipe for industrialization and major inventions in America. The immigrants stimulate the locals to harness their skills so that they can match the ones required by the labor market under such a competitive environment. This translates into more businesses and more tax revenue from the government. The revenue will be adequate to cover for more subsidized social amenities for the local citizens as well as those immigrants. Immigration has also resulted in labor glut reducing the minimum wage and increasing more income for technological advances. Boreas and George article also emphasize on the impacts that immigrants have on the demand curve of the labor. Their evaluation is largely focused on how the change in population resulting from the high rates of immigration has resulted in a reduction of labor wages and salaries by the employers. These scholars argue that when the skilled workforce is abundant in the market the demand curve for their skills reduces significantly. The nature of workforce imbalance changes over time. They develop a new approach to estimating how the immigration impacts a shift in demand for experienced and skilled workforce across different education fields. The analysis concludes that an increase in the supply of workforce by ten percent reduces the remuneration of the workforce by approximately four or three percent (Borjas and George 1335-1374). Over the history of the United Stated, immigration has been acclaimed for the increasing innovation and skills in the labor market. An article by Gagliardi is concerned with the impact that skilled labor from immigrants has on the innovation. The author focuses on the various history of civilizations and the factors that resulted in such significant developments. Apparently, the author finds out that the skilled labor from immigrants luosang4 provided good ingredients for great innovations in most of the industrialized nations. Great Britain and America are some of the best examples provided in the study as they have achieved various development in the field of innovation during the industrial revolution and under the current age of globalization. Such innovations cuts across various sectors such as manufacturing, agriculture, trade and technological development (Gagliardi, Luisa773-794). Samovar and et al. Also looks at the positive and negative impacts of immigration primarily on cultural perspective. These scholars observe that massive immigration has resulted in significant change in culture due to the influence of foreign cultures. The country hosts people from diverse cultures across the world, and this has resulted in negative and positive consequences. From the positive development, the change and integration of culture have created innovation that results from diversity. From the negative perspective, the management of culturally diverse workforce and the negative cultural influences that various cultures may have complicates the organization of workforce (Samovar and et al. 307-315). From the analysis above it is apparent that various scholars have contributed towards the heated immigration debate. Similar debates are still ongoing, but the main focus of the debate have revolved more or less around the same area of focus around the positives and the negativities resulting from the immigration of labor force to industrialized countries. Some scholars have argued in support of the immigration while those opposed to immigration support their arguments from the negativities. Both the earlier studies and ones published currently have a lot of commonalities since they both focus on the analysis of both positive and negative impacts of immigration. luosang5 Work cited Samovar, Larry A., et al. Communication between cultures. Nelson Education, 2015. Gagliardi, Luisa. Does skilled migration foster innovative performance? Evidence from British local  Papers in Regional Science 94.4 (2015): 773-794. Card, David. Is the new immigration really so  The Economic Journal 115.507 (2005). Borjas, George J. The labor demand curve is downward sloping: Reexamining the impact of immigration on the labor  The quarterly journal of economics 118.4 (2003): 1335-1374. Martin, Philip L., and Elizabeth Midgley. Immigration: shaping and reshaping  (2003).