Diskey 1 Dylan Diskey Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101 3/10/2017 Generations of Changing Sounds Music is something that has lasted throughout time and continues to develop even today. However, the kind of music that one generation may consider to be can sometimes be significantly different from what another generation may consider Hypothetically, older generations may hold Classic Rock to be the greatest music of all, but modern generations may consider genres such as Alternative Rock or Hip-Hop to be. Despite differences in opinions, there is a clear change when discussing the trends of what has risen and fallen in popularity over the last fifty years. When it comes to the reasons that these trends occur and change the way they do, there could be various reasons, such as new technology or new styles of performing on an instrument. Various meanings are also seen behind songs written at certain times. These meanings can be seen mostly through the words that the artists use for the lyrics. Through examining the changing trends of music throughout the last fifty years, it could be possible for one to determine what caused these changing trends and what the dominant meanings behind these songs were. When talking about how the key popular music has been written in over the years, one has to view its clear change from major to minor. About eighty-five percent of the songs written in the were in the major key (Lin). Currently only about forty percent are written in the major key, therefore the shift is quite evident (Lin). It has also been found that there has been a decrease in beats per minute from the to the The average during the was Diskey 2 116 BPM and the average for the was about 100 BPM (Lin). We also see about a minute difference in song length on average when comparing songs from those decades. The average being under three minutes in the and the average being four minutes during the (Lin). As the composition of music changed over the years, the popularity of genres did as well. Classic Rock has been popular for quite a long time, but its peak of popularity came in the early Since then, it has slowly been on the decline (Malone, Fresco, and Gilat). Alternative Rock has from in popularity significantly since the early falling in the early but regaining its popularity fairly quickly (Malone, Fresco, and Gilat). Pop music, on the other hand, has stayed relatively consistent in its popularity, yet it did have a few dips in popularity during the and early (Malone, Fresco, and Gilat). Another genre that has been fairly consistent in popularity is R&B. R&B has stayed quite popular from the to now, with its lowest points being between the mid to mid (Malone, Fresco, and Gilat). Blues, Soul, and Jazz have continuously been on the decline since the (Kim). Hip-Hop has grown exponentially since its creation. Though it peaked in the early it still remains very relevant (Malone, Fresco, and Gilat). Rap has gain quite a lot of popularity since the and still remains very popular (Kim). Dance music had grown to significant heights in popularity from the to early however it did eventually decline. Although there has been a resurgence in its popularity in recent years (Malone, Fresco, and Gilat). Country music has been fairly sporadic in popularity, but its lowest point was from the early to mid (Malone, Fresco, and Gilat). Folk music was quite popular from the to and although it has declined since then, there has been a small resurgence of its popularity in more recent years (Malone, Fresco, and Gilat). Diskey 3 Aside from the genres that have been observed to change over the last few decades, we also see the changes in themes of songs based off their lyrics. When viewing songs from the fifth year of each decade, we see multiple themes in the songs that were popular at the time. During 1965 the dominant themes were love and escape. There were also themes such as loneliness, lessons, and loss, however these three were not nearly as prominent as love and escape were (Snow). During 1975, the dominant theme was once again love, followed by the theme of sex. Other, less prominent, themes were loss, freedom, suicide, and work. In 1985 we see the dominant theme moving from love to lust. Love, along with nostalgia, was the second most used theme. Other themes during this year were things such as unity, dancing, and partying (Snow). In 1995 we see love become the dominant theme once again by a quite large margin. Sex, partying, street life, and freedom were other relevant themes during this year (Snow). During 2005 the themes took a somewhat more depressing turn, with lust and loneliness being the most dominant themes. Second to them were the themes of love, sex, street life, freedom, partying, and money (Snow). Finally, in 2015 the theme of love was once again dominant by a large margin. The second most prevalent theme was partying, followed by themes such as lust, life, loss, and being awesome (Snow). In conclusion, it is easy to see that the way songs were composed, the genres which grew in popularity, and the themes of these songs have changed significantly over the years. There is a clear idea that genres and themes that have fallen in popularity can gain it once again after some years. There is also strong evidence that certain themes, such as love, typically will stay consistently popular as seen by the graphs provided by Shane Snow. Though certain genres and themes in music may lose their prominence, it is possible that they may have a resurgence and regain it. When it comes to popularity of ideas within music, it seems like anything can happen. Diskey 4 Works Cited Kim, Kyle. The evolution of music: How genres rise and fall over  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 6 May 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lin, Helen Lee. Pop Music Became More Moody in Past 50  Scientific American. Scientific American, A Division of Nature America, Inc., 13 Nov. 2012. Web. 08 Mar. 2017. Malone, Luke, Saar Fresco, and Matan Gilat. How Taste In Music Has Evolved Over The Past 50  Vocativ. Vocativ, 16 Mar. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Snow, Shane. This Analysis of the Last 50 Years of Pop Music Reveals Just How Much America Has  The Content Strategist. N.p., 7 May 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.