Herdomina Daundi ENC 1101 Anastasia Khawaja The Life of Factory Labors Since the first time the factories were built, factories have had many great impacts on the country and one of them is from the economic point of view. For that many people have migrated from the rural area to the urban area to fulfil this development of the industrial world (Roberts, 2002). Even though factories have been good providing the society with their consumerism lifestyle, the factories seemed to ignore the life of their laborers especially women and children. The workers used to live at the place called tenement house which provided by the factory owner where there are no air ventilation and very minimum hygiene which made the spreading of any infectious disease faster (Sinclair, 1906). Therefore many people came up together and started to form organizations to protect the right of the factory laborers (McKormick, 2011). These organizations fought for the government to pass the law to protect any worker in the factory which brought a critical question : how the life of the laborers have changed overtime from progressive era to this era after the government take a role in protecting the factory labors? According to Reich in his book The Work of Nations, he explains about how the lifestyle of the society has changed as they live in the industrial world. The community in the progressive era were based on productivity which means the factory must have been productive in doing its job. To achieve this lifestyle these factories demand a huge amount of work forces which came from all over the country including the rural area (Roberts, 2002). Many people in 1980, migrated from small villages in China to large cities for a better life. From an interview, almost 80% of the immigrants chose to move to the large city based on their economic problem and most of them were farmers before they left their villages (Roberts, 2002). From the data that Roberts has by Yang 1996, many of the female laborers in the factories were single or not married because of their education or any social issues. The factories would often have hired these women because they tend to be cheaper than men or any married women (Roberts, 2002). This all happened before the 21 st century which means the government might not be very careful of watching the labor activity in the factory. In October 2000, the organization called China Labor Watch caught three small automobile factories in China that hired children as their workers (China Labor Watch, 2011). The reason for this is because the government do no pay close attention to the small factories which make them can do anything that they could to fulfil their consumers demand with lower production cost. From an interview done by this organization to the child labors age ranged from 11 to 15 years old, these kids were not treated any different than the child laborers in the Gilded age (China Labor Watch, 2011). From this kind of situation many people have come together to build organization to protect the right. The very famous incident of the Triangle Shirt Factory fire is one of the horrific moment that triggered many people to fight for the rights of the workers (McKormick, 2011). Hundreds of young women died here because of lack of the emergency exit in the factory and also women who worked here were paid much less than any unskilled men. Therefore, in the 21 st century many labor movements have been created to protect the workers legally (McKormick, 2011). From the progressive era to now the factories still need to be the first one to provide good for the society. Even after all the labor movements created to protect the workers through the legal way, some factories must spend much less amount of money for their production for much higher income. From a study done by Zhang, an assistant professor at Temple University, he exposed the horrible life of the employees in seven huge automobile factories in China. These people were forced to worked more than they should for the expansion of the branch of these factories not just locally but also international. Zhang linked all the data that he got to the life of the laborers in the 20 th century where the workers were treated like slaves inside the factories just to accomplish the goal of the factory owner. Even after all the laws and all the organizations built for the factory workers to gain their legal right at their work place, the conversation flowed over time do not seemed to have many changes on it. The workers might be paid more than the workers in back in the 20th century when the factory started to provide for the people but at the same time, these workers cannot live the life that they suppose to get for working more than they should have and getting paid as they deserve. The workers in either small or huge factories do not have better life than the workers in the 20 th century.