Zhengyu Liu ENC 1101 Anastasia J. Khawaja 3.09.2017 Intermediate Draft Today, with the growing popularity of the internet, more and more people begin to touch and use it. In fact, the internet has had brought a lot of new things to our lives, such as social media. So far, social media has developed surprisingly with a short history and it is keeping going faster and faster. So far, majority of people start to spend most of their time on social media and social media has changed life styles of them, such as people begin to choose social media as their way of conversation rather than communicate with others face to face. It brings a lot of new things to us, and makes our lives different with the life that we did not have social media before. It is true that social media has affected us more than ten years and it has also changed itself a lot during this period. The development history of social media is short, but it has become an important part of modern society. Early social networks are usually considered a kind of simple network platform that allow users to create profiles with their personal information or introduction and contact each other. Forums was a large part of social network that popular in early stage. usually came with a more user-friendly interface, making them easier for non-technical visitors to But forums did not allow you to keep a friends list, so people consider Six Degrees as the first modern social network. Six Degrees was launched in 1997 and it allowed user to add friends and connect each other. In the early 2000s, social media got some great developments. Social network began to allow users to do more for social contact, such as Friendster, the first really modern social network founded in 2002, people to discover their friend and then friends-of-friends to expend their social In early 2000s, social media also started to provide their users some services to enrich their networks . Facebook was a social media started in 2004, it allowed users to post pictures, share videos, send message and chat with each other. After that, more and more social media began to build specific interests group, such as Youtube, Flickr and Reddit. In 2006, with the appearance of Twitter, real time update became new standard of social media. And the population of smart phones like iphone made the using of social media become whenever and wherever possible. As the result, more and more people begin to use social media and it looks like social media allows you to do everything you can image. There is no doubt that today social media has become a necessary part of many people and they cannot live without social media. So what kind of changes social media brought to us and how it effect our lives? Ten years ago, social media had changed many life styles of people. and Twitter might have been unimaginable for most people at the beginning of this (Gordhamer). The first change that social media brought to people ten years ago was the way people get news. When social media which allow users to share information and post pictures and video became popular, more and more people began to choose Twitter and Facebook to get news rather than choose newspapers. Secondary, because of the popularize of social media, it also effected ways of doing business. Social media made who have time, but little money for advertising, the chance to engage with others and promote their (Gordhamer). Social media became a marketing platform and help people easy to start a business. And another important change social media brought to people was communication. It made people easier to find new friends that they were interested in, and it allowed people to communicate with others over the world any time any where. Ten years ago, social media gave people new ways to touch with people in different areas of the earth and know what happened in the world easily. Today social media has developed much better and it brings more new change to our lives. Today social media is not only a convenient way to get information, it is a comprehensive and rapid information platform. of the things that attracted me personally to Twitter was the immediate access to other sources of information (Landry). The volume of content in social media grow exponentially and everyone can find information they want to get in social media quickly and accurately. Ten years ago, social media was just a new marketing tool for some small businesses. But today, social networking has become a main market and provide more level playing filed for business. It is true that social media brings a lot of great changes to us, however, it also effects us in some negative ways at the same time. So far, although people have more information than before , Information Overload become a big problem. big concern surrounding social impact is communication how to handle and make sense of this information we now (Keller). Also, when more and more people prefer to choose social media as their way to communicate with others in a virtual world, real-world social has become difficult to them. Social media is changing our way of conversation and it has effected our lives a lot even though it is only a decade old. At the same time, we rely more on social media, it is the problem but also the tendency. Overall, it makes our lives better in many ways. Works cited Tommy Landry. How Social Media Has Changed Us: The Good and the Bad. Web. 08 Sep. 2014 Maura Keller. Social Media and Interpersonal Communication. Web. May. 2013 Cameron, Chapman. The History and Evolution of Social Media. WebdesignerDepot. 07 Oct. 2009. Soren, Gordhamer. 5 Ways Social Media is Changing Our Daily Life. Mashable.16 Oct. 2009.