Khaled L Shabana Anastasia Khawaja ENC 1101 03/10/2017 There are some archives in the history of the middle east, which have some significant impact such as Balfour declaration is a typical name on the supreme letter that was sent from Arthur Balfour to Lord Walter Rothschild on November 2, 1917, acknowledge that the British government supports the foundation of a Jewish state in the land of Palestine. A 67-word statement was enough to establish the state of Israel. The announcement of the Declaration declaimed as follows: Government view with favor the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people, and will use their best endeavors to facilitate the achievement of this object, it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine, or the rights and political status enjoyed by Jews in any other The Jews were 5% of Palestine population at that time. The first impact that influenced Palestine is the result of having 600,000 Jews moved to Palestine after issuance Balfour law. A lot of the conflicts in Palestine between Jews and Arab, such as  The Bloody in Jerusalem in 1920, resulting in the deaths of 5 Palestinians Jews and Arabs. Delegates from claiming seven unified nations concluded with temporarily allow Britain the mandatory over the conflict in Palestine. Palestinian, who were contradicted of the standards held in the Balfour Declaration, restricted the deliberations of the British legislature start for April 1920. A few months later, a Jews association named (Haganah) was created by Vladimir Jabotinsky. Balfour declaration has numerous influence on Arabs and especially on Palestinians. Before the occupation of Israel on Palestine Jews suggested to take over 60% of the land and leave the rest to the Palestinian authorities and become two individual states, but the Palestinians rejected the Jews project and they sent a statement to the Ottomans to stop the Jews immigrants from moving into the state of Palestine since both sides have already caused a lot of troubles to each other and the government authorities, but the Jews they stop moved into the holy land. At the time to The Jews in UK and USA forced the leaders that we must do something about it, months later the British government have required the United Nations to declare a situation of the Israel-Palestine conflict, where they confirmed that the land must be separated into two states 58%of the land to the Jews and 42% to the Palestinians, the Arabs and Palestine have rejected the assertion. They knew that there is a big war about to start and by May 15, 1948, the Jews star the Nakbeh war, which resulted in 711,00 refugee (60% of the population), over 60,000 people were killed in the war. After the Balfour declared his statement to the world, the Jews killed a numerous number of the British soldiers and took over their military bases and that causes a lot of deaths of English and Arab people. A while after the declaration was fully confirmed the British military expatriate Palestine immediately then the war start of 1948 and by the next day, Israel was known as an independent and international state. After the war, Israel took control over a couple of cities on the cost such as (Tal Al-Rabea which is known as Tel Aviv, Yaffa, Haifa, Akka) all the mentioned cities are on the coast surrounded by one side of the Mediterranean Sea. Years later, the Palestinians have decided that we must build a country on the rest of the land and keep fighting and defending our morals and history. The first president who leads the path from a refugee situation to huge issue at the United Nation, Mr. President Yasser Arafat, was the president of the Palestine and by his loyalty and faith he rebuilt the state of Palestine and become known as Palestinian also every Palestinian is blessed that he has a president such as Arafat, in their eyes they see him as father for everyone, he was a role model to every single individual in Palestine. At the time, Sharon was an Israeli prime minister on the beginning of defending and through the time the prime minister of Israel he was in a coma for over 9 years in hospital and Yitzhak Rabin become the new Prime minister of Israel. Rabin tried rebuilding the two states together in peace and after a long discussions and meeting at the United Nation headquarters with president Arafat they ended with a peaceful decision of signing up the peace declaration in Washington DC, but unfortunately betrayers where everywhere and he has been killed 1 hour before signing the declaration and Arafat received a Noble Peace Prize. By these events, the peace declaration has gone for now. In conclusion, Balfour declaration has affected more than 1.2 million Palestinian Arabs by either killed, refugee or surviving. The Israel-Palestine conflict has distinguished morals and history of Palestine, and it shows how painful is it to be a refugee and lose your main and major identity of yourself and you be yourself ever again. Work cited Pappe, Ilan. A history of modern Palestine one land, two peoples. Cambridge: Cambridge U Press, 2004. Print. Stein, Leonard. The Balfour Declaration. New York: ACLS History E-Book Project, 2005. Web. The Balfour  History.com. A&E Television Networks, n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. The Balfour  The Balfour Declaration. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017.