Running head: DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 1 The Incidence of Drug Abuse and Non-Stimulant Treatment in ADHD Grace Lougheed The University of South Florida Running head: DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 2 Doctors and researchers have gone back and forth between shifting their change in perspective over time. Before 2010, research showed that stimulant medication did indeed negatively affect the risk of substance abuse in patients with ADHD who were taking non-stimulant medication. Researchers found that in order to find a definite answer, they need to develop a better understanding of the natural history of ADHD overtime. Throughout the years, studies show varying opinions on the later affects of non-stimulant treatment on children with ADHD. After 2010, some articles and research papers agree with early research in saying that it does give the children a higher risk of developing Substance Use Disorder (SUD) later in life. On the other hand, other articles disagree and claim that there is no correlation what-so-ever, and that what gives them a higher chance of SUD, is adding another disorder to the mix, known as conduct disorder. Over time, researchers show that the use of non-stimulant medication as treatment for children with ADHD puts them at higher risk for developing Substance Use Disorder throughout their life. According to N. Volkow, there is evidence of impaired brain dopamine activity in individuals with ADHD which could explain why individuals with ADHD are at greater risk of abusing drugs, since drugs of abuse acutely but temporarily raise the concentration of dopamine in the brain and could temporarily improve ADHD symptoms (71). of the rationale for this concern is that stimulant medications share with drugs of abuse the ability to increase dopamine concentration in the nucleus accumbens, which is the neural mechanism considered crucial for their reinforcing (Volkow 3) on the controversial issue in childhood psychiatry of whether the widespread use of stimulant medications to treat Running head: DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 3 children with ADHD increases the risk of substance abuse in adulthood. J. Swanson adds that reason for concern is the timing of (7) Similarly, a second article from before 2010 thinks that ADHD is a major risk factor for the development of substance use disorders. According to J. Wilson, ADHD predicts an earlier age of substance dependence onset, a more rapid transition from use to abuse and dependence, and longer duration of substance use disorder (10) Substance use disorders are most often present first during adolescence and young adulthood. with ADHD are more likely to engage in antisocial and drug- related activities and to be (Wilson 37) Researchers have done studies on the relationship between ADHD, SUD, and conduct disorder. Although ADHD alone increases the risk of developing SUD, this risk is substantially enhanced when conduct order is also present. It has been hypothesized that ADHD in childhood increases the risk of conduct disorder, which in turn increases the risk for SUD. is possible that attention deficit or behavioral impulsivity could interfere with an determination of the long-term consequences of drug use; hence, the long-term consequences may be ignored in favor of immediate gratification. (Wilson 90) Since 2010, researchers have had varying opinions on whether stimulant medication affects the risk of substance abuse. One research article agrees with what the earlier findings have shown. A. Knopf says initiation of stimulant ADHD medication (aged 10 to 14 years), shorter duration of treatment (2 years or less), and the use of non-stimulant ADHD medications were all associated with increased substance use during (67) In this article, Knopf conducts a study of Running head: DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 4 3,539 individuals that were prescribed stimulant medication therapy for ADHD, and 1,332 individuals prescribed only non-stimulant medication therapy for ADHD. The results of this study support the conclusion that the early initiation of stimulant treatment for ADHD reduces the risk of substance use compared to later onset. The different factors that could alter this conclusion are things such as the type of medication used for the treatment, the age of onset, and the duration of the medication treatment used. Conversely, an additional article from after 2010 investigates the association between stimulant medication in 2006 and substance abuse during 2009, that concluded results that the ADHD stimulant medication was not at all associated with increased rate of substance abuse. Z. Chang also claims that one reason for the persistent concern for subsequent substance abuse derives from the fact that stimulant medications increase dopamine concentration in the nucleus accumbens. (27) many studies seem to find no or protective effects of ADHD medication on substance use, they have limited sample sizes and data are as yet inconclusive. (Chang 39) The doctors in this article used Swedish population-based data to test the hypothesis that stimulant ADHD medication associated with risk for long-term substance abuse. According to Zheng, have investigated almost 40,000 individuals with ADHD over 4 years, and found no indication of increased substance (332). In conclusion, research shows that there still is not a definite answer for the controversial question. Over time, researchers have gone back and forth between the idea that the use of non-stimulant treatment for children with Attention Deficit Running head: DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 5 Hyperactivity Disorder increases their risk of later developing Substance Use Disorder. Some doctors say that it depends on what medication they take, when they start taking it, and how long they take it; while others say those factors relate at all to the risk of SUD. Overall, there is no clear answer, and there still needs to be more research and studies on this issue. Running head: DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 6 Works Cited Nora D. Volkow, M. a., & James M. Swanson, P. a. (2008). Does Childhood Treatment of ADHD With Stimulant Medication Affect Substance Abuse in Adulthood?. American Journal Of Psychiatry: Official Journal Of The American Psychiatric Association, (5), 553. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2008.08020237 Wilson, J. J. (2007). ADHD and Substance Use Disorders: Developmental Aspects and the Impact of Stimulant Treatment. American Journal On Addictions, 165-13. doi: 10.1080/10550490601082734 Knopf, A. (2016). Earlier initiation, longer duration of ADHD stimulants reduces risk of substance use in adolescence. Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter, 32(7), 3-4. doi:10.1002/cbl.30138 Zheng, C., Lichtenstein, P., Halldner, L., B., Serlachius, E., Fazel, S., & ... Larsson, H. (2014). Stimulant ADHD medication and risk for substance abuse. Journal Of Child Psychology & Psychiatry, 55(8), 878-885. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12164