Vladislav Samsonenko Professor Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC1101.903S17 March 3 2017 The Effect of Video Games on Children For the past few decades modern technologies became an essential parts of lives. Electronic devices are now used in almost every aspect of life whether it is communication or household duties. Therefore, it is not surprising that children also use technologies to their advantage. Today, even a three-year-old child knows how to use iPad and X box. These causes parents to be concern as they notice that their kids spend a lot of time playing on their devices playing video games, instead of doing outdoors activities. These concerns lead parents to believe that videogames are inherently bad because they are addictive, cause violence, and cause a bad effect on the physical development of the kids. Nevertheless, more and more parents notice that there are some positive effects of videogames on children. For instance, video games can be beneficial in terms of increasing comprehension or even learning a new language by playing video games with other kids around the world. With the development in technology quality of video games and their abilities increased. This progress caused many questions, but answers remained the same. Generally, scholarly conversation appeared to support video games if they are used correctly and selected carefully for the appropriate age group. However, the opinions of supporters became stronger as more time passes and more research is made. The first article by Sneed and Runco discussed the opinions of major stakeholders - parents and children on the issue of videogames and their impact on younger generation. The main goal of the research was to find the of television and video games on children and After careful analysis of the responses to the survey and questionnaire it turned that majority of kids believed that TV is desirable and stimulate creativity far more often than their parents. On the contrary, views of children and adults on video games were pretty much in line. Both groups believed that video games can lead to the confusion with reality. What was interesting is that held more positive beliefs about the influence of video games than the other adults without (Sneed, Runco, 2000). What it means is that parents who got to experience the impact of video games first hand were more confident in the positive influence of video games. Moving forward there is another article that tries to critically assess whether computer games cause positive or negative influence on children. While Smith notes that there are obvious negative effects such as addiction, distraction from real life and possible aggression, but he also realizes that positive effects such as hand-eye coordination, concentration, understanding of iconic languages and improving spatial skills such as mental rotation, spatial visualization and spatial integration. It is important to see how the conversation is expanding and scientists begin to acknowledge the positive sides of the issue. Next an article by Prot et. al says that obviously some critics and proponents of video games take their points to the extreme refusing to listen to the research findings. Thankfully, the past 10 years brought a lot of evidence to the table. In agreement with the previous article among there are benefits such as improvement in skills, specific knowledge and skill improvement for educational games, and increased empathy and decreased aggression. Authors emphasize that video games are different and their effects are also different. Some of the dimensions of video games include amount of game play, content, context, structure and mechanics of the game. Fast-pased are good for visual skills, but their content might be negative and cause agression. The main conclusion is that video games world is complex and the effect of video games should not be categorized so broadly. Finally, there is an article from 2015 that actually testes the hypothesis that video games cause positive impact on people. recognizes that there had been numerous researches that failed to account for different factors that distort findings about impact of video games, including family characteristics and measurement error. The author goes into the deeper research and analyzes the correlation between the amount of time spent playing video games and comes to the conclusion that video games do positively affect problem solving ability in children. Cognitive abilities affect many aspects of lives including success in labor market, communication skills and engagement in risky behaviours 2015). Therefore, it is important to correctly evaluate the impact of such a huge factor as video games and technology on younger generation. Currently, of American children and teens play video games (Prot, 2012). growing use of gadget is certianly causing concern among parents, video game companies and government and leads to a debate among these groups of stakeholder. As many of the researcher has said, it is important to evaluate games, their content, visual graphics and context to come to some conclusion about their positive or negative effect. Before this is done it is almost impossible to claim that all video games are good or all video games are bad. Works Cited Sneed, Carl, and Mark A. Runco. The Beliefs Adults and Children Hold About Television and Video  Journal of Psychology 126.3 (2000): 273. Academic Search Premier. Web. 17 Feb 2017. Smith, G. G. (2005). How do computer games affect your children?, Eurasian Journal of Educational Research, April, 2005. Prot, Sara, Katelyn A. Mcdonald, Craig A. Anderson, and Douglas A. Gentile. Video  Pediatric Clinics of North America 59.3 (2012): 647-58. Web. Suziedelyte, Agne. Media And Human Capital Development: Can Video Game Playing Make You  Inquiry 53.2 (2015): 1140-155. Web.