Clarke 1 Image 1: Image 2: Clarke 2 William Clarke Mr. Phillips ENC 1102 12/03/2017 Visual Rhetoric and the DNC President Donald Trump and the Republican Party seized control of the government after the elections of 2016. Their rivals, the Democratic National Committee (DNC), lost much of the power that they had in the three branches of government and are now looking to rebuild, while also limiting the interests of the Republican Party. The two images above can be found on the website, democrats.org and are images that invoke emotions and persuade the people who visit the site to support the cause. Through the use of, ethos, pathos, and kairos in their images, the DNC urges the audience to limit the power of President Donald Trump and other members of the Republican Party. Per an article on CNN Politics, the Republican Party has control of the Senate, the House of Representatives, as well as a president in office (Bradner 1). This has led to an overwhelming loss of control for the DNC. Picture two, an image of a crowd of people, full of a wide demographic of people wearing mostly blue, is an image that invokes a sense of urgency and supports the message at the bottom which is to start rebuilding now. The other image shows a black woman on the phone and presents a powerful message: the party needs to slow Donald power, to act now, and to minimize the Republican imbalance of power of the government. To support the arguments presented by the DNC in favor of limiting the powers of the Republican Party, the DNC ensures that the rhetorical appeals of ethos, the appeal to reason and Clarke 3 credibility; pathos, the appeal to emotion; and kairos, the appeal to timeliness, are all present in the images. This ensures that the chosen audience of the people who visit the website will be optimally inclined to perform the tasks necessary to support and forward the causes of the DNC. The rhetorical appeal ethos, according to the book Rhetoric Really Matters, is method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Rhetoric 27). Both images use ethos to support their message in both pictures. Some of the credibility is due to the images being placed on the official webpage of the DNC. The organization has hundreds of members and millions of supporters. Therefore, the website, being an official image and face to the public is an important factor, and many people have looked over and reviewed these images to make sure they are okay and are sending the right messages to the audience. This is a common form of ethos in the website. However, the DNC does not just rely on this one form of ethos alone to make sure the audience feels assured this is a credible and supported way of thinking. Audiences, regardless of age, gender, or race, see older men and women as people of wisdom. If someone has been living longer than another, the other person, especially in America, is going to look to the elder for advice or follow that lead to an extent, even if it is not intentional. In image one, the woman on the phone is not elderly, but is old enough to appear wise and trustworthy. In addition, she has a ring on her left ring finger, making her seem committed and furthermore trustworthy. While there are older members of the crowd in image two, the main focus is on a group of younger adults cheering and having a goodtime together. It is not the age of the individuals that gives this image an appeal to ethos. It is the diversity and multi-cultural background of the group and the crowd in the background. Looking at the faces of the individuals, the audience members can see a wide range in age and race as well as the Clarke 4 presence of both genders. The social credibility of this image makes the audience member believe it is widely accepted and it is a credible organization, therefore, so are its goals. Though ethos has a large role in both images, it is not the only rhetorical appeal used in these images. appeal to emotion, or is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Rhetoric 37). Considering the current obstacles, the DNC is facing with Trump in office and how the campaign was run, the use of race in the first image is very important. racially and gender biased comments were causes of concern for the black and female persons as well as the immigrant communities throughout the campaign period. Trump, early in his campaign was quoted as saying, Mexico is sending its people, not sending their bringing drugs. bringing crime, rapists. And some, I assume are good (Heilpern 1). Knowing this, and looking at the people in the main focus of image two, who are from many differing racial backgrounds, acting on behalf of the democratic party, provides powerful pathos for the audience. Race can be a factor in many forms. The issue of immigration provides no shortage for the use of pathos in any campaigning ads. When Donald Trump ran his a campaign, he lost much support from many immigrant families and those who descended from immigrants. As a country built by immigrants, the DNC tries to leverage that against Trump and the other members of the Republican Party by using images with great diversity for the website. In image two, the diversity in the group of young people cheering in the foreground is immense. Men, women, African American, white, Hispanic, and Asian are all represented. Moving back and scanning through the crowd, a person can see all demographics, showing a positive and supportive environment, as intended by the use of pathos in this image. Clarke 5 Ethos and pathos both have very strong rhetorical appeals in both of these images. However, the strongest appeal in these images in kairos. is an appeal to (Rhetoric 41). Due to mainstream and social media, current attention spans have decreased significantly, causing kairos to be a significant player in any advertisement or propaganda form. In order to ensure that the audience members of the website do not lose focus before they assist or contribute to the message or goals of democratic party, the DNC decided to not only use the images to draw attention to the cause, but also have made both images hyperlinks to the necessary information. Enabling the audience to more efficiently assert themselves against Trump and the Republican Party. In image one, stands out in a red field. Compared to the deep black background, the button stands out and the color red naturally incites a sense of urgency in the human brain. Not only does the color red provide the audience with the need to rapid action, but so do the words in image one as well as right in image two. These key signal phrases in everyday life infer immediate need. When a person views these on infomercials with an offer of before supplies run the same reaction is applied to the brain and people react by buying more products or applying themselves to the situation immediately before the opportunity passes. The same can be said for the DNC efforts against the Republican Party. The Republican Party has been elected into control of all three branches of government. The DNC has suffered a huge loss in the presidential race and lost many key positions in the House of Representatives as well as the Senate. In order to combat these overwhelming odds, the DNC has taken to the internet to gather support and find a means to dampen the powers of president Donald Trump and the rest of the Republican Party. The use of advertising in the Clarke 6 website uses many attention-grabbing images to try and further donations or increase the amount of action taken by the audience members who navigate onto the site. Through the use of ethos, pathos, and kairos, the DNC hopes to maximize the effects of their advertising, which in turn will minimize the powers of the Republican Party. Without the uses of these rhetorical appeals and the support of the audiences they reach, Donald Trump and the Republican Party are free to win the hearts and minds of the American populous. Clarke 7 Works Cited Bradner, Eric. Republicans Keep Control of  CNN. Cable News Network, 09 Nov. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.  Democrats.org. DNC Services Corporation, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Heilpern, Will. Trump Campaign: 11 Outrageous  CNN. Cable News Network, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, Massachusetts: XanEdu, 2016. EBSCOhost. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.