Paul Delbecq Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101 29 January 2017 Intermediate Draft Project 2 Martial arts have gone through considerable changes during the last hundred years. According to the book Martial written by Neil Horton, a martial art is a sport or skills of self- defense/attack with Asiatic origin mainly from Japan; Judo, Aikido, Karate, Kung Fu are some examples. Martial arts are systems of combat practices that were originally created for self- defense, military and law enforcement applications, but also for spiritual and entertainment purposes (Horton, Neil. 29 Jan. 2017). It is also considered a cultural heritage in countries in the Far East. According to the book Arts for written by Jenifer Lawler, Four decades ago, martial arts were more about forms, katas, and traditions. These forms were often a way to practice without any opponent. This was a problem since practitioners had no real experience when needed to use their skills to fend off an assault in real life (Lawler, 2003). However, a lot has changed since then and people have lot more resources and options to learn about the many different martial arts techniques. People around the world now practice martial arts at a young age as a competitive sport or an activity. It is a great sport/activity because it keeps the martial arts practitioners physically active and has proven health benefits. It is also good for the mind as it instills self-confidence, reinforces the personality, and develops strong values and disciplines to the martial artist. It also helps to strengthen the character and maintain life in a more peaceful and stress-free manner. Nowadays, there are many martial arts schools and practitioners available, plus there are also numerous resources online. The rise of martial arts in combat is a reflection of the progress that our society has made based on efficiency, entertainment and virtue of strength. With the change in social construction and principles, the present-day combat of martial arts resonates in rise. The new systemization of martial arts combat in the spheres of fitness, art competition, art performance, etc. are under global spotlight. What are the advantages of practicing a martial arts and how it changed over time? What are the advantages of practicing a martial arts and how it changed over time? Martial Arts have many health benefits especially on cardiovascular health. It is a high-aerobic art that requires good stamina, so the practitioners will improve their stamina if they train regularly and as a result, it lowers their cholesterol and blood pressure. According to the book Arts for written by Jenifer Lawler, it also increases strength because the martial artist has to use every muscle group in the body while improving balance as it is the first thing you learn in order to have power in the strikes or to avoid take downs to not lose a fight. As a consequence, all the health benefits that martial arts provide increases the energy of the practitioner (Lawler, 2003). According to the book Bruce Commentaries on the Martial Way it also has great psychological benefits such as improved self-confidence because you learn how to keep your composure in different situations where you are sometime physically in danger or just doing tasks that are difficult for you at first. According to Bruce Lee, concentration is one of the greatest mental benefits that you learn from martial arts because to do the perfect movement at the right time requires focus and when you are practicing with an opponent or in a competition if you lose your concentration for even half a second, the opponent can take this opportunity and win by knockout or submission. Martial Arts also brings great morals and values to the martial artists (Lee, 2007). Regular exercise routine is a good way to improve your mood because of the release of endorphines that improves well being and discipline because the practitioners learn how to respect each other especially the instructor. According to Jenifer Lawler, martial arts in the past were more focused on forms and kata. The kata is a great way to install discipline because it teaches you how to do the martial arts movement but the disadvantage of practicing without opponents its the lacks in realism when it comes to effectivity in real situation of combat or competition. Discipline, techniques and spiritual values achieved through the practice of martial arts is great as they put more emphasize on self control and in the way of movement. Martial arts teachers were very conservative about the technique and style of combat that they were teaching (Horton, Neil. 29 Jan. 2017). According to Neil Horton, the teachers were not open mind at all in their approach of teaching their students; they where teaching their student to train in a certain way according to the martial arts techniques and the students had to do it the same way, otherwise it was considered wrong, even though this method of teaching instills discipline to the martial artist, it is not the smartest approach to be efficient in competition or real combat situation because there are different ways to be efficient. And in order to discover those methods, you have to be open-minded (Horton, Neil). According to (Lawler, 2003) Nowadays, martial arts has lost some of its spiritual values and rigid forms. Martial arts teachers are less conservative and focused more on efficiency of combat going along with the rise of combat sport competition. They are more open-minded and allow more freedom to their students in the way they practice because they know that there is not just one good way to do a certain kick but many different ways. Hence, they help the students helping their fighting styles in their own way of fighting in order to be more efficient in their martial art. But they focus a little less on the spiritual aspect and discipline so the respect between practitioners is sometimes not as great like it used to be in the past. This is because, these days martial arts is more about efficiency. The trainer puts more emphasis on the physical training in order to improve stamina, power, resistance and speed. In a technical aspect there are more open-mindness because they know that an efficient student is the one that find out on his own styles. Efficiency has taken over the moral values (Lawler, 2003) In conclusion martial arts provide many health, fitness and psychological benefits. Martial arts in the past were more about values, spirituality and conservativeness. However, martial arts are now more about efficiency of combat or competition. Even though martial arts have changed throughout times, the benefits of it have not changed. The martial artists of the past were more focused on well-being, morality and spirituality while now martial artists are more focused on strength, efficiency and stamina.