Ebert 1 McKenzie Ebert Adam Phillips ENC 1102.062 12 March 2017 Rhetorical Appeals: New Human Ecology The health of the environment is an issue at hand, specifically when it comes to greenhouse gasses, CO2 emissions, and water pollution. Green Vegan is a stakeholder that recognizes these issues at the source - the meat industry. Green Vegan advocates for the end of animal agriculture due to its detrimental role in destroying ecosystems and polluting the environment. On their website, they display an array of images to persuade the viewer to their side of the argument. In the first image, one can see CO2 being admitted into the air. In the second image, the viewer can see forests being set on fire to make room for animal agriculture and a distressed woman with an empty water bucket. an individual looks at an image, visual rhetoric is in play. The Ebert 2 viewers are able to look at the images designs and make judgments based on the designs. Vegan is able to show their side of the argument in the two images by using the rhetorical appeals of pathos, logos kairos . Green Vegan states on their website must understand we are taking so much from that we are destroying her capacity to produce the surplus that enables us to (Bekoff). meat production has skyrocketed from 78 million tons annually in 1963, to 308 tons in 2014 (Hooper 1). The increase in meat production has resulted in an increase of greenhouse gasses, CO2 emissions, and water pollution. Researchers predict the world population to reach 9 billion in the year 2050, meaning the meat industry would have to increase production by 50-73% to support the demand for meat (Bonny 256). main goal is to gain the consensus that the strategic approaches to accomplishing their must be in the context of a New Human Ecology. Green include: healthy ecosystems that dominate the global landscapes and seascapes and need little to no human intervention; a vegan, organic lifestyle; social and economic justice for all with transparency in public and corporate institutions; economic systems that are ecologically sustainable; an increase in empathy, love, and compassion towards all beings; and sustainable and fair consumption of goods and services images on Green website fit the framework of rhetorical appeals the most. In the image, one can see that the goal is to show the CO2 emissions and how these emissions are continuing with animal agriculture. In the second image, the main goal of the photo is emotion from the viewer because of the distress drawn across the face as well as flames igniting in the background. Ebert 3 Ethos is an appeal to ethics and credibility (Ramage). is a rhetorical appeal used to convince someone of the character or credibility of the persuader (Ramage). In the second image, a Shell logo is present. Shell has set standards on the environment: emissions of greenhouse gasses, using less energy more efficiently, burning off less gas during oil production, preventing spills, using less fresh water, and conserving biodiversity (Shell Global). The Shell logo adds the appeal of because it adds credibility. In addition, the photo is from an actual event - it is not a drawing or cartoon. By using an actual photo Green Vegan is able to help the audience trust their argument about the negative effects the meat industry has on the environment because the viewer is able to see it taking place. Both images contained the rhetorical appeal of . is a vital tool of persuasion in arguments. It is a style of convincing people with an argument drawn out through an emotional response In the first image, it is harder to distinguish the appeal to pathos . Nevertheless, the image evokes a sense of sadness indirectly because it is showing the Earth being polluted by CO2 emissions. In addition, the use of ghostly font could make the viewer feel scared for the environment. The argument Green Vegan is trying to interpret in the first image is the CO2 emissions caused by animal agriculture. In the second image, is extremely evident. The distressed look on the women carrying an empty water bucket could compel the viewer to feel sad and worried. It appears as if she is out of drinking water. There are two broken pipes in the photo that have polluted the drinking water. One of Green Vegans arguments is the meat industry creates water pollution. By showing an empty water bucket and broken pipes they are able to capture this argument within the photo. In addition, the flames burning forests in the back could stimulate fear and Ebert 4 sadness in the viewer. The flames represent the burning of forests to make more land for animal agriculture. Approximately 80% of agricultural land is for livestock production (McDermott 53). The argument Green Vegan is trying to get across is that animal agriculture pollutes water and destroys forest land. They are able to capture their arguments by using the rhetorical appeal of pathos within the image. Logos spotlights concentration on the message. It is also referred to as to because it pinpoints internal consistency and clarity within the argument Sometimes, simple facts can persuade people. In the first image, is distinguishable in the writing representing Green argument that the meat industry is responsible for the emission. It has been proven that animal agriculture creates CO2 emissions (Mcdermott 53). On the other hand, Green Vegan could have strengthened the rhetorical feature by stating a statistic on the amount of CO2 emitted yearly by the meat industry. A statistic would have been a more superior way to support their argument because it would appeal more to the logic and reason of the reader In addition, the use of a red and white stripped gas pipe that resembles a barber pole appeals to in the day, the red and white used for barber poles represented blood, bandages, leeches and pain The image could potentially be trying to symbolize the pain of the environment because of the harmful emissions from the meat industry. In the second image, the rhetorical appeal of is in the Shell logo. The Shell logo is also an appeal to as stated in the previous paragraph. To strengthen their appeal to in the image, Green Vegan could have added a statistic about Shell. For instance, discussing how they have set standards for the environment. This would aid Green Vegan in delivering the argument that others should take action as well. Another appeal to is the fact the water Ebert 5 container is empty. One of the messages in the picture is the water pollution caused by the meat industry. By showing the empty water container, Green Vegan is able to prove their message. Kairos refers to the timeliness of the argument (Hoffman 24). In the second image, the pipe on the left resembles a black hole. It is an eerie theory that once in a black hole things are lost forever (Dunbar). Thus, it could be representing without the end to animal agriculture Earth will be lost forever. Both images do not represent a direct appeal to , however, the viewer does get a sense of urgency while looking at the images. Both contain extremely drastic events - CO2 emissions, a black hole, forest fires, and a distressed woman carrying an empty water container. Unequivocally, the argument would be improved by simply stating, or something similar. A simple statement would ultimately confirm to the viewer that there is urgency in the topic and they need to act now. The health of the environment is vital for survival. Vegan pinpoints animal agriculture as the main culprit of deterioration of the environment. They advocates for a New Human Ecology to achieve a healthy stable environment. They propose the as a result of the New Human Ecology (Bekoff). By the use of the rhetorical appeals of pathos, logos, and Green Vegan is able to validate their arguments that the meat industry causes pollution and greenhouse gasses. It is up to society to decide to partner up with Green Vegan or continue their way of life. Ebert 6 Works Cited Bekoff, Marc, PhD.  Green Vegans. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Bonny, Sarah, Graham E Gardner, David W Pethick, Jean-Franois Hocquette. What Is Artificial Meat And What Does It Mean For The Future Of The Meat  Journal Of Integrative Agriculture 2 (2015): AGRIS. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Dunbar, Brian. What Is a Black  . NASA, 21 May 2015. Web. 9 Mar. 2017. Hooper, Rowan. The Real Cost Of  New Scientist 225.3005 (2015): 1. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Mcdermott, Mat. Assessing The Meat Impact On  Hinduism Today 39.1 (2017): 52-57. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Melissa. The Bloody History of the Barber  I Found Out . N.p., 31 July 2016.Web.09 Mar. 2017. Ramage, John D. Arguments: A Rhetoric with Readings . 8th ed. N.p.: n.p., 2010. Print. Shell  Shell Global. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Who We  Green Vegans. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017