Murdock 1 Kennedy Murdock Professor Roth ENC 1101 SEC 018 March 11 th , 2017 Girls, Social Media, and its Affects on Interaction and the Psyche With a click of a button, a message could be sent instantly to any receiver. No matter how far, the conversation still continued on as the words and thoughts flowed between both parties. This idea of instant messaging is one of the forms of social media that has given girls an outlet of (Gallardo 306). They were able to their own little world including friends and others, privately sending messages without actually having to speak. As time and technology progressed on the outside world, so did the fictional bubble or world young girls escaped to on the Internet. From Facebook to Twitter, and Instagram too, a variety of platforms spurred forth, expanding the scope in which girls were involved in as the media became more public. Instead of sending cryptic messages with symbol faces, the younger generation now has begun to create an elaborate form of content to put on social media, including personal pictures, videos, music, feeling and thoughts, etc. According Candace Smith, an author who has been extensively studying this area, not only is the new age of social media affecting the composition of what is shared, but it has slowly began creating a manifesto of young girls believe they should act and feel based off of The once used of social media is now slowly beginning to evolve into a rulebook for how young girls should consciously behave. Comparing it to the much simpler times of instant messaging, the changes and new forms of social media has majorly affected young girls psyche in the terms of increase social media interaction over time as social media has evolved. Murdock 2 As the use of the Internet became more of a common tool to access, so have its uses. Instant Messaging, or an electronic message sent in real time via the Internet and therefore immediately available for display on the screen (as defined by dictionairy.com) became a common means of communication for girls especially before the times of text messaging and major social networking sites. Soon instant messaging became a means to an through the of information and gossip, the establishment and maintenance of friendships cliques, fighting with others, and the discussion of male peers and (Gallardo 03). Instant messenger is the first platform you can see that the interaction between young adolescents and social media begins to slowly change as it was only limited to interaction between the media and local friends. The use of this technology is noted as a preferred that is relied on to help aid in progression to adulthood. This is the first change in the psyche seen in the use of social media, as transitional objects traditionally tend to be blankets, etc. and not forms of social media (Gallardo 06). As time progressed, the use of instant messaging also established a ground for the basic of websites and applications that enable users to create and share content otherwise known as social (dictionairy.com). These new platforms of social networking opened a gateway to a vaster form of communication and interaction and has slowly began creating a new set of social rules girls have began to follow. Trudy Hui Hui, and Leanne Chang have recently noted what exactly these rules are and how it has impacted girls physiologically. After interviewing 24 girls, they came to the conclusion that many girls began forming their own ideals of beauty based off of the people they with of their social media. The adolescents have also stated that Murdock 3 they have become about how others perceived their content they post. However, these girls are not concerned how they are viewed in real life, but how they are seen the lens of a and what is posted on their profiles (Glass 01). These ideals critical roles in developing their identities and self so much that they have even taken the initiative to editing their photos in order to facilitate their perceptions. Compared the original usage of instant messaging, girls are now more self-aware and look after others for setting roles on social media. Instant messaging allowed girls to originally to communicate and form social groups, between each other, but due to the changes, you can see girls are now focused more on their appearance as well as others perceive them (Trudy 201). Young girls have also been more on social media now than they did in the and it can bee seen throughout the changes of interaction between the early start of instant messaging to the many new social networking sites. Not only has it shown the changed in perceptions but Trudy Hui Hui, and Leanne Chang have shown the change of the interaction as a whole based on this study. In comparison, whereas the girls In the generation before were only limited to interaction on a this new development has into a global and shown the change in the interaction. Interaction increased and you can see these change over time based on how the girls have used the apps. Instead of just sending mere messages, pictures, videos and messages a like are being added to the conversation and contributed to the change and increase usage of this medium. Murdock 4 In conclusion, using evidence from researchers Candace Smith and Heather Gallardo, you can see the start of the influence of social media on girls positively affected girls by influencing communication and helped others create a sense of identity with others, interaction has been kept to a minimum. As time goes on other scholars such as Trudy Hui Hui and Katie Glass both have contributed to how social media has influenced girls psychologically by stating the slow down hill negatives of social media as it is giving them a means to create a platform of of beauty and thus creating young girls to be more consciously aware of how they are viewed on these platforms and increased the progression of interaction of the medium. In the future, the progress of these affect may vary greatly because in just a short 10 years, you can see a great different in young psyche and interaction as compared to how it was once social networking was first introduced. Word Count: 1057 Murdock 5 Works Cited 1. Chua, Trudy Hui Hui, and Leanne Chang. Me And Like My Beautiful Selfies: Singapore Teenage Engagement In Self-Presentation And Peer Comparison On Social  Computers In Human Behavior 55.Part A (2016): 190-197. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2. Gallardo, Heather L. Review Of Instant Identity: Adolescent Girls And The World Of Instant  Journal Of Language And Social Psychology 27.3 (2008): 306-309. PsycINFO. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. 3. Glass, Katie. Deep; Have you applied your filter? With 1.8bn images uploaded on social media every day, digitally enhanced beauty is taking over but more to the selfie than meets the  Sunday Times (London, England) 2015: Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 4. Smith, Candace. Cover Girl Culture: Awakening the Media  Booklist 2010: 69. Literature Resource Center. Web. 16 Feb. 2017