West 1 Floyd West Adam Carter ENC 1102 14 Mar 2017 The Rhetorical Appeals of Smoking Advertisements Smoking has been greatly reduced in America, and the Truth Campaign is one of the many anti-smoking campaigns that can be thanked for this radical change. They still continue to reach out to potential future smokers and non-smokers by using rhetorical appeals in their campaign due to the fact that they still are not satisfied. Many of the people who are suffering from the harmful, long term effects of smoking cigarettes started as teenagers and simply could not find the will power or tools to stop. One of my stakeholders, the Truth Campaign, wants to reduce teen smoking in America to zero percent and make sure that no one in the future ever becomes a slave to the deadly vice. (Truth). In order to try to alert young teens that they should not even chance a deadly addiction by picking up a cigarette, the Truth Campaign has created many very well done ads in order to try and reach out to their target audience in hopes of convincing teens to stay away from tobacco and keep them from years of inconvenience later on in their lives. The Truth Campaign promotes their cause by using rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in their visual advertisements in order to help educate young teenagers on the dangers of smoking. The Truth Campaign does a great job of displaying their credibility through their images and therefore using the rhetorical appeal, Ethos. In the first picture the Truth Campaign displays clearly, statistics above the image that give information on how many of those who die each year West 2 started their habit of smoking as teenagers. These bold numbers make the audience think that the research on this topic has been done before creating the image and that the Truth Campaign is not just an organization spewing out scare tactics to push their cause with no actual facts to back anything up. There is also something to be said about the Truth Campaign displaying their own website in the advertisement allowing others to visit it and read all of the statistics and research that they have done in depth for themselves and understand what the Truth goal and mission is all about. The second image also displays the link for the Truth Campaigns website leading others to continue their search for information. Both of these images are also very professionally done and created with professional images, text, and research, giving them more credibility than an ad that is poorly and quickly conceived. The Truth Campaign has done a good job of using ethos in the two images, which use every rhetorical appeal, allowing for audiences to trust that their images hold some truth to them. It is very important to use pathos when trying to reach and engage with an audience and both of these images use it well, they appeal to the emotions and fears by conveying what will eventually come to them if they start smoking. The first image plays upon the fear that smoking can lead to death by displaying a deceased body in a morgue with a tag on the deceased foot that says, The design resembles that of a cigarette box really driving the fact that indulging into a smoking addiction could very easily kill you. Do you really want to give your life for a cigarette? In the second advertisement we see a man driving in his car with his young child in the backseat. Overlapping both the child and the cigarette he holds in his pocket are dotted lines and a tag line that reads, You can see the man deeply contemplating whether to smoke in the car with his child there, the cigarette has taken such a hold over the man that a hard decision, to choose between his own child and a West 3 cigarette. The second image does an incredible job of making the audience realize that you might start smoking as a teenager and not effect anyone or your current lifestyle but eventually as you get older you will have to choose between smoking and those that you love. Young smokers know in the back of their mind that as they fall deeper down the rabbit hole they will become a slave to their vice, their smoking addiction will become their top priority and not by choice. Pathos can easily been seen in both of these emotion provoking images in order to help others see what is yet to come for them if they smoke. Logos is one of the most important rhetorical appeals because without their claims being logical, the Truth Campaign would never be able to change any minds when it came to smoking or convince their audience on the dangers of the vice. The first image uses logos by giving out statistics and using the very logical idea that smoking can cause death. With evidence and research on smoking being where it is today, everyone knows that smoking comes with very real danger to the body. So many may come to the conclusion from the image with the deceased body that if they continuing smoking they will be the ones with a white sheet over their bodies. The image with the driver and his child in the car bring to attention the very logical truth that you cannot have both a vice that can harm others and be around a loved one because smoking affects others than just the user. This idea also happens to fall under the emotional appeal but still applies to logic as a thought process that actions have consequences. Logos is planted throughout the two pictures and helps the audience take in the information and meaning of the pictures through logical reasoning. Kairos is the rhetorical appeal that deals with time and the Truth Campaign makes it clear that time is not on a side. The Truth Campaign continuously calls out to the public with the message that smokers need to stop now and teenagers need to stay away from cigarettes to West 4 begin with. They make this message clear in their first image by telling their audience that ninety percent of those who die each year from smoking started as teenagers. Most teenagers do not think about their actions having consequences later on in life. By displaying these statistics the Truth Campaign is emphasizing that smoking as a teenager could easily lead to an addiction which could lead to death. The second picture uses Kairos with the same method, current smokers are not thinking about the future and the loved ones that will eventually come into it. The Truth Campaign wants teenagers to realize that if they do not stop now then the consequences of smoking will ruin their lives. Smoking has consequences and one of them on the long list is death. The Truth Campaign wants a healthier future for teenagers and that one does not include cigarettes and smoking. They have turned to advertisements to reach out to others and urge them to change their habits. Their two images use all of the rhetorical appeals, Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos to connect with audiences and try to convince them that smoking is dangerous and has very real consequences that will affect them and their loved ones sooner or later. West 5 Works Cited: About  Truth. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. West 6 Remove  The Truth Anti-smoking Campaign Print Ad. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. 493/593, Dean Rosenberg MRKT. Dean Rosenberg MRKT  Dean Rosenberg MRKT 493/593. N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.