Pagan 1 Cheyenne Pagan Professor Roth ENC 1101 22 March 2017 Animal Testing in the Cosmetic Industry In the year 2016, the cosmetic industry thrived because it launched an array of new and exciting products. It was prosperous for anyone to be a part of this industry. Ever since cosmetics were first introduced, animal testing has always been a major factor that has played a pretty significant role. Animal testing involves a company testing their products on animals such as mice to see if they are safe for human consumption. It has come a long way since it was first introduced. Many researchers have traced this concept back to the very beginning. That brings the question, has the scholarly conversation about animal testing changed since people first started to talk about it? What has the cosmetic industry done to impact the scholarly conversation about the ethics of animal testing? The conversation regarding animal testing has changed compared to when it was first introduced because people have begun to voice their opinions how they think its unethical. To further understand the conversation regarding animal testing and how its shifted over time, its important to first know the history behind it. Animal testing can be traced back pretty far in human history. However, this essay focuses on animal testing in the cosmetic industry. There is a difference between animal testing in cosmetics and in medicine. Animal testing in medicine can be traced back even further than animal testing in cosmetics can. An important Pagan 2 detail about what these cosmetics are is that they include deodorant and toothpaste. Unless those cosmetics also treat something like dandruff or cavities, provide sun protection, or have a color according to Seeker (Seeker 2015). The conversation currently about animal testing in cosmetics is very open. People have started to speak up, whereas it used to be that way. People just sort of used to turn the other cheek when it came to the testing of cosmetics on animals. But recently the conversation began to change. According to one source, animal testing is in a time warp, and are largely based on wasteful and often poorly predictive animal (Nature 2005). People are voicing their opinions on how they think its impractical, even forcing some countries to force their hands in banning testing altogether. Accordingly, the countries that have banned animal testing include all the countries in the European Union. China on the other hand has made it a requirement for any company that has products that pass through China to be tested on animals. This of course has made many companies turn their backs on trading through China at all. Animal testing can be considered and a PR (Seeker 2015). This has forced the Chinese governments hand in a sense. According to the article Animal Welfare in China, officials are in the final stages of approving the countries first-ever non-animal test for cosmetics (Wang 2013). But that is still in the works, and currently the laws regarding animal testing are still in place in 2017. But there are still some companies that do trade with China and they have to test their products on animals to be included in the lucrative Chinese market. The companies include Estee Lauder, Mac, Loreal, etc. This has effected the scholarly conversation about animal testing because it has made many people speak up, and as stated earlier, forced China to start to consider alternative methods regarding animal testing. If this were to have been happening 60 years ago, Pagan 3 people have been less likely to say anything at all. Nowadays, it is entirely different. Animal cruelty is still a big topic being talked about by everyone. because the cosmetic industry is so large. According to Exploratory analysis of global cosmetic industry: major players, technology and market trend the cosmetic industry a significantly vital industry not necessarily in terms of its contribution to global GDP but by its striking influence on the colorful social lives of humans (Kumar 2005). Just think about it, we all use cosmetics. Every single one of us, especially in America. As people become more progressive and the millennials start to grow up and state their opinions, people are going to side with the animals and not the big companies. why companies like Lush have such a strong foothold on the current market for cosmetics. People nowadays want best for them in the most humane way possible. The cosmetic industry has come a long way in terms of everything, not just animal testing. The conversation regarding animal testing has definitely changed as well. People are more likely to state their opinion more now than ever before. These people have brought about social movements that have been started in the last 30 or so years in favor of banning animal testing altogether. The conversation has become more uplifting, because people want to bring change. Even in 2017, people still believe there is work to be done. For the most part, the conversation is regarding how change can and will happen. In such a large industry, opinions can have massive effects on how companies handle situations like this. Pagan 4 Works Cited Kumar, Sameer. Exploratory analysis of global cosmetic industry: major players, technology and market trends. Science Direct. 2005. Abbott, Alison. Animal testing: More than a cosmetic change. Nature. 2005. Wang, Jianfel. Current Status of Animal Welfare and Animal Rights in China. ATLA. 2013. Do We Still Test Cosmetics on Youtube, uploaded by Seeker, May 20 th 2015, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3lb9w-XtaYA.