Patella 1 Jason Patella Adam Carter ENC 1102 13 March 2017 HelloMD and their advertisements In our everyday lives, we tend to do things that may not always be the best for our health. We all think about our health at different times but our health as well as others is very important in our lives and in society in general. Therefore, it is not surprising to hear about whether or not a certain drug is satisfactory for our health. People have long debated if certain pills or substances were acceptable for our health. Marijuana is one of those drugs that people have debated over and asked is this ok for me? Marijuana has long been thought as a substandard, addictive drug and has recently been found out to be more helpful than harmful, at least in certain cases. The stakeholder known as HelloMD is pushing for it to be used not only for medical purposes but also for recreational uses. They believe it has more potential benefits than negative effects. They even that cannabis [(also known as has therapeutic qualities that can improve the wellbeing of all (HelloMD). HelloMD uses many advertisements to show people that cannabis is good for them. Out of all the advertisements these two that will be evaluated in this paper summarize values and attitudes towards their audience. HelloMD believes that marijuana is beneficial and uses the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in their advertisements to advocate their positions. The history behind the stakeholder HelloMD is critical to the analysis of their use of the rhetorical appeals in their pictures. HelloMD was formed recently in the year of 2014. The main goal HelloMD believes in is medical advice from trained professionals is and Patella 2 that they want to help people get access to cannabis if it will help a person in anyway (HelloMD staff). They have accomplished this by making a community forum so cannabis dispensaries, potential patients and other people can get together and talk about any questions anyone might have. They are well known as #1 in Health & Wellness on (HelloMD staff). Even a rival company called NuggMD wrote a review about them. They say many bad things about them and stated turning to online reviews to determine the quality of service provided by HelloMD, one will find nothing but positive (Nugg Team). claims of marijuana being beneficial are backed up by Marurizo Bifulco in and cancer: pros and cons of an antitumour Bifulco and the others showed that high oral doses of THC did not increase (cancerous) tumor incidences in a 2-year study (Bifulco 133). HelloMD is a somewhat recently made company dating back to the year 2014 but they want to help people obtain cannabis and help people live better lives. Both of the two advertisements or pictures that HelloMD presents use ethos which is a claim to credibility and the first picture does this more than the second picture but both use this appeal. The first minor thing that both pictures do is add their Logo. Now this appeals to their creditability because after seeing the picture the person viewing it can go look them up and see how creditable they are. The first picture has also applied ethos by putting the words By putting those words, it shows that they some sort of or illegal drug company. The first picture also puts the word When something is secure it is safe and safety is usually a positive and credible thing to be. The second picture shows ethos by showing a man in a white coat and well groomed. This displays ethos by showing a man who looks like a doctor and doctors are well known credible people who you can trust for information. However, one fallacy that might be seen in picture two is the fact they are on a phone talking at what Patella 3 appears to not be a office and not in person which most people would not expect to see as a creditable place to have an important conversation like they are having. Both pictures establish trust or ethos just in different ways despite the potential fallacy in the second picture. Both pictures also use pathos which is about evoking emotion or passion from of a person and both pictures do this in different ways. In picture one there are lots of light colors. Having cooler bluesish colors gives off a relaxed feeling and are calmer colors so it makes the viewer feel nicer and calmer. In feeling nice they might want to use the service more because it gives them a pleasant feeling. In picture one there is also a woman who has her eyes shut looking at peace. This picture of the woman makes the viewer feel as though by joining HelloMD you will obtain this tranquil and relaxing view as she seems to have. Picture one uses the words which is not only an ethos appeal but also a pathos one. Having something feel secure gives a feeling of safety which allows the viewer to put more trust in HelloMD. Picture two has the picture of a doctor but he is on a phone and you see a hand holding it. This creates a relaxed and personal feeling that shows the viewer, they could have this feeling with the doctors on the site. It also creates a feeling of calmness in a sense that if the viewer were to need help they could just take the phone and talk to the doctor at anywhere in the world (that has phone service). Picture two also has what appears to be sunlight in the background. Having sunlight in the background gives a feeling of happiness and relaxedness which would prompt the viewer to find out more about HelloMD. Both pictures create a calm and peaceful emotional feeling and use that pathos to persuade people to find out more about them. Logos is about making someone think logically and using logical arguments and both pictures do this in different ways but they do it effectively. The first picture applies three techniques at the same time when saying it is Being secure is creditable and emotional, Patella 4 but it also a logical thing to be, because if something is secure than using it would allow your information to be not lost and given to others if it were hacked. Picture one also says it is an Being easy and fast is something that one logically would want because they could get it done quickly and then move on to something else. The second picture uses logos by showing the doctor on the phone and in a room. This is not only evoking an interpersonal feeling but it also evokes a feeling of easy access and having easy access makes for a logical thing to look for because being easy allows the viewer to expend less energy doing it. Both pictures show that HelloMD has a app on the apple store which is a difficult thing to do because apple only allows certain apps on their store. Picture one shows it by having a small symbol that is would take them to the location on the App Store. Picture two shows this by a person holding a IPhone and having logo at the top, showing what the app might look like. Both pictures use logos to make people thing logically and use this logic to make people want to find out more about them or to join. Kairos is about evoking a sense of timeliness or urgency and has a feeling of this and both pictures do this differently. The first picture evokes that sense of timeliness by telling people it is only a 20-minute process. In telling people about how long it will take and by making it a short amount of time to do, they make people want to join. Also by saying they are open seven days a week they make people feel as though they should sign up because they are always open and it is quick. The second picture shows a doctor on the phone which makes you feel as though you can sign up and use this anywhere and everywhere. That feeling also makes you want to sign up faster because you can use it not only where you want but when you want. Both pictures use kairos to make people want to use and sign up in a quick and timely manner and HelloMD uses this urgency to make people want to join as soon as possible. Patella 5 HelloMD is a group with doctors and regular people alike. HelloMD wants to help people be more educated about cannabis and help people who need it, get it. They have been around for a few years and other groups have also backed up what they are doing. They use many pictures and advertisements to get their point across. Both of the advertisements chosen use all of these appeals and they use some more than others but they use them to draw people in and make them more interested in the company. HelloMD uses the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in their advertisements to advocate for their position of helping people gain access to cannabis. Patella 6 Works Cited Bifulco, Ma, et al. and Cancer: Pros and Cons of an Antitumour British Journal of Pharmacology, vol. 148, 2, May 2006, p. 123 135. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Cashinbis. Cashinbis, https://www.cashinbis.com/wp- HelloMD Staff. HelloMD, N.A, https://www.hellomd.com/about-us#pricing. Kindland. Kindland, http://i.knd.io/luploads/inline/2016/06/screenshot-1294527541- 169-lg.png. Nugg Team. Review: A Must-Read Before Getting Your MMJ NuggMD, 23 Dec. 2016, http://blog.getnugg.com/hellomd-review/. Patella 7 Pictures Picture 1 (Top picture) Picture 2 (Bottom picture)