Polk 1 Grant Polk Instructor Adam Carter ENC 1102 8 March 2017 Visual Rhetoric Imploring Ideals The Captive Animal Protection Society (CAPS) is a non-profit organization which began in the 1950s in the UK. They are vehemently opposed to animals being captured and confined, and their goal is to end the use of animals in performances throughout the UK and Europe. They conduct undercover investigations to expose what they believe is the truth about the cruelties involved in the animal entertainment industry, while also educating and raising awareness to inspire new generations of animal advocates. CAPS has gained tremendous support through the implementation of rhetorical appeals in its advertisements. The photo and video I examined are utilized to represent their stance. They effectively persuade its viewers to become active in supporting their cause in eliminating the problem of animals held in captivity, while also exposing the truth about the cruelties of the entertainment companies holding the animals captive. Within these images the use of, ethos, pathos, logos and kairos can be interpreted. The following is my explanation of the visual rhetoric CAPS uses to inform and persuade its viewers. According to yourdictionary.com, ethos can be defined as someone of the character or credibility of the While the Captive Animal Protective Society is well known for its work in the field of advocating against animals held in captivity, many people may not have prior knowledge of what they truly stand for when first viewing their images; however, in both images, CAPS attacks its credibility, thereby creating a sense of their own trustworthiness. They do this simply by replicating their logo, and using a play on words, Polk 2 renaming a global marine- life entertainment chain, This trademark- replacement on both of the images they use, is strategically placed on the lower left corner of the first image at http://sea-lies.org.uk/please-support-international-day-action-sea-life-free-belugas/ , and is the title of the at http://sea-lies.org.uk/video-library/. Revealing their adversaries as liars gives the reader the impression that CAPS is honest and has a genuine interest in freeing the animals held at this aquarium. Pathos is used multiple times in both images. Pathos is the Greek word for Upon seeing the images, viewers are well aware of the suffering the captive beluga whales and the other marine life creatures held captive at Sea Life aquariums are experiencing. Image one seems to appeal to our emotions especially in the phrase, BUT NO which is splashed across the photograph in quotations. This play on words grips at our emotions because the beluga whales look almost human in the photograph. They are peering directly at the viewer with their mouths wide open, as if communicating the message to the reader themselves. This further tugs at our emotions because we realize that these whales are highly intelligent animals, capable of communicating, and in this photo, they are expressing to the viewers they want to be held in tanks. Many scientific studies agree, and dolphins are highly intelligent. They want and need to live in complex social groups. In captivity, they will usually have been separated from their families, often in cruel hunts and some when they were very (us.whales.org). Furthermore, image two uses pathos simply by stating the facts about marine life held in captivity. The video is slow and deliberately uses the lulling sound of an aerator, while featuring slide-after-slide of readable facts CAPS has found during their undercover investigation of Sea Life. The background sound of the aerator is a constant reminder to the viewer that this is what a marine animal would hear while in captivity. As the reader is entranced in Polk 3 comprehending the slides full of information, they are persuaded to feel sorry for the animals in captivity. For example, a turtle is shown desperately swimming, bumping into the glass enclosure in a very small tank, with the words, turtle spends his time frantically swimming from one end of the tiny tank to the In another video clip, a shark is swimming above the surface with its nose poking out of the water, again slithering along the edges of the glass tank. The phrase, shark is demonstrating abnormal surface breaking informs the reader that the shark is suffering from being held in such a small aquarium, and needs to be placed back into the ocean where it can swim freely. The audience is lured into feeling empathetic towards the aquatic animals held in captivity after viewing both of these rhetorical images. According to literaryterms.net, kairos is exactly the right time to say or do a particular BUT NO is a phrase in photograph one, used by CAPS to persuade its readers to act now. This picture would most likely be just an ordinary photograph with three beluga whales smiling at the camera, but these four words, written in all caps, involves the use of kairos. These words cause the reader to feel they must do something now, to help the three beluga whales in captivity, because they really want to be in tanks, and trained to perform tricks for audiences. The timing was right for this picture to be advertised, because the three whales were being displayed secretly at Sea Life at the time. CAPS also has an area on their website conveniently placed to the right of this picture, so that the viewer can show their support instantaneously. The photograph and its message further support agenda to put an end to animals in captivity. Additionally, image two involves the use of kairos, simply because CAPS conducted an undercover investigation, and then took the opportunity to reveal all of its findings of lies in this introductory video. This helped CAPS further their agenda, by informing the public Polk 4 of the truth. As a result, they will get enthusiasts to either give financial support, or boycott the Sea Life aquariums. is a literary device that can be defined as a statement, sentence or argument used to convince or persuade the targeted audience by employing reason or (literarydevices.net) Again, CAPS uses the slogan, BUT NO in image one, which is a clear message to the audience that the whales do not belong in tanks. The logic of this message is, that whales belong out in the ocean where they are free. Logos is also found in introductory video titled This video exposes the lies that Sea Life employees tell their visitors, but CAPS then divulges the truth. After viewing the video, one can only reason the Sea Life business practices are unethical, and somewhat inhumane. As a result, Sea Life is portrayed as a business the audience would logically not want to support. As a result, CAPS is influencing their audience to boycott the animal entertainment industry. Both images, the photograph and the video, are meant to educate the public about animals held in captivity by Sea Life and to put pressure on their owner, Merlin Entertainment, to stop the practice of taking sea animals out of the sea and displaying them for a profit. Ultimately, these images create a concern from the general public, and cause us to feel empathetic towards the animals in captivity (pathos), while also causing a feeling and sense of urgency to want to help (kairos). Moreover, these images persuade us to judge the animal entertainment business in question, as both immoral and deceitful, and to trust the Captive Animal Protection findings are evidence based, and are therefore reliable sources (ethos). They further influence their audience to logically conclude that keeping animals in captivity is simply inhumane (logos). Polk 5 Image One http://sea-lies.org.uk/ Image Two https://youtu.be/basfojN2lWs Polk 6 Works Cited Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Captive Protection  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Definition and Examples of Literary  Literary Terms. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Sea Lies Campaign (Aquariums)  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. WDC, Whale and Dolphin  WDC, Whale and Dolphin Conservation. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. YourDictionary. The way you want  Dictionary definitions you can understand - YourDictionary. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. MLA formatting by BibMe.org.