Justin Cox Adam Carter Composition II February 27, 2017 Right to the Effective Use of Rhetorical Appeals Organizations use multiple forms of advertisements to persuade viewers into taking action toward the particular cause they are advocating for or against. Specifically for Right to the City (RTTC), their advertisements are used to encourage individuals to take a stand against gentrification. RTTC was founded in 2007 with the intention to combat the displacement of low-income families and people of color (gentrification). Their focus is to preserve low-income communities and protect their homes. Simply, they believe people should have access to homes that are free of market speculation so they forced out of their homes due to their inability to afford raising rent rates. The right to land and housing that is free from market speculation and that serves the interests of community building, sustainable economies, and cultural and political space (Phillips, Dawn, and Mark Swier to the City ). In other words, RTTC wants to establish communities in which rent rates remain static and affected by market demand so low-income families have a place they can call home. The two images I reference throughout the essay were chosen specifically because of combination of elements they use in order to exemplify Right to the beliefs and persuade the audience to take action. Right to the City uses rhetorical appeals (ethos, logos, pathos and kairos) in their two images in order to encourage viewers to take a stand against gentrification and fight against the displacement of low-income families. Ethos refers to an ability to establish credibility in order to persuade their viewers. credibility is usually shown through experience, proficiency, credible sources, or reinforcing your beliefs (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs). Right to the City certainly focuses on the use of credible sources in order to establish their credibility. In the bottom right hand corner of the image there is a list of organizations. This list was placed there intentionally in order to show the audience that the Right to the City movement is supported by a wide variety of organizations, giving their purpose a sense of legitimacy and importance. In addition, they use of their logo in the lower left hand corner to reinforce the authority of RTTC. It is important to establish credibility as an organization in order to persuade your viewers into joining your movement. Right to the City uses their logo and the support of other organizations as a way to establish credibility amongst their viewers. In turn, encouraging their audience to take a stand against gentrification. It is certainly crucial to use logic and reasoning when forming an argument in order for the audience to accept your claims. This rhetorical appeal is known as logos. For this particular rhetorical appeal, Right to the City is guilty of performing a logical fallacy. In the use of the phrase takes roots to grow the RTTC is making the claim that heritage or background is a necessity in the organization of a uprising. Rather than reinforce their argument through reasoning and logic, this statement lacks support from evidence and is clearly implemented in order to target a particular demographic. On the other hand, the use of the simple phrase are for the reinforces the intentions of RTTC while providing an argument every individual will agree with. One need to provide evidence in order to convince an audience that are for the It is a simple concept supported by common knowledge and reasoning. The unstated assumption is the understanding that each individual is entitled to a home and gentrification is a threat to that, which is an idea that Right to the City stands behind. This is made clear in their statement, believe that housing is a human right not a (Phillips, Dawn, and Mark Swier to the City Clearly, RTTC uses the rhetorical strategy logos to encourage the audience to fight against in order to ensure each individual has a place to call home. Pathos is targeted emotions in order to establish a personal connection between your argument and the audience. RTTC focuses on the use of particular colors in order to target specific emotions within the audience. According to Raetta Parker, the color red is associated with strength, power and determination. Red is most prominently color used in advertisement and is intended to instill strength and perseverance within the audience. In addition, the color red provokes anger and Rachel). This, combined with the serious and angry emotions illustrated on the faces, shows how passionate Right to the City is about their movement. Their intentions are to inspire the same amount of passion in their audience through the use of colors and illustrations. By targeting specific emotions, RTTC is able to provoke their audience to actions against gentrification. The last rhetorical appeal is known as Kairos. Kairos identifies as an appeal to timeliness. In other words, the elements of rhetor that encourage the audience to take action in a timely manner. Particularly for Right to the City, their use of phrases such as and were certainly intended to encourage viewers to take action now. This phrasing instills a sense of urgency and indicates a response or reaction to a specific occurrence; in this case, gentrification. In addition to the use of these phrases, Right to the City uses imagery as a call to action directed toward the audience. The group is illustrated in a way which encourages the audience to join the fight. The four individuals are up and arms, and some of them are yelling which suggest they are mid-protest. The combination of the expressions on their faces, the position of their bodies, and the phrases present in the advertisement are elements of kairo used to encourage viewers to take a stand against gentrification. The overall purpose of an advertisement is to convince its audience to take action. It is clear through the use of rhetorical appeals that RTTC uses its advertisements to encourage individuals to take a stand against gentrification. This is done through the use of rhetorical appeals; ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Right to the City uses these rhetorical strategies in their two images in order to encourage viewers to take a stand against gentrification and fight against the displacement of low-income families. Works Cited: Phillips, Dawn, and Mark Swier to the City . N.p., Jan. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Parker, Raetta Meaning of University N.p., April 2011. Web. 12 March. 2017. The Right to the City N.p., n.d. Web. 12 March. 2017 Takes Roots to Grow the to the City N.p., n.d. Web. 12 March. 2017 Bender, Rachel Color Affects Our Post Article. May 28, 2013