Salazar 1 Paola Andrea Salazar Ins. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Interpretation of Gun Rights Guns allow us to protect ourselves from what could be a threat to our property or integrity. Gun rights are part of the Bill of Rights in the Second Amendment. The dispute between federalists v. anti-federalists introduced guns as a way to protect themselves from their enemies. The Bill of Rights lists specific prohibitions on governmental power due to the control of the Federalists, which were the ones that ruled the country in 1791, but since then, gun rights have had a different approach than expected because of the amount of mass shootings that have been taking place in the United States. For the last five years, as a consequence, conversations about gun rights have shifted after Sandy Hook mass shooting and states have endorsed gun bans and regulations since then. 2012 was the year that Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown mass shooting happened affecting Obama agenda. As Allen Rostron mentions in his article, It was easy for the Obama administration to ignore guns because the public and the media were not particularly focused on them. Attention to the gun issue has waxed and waned over the years, surging in response to notorious incidents such as political assassinations or horrific mass (330). Because of the reports that now the media gave to this mass shooting, Obama was forced to present a law project in which he wanted to take actions to those people who sell guns and try to avoid the legal requirements that are needed to have a license to sell firearms, furthermore, the media controlled the executive actions regardless to this subject. Salazar 2 The press was focused on questioning Americans about the problems that the Second Amendment have caused due to firearms ownership, so because of the pressure that they were putting to politicians, some states had to enforce gun ban laws. As the researcher Cody Jacobs said, Newtown tragedy led to a nationwide push for stronger gun control laws, including bans on assault weapons and large capacity ammunition magazines. Several states passed laws either strengthening existing bans on assault weapons and large capacity ammunition magazines or enacting new (240). However, these laws have to be approved by the Supreme Court and in many cases, they revise them and do not approve them because they go against the Second Amendment. The Supreme Court has had to get involved more than once in cases that the state made an unconstitutional decision that goes against the Second Amendment, even before Sandy Hook mass shooting. As Mr. Blundi mentions in his article, Second Amendment was finally carefully interpreted by the Supreme Court in District of Columbia v. Heller in 2008 and McDonald v. City of Chicago in 2010. In the first case, a District of Columbia handgun ban was challenged. The central issue of the case was whether the Second Amendment protected an individual right to keep and bear arms. In McDonald, a similar law was challenged, and the Court was to determine if the Second Amendment had been incorporated as a protection against state and local (338). As a consequence, after Sandy Hook mass shooting, the Supreme major concern was to evaluate carefully the laws that passed in some states and were unconstitutional by the federal government. Organizations and lawyers in the country have questioned the Supreme authenticity because of the misinterpretation of the Bill of Rights and the intervention that has taken into others states. Now exists a dispute whether the Supreme Court is doing the best for the Salazar 3 country or if it has other interests, as some Americans and analysts share in the media. Most of the interviews and news have supported the creation of organizations and projects that want restrictions and regulations to the Second Amendment, however some of the laws regardless to the Second Amendment have not passed in Congress. Finally, Sandy Hook generated a lot of concern among Americans and Sandy Hook Promise Organization was created in order to honor all the victims of gun violence and promote gun right regulations. Many national schools have lived the impact of mass shootings such as Umpqua Community College and Oikos University, putting in risk the life of many citizens. Sandy Hook mass shooting was a wake up call for the federal government and for the media. Since then it has had a big impact in opinion. Gun rights have changed Americans perspective about the regulations that should have due to the media support and constant reportage about the consequences of these mass shootings, and has challenged the Supreme Court which stands by and supports gun rights through the Second Amendment. Salazar 4 Works Cited Blundi Sturzenegger, Thiago Luiz. Second Fixed Meaning and Multiple Southern Illinois University Law Journal. 37.2 (2013): 337-393. Southern Illinois University. Web. 2 March 2017. Jacobs, Cody. The Popularity Contest: A Proposal for Second Amendment of Tennessee Law Review. 83.2 (2016): 231-289. The University of Tennessee Knoxville. Web. 2 March 2017. Rostron, Allen. New State Ice Age for Gun Harvard Law & Policy Review. 10.2 (2016): 327-360. American Constitution Society for Law and Policy. Web. 2 March 2017.