Salazar 1 Paola Andrea Salazar Ins. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 19 February 2017 Interpretation of Gun Rights The Second Amendment has had an approach that many politicians and human rights organizations have been questioning, so it is important to know its history. By the 1790s, federalists controlled and dominated the country, making the anti-federalists propose and support the rights of self-defense by bearing arms in order to resist oppression and defend the state. This was accomplished though the Second Amendment, that was adopted with the Bill of Rights in 1791 and has been part of the Constitution since then. Nevertheless, the interpretation of the amendment has been questioned in cases like District of Columbia v. Heller and Caetano v. Massachusetts in which the Supreme Court stated: is a right to bear any type of arms, even if they did not exist when the Bill of Rights was Gun rights and self-defense by bearing arms have caused many anti-gun organizations to promote projects that regulate the usage of firearms since today, even people with mental disorders can acquire a weapon without knowing the responsibility that this involves. Because of recent events and mass shootings around the country, Americans doubt National Security ability to control these attacks. This begs the question: have mass shootings affected the criteria of American people regarding gun ownership? Bennet, Matthew. How the Debate over Gun Rights Ignores Albany Government Law Review.1.2 (2008): 483-496. Alba NY Law School. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Salazar 2 This article discusses the impact of the Second Amendment after the Civil War and the political debate that has created today. The author argues that the Third Amendment is even more relevant to Americans, because it places restrictions of having firearms in private places during peacetime. The article shows the difference between gun rights and gun laws, and that both sides of the Second Amendment debate are wrong and do not have an optimistic vision of gun ownership, as a consequence, the author explains three different aspects that analyze the approach of the Second Amendment today. The first aspect shows data of gun ownership in the United States, then the author analyzes the way in which Americans believe that there could be a balance between gun rights and responsible gun laws and as a solution, the article states that Americans need gun laws, but not those that violate core Second Amendment rights. As a conclusion, Bennett proposes that even with the political debate that has been happening, most of the Americans believe that like many other rights, no judge or court can take away that right from them. This article was published in 2008 by Albany Government Law Review. Matthew Bennett, is Senior Vice President for Public Affairs and a co-founder of Third Way and he has served as an adviser on gun policy to Sandy Hook Promise. He was a Deputy Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs for President Clinton. Blundi Sturzenegger, Thiago Luiz. Second Fixed Meaning and Multiple Southern Illinois University Law Journal. 37.2 (2013): 337-393. Southern Illinois University. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the main interpretation that the Supreme Court has given to the Second Amendment. The author relates the cases of District of Columbia v. Heller and Salazar 3 McDonald v. City of Chicago, in which the Supreme Court had to interfere in both cases because of the wrong interpretation that the judges have to the Second Amendment. The ownership of firearms as a right is not correctly understood among Americans, and that is why these cases affected and created a debate into the two main political parties and has been a challenge for both of them as well. The author explains the cases in which the Supreme Court had to interfere and provides a vision of the constitutional vision that the Second Amendment should have regardless to its context and political debates. As a conclusion, the article exposes the challenges that democracy has and whoever likes it or not, the right of having arms for self-defense is not questionable and it cannot be reformed or adjusted because of political preferences. This article was published in 2013 by Southern Illinois University Law Journal. The author, Thiago Blundi, is a writer that refers to the Constitution and the principles of law. He has written for the Southern Illinois University Law Journal and for other journals nationwide. Bogus, Carl T. Control and Cities: Public Policy and Albany Government Law Review. 1.2 (2008): 441-482. Albany NY Law School. Web. 18 Feb 2017. The author of this article argues that the high rate of crime in the United States will not decrease eventually even with gun control policies because of culture and behavior. He supports his argument with data, which states that the rise of production of firearms has increased the sales of guns, as a consequence, it has grown the crime rate. Also, the author mentions that owning handguns is more an influence of society rather than a individual decision, but this can vary among the personality of Americans, and people that tend to not like their jobs or that are unhappy with their families, which are most of the American people, are more angry and drink alcohol, so the guns that they may own just for self-defense usage are used as a Salazar 4 resource of power causing murders without thinking. As a conclusion, the author analyzes the behavior of American cities that have a high crime rate and explains why gun control could be good to develop in some cities and why in others is not a good political decision. This article was published by Albany Government Law Review in 2008. Carl T. Bogus, the author, has published books about gun control and the Second Amendment, incorporating as well his political ideology. Jacobs, Cody. The Popularity Contest: A Proposal for Second Amendment of Tennessee Law Review. 83.2 (2016): 231-289. The University of Tennessee Knoxville. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. This article discusses how the Second Amendment has opened a debate in which the right of armed self-defense has been questioned. The author criticizes the interpretation that the Supreme Court has of the Second Amendment and how that has affected weapons possession as a right. The purpose of this article is to show that weapons are not a reasonable choice for self- defense by mentioning the case of Sandy Hook in which several states passed laws strengthening the prohibition on assault firearms and large capacity ammunition magazines, however, at both the state and federal levels there is a debate regarding the constitutionality of these regulations. Additionally, the gun industry has the purpose of bringing new weapons to the market and making them popular, so the states can approve the usage of those by the Second Amendment with the argument that they are guns, making the writer of the article doubt about if the market controls the public policies of a democratic country. Tennessee Law Review published this article. The author, Cody Jacobs, is a graduate student of Georgetown University Law Center. He has worked as a Staff Attorney with the Law Salazar 5 Center to prevent gun violence. He has published Second Amendment Litigation articles in many journals nationwide. Rizer, Arthur L.; Ruhl, Jesse Matthew; Wier, Mikel Control: Targeting Rationality in a Loaded Kansas Journal of Law & Public Policy. 13.3 (2004): 413-483. The University of Kansas. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. This review attempts to explain how the gunfight has affected the development of public policy considerations and the law by establishing relations with the many points of view that are discussed nowadays due to its controversy. The author also describes how important gun training is referring to these machines as something that requires proper education in order to develop better safety measures and learn how to target the wanted things. However, the hypothesis stated in the article says that firearms cannot be used just by the people that have practiced and have a special permission because that would make it illegal for others, and it will not resolve the problem of insecurity regardless to gun ownership, but instead the crime rate will increase since people like to have an arm for self-protection. Finally, the article argues that the recent sniper attacks have emotionally convinced the citizens that the Second Amendment should have regulations, but making changes to public policies because of emotions can be dangerous. Kansas Journal of Law & Public Policy published this article in 2004. Arthur L. Rizer, the primary author, is an Associate Professor of Law at West Virginia University. He has participated as a prosecutor in the Criminal Division working on national security cases, focused on international drug cartels and narco-terrorists. Salazar 6 Rostron, Allen. New State Ice Age for Gun Harvard Law & Policy Review. 10.2 (2016): 327-360. American Constitution Society for Law and Policy. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article attempts to explain how the Obama administration managed gun control issues and the little attention that it received because of political matters. It is focused mainly on the poor attention that the media gave to the mass shootings because that will affect the gun policy and made Americans question agenda. However, things changed when Sandy Hook mass shooting happened and killed twenty-six people and the White House had to put gun control rights at the top of its agenda, but even with legislation banning proposals and high- capacity ammunition magazines regulations, the Congress did not passed the legislation by six votes missing. While the Democratic Party was having difficulties to pass laws, they used the media as a resource in order to make Americans upset about the decisions made in the Congress by blaming the Republican Party for the mass shootings that were taking place. Harvard Law & Policy Review published this article in 2016. The author, Allen Rostron, worked as a Senior Staff Attorney at the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, where he was part of a nationwide litigation effort that included lawsuits brought against gun manufacturers by several major cities and counties in the United States.