Zachary Sanders Harley Campbell ENC 1102 097 February 28 2017 How the national rifle association gathers supporters With all the recent commercials and advertisements, almost everyone in the united states knows what the second amendment is. The right to bear arms. When it was written however, it was a much simpler time and loading a gun could take upwards of five minutes just to get one bullet to fire. Contrary to modern machine guns which can fire more than five rounds every second This causes huge amounts of controversy over how the constitution should be interpreted and what constitutes as a firearm needed for self-defense. Yet, the National Rifle Association manages to continue to persuade citizens to support them and convenes them that allowing everyone to own and carry firearms is better for society (NRA). The NRA is the largest pro-gun organization, with over 5 million members (about us). The NRA is a nationwide agency devoted to ensuring all Americans are given the rights they are guaranteed in the U.S. constitution, and has been around since the early 20 th century. In order to continue to gain members and support, they use propaganda like the two images to persuade people to own guns for their protection, and to support them in protecting the second amendment. The NRA uses ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos to convince people that it is up to them to keep the second amendment around, and . The NRA was started in 1871 by col. William c. church, and gen. George Wingate. Their primary goal was to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific basis (Church). nearly a century National Rifle Association was among foremost pro-gun control organizations. It was not until 1977 that the NRA Americans know today came forth, after people began associating gun ownership with the freedom that the founding fathers fought for. The first image shows an American soldier with a rifle, standing in front of the American flag. Around the picture is the simple quote the second The American flag, along with the soldier, makes you feel like it is your duty as an American to defend the second amendment that the founding fathers fought for. looking at the picture encourages you to own a gun to look tough, like the soldier. The soldier and flag also make you feel patriotic. Even though it does not say it directly, this picture/ add would be used around election times to convince people to vote for politicians that want to keep the second amendment intact. The second picture shows a magazine published by the NRA. The add has the words first freedom right on the top in big bold letters. This simple quote has deep meaning; to make the viewer feel that joining the NRA is essential in their path to freedom. Along the left side, it says, our victories. All our rights. All our This quote pushes the idea that more than just the second amendment is up in jeopardy; all the freedoms the founding fathers fought for are in jeopardy. The American flag in the center of the add also contributes to make people think about the freedoms in the constitution. The catch phrase and is on the line in persuade people to or in other words, do something to help protect the second amendment in the upcoming election. Another main persuasive technique of the NRA is to convince people that the nation as a whole is safer if everyone is armed. According to an article by Blake Ellis and Melanie Hicken, the NRA gets most of its power from who give almost eighty-five million dollars to the NRAs political action committee in the past ten years. They also said that according to one of the largest donors to the NRA, he donates because it is much because he believes having the average citizen armed, a powerful deterrent to would be abusers (criminals, police, politicians, maybe even foreign troops in some distant (Ellis). The NRA uses this logic to convince people that they are right, and that people need to support them, to make their lives better. So why do people still support the second amendment, specifically assault rifles, with all the mass shootings happening nearly every week all over the country? It is because organizations like the National Rifle Association use very effective rhetorical appeals such as ethos logos pathos and Kairos to convince people that their actions are crucial to, not just them, but everyone in a nation, staying safe. Works cited Elli, Blake. Hicken, Melanie. Why I give 10% of my income to the  CNNMoney. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. http://money.cnn.com/2015/10/15/news/nra-biggest-donor/index.html Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Harhager, Ed. North Lawrence Fish and Game - NRA Bunker by Ed  North Lawrence Fish and Game. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Lach, Eric. Check Out the Last 16 Covers of The News N.p., 02 Apr. 2013. Web http://talkingpointsmemo.com/muckraker/check-out-the-last-16-covers-of- the-nra-s-pure-news-magazine accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Safest Place  Safest Place Home. N.p., n.d. Web. https://www.nraspeaksforme.com/our-campaign/never-again/ Accessed 27 Feb. 2017.