Leah Hansil ENC 1102 Adam Carter February 26, 2017 Visual Rhetoric in GMO Free Florida Advertisements As humans, we constantly think about our next meal but more often than not, we think about whether the ingredients in our meals have been genetically modified. Although, an organization that has put a lot of thought into this calls themselves GMO Free Florida. Its goal is to have all genetically modified foods properly labeled because it believes the consumer has a right to know. In the long run, the organization hopes to ban all genetically modified organisms (GMOs) completely. The organization, GMO Free Florida, adds photographs to their website that use rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos and that aid in getting support for the banning of GMOs. GMO Free Florida has been educating the public on the issue since 2010 and now has upward of 15,000 subscribers and 30 volunteer groups across the state of Florida. GMOFF is against this newfound science because the experimental procedures used to change the DNA of the food are not made known to the public. It is also unknown if the consumption of these foods will lead to any short term or long term safety issues. In addition, the genetically modified seeds are patented and therefore unavailable for testing. The only testing for GMOs are by the same corporations that create and profit from their (GMO Free Florida). This being the case, it is easy to believe the full truth may not be released as it may result in a drop in sales. This patent also affects farmers who do not have strict permission to use the technology. If seeds were to drift from one farm to another and are found in a field not owned by the corporate organizations who also own the patent, the local farmer can be sued. To show support of these local farmers and also raise awareness for these issues GMO Free Florida creates events for the community such as marches, rallies, film nights, and pot lucks. Also on the website, images and advertisements can be found to also rally up support for the cause. These images contain many rhetorical appeals which can sway an audience by appealing to their sense of logic, emotion, timeliness, or by making them believe the information being presented is credible. Logos is an appeal to logic and is used to convince a viewer through rational reasoning. The first image uses this in a very effective way as the entirety of the advertisement is made up of facts and statistics with the title being Wants GMOs The information is organized in a way that takes these facts and makes them more exciting to look at by organizing them into the shape of the United States. Not only does it have these ten facts actually making up the picture but there are also facts around the picture such as than one million Americans have called on the FDA to label This major use of facts and statistics makes the viewer more likely to agree with their position because now it is backed up by logic. In the second picture, there is an ear of corn being injected by many different needles. This symbolism leads the viewer to think about the office and how most injections are man-made and contain many different chemicals. The viewer will most likely then take the same stance as GMO Free Florida because logically it would be a bad thing to take a natural food and pump it full of those same chemicals. Pathos is an appeal that gains support through an emotional response and the first image uses it in subtle accents throughout its overall message. The sheer number of Americans the advertisements claims also support stance makes the audience feel as if this issue is that large that they should be a part of it. The advertisement has a bandwagon-like approach showing that this is what everyone wants and therefore you should want it too. It can be brought so far as to say it challenges the patriotism as well by giving the feeling that if you are an American, you should want GMOs to be labeled like the rest of do. This challenge of a love for their country may use the emotion of guilt to persuade the viewer to take the same stance as the organization itself. In the second photo, the emotion appeals are a lot stronger. The background is a daunting grey color symbolizing that what is happening in the picture is not good and is potentially dangerous as well. The only object shown in color is the picture of the corn. This shows that unmodified corn is the only thing pure and non-threatening. Meanwhile, the corn is being injected with many different needles. This advertisement uses pathos perfectly as the needles are associated with many different unpleasant feelings. It brings to mind the office which often times reminds of us the fear of bad news. Also, the needle itself is a object that brings us literal and physical pain. These feelings brought to the viewer from the images are examples of how pathos can persuade an audience to form an opinion that coincides with that of the creator. Ethos represents credibility as well as ethics. In image number one, the first showing of credibility is the color choice. The background is blue which is a universally favored color. In an article written about the psychology of color, blue was said to to trust, honestly, and dependability, therefore helping to build (Vijapure). It makes the audience feel as if they can trust the information being presented to them, in this case, the statistics. It also uses other well-known and trusted data such as the Federal Drug Administration (FDA). Staying with the theme of color, the second photo is on the grey background which makes what the scientist are doing to the natural food seem or untrustworthy. If genetically modifying food was going to be posed as a good and ethical procedure, the advertisement would be seen in a much happier light. These subtle details make a difference when trying to persuade an audience. Finally, these images use kairos which is an appeal to timeliness. By presenting the information in a way that makes the viewer feel uneducated about the issue compared to everyone else, the viewer is compelled to on the as soon as possible. In society, knowledge is an indication of superiority or higher social status. is a positive correlation between levels of educational prestige and their social (Sewell 68). Those who are not educated about the issue look at the advertisement and feel as if they need to read up because so many others know information that they do not. This also brings along the sense of being left out. According to the advertisement, 90% of Americans want GMOs labeled and it calls for the reader to feel that way too right now so that they are part of the majority. In the second article, the feelings given by the article make the viewer want to do something about the issue right now. No one would want to eat what is in a needle at a office so the overwhelming emotion creates an urgent feeling about stopping this process. As technology advances and time goes on, genetically modified foods are becoming more and more relevant. Some believe this to be dangerous to our environment and our people. GMO Free Florida advocates for the labeling of all GMOs so the people can make educated decisions about what enters their body and for the ban on all GMOs in the environment at all. Through their public advertisements that use logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos, they are effectively and efficiently educating and gaining support for their stance on genetically modified organisms. Works Cited GMO Free Florida. gmofreeflorida.org/about/ 29 January 2017 Sewll, Wiliam H., Archie O. Hallet, and Murray A. Straus. Status and Educational and Occupationa; American Sociological Review 22.1 (1957): 67. Web. Vijapure, Padmavati. Meaning in LinkedIn. 12 December 2015. www.linkedin.com/pulse/color-meanings-business-psychology-colours 25 February 2017.