[Type [Type Heiden 1 Connor Heiden Professor Campbell ENC 1102 Feb 27 2017 Fast-food Empire: McDonalds Driving down the street and your stomach is grubbing for a quick snack there many options. Were all in search of that cheap quick bite going to satisfy are hunger craving. The First fast food spot that comes to my mind is McDonalds! McDonalds menu is endless and also affordable and cheap. McDonalds menu items range from a Big Mac special to an M&M McFlurry that everyone would enjoy. All you have to do is go down the street to find one; literally is one on every corner! In a recent poll was voted by Business Insider as most popular fast food restaurant in (Alaina Bhasin). is not alone though. The competition is long and extensive with some names that include Sonic, and McDonalds arch rival Burger King. None of these restaurants however have had the success that has accomplished not only profit wise but also worldwide viewing. Insiders concluded, just no stopping the Golden Bhasin). One of best tactics at gaining customers is through the use of advertising. There current advertisement slogan lovin it is a branding campaign by Advertising). uses its ads of cheeseburgers and athletes to lure you towards their stores to buy their products. The two examples I have include a rock hand shaped like a fry pocket and an Olympic athlete holding a cheeseburger. If something can throw in an ad to sell their product better, they will do it! First off, check out the first ad I have provided down below. a right hand of what appears to be a rock band symbol similar to what you see at a rock concert. makes the hand into the shape of a fry pocket to attract fry lovers. The pinky and index finger are both yellow which are both fully extended and are made out to be golden French fries. Who love golden crispy French fries! The back palm of the hand is completely filled red with a giant yellow to represent McDonalds branding. In between the index finger and the pinky finger they have the words in bold letters. Rock is in black letters as to the Fries letters are in yellow. Fries are in yellow to represent French fries and branding. as you notice likes to use the colors red and yellow all over there ads. Red and yellow are [Type [Type Heiden 1 branding colors for all their advertisements. Ethos is viewed when has everyone rocking out but also has you thinking to have a pocket of fries in your hand. Pathos is viewed when is appealing to the younger rock crowd. Logos is viewed when the place the giant M on the center palm of the hand with the apparent French fry hand. The famous yellow arches are what made famous. Its makes perfect sense to put but both the M and fuse the French fries into their ads to help persuade people. Second, visualize the second ad I have displayed below of the Olympic fan holding the delicious looking cheeseburger. The ad is trying to appeal to athletes and the athletic audience. McDonalds is known for cheap fast food, not necessarily for healthy high energy food that athletes are looking for. The person holding the cheeseburger appears to be Olympic medalist. uses the giant cheeseburger to represent a gold medal. The Olympic medalist is smiling which indicates that happy that got a cheeseburger in his hand which in turn will attract athletes. Who The cheeseburger almost seems to be exemplified with brightness to help show it off. This ad was used for the 2010 Vancouver Olympics. In the bottom right corner you see again the golden arches or better known as famous M logo. The whole background of the ad is covered in red. There seem to be that much yellow in this ad besides the logo. This ad was created to help generate more athletes to come into their store but in fact they hamburgers have been known to not be healthy for you. According to chef the low quality of the meat, the ammonium hydroxide is harmful to health. Oliver famously coined this the pink slime (Hamburger Chef). That sound good! As you can see fallacy of false error of fact is present here. Everything seem as it is. Just because its cheap and fast mean good for you. With both ads will always have the same goal in mind which is to gain new customers and to help promote their business through their brand colors. As you can see in both ads the colors red and yellow are present throughout. Also the yellow logo can be seen in both. They want you to remember that famous logo and brand colors. The two new crowds that was trying to attract were the young rock and roll crowd and the athletic, and healthy crowd. Both ads also use Photoshop to help enhance their ads which a lot of companies do today. In the rock and roll ad the hands are not human skin colors but are red and yellow which realistic. With the second ad appears to brighten and make the cheeseburger larger to help give it more appeal and a more tasteful look. I think a great tactic to help sell their products to new customers. Both ads all stick to the strict black bold font when it comes to their letters only to change them to company colors ever so often. In Conclusion, as most of the ads we seem in TV can be very convincing sometimes they [Type [Type Heiden 1 can be very deceiving. With being one of the biggest food chains in the world their ads can almost be monopolized and hypnotizing. According to Clever corporations the largest chain of fast food restaurants, serving nearly 47 million customers (40 Clever). Ads are a great way to help push your product regardless of your company of stake. To begin, social media has taken reins of the new world. what makes everything run. It could be google, twitter or Myspace or simply a basic computer ad; they all work great. You must be aware of these ads though because they can be deceiving. is trying to trick you into coming into their store to spend money. Their burgers are not healthy for you. Everyone should take a proactive step into eating healthier foods from the grocery store. Maybe a pack of golden French-fries everyone once and awhile; we all know can be undeniable. [Type [Type Heiden 1 Work Cited Bhasin, Alaina. RANKED: The Most Popular Fast Food Restaurants In  Business Insider. Business Insider, Inc, 12 July 2012. Web. 25 Jan. 2015. <http://www.businessinsider.com/the-most-popular-fast-food-restaurants- in-america- 2012-7#1- mcdonalds-15>. Hamburger Chef Jamie Oliver Proves Burgers Unfit for Human  Political Blind Spot. 3 Aug. 2013. Web. 26 Jan. 2015. <http://politicalblindspot.com/hamburger- chef-jamie-oliver-proves-mcdonalds- burgers- unfit-for-human-consumption/>.  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation. Web. 26 Jan. 2015. 40 Clever Advertising Campaigns of  The Design Inspiration 40 Clever Advertising Campaigns of McDonalds Comments. Web. 26 Jan. 2015. <http://thedesigninspiration.com/articles/40-clever-advertising-campaigns-of- mcdonalds/>. [Type [Type Heiden 1