Project 2: Int. Draft Emily Pedone Industry versus Industry Although the psychiatric field practices civil commitment regularly, there are many groups that combat such involuntary hospitalization. The Commission on Human Rights particularly rises above the rest when it comes to not only resisting civil commitment, but also the entire psychiatric industry. Since 1969, this organization has been propelling legislative acts in opposition of the field. Lately, however, they have shed new light on spreading their messages to the public. They use the web, museums, and films as platforms for their directives. Most of their advertisements, for instance, include fearful imagery and morbid vocabulary. Through further examining the rhetoric of two example ads CCHR uses to target psychiatry, it becomes clear how logical fallacies shy viewers away from genuine issues, but pushes them toward fearful propaganda instead. The Citizens Commission on Human Rights was co-founded by the Church of Scientology in 1969. Upon the surface, the Commission is just like any other activist group passionate about human rights and their causes. Digging deeper, its agenda is more aimed at propelling forward the Scientology platform; particularly anti-psychology stances. In fact, CCHR links itself to beliefs that mental illnesses are (cchr.org). According to journalist and physician Ford Vox, group incessantly employs classic propaganda techniques like trumpeting each instant of an errant psychiatrist as emblematic of the entire 1 Such propaganda is displayed in Image 1 (see below), where CCHR warns against the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual. The DSM is a well-known source regarded with much credibility. It holds all the codes and diagnosis for mental disorders, and is used by doctors universally. The manual describes Project 2: Int. Draft Emily Pedone what disorders call for being hospitalized, and how to further treat a patient who is held in an institution. The ad not only has the DSM pictured, but also the words in bold letters, taking up most of the space. display of the DSM shows the rhetoric of ethos by intriguing credibility. However, the use of pathos immediately counter-acts any and all previous credibility. Image and vocabulary attempt to strike fear into the audience. The ad displays negative words and Furthermore, poker chips are scattered around the copy of the DSM, implying that the source is merely a gamble. The words Statistical are printed in fiery orange, which typically equates to death and destruction. All of these elements are successful in portraying horror. Although the DSM is a reasonable source, the CCHR uses logic in the ad in attempt to discredit itself. By public reasoning, a reliable source, therefore, why should the public not believe it? This is where the element of kairos plays a role. The fear and logical confusion effectively push for the audience to set forth a call to action. The second image expands on the rhetoric of kairos to an even further extent by directly singling out the viewer as a victim. Image 2 (See Below) is an ad for the Citizens Commission on Human multi-city museum, An Industry of The bottom half of the advertisement says, psychiatry has nothing to do with you? Think This statement directly speaks to individual audience members and calls them to act on the situation in an immediate manner. It applies to the fear that even you can be hospitalized against your will. Furthermore, it terrifies viewers by including money seeping with blood, crosses in a graveyard, and dark reds to represent death. The overall color scheme is black, with shades of deep red and occasional dark grey. These are all typically used in provoking feelings of fear, anxiety, and death. The top right Project 2: Int. Draft Emily Pedone corner of the image has a warning label to display credibility and warn of the use of such graphic pathos. Logically, CCHR tries to convince audience members that their cause deals with each and every individual. a weak argument on the part, yet the advertisement as a whole no doubt spikes interest and provokes unease. It is no doubt that the two ads are effective. They grasp audience attention, clearly state their purposes, and incorporate the basic rhetorical appeals. However, they miss the main issues of the arguments, and instead present numerous logical fallacies. If the entirety of the presentation is coated in mishaps, then the core situation is not only masked, but also invisible entirely. use of ethos, or credibility, just barely can be recognized as such. Its display of the DSM is only used to counteract the manual itself. Therefore, what credibility does the audience have to rely on? The images are so crowded with fearful emotional pathos that almost as if the writer is trying to say that reliability is not necessary. By rhetoric standards, it makes for a poor (even if effective) ad. This is referred to as ad poplum, where the topic as a whole is to blame, rather than the specific issue in question. In this case, the whole would be the psychiatric industry, and the specific issue would be civil commitment, drug abuse, and mental illness. This leads to a second fallacy that the images hold: begging the claim, where the content that the industry is evil just by saying that it is. The Commission, being so opposed to psychiatry, promotes instead the practice of Scientology. The group presents an alternative to psychological treatment, referred to as (scientology.org). a costly treatment in which one is repeatedly asked to Project 2: Int. Draft Emily Pedone recount traumatic events (sometimes even from past lives) until the events no longer seem traumatic. 2 This is what the contents of each images eventually push for. Before encouraging viewers to investigate into their alternatives, CCHR must first completely persuade the audience to shy away from psychiatry. Therefore, the images are filled with the fallacy of hasty generalization, where the contents are filled with biased opinions rather than cold hard facts. This argument occupies that the root of the topic at hand thereby determines worth, commonly referred to as genetic fallacy. This ties into the abundant use of pathos. The images display that the root of mental troubles is in fact in the history of psychiatry. Lastly, the images fail to erase any use of moral equivalence, and perhaps on purpose. By comparing a minor scenario (the use of the DSM) to a major scenario (deadly scam; gambling), the audience is much more likely to be fearful and investigate further. The Commission on Human Rights aims to abolish all aspects of psychology, including psychiatric practices and especially civil commitment. After further analysis of two of their images, it is clear that they are effective at striking fear and doubt into audience members. However, the fact that the rhetoric is filled with logical fallacies makes for weak advertisements and a misinformed public. Project 2: Int. Draft Emily Pedone IMAGE 1 IMAGE 2 Work Cited 1. Vox, Ford, vs. Psychology: A Case web. TheAtlantic.com, 2 nd July, 2012 https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2012/07/scientology- vs-psychiatry-a-case-study/259279/ 2. Hubbard, L. Ron, Dianetics, Hermitage House, 9 May, 1950 Project 2: Int. Draft Emily Pedone 2. Commission of Human Rights, cchr.org 3. Scientology, scientology.org