Michaela Hedderman January 29, 2017 Composition II Intermediate Draft Equity, which often becomes confused with equality, is defined as making it possible to provide with the full range of opportunities and while equality, mainly focuses on the same starting line for (Caaws). Gender Equity, defined as the process of allocating resources, programs, and decision making fairly to both males and females, plays a large role in decision making for collegiate sports (Caaws). The U.S. Department of Educations Office for Civil Rights initiated an act called Title IX of the Education Act, which opened athletics to women and girls. This act attempts to create equity between men and women in collegiate athletics and increase women participation in sports. The U.S. Department of Education would be at odds with the NCAA, because the main goal is to recruit athletes, but the men to women ratio of recruited athletes is unequal as well as the money given through scholarships. The National Collegiate Athletic Association, also known as the NCAA, is a driven organization dedicated to safe guarding the well-being of student-athletes and equipping them with the skills to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and throughout (NCAA). The NCAA was founded in 1906, in order to up competition and eligibility rules for gridiron football and other intercollegiate (Britannica). Though, originally created in order to prevent death on the playing field, since football players in the early were dying of exhaustion, broken limbs, and concussions during games and practices. The NCAA functions as a general and administrative authority mens and intercollegiate formulates and enforces the rules of play for various sports and the eligibility criteria for (Britannica). Without the National Collegiate Athletic Association, in place schools would have to pay their athletes, which is why more than $2.7 billion in athletic scholarships are given out annually to collegiate athletes. While $2.7 billion may seem like a large sum of money, only two-percent of high school athletes are awarded athletic scholarships to compete at their desired college (NCAA scholarships). Out of the two- percent of athletes awarded scholarships through the NCAA, male athletes receive 36 percent more scholarships dollars than females do. The U.S. Department of Education for Civil Rights, is an institution of the federal government that is responsible for federal statues prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, sex, disability, religion, and national (Wikipedia). The division, which was established in 1957, currently active to this day, ensures access to education and to promote educational excellence throughout the nation through vigorous enforcement of civil (ED.GOV). This department has created titles prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability, sex, age, race and color discrimination. In relation to gender equity, the Office for Civil Rights created Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits sex discrimination. Before Title IX was created, only 7% of females were participating in high school sports and 2% of female college students were participating in collegiate sports (Feminist). Since Title IX was created, the number both men and women playing high school and college sports have increased immensely. Not only has the number of girls playing sports in high school increased from 300,000 to 2.7 million, the number of boys has increased as well, nearly four million participate in high school sports (Feminist). Even though there has been a remarkable increase in the participation of women and men, and girls and boys in both high school and collegiate sports from the mid 1900s, women and girls still face inequalities. While Title IX has boosted the number of females participating in sports drastically, over 400%, female athletes are still unequal compared to their male counterparts. Even though females hold majority over men and make up 54% of college students, females only make up 43% of college athletes. While the U.S. Department is looking strictly into equity in athletics and the NCAA is looking at playing sports at a collegiate level, they both share the same united goal of wanting athletes to participate in sports. These stakeholders were both created with a shared goal of wanting both men and women to become athletes. While their specific goals are different and may conflict often due to the inequalities in the NCAA that the Title IX act is trying to fight, compromises can be found within these two stakeholders in that they want to try and find athletes to play. A compromise that the NCAA would need to make for the U.S. Department of Education, would be to have more women than mens sport teams at a school in order for the men to women ratio to be equal. This may be extremely difficult for the NCAA, because they are trying to create as many teams and athletes as possible, and since more men get recruited than women, it would be more difficult to find as many athletes. This may even mean eliminating a certain mens sport at a college if it is seen to be in violation of the Title IX terms. This would not only be detrimental to the NCAA, but to the college itself, which makes money off of the collegiate athletics. Title IX states that it does not intend to eliminate mens sports programs, but it intends to bring treatment of the disadvantaged gender to the level of the advantaged. Another compromise that the both the NCAA and the U.S. Department would need to make would be instead of cutting an entire mens team from a college, create more women teams, or have more women than men on teams that both sexes play. For example, sports like tennis, basketball, track and field and soccer could create more spots for women in order to keep up with the Title IX mandate. This would be a compromise for both the NCAA and the U.S. Department since the NCAA would direct colleges to recruit more women than men and give more scholarships to women than the men athletes. In order for these stakeholders to achieve their purpose with regards to gender equity in collegiate sports they would need representatives from each organization as well as from the specific college to compromise on certain terms. As stated above, Title main goal is not to cut teams or decrease male opportunities in order to promote females, its goal is to create equal treatment for the disadvantaged gender in every way possible. While this act conflicts greatly with the NCAA, and their goals recruit athletes to prestigious colleges every year, it is a sacrifice that the NCAA as well as colleges with collegiate sports have to follow in order to have any kind of athletics at the school at all. Works Cited  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http:// www.ncaa.org/about>. About  Home. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https:// www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/aboutocr.html>. Gender Equality in Athletics and Sports - Interesting Facts About Athletics, Sports, and Title IX - Feminist Majority  Gender Equality in Athletics and Sports - Interesting Facts About Athletics, Sports, and Title IX - Feminist Majority Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 09 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/student-athletes/future/scholarships>. The Editors of Britannica. National Collegiate Athletic Association  Britannica. Britannica, Inc., 19 May 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.britannica.com/topic/National-Collegiate-Athletic-Association>. United States Department of Justice Civil Rights  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ What Is Gender  Canadian Association for the Advancement of Women and Sport and Physical Activity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.caaws.ca/gender-equity-101/ what-is-gender-equity/>.