Jasmine McIver Professor Townsend ENC1102. 28 January 2017 Project 1 Intermediate Draft SeaWorld has been tangled in the killer whale issue for years. In a recent interview with Frontline, it was announced that SeaWorld would no longer be breeding killer whales and the remaining orcas were the last of the ones at the amusement park. Jim McBain explained that keeping zoos and amusement parks such as SeaWorld are the only ways to keep the public knowledgeable about wild animals. SeaWorld originally opened in 1964 as a marine zoological park. Since then, many parks have imported and bred animals to put them on display for their visitors to interact with. On the other hand, The Orca Project is a corporation that wishes to change the view on marine mammals in captivity through research. In the end, the goal would be to keep these mammals including orcas out of captivity and leaving them in the wild where they belong. The Orca Project wants to involve the government when it comes to the mistreatment of animals held in captivity. SeaWorld and The Orca Project could come to agreement and allow the animals to be kept in the wild where they belong. If this was the case, SeaWorld could keep their audience interested in and able to learn about orcas in different ways then they are used to. The parks could teach their audience about these mammals by taking them out on boats into the water. This way, SeaWorld is still able to teach the public about the killer whales in other ways than keeping them in captivity. The only difficulties to this option would be finding ways for the public to go out to sea on a daily basis. It would be a bit unrealistic to send hundreds and thousands of people out to the ocean every day in order to look at killer whales for just a few minutes. The amount of gas and energy that would be used almost makes the trip seem like it would be a waste of time. Also, The Orca Project would not have to worry about the mistreatment of the killer whales being held in captivity. Both sides would still be able to accomplish their goals without giving too much away. Another way both stakeholders could somewhat meet their goals would include keeping a few animals in captivity. If this was the chosen option, SeaWorld would be able to keep some animals to show off to the public. The Orca Project would just need to make sure their wanted and required standards were met to make sure the killer whales were well taken care of. With this option, it would be made sure of that these captive animals were treated well and given the maintenance they need and deserve. With this option, The Orca Project would still have to experience the fact that a few animals would still be behind cages. Although it would not meet all of their needs, as long as their regulations were followed it would meet most of the requirements. Works Cited Page About the Orca  The Orca Project. N.p., 21 Jan. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://theorcaproject.wordpress.com/about-2/> Jim McBain & Brad  PBS. Frontline, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/whales/debate/procap.html>.