Topole 1 Rachael Topole Professor Krista Townsend ENC 1102 12 February 2017 Exploring a Compromise for the Embryonic Stem Cell Debate Stem cells are cells that have unspecialized functions and can be to become tissue- or organ-specific cells with special (U.S. Department). The discovery of these cells has become important to researchers as these cells offer opportunities to treat diseases such as diabetes, as well as new drugs and model systems to study normal growth and identify the causes of birth (U.S. Department). Embryonic stem cells are desired over somatic (adult) cells due to their ability to easily be transformed into any type of cell needed by the researchers studying them (U.S. Department). However, the preference for embryonic stem cells has caused a rift to form between multiple organizations, two of which are the National Stem Cell Foundation (NSCF) and The Coalition of Americans for Research Ethics (Do No Harm) because the NSCF utilizes embryonic stem cells for research purposes, and this is a value against Do No Harm. The mission of the NSCF is to promising developments in the field of regenerative medicine, support research collaboration wherever possible and work to accelerate access to scientific breakthroughs for people in (National). This foundation primarily advocates using stem cell research towards neurodegenerative disease, autoimmune disease, rare childhood disorders, and regenerative repair (National). A scholarly journal sponsored by the Northwest Topole 2 Association for Biomedical Research further discusses the support for stem cell research in common with the NSCF, such as being as an endless supply of live cells for as well as macular dystrophy and tracheal cancer (Pecorino). Do No Harm is an organization devoted to the development of medical treatments and therapies that require destruction of human life, educate and inform public policy makers and the general public regarding ethically acceptable and medically promising areas of research and treatment, and support the continuation of federal laws prohibiting federal funding of research that requires destruction of human (Stem). A core value present in this organization is opposition against research that destroys human life, such as embryonic stem cells (Stem). Katrien Devolder, a professor at Ghent University, explains support for Do No position on this topic, especially in discussing that the benefits of embryonic stem cell research does not justify creating these embryos in a lab (Devolder). Although it may seem these organizations are completely at odds with each other and be able to settle on a solution, there is a valid compromise available that would favor both parties. Both of these organizations strive to expand research in an effective way, but Do No Harm is focused much more on the ethical standpoint of research. Despite the difference in viewpoints, if researchers solely utilized embryonic stem cells donated from in vitro fertilization, and focused more towards the use of adult stem cells, these organizations would be able to settle on common ground. With this negotiation in place, the ethical standpoint of embryonic stem cell research would have more support rather than if the cells were created in a lab or taken from a body, without taking away the ability to perform research on these cells. The question of conception would not be a barrier to utilizing stem cells in research with the use of somatic cells, and research would be able to be continued on stem cells for the various possible uses. Topole 3 The process of in vitro fertilization, when eggs are collected from ovaries and fertilized by sperm in a (In Vitro), assists in helping women become pregnant if they cannot do so on their own, but every year there are many unused fertilized eggs that are discarded. Unused embryos have totaled to 1.7 while a 23,480 were discarded after being taken out of (Hough). This is a significant amount of unused stem cells that could be of use for research purposes rather than discarded. Consent from the individuals intending to utilize embryos in in vitro fertilization but later decided not to use them would have to be given to donate the embryo for research purposes. This aspect of the negotiation would almost eliminate the need for embryonic stem cells to be harvested using other methods. A likely obstacle present with this compromise in place is in regards towards the destruction of human life as an embryo, which is a value against the Do No Harm organization, as this organization holds the belief that life begins at fertilization (Stem). However, these embryos would have to be discarded at some point, and there would be more benefits than downsides to utilizing them for research rather than essentially killing them anyway. The other variable to be taken into account for finding a compromise would be to shift focus on research from embryonic stem cells to somatic (adult) stem cells. At no harm to the donor, somatic stem cells can be easily retrieved from a variety of tissues (Adult). University of Miami scientists have reported they heart damage... with the own bone marrow adult stem and this resulted in reduced scar tissue and improved function of heart areas that were injured (Adult). Another example of success from using somatic stem cells comes from doctors in Germany. These doctors published results from a study that showed patients treated for chronic heart failure with adult stem cells showed improvement in heart function and a significant decrease in long-term (Adult). Many adult stem cell Topole 4 research projects and treatments are still in the experimental stage, but in 2011 over 55,000 people were successfully treated with these stem cells, and this number is expected to grow (Adult). For example, there are currently FDA-approved clinical that deal with adult stem cells (Prentice). In order to make this compromise viable, cost factors must be put into perspective. On average, a cycle of in vitro fertilization will cost the individuals around $12,000-$15,000, of which the costs derive from medications, initial tests, ultrasound/monitoring, blood work, ICSI (single sperm injected directly into an egg), PGD (genetic testing of embryos) and embryo (Internet). Requesting for the embryos to be donated for research would reduce the amount of time spent frozen in storage, which would reduce the cost for not only the clinics storing the embryos, but also the individuals who created the fertilized egg in IVF. To do this, clients requesting IVF would fill out paperwork at the onset of the fertilization process that allows consent for the embryos to be donated to research after a given amount of time if they utilized. Funding for somatic cell research would come from research grants given by universities and organizations advocating to find cures for diseases and treatments. Where compromise is necessary is present between both organizations contributing funding to research into utilizing adult stem cells rather than embryonic stem cells for treatment. This would benefit the NSCF because the funding would allow for the expansion of research using these somatic cells, so projects dedicated to stem cell research could be continued. Do No Harm would also benefit because the ethical platform for somatic cells creates less of a debate than with embryonic stem cells because the cells have already developed and questioning whether using embryonic stem cells is killing a human being. Topole 5 The shift from embryonic to somatic stem cells for research purposes happen quickly, which is why it is necessary for researchers to obtain their embryonic stem cells from in vitro fertilization donations for the time being to continue research. However, in time there must be a shift towards primarily using somatic stem cells in order to reach a compromise. With this negotiation, the NSCF and Do No Harm would be able to find common ground in regards to stem cell research. Topole 6 Works Cited Devolder, Katrien. Embryonic Stem Cell Research: Why the Discarded-Created- Distinction cannot be based on the Potentiality Bioethics. Vol 19, No 2, April 2005. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-8519.2005.00432.x/full. 28 Jan 2017. Hough, Andrew. Million Human Embryos Created for IVF Thrown Center for Genetics and Society. 31 Dec 2012. http://www.geneticsandsociety.org/article.php?id=6605. 28 Jan 2017. vitro fertilization Mayo Clinic. http://www.mayoclinic.org/tests-procedures/in-vitro- fertilization/home/ovc-20206838. 28 Jan 2017. Internet Health Resources. Costs - In Vitro Fertilization IHR.com. http://www.ihr.com/infertility/ivf/ivf-in-vitro-fertilization-cost.html. 28 Jan 2017. National Stem Cell Foundation. NSCF. http://www.nationalstemcellfoundation.org/mission/. 27 Jan 2017. Pecorino, Lauren. Cells for Cell-Based December 2012. 28 Jan 2017. Prentice, David A.. Diseases with Adult Stem Science. Vol 315, No 5810, 19 Jan 2007. http://science.sciencemag.org/content/315/5810/328.2. 28 Jan 2017. Topole 7 Prentice, David. Stem Cells are Treating Thousands of Patients LifeNews.com. 17 May 2011. http://www.lifenews.com/2011/05/17/adult-stem-cells-are-treating-thousands- of-patients-now/. 27 Jan 2017. Cell Research Stem Cell Research. http://www.stemcellresearch.org/stem- cell-research-treatments/. 27 Jan 2017. U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. Cell National Institutes of Health. https://stemcells.nih.gov/info/basics/1.htm. 27 Jan 2017.