Doran 1 Brooke Doran Krista Townsend ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Physician Assisted Dying: Right or Wrong? In a few states across the United States it is legal for physicians and patients to participate in the practice of physician assisted dying using medication. There are regulations that vary state to state on assisted suicide. In general the requirements for someone to do physician assisted suicide is they must be at least 18, be a legal resident of that particular state, are told by a doctor that they are only expected to live for 6 months or less, and must request assisted suicide two times verbally along with one written request Patients with terminal illnesses have taken advantage of this option in order to not suffer from their illness, many people disagree with this even being a legal option for people. Patients with terminal illnesses end up doing this for many reasons, a few being that they want to have to endure the pain of their terminal illness, and want their last days to be filled with pain and in a hospital or nursing home bed. When they take this medication, many people take it at their home before they go to bed and painlessly pass away in their sleep The organization Death with Dignity supports physician assisted suicide, and all it has to offer for terminally ill patients. The organization Not Dead Yet is against physician assisted suicide and do not want people thinking they should just die, rather than enduring their illness and surviving. Being informed on the opinions of these two organizations on the practice of physician assisted suicide, can help make a possible resolution for the organizations that are at odds with each other. Doran 2 Death with Dignity Political Fund is an organization that is actively trying to pass legislature to make physician assisted suicide legal in many states in the U.S. Death with Dignity National Center is an organization that Death with Dignity laws and information, education, and support about Death with Dignity as an end-of-life option to patients, family members, legislators, advocates, healthcare and end-of-life care professionals, media, and the interested The Death with Dignity Political Fund and National Center work hand and hand to help each other achieve their goals in the support of physician assisted suicide, by educating the public, passing legislature, and raising funds These organizations want people to feel like they have the freedom make their own end-of-life decisions, including how they People usually fear the unexpected; making this an option can help patients feel comforted to know when and how this would be happening. The patients would then know when they could expect to die, so there would be no unknown. Another option stated on the Death with Dignity website is for people that want physician assisted suicide medication, but is denied it for some reason should refuse to eat or drink as an alternative to physician assisted suicide. A study was done by sending out a questionnaire to nurses and social workers that work in hospice to see how they felt on patients receiving physician assisted suicide medication and participating in all food and (TA et al). This study concluded that overall hospice workers supported people who chose to participate in voluntary refusal of all food and fluids rather than those who chose to do assisted suicide by medication (TA et al). Death with Dignity prefers for patients do physician assisted suicide by medication rather than starvation because it would cause less suffering. Doran 3 Not Dead Yet a national, grassroots disability rights group that opposes the legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia as deadly forms of (Not Dead Yet) This group believes that physicians prescribe the assisted suicide medication to people who are not terminally ill, want it, and they also do not the cause of the suffering or whether it can be (Not Dead Yet) This being said the organization believes physicians are breaking the law and abusing their power as a physician. They also believe that doctors will and do quality of this shows that people who may have assisted suicide presented to them as a medical option may not legally be allowed to receive it (Not Dead Yet). Elder abuse is another issue that concerns this organization (Not Dead Yet). They believe that elders with illnesses that impair them may be into choosing assisted (Not Dead Yet). According to Not Dead Yet this is also illegal and no one should be pushing the elderly into doing physician assisted suicide (Not Dead Yet). This organization believes the elderly are sometimes pushed to make this decision because others view their life as worth less and they are a nuisance, and Not Dead Yet wants to advocate for the elderly (Not Dead Yet). A study was done to see if it could be proven that groups were abused in physician assisted suicide. It concluded that there was no way to prove this is true, but there was no way to completely prove that is not happening. (Battin et al) This is a valid concern being that the people involved may not be able to speak up against this being that they may be disabled, unable to speak, or people may not believe them. Both of these organizations have valid points and reasonable opinions, but there must be someway to make a compromise between these two organizations. Some common ground between these organizations is that they both want patients to be relieved of pain and suffering; however they believe in different ways of accomplishing this. No matter their beliefs, physician Doran 4 assisted suicide is legal in six states in the U.S., this makes it difficult for Not Dead Yet to fight the legislature A way for Not Dead Yet to be more accepting of the legislation already in place is to partially change it or to add restrictions of whom and why they are allowed to get the assisted suicide medication. Making a board of palliative doctors who are the only people who are allowed to decide if assisted suicide can be considered as an option for a certain patient. Having a board of doctors for the sole purpose of deciding who can receive assisted suicide would eliminate the possibility of doctors imposing their own beliefs onto a patient. The decision would to need be approved by the majority of all the doctors on the board and be based on previously decided strict guidelines regarding the illness, the severity of it, their life expectancy, and how many of the doctors agree with prescribing them the assisted suicide medication. The doctors on the board would need to have a minimum of 10 years of experience and would have to support physician assisted suicide. This would be a good compromise for both Death with Dignity and Not Dead yet. A scholarly article attempted to tie physician assisted suicide into palliative care, but concluded that the definition of palliative care restricted these physicians from participating physician assisted suicide Even though they be participating in the practice of physician assisted suicide because part of the definition of palliative care is to hasten or postpone These doctors are still informed enough through the experiences they acquired through their career to make the decision of who should be able to do physician assisted suicide or not The doctors in this board will not be administrating the medication for physician assisted suicide they will only be making the decision of if physician assisted suicide is a viable option for a certain patient. Along with this compromise Not Dead Yet can continue and expand their education program. Death with Dignity can also do their best Doran 5 in continuing educating and help people who want to have assisted suicide to go through the process of getting approved to do so. Doran 6 Works Cited About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <https://www.deathwithdignity.org/about/>. Battin, Margaret , Agnes Van Der Hiede, Linda Ganzini, Gerrit Van Der Wal, and Bergje Onwuteaka-Philipsen. Legal physician-assisted dying in Oregon and the Netherlands: evidence concerning the impact on patients in   Battin et al. 33 (10): 591 -- Journal of Medical Ethics. N.p., 10 July 2007. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Euthanasia embedded in palliative care. Responses to essentialistic criticisms of the Belgian model of integral end-of-life  Euthanasia embedded in palliative care. Responses to essentialistic criticisms of the Belgian model of integral end-of-life care. Journal of Medical Ethics, 6 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Not Dead Yet Disability Activists Oppose Assisted Suicide As A Deadly Form of  Not Dead Yet. N.p., 05 July 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. State-by-State Guide to Physician-Assisted Suicide - Euthanasia -  ProCon.org Headlines. N.p., 5 Oct. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. TA, Harvath, Miller LL, Goy E, Jackson A, Delorit M, and Ganzini L. Voluntary refusal of food and fluids: attitudes of Oregon hospice nurses and social  International journal of palliative nursing. U.S. National Library of Medicine, 10 May 2014. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.