Cavil 1 Nicholas Cavil Professor Krista Townsend ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Vaccinations and You Does the safety of one individual usurp the rights of another? This ideology is heavily disputed between the Vaccine Resistance Movement and the Center for Disease Control when in the context of vaccinations. The Vaccination Resistance Movement began in 2011 by their founder, Joel Lord, who like many others, are very reluctant in vaccinating because he and his organization see it as biologically unnecessary (Lord). The Center for Disease Control is an organization created by the United States to defend us from any health related threats that could affect our nation Both organizations have yet to reach a compromise because they are on opposite ends of each spectrum. In other words, the Vaccine Resistance Movement calls for the choice to vaccinate while the Center for Disease Control promotes and lobbies for mandatory vaccinations. While both stakeholders appear to have disparate objectives their overall desire is the safety of their loved ones. Through this similar goal, it is within reason that a compromise could be reached that would benefit both of the parties equally while maintaining this sense of health security. The opposition towards vaccinations is really a large conglomerate of various stakeholders that refute vaccinations for numerous reasons. It could range from distrust in the pharmaceutical company, or that it causes autism, or the need for vaccination simply required in our sanitary society The Vaccination Resistance Movement encompasses all of these contentions in their cause for a pro-choice vaccinated society. The Cavil 2 leader of the VRM states this very telling stance on the front page of his website: Through the annals of history, outbreaks of disease, plague & life-threatening epidemics were primarily the result of over-crowding, marked by insufficient hygiene, sanitation & nutrition. In this day & age, given proper access to clean drinking water, modern sanitation methods & a steady organic diet, there is simply no excuse, here in the West, for the exponential surge in cases of early childhood diseases & disorders now gripping our communities. (Lord) In truth, the reported cases of autism appear to be on the rise. Whereas in the one in 2000 children were diagnosed with autism, and nowadays the number is one in 150 (Doheny). This severe rise in number has been, in the eyes of resistance, a clear indication that vaccines are the cause especially to parents whom have had this experience befell them. Jenny McCarthy, a celebrity whose child is autistic, is a strong believer in that vaccinations are what caused her son to become autistic following his second birthday. In her interview with PBS frontline, she adamantly states that her autism was in direct correlation with the number of vaccinations she saw the doctors inject into her son, who was experiencing seizures The story that Jenny McCarthy presented from her life is one many similar themed stories that have been on the rise. The Vaccine Resistance Movement believes in, and records such instances for their worldwide autism study. Cavil 3 The organization that promotes vaccinations would be the Center for Disease Control in the United States. Not only that, but the Center for Disease Control also looks after diseases, cancers, and any other health related threat that could afflict the United States The mission of the CDC as stated by their website is: CDC increases the health security of our nation. As the health protection agency, CDC saves lives and protects people from health threats. To accomplish our mission, CDC conducts critical science and provides health information that protects our nation against expensive and dangerous health threats, and responds when these arise. The patrons intertwined with the CDC would be, pharmaceutical companies, biochemists, and the pediatricians who evaluate and administer the said vaccines to the individual Before a vaccine is allowed to be used on people it must first be evaluated by three separate government organizations. Those organizations are the Center for Disease Control, the Food and Drug Administration, and the National Institute of Health Along with all of these organizations, the pediatricians are generally in agreeance that vaccinations are a good thing. In an NBC news storyline titled, Doctors to Vaccine Doubters: Get Your Kids Vaccinated, the group of doctors presented their stance on the matter: is an unequivocal message. Vaccines are safe, they are effective, and they Cavil 4 save lives every single Baltimore City Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen said as the group stood up in front of a seminar about measles at the Johns Hopkins University School of public health. (Fox) The accredited Baltimore doctors bolster the validity of the Center for Disease Control stance on the safety of vaccinations. Indeed, the pro-vaccination groups have the most support from the intellectual science community. While the anti-vaccination movement oppose vaccinations for various reasons the general consensus is that they believe the vaccinations to be unsafe. Whereas, the pro-vaccination organizations similarly protest that not being vaccinated is equally unsafe. This desire to feel safe is the common-ground of both organizations. Is it possible for both to co-exist and yet still be safe? Both organizations wish to assure that their loved ones are protected from any unnecessary harm, but neither wish to concede to the beliefs because that would put them in way. In conclusion, both opposing stakeholders are firm in their belief that the other side is wrong, and therefore a compromise is often difficult to bring to fruition. The rights of an individual to have the freedom of choice is truly a cornerstone of our American values, however, in a pragmatic sense, the safety of our society is also equally important. This is all being said, one can propose a compromise that could benefit both organizations. This compromise builds off of a current compromise in Detroit where parents are allowed to waive vaccinations. The former compromise states, in essences, that any parent or guardian can waive vaccines so long as they proceed to take an educational class on the matter itself To add on to the quote, with respect to the altered one, the educational courses shall focus on refuting arguments Cavil 5 commonly used among the anti-vaccination community. Such as, certain chemicals or preservatives in vaccinations harm their child or cause autism. Their goal is to defeat the opposition with education, however, this solution completely viable in all 50 states. The addition to this would be that every child who is under-vaccinated require monthly preventive care appointments with their doctor to be checked for illnesses. This concept would be even more viable if the doctor would personally come to the school therefore he/she could handle all of the children at once. Doctors are usually quite busy, this is understood, however it would make the compromise even more viable if the job could be delegated to school nurses. The parents who choose to go this route would have to pay more in healthcare, but their child could attend public school. Thereby, rerouting money that would have been spent on private school. A positive win for both the medical industry and parents of those who wish to under vaccinate. This can become a workable compromise because a part of it is already being instituted in the state of Michigan and the other part appears to work for both groups while maintaining the goal of safety. Thus, creating a better, healthier, and more secure society for all of us without imposing believe over the other. Cavil 6 Work Cited CDC  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Doheny, Kathleen. Autism: Cases on the Rise; Reason for Increase a  WebMD. WebMD, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Five Important Reasons to Vaccinate Your  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 29 Nov. 2016. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Fox, Maggie. Doctors to Vaccine  NBCNews.com. NBCUniversal News Group, 09 Feb. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. FRONTLINE. Jenny McCarthy: Not An Anti-Vaccine Movement Pro-Safe  PBS. PBS, 23 Mar. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Lord, Joel. Vaccine Resistance  Vaccine Resistance Movement RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Six Reasons To Say NO to  The Healthy Home Economist. N.p., 06 July 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. You Are Here MDHHS Adult & Services Children & Families Immunization Info for Families &  MDHHS - Immunization Waiver Information. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.