Townsend 1 Kiera Townsend Professor Townsend ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Compromise on Gun Control In America today, one of the biggest issues facing the country currently is over gun control. Gun violence has become a controversial issue that has spread throughout the country and has become one of the most featured topics on news stations. Mass shootings in schools, and public places have become a regular occurrence on television, and the amount of crimes committed with a gun are on the rise. Something must be done about gun violence here in the United States. Two organizations that do not see eye to eye on what to do about gun control include the National Rifle Association (NRA) and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (CSGV). The National Rifle Association was created in 1871 by General George Wingate and Cornel William C. Church in order to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific (NRA). Throughout the history, the NRA focused on building shooting ranges, establishing shooting sports at colleges and universities, and started their own magazine to keep their members informed of new legislature on guns. During World War II, the NRA provided ammunition and arms to help aid Britain against the German attacks overseas. After the war, the focus of the National Rifle Association turned towards helping the hunters of America, and educating young Americans how to hunt with guns and weapons in a safe manner. The NRA has also been involved in training law enforcement officers on how to fire and operate a firearm correctly. Currently, the NRA, according to their website, is the in firearms where they provide certification courses on how to operate many different kinds of firearms Townsend 2 including pistols, shotguns, and rifles. The NRA also educates young children between the ages of four and twelve on what to do when they encounter a firearm, in order to prevent any future children dying in a gun related accident. Another important program the NRA has implemented over the years is the to be a program where women are educated on how to operate firearms and protect themselves from attackers and home invaders. Overall, the purpose today is the education of gun safety to Americans, and to host many recreational shooting competitions nationwide. The NRA believes that citizens of the United States have the right to own a firearm based on the Second Amendment of the Constitution. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence however, believes guns should be restricted for the general safety of society. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, according to their website, was founded in 1974 with the purpose of freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy The Coalition is made up of many different organizations with the goal of reducing gun violence, including social justice organizations, religious organizations, child welfare advocates, and public health professionals. CSGV claims to have a different interpretation of the Second Amendment than the NRA, and the main action of this organization is lobbying for gun laws to be implemented in Congress. The Coalition uses many forms of advertisement in order to expose those who encourage gun violence, either through TV, radio, or the newspaper. One of their main principles found on their website is the statement: believe that all Americans have a right to live in communities free from gun The National Rifle Association, on the other hand, believes that guns should not be restricted based on the second amendment of the United States Bill of Rights. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence wishes to pass legislation in Congress that will restrict the use of guns by Townsend 3 civilians based on the premise that less violence will occur with less guns. Although these organizations disagree, they both want to decrease the amount of gun related incidents in America. A compromise that will appease both sides, would be the implementation of increased background checks to prevent guns being used by criminals, and a mandatory gun safety course before the purchase of a firearm. A study found in Health Affairs journal titled Violence, Mental Illness, And Laws That Prohibit Gun Possession: Evidence from Two Florida researched the demographics of gun-related crimes between 2002 and 2011 in Florida counties Miami-Dade and Pinellas. The original intent of the study was to find relations between mental illness and gun- related crimes and suicides to see if there was a correlation between the two. However, one of the interesting findings of this study was that two-thirds of arrests for violent gun related crimes in the study population involved suspects who were already prohibited from legally accessing (Swanson et. al). This in turn shows how background checks are not being used in every gun purchasing transaction, and perhaps, are being sold and bought illegally. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence advocates for universal background check legislation that will work towards preventing any further gun violence from those who have lost their rights to a firearm, either from mental illness or past criminal action. Since federal law requires criminal background checks only for guns sold through licensed firearm dealers, which account for just 60% of all gun sales in the United Background there are many firearm purchases that occur without prior screening for anyone with an increased risk of causing gun violence. The NRA opposes an increase of background checks however because they believe that criminals will illegally buy guns, somewhere that does not have background checks. The NRA Institute for Legislation Action states that 500,000 guns are Townsend 4 stolen each year from private citizens. . . . Obviously, these stolen guns go directly into the hands of The logic behind what the National Rifle Association is saying, is that you could increase the amount of background checks there are, however, this will not stop criminals from getting firearms if they really wanted to. However, in order to come to a compromise to help eliminate gun violence in America today, the NRA should support more background checks. In order for a compromise to be established between the National Rifle Association and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, each group must give lee-way over some of their policies. The National Rifle Association must give up the notion that guns should not be regulated as heavily, and advocate for more background checks. In return, the NRA will be able to implement more gun safety classes across the country to those who pass a background check. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence must give up the idea that all guns should be made illegal for civilians, and accept that we can educate those with guns through gun safety courses. In return more background checks will be advocated for from the NRA. The NRA should provide background checks for those members of the NRA that wish to partake in activities the NRA sets up, including classes on gun safety, shooting competitions, and other events the National Rifle Association puts on. In turn, the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence should provide flyers and pamphlets informing their members that gun safety courses are available through the NRA. Through this compromise, the NRA can help the CSGV advocate for background checks and preform them at their own events in support. In return, the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence will help the NRA by directing their members and those they meet to partake in gun safety classes provided by the National Rifle Association, providing more business for the NRA. With both organizations cooperation, we can end the ongoing argument over whether guns are right or Townsend 5 not, and begin to work towards a solution to help end gun violence in the United States of America. Townsend 6 Works Cited Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, n.d. csgv.org/about-us/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Brief History of the NRA, National Rifle Association of America, 2017, home.nra.org/about-the-nra/. Accessed 29 January 2017. NRA-ILA, National Rifle Association of America, 8 Aug. 2016, www.nraila.org/issues/background-checks-nics/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Jeffrey W. Swanson, Michele M. Easter, Allison G. Robertson, Marvin S. Swartz, Kelly Alanis- Hirsch, Daniel Moseley, Charles Dion, and John Petrila. Violence, Mental Illness, and Laws that Prohibit Gun Possession: Evidence from two Florida Health Affairs vol. 35, no. 6, 2016, pp. 1067-1075. Doi:10.1377?hlthaff.2016.0017. Accessed 29 January 2017. Background Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, n.d. csgv.org/issues/universal-background-checks/. Accessed 29 January 2017.