Cabreros !1 Eldin Cabreros Instructor Alison Missler ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Dying with a Choice In some states like Florida, terminally-ill patients do not have the option of choosing between a natural death or an artificial death to end their unbearable suffering. States like Florida lack Dead with Dignity laws, laws that allow physician-assisted suicide as an end-of-life treatment. Dead with Dignity is a nonprofit organization that desires to establish a political structure that supports physician-assisted suicide in states that do not have Dead with Dignity laws legalized. Their goals consist of expanding the freedom of patients to make their own end- of-life decisions and to promote Dead with Dignity laws throughout the United States (Dead with Dignity). Images that promote the organizations support of physician-assisted suicide feature terminally-ill patients who relay messages in support of the passage of Dead with Dignity laws. Other images inspire direct action towards their audience in joining a movement of influencing local governments in passing such laws. Dead with Dignity uses these images to reveal their goal of passing laws in support of physician-assisted suicide by triggering the audiences sympathy towards terminally-ill patients, evoking their credibility through a movement, and appealing to logic with idea of patients having the freedom of decision. The appeal to ethos is evoked in the image that list various states that have passed Dead with Dignity laws in recent years. The simple image features various states with corresponding years that increase in font size as the time that they legalized physician-assisted suicide becomes Cabreros !2 more recent. The changing font size creates an appearance of a movement within the image, a movement that advocates the passage of Dead with Dignity laws in states that lacks them (Dead with Dignity). By creating the appearance of a movement, the image appeals to ethos or the state of being credible as it evokes the organizations large impact within these states. This can be seen in the legalization of Dead with Dignity laws in Washington D.C. in January 2017 (Dead with Dignity). Such a recognizable appearance leads the audience to express their agreement towards its meaning as they are aware of the images symbols (Mu Wu, et al. 1495). In addition, the placement of the organizations logo on the top-left corner also evokes their credibility as it promotes their professionalism and trustworthiness in carrying the movement. By being a credible organization, Dead with Dignity can lead its audience in the swift passing of Dead with Dignity laws. Furthermore, the state-inspired image also appeals to kairos as it corresponds to time. Within the image there is a large emphasis placed on the District of Columbia and the year 2017. The states and the years before are much smaller in stature, having a less clear font and a smaller font size. Such differences in stature creates an appeal to kairos or timeliness as a result of its recentness, persuading its audience of legislators and the general public to join their movement now. It creates a perception with the audience that if they join the movement now, their direct action would have a larger impact on the local government. Likewise, it would influence the local government to promptly pass laws in support of physician-assisted suicide. The application of kairos was appropriate to the season, it was applied just any time but at the right (Rife 262). In this case it was applied in the current year of 2017, a year that Dead with Dignity uses to inspire their audience to join their movement now. Cabreros !3 An additional image used by Dead with Dignity features terminally-ill patients, an image that appeals to emotion. By featuring terminally-ill patients in their images, Dead with Dignity allows those affected by physician-assisted suicide to share their stories. Many of those who had the courage tell their story share the hardship of letting go of their loved ones and passing peacefully (Dead with Dignity). Being able to convey such story in a single image provokes the audience to understand the situation of terminally-ill patients and to feel sympathy in states that lack Dead with Dignity laws. An image that includes elderly and terminally-ill patients appeals to pathos or emotion as it shows their desire to die peacefully from an unbearable suffering . In addition, it also triggers the audience to feel sympathy with their desires of a peaceful death. Various organizations, like organizations that promotes immunization, uses emotional elements to get the audiences attention as well as their concern with the issue at hand to change their behavior (Opel, et al. 434). In addition to emotion, featuring elderly and terminally-ill patients also appeals to timeliness or kairos. The image of two elders creates an appeal to timeliness as a result of their age, prompting the audience to take quick action and create an impact now. view towards elders is related to a functionalist idea that associates age with retirement or lack of activity (de Andres and Maestro, It plays with the idea that old people are going to die regardless and if individuals obtain a chance of assisting them then they should take that chance. Dead with Dignity uses kairos to ask their audience to support physician-assisted suicide as an attempt to extend the satisfaction of patients through a peaceful death. Regarding the image, the fact that they are elders and the possibility of being terminally-ill signifies an impending doom as Cabreros !4 their lifetime has been reduced and is nearing death. By having an image that prompts it audience to take quick actions, it directs them to think about the freedom of choice. Within this image, the use of direct quotes from patients creates an appeal to logic. The image consist of quote by a patient that reads all deserve to live in a society where we have to make our own end-of-life (Dead with Dignity). The appeal to logos is established with the text that reads end-of-life which influences the audience to think about the idea of freedom of decision by patients. Such statement within a quote signal synonyms of freedom like liberty, independence, or power which indicate that patients should have the power to have and make end-of-life decisions (Noah and Feigenson 738). By appealing to logic, Dead with Dignity demonstrates to its audience that terminally-ill patients deserves the right to have a peaceful death. In various rhetorical situations, their is a strong relationship between logic and credibility or logos and ethos that emphasizes the meaning of the image (Higgins and Walker 198). Such relationship gives Dead with Dignity vocal power to raise awareness about physician-assisted suicide and inform the public about Dead with Dignity as an end-of-life option (Dead with Dignity). To reveal the goal of legalizing laws that support physician-assisted suicide, Dead with Dignity uses various rhetorical strategies that trigger a response from their audience. The increasing font size in the image that list various states that have passed Dead with Dignity laws over the years evoke their credibility by creating the appearance of a movement. By establishing such appearance, it promotes the organizations trustworthiness in carrying the movement of influencing local governments to pass Dead with Dignity laws. In addition, its creates an appeal to kairos as it prompts its audience to join the movement now. The emotional appeal is Cabreros !5 established in the image that features elderly or terminally-ill patients as it triggers the audience to feel sympathy and empathy to those facing hardships in states that lack Dead with Dignity laws. A direct quote within an image appeals to logic as it makes their audience think about the freedom of decision among patients, signaling the idea that patients have the power to make their own end-of-life decisions. By having images that appeal to logic, emotion, credibility and timeliness the organization idealizes the importance of patients to make their own end-of-life decisions, whether that is a natural death or an artificial death. Cabreros !6 Works Cited Dead with Dignity. N.d. Web. 29 January 2017 de Susana and Rosa, Maestro. Critical Analysis of Government Vs. Commercial Advertising Discourse on Older Persons in  Comunicar, vol. 21, no. 42, Jan. 2014, pp. 189-196. 12 March 2017. Thesaurus. 26 February 2017. Noah, Barbara A. and Neal R. Feigenson. Avoiding Overtreatment at the End of Life: Physician-Patient Communication and Truly Informed  Pace Law Review, vol. 36, no. 3, Spring2016, p. 736. 29 January 2017 Opel, Douglas J., et al. Social Marketing as a Strategy to Increase Immunization  Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine, vol. 163, no. 5, May 2009, p. 432. 12 March 2017 Rife, Martine Courant. Ethos, Pathos, Logos, Kairos: Using a Rhetorical Heuristic to Mediate Digital-Survey Recruitment  IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication, vol. 53, no. 3, Sept. 2010, p. 260. 12 March 2017 Dead with Dignity. N.d. Web. 29 January 2017 Wu, Mu, et al. A Tale of Two Sources in Native  American Behavioral Scientist, vol. 60, no. 12, Nov. 2016, p. 1492. 12 March 2017