Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Proposed Plan for the Recovery of Mental Illness Mental illness has become an evidently growing and holistically debilitating world-wide issue. However, a silver-lining and hopeful undertone will appear in any circumstance. The issue at hand concerns the need for an effective strategy to help individuals compensate with their illness. Most mental illnesses focus on self-deprecating thoughts and actions. These range from isolation toward friends and family, physical and mental self-harm, and suicidal thoughts or tendencies. Organizations including the National Alliance on Mental Illness and the American Mental Wellness Association are reputable sources that provide information on how to replace these self-inflicted actions through music therapy, social connections, and more. The NAMI proposes the art of music as a creative, cathartic outlet for negative thoughts, whereas the AMWA emphasizes the need for a strong, foundational social support system to encourage wellness. Accepting the fact that not all coping strategies prove beneficial should be considered, and proposing the compromise of combining music and social connections can be implemented through group music therapy and concerts, where social connections and live music combine in an innovative method toward the road to recovery. On one side of the issue is the National Alliance on Mental Illness, an organization that encourages readers and individuals to associate music as a form of cathartic release, therefore emphasizing art as a hopeful form of treatment for mental illnesses (NAMI). The article, Therapy and Chronic Mental Illness: Overcoming the Silent informs readers by Student 2 discussing the unseen symptoms that lower the quality of the lives of those that battle mental illnesses. Writer Nancy Jackson states that the underlying and invisible are hidden symptoms of loneliness, isolation, and grief. Through music, traumas can decrease in severity since music offers as a filter for people to be to build relationships, and to re- experience the wholeness of their own (Jackson). Mental illnesses are debilitating in that many individuals suffer from an aching emptiness, although music often makes people feel more alive in that they can express emotions through the senses of sound and relatable lyrical content. The source also states that when music is used as therapy, communication through music comes with an outcome of building relationships, understanding oneself, and sources that lead to (Garred). This goes to show that music offers as a tool for self-help, as well as connection with others that results in an empowering and uplifting result. The webpage, Arts in discuss the usage of different genres of music to help decrease the severity of symptoms that come with mental illness. Stefan Gebhardt, M.D., Markus Kunkel, Ph.D., and Richard von Georgi, Ph.D., M.A. state that music impacts the psyche, and studies show that music is a different coping mechanism for individuals with mental illness and those without. Results of those with mental illnesses music especially for either the reduction of negative emotions, or for relaxation and cognitive problem solving, whereas [individuals without mental are seeking positive emotional (Gebhardt, Kunel, and Georgi). It is important to note that the aspect of coping through music is a much less costly form of treatment than medication. Music therapy is viewed as a holistic, behavioral and cognitive approach to treatment that may prove effective to those with chronic mental illnesses (Jackson). She continues to write that this method of treatment can improves a social skills and symptomatic behavior, however the coping mechanism of music may little to Student 3 identify and address the non-behavioral issues that tend to disrupt long- term (Jackson). Listening to music alone may help in the dark times, but the social aspect as well as other coping mechanisms are vital in building and maintaining a path to recovery. Alternatively, the American Mental Wellness Association, which encourages the mere act of social connections and the building and maintenance of a relatively small group of people that bring out the best in someone (AMWA). According to the webpage Meaning of Social Support for Persons with Serious Mental the definition for the mental health recovery paradigm is process of change through which individuals improve their health and wellness, live a self-directed life, and strive to reach their full (Chronuster et al.). Recovery is a daily process and practice in which people improve themselves with the help of others. The use of support systems is key in that all individuals rely on others to trust, confide in, encourage, uplift, and provide advice to (AMWA). This source also suggests that quality always beats quantity, and that a small amount of trustworthy people is key. In order to build and maintain a support system, one must know where and who to look for. Reaching out for help is one of the most difficult steps that get in the way of an individual wanting to get better, making the coping mechanism of social connections very challenging. Despite having skewed views on effective recovery methods, both the NAMI and AMWA strive off of the same will to inform individuals with information that will provide hope and encouraging steps to fight mental illnesses rather than suffer from it. They have a genuine concern and compassion for those with mental illnesses and are knowledgeable of all mental health related illnesses and use their credibility to spread their knowledge in hopes to help as many people as possible. Using music alone and independently may be necessary for the rough patches in life, however no one should battle mental illness alone; the art of social connections Student 4 combined with music adds more flavor to life and encourages positive coping mechanisms. Music listened in isolation is important for peace and emotional release, but making social connections with others through live music and concerts brings feelings of unity, celebration, peace and much needed support and comfort. By incorporating an environmental setting where music is the central focus and where support system (other musically inclined enthusiasts) are also included, negative symptoms of mental illness may overall become less severe in its intensity. To equally balance both positions, perspectives from both organizations would encourage their readers to be open to the idea of music as a possible coping mechanism and to associate themselves with other individuals that also enjoy the same musicians. Perhaps one way to make this idea more practical is if both the NAMI and AMWA worked together to create an event in which musicians associated with mental health could perform at such social events. Current research shows that music in its live context may a way to heighten psychiatric perceived social support concerning friends and perceptions of the (Silverman). In other words, music can encourage individuals to be open to building a support system of new friendships and sense of trust in mental health professionals like a therapist. In addition, group music therapy concludes as an enjoyable and positive experience in which self-esteem is enhanced and feelings of appreciation were exchanged between peers (Grocke et al.) Bringing individuals together through music is shown to lower symptoms of mental illness and improve the wellness of mental health. Because this is an innovative coping strategy, further research may be conducted to uncover how combined coping mechanisms may prove to be more effective together in enhancing quality of life. Though the NAMI and AMWA have debatable views about which coping mechanisms Student 5 prove most effective in treating mental illnesses, efforts by both stakeholders can be incorporated into a collaboration where music and social connections can thrive through the art of musical events and festivals. If ignored, musically inclined enthusiasts can connect with each other using social media and other musical events. If successfully addressed by both stakeholders, individuals with mental illnesses can connect like mindedly with others by attending a mental health event centered around both the themes of music therapy and building social connections with others that also battle mental illness. (Word Count: 1,313) Student 6 Works Cited Chronister, Julie, Chih-Chin, Chou, Kwong-Liem Karl, Kwan, Melissa, Lawton, and Kurt, Silver. Meaning of Social Support for Persons with Serious Mental Rehabilitation Psychology 60.3 (2015): 232-245. Web. 3. Mar 2017. Davis, Lisa, and John, Brekke. Support and Functional Outcome in Severe Mental Illness: The Mediating Role of Proactive Psychiatry Research 215.1 (2014): 39- 45. Web. 3. Mar 2017. Gebhardt, Stefan, Markus, Kunkel, and Richard, von Georgi. Role Musical References Play in the Modulation of Emotions for People with Mental The Arts in Psychotherapy 47.1 (2016): 66-71. Web. 3. Mar 2017. Garred, R. Therapy: A dialogical Music Therapy. N.p., 2006. Web. 3. Mar 2017. Grocke, D., S., Bloch, D., Castle, G., Thompson, R., Newton, S., Stewart, and C., Gold. Music Therapy for Severe Mental Illness: A Randomized Embedded-Experimental Mixed Methods Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica 130.2 (2014): 144-153. Web. 3 Mar 2017. Jackson, A. Nancy. Therapy and Chronic Mental Illness: Overcoming the Silent Music Therapy Perspectives 33.2 (2015): 90-96. Web. 3 Mar 2017. Productions, The American Mental Wellness Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 3 Mar 2017. Student 7 Rawls, Natalia. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., 29 July 2015. Web. 22 Jan 2017. Silverman, J. Michael. of a Live Educational Music Therapy Intervention on Acute Psychiatric Perceived Social Support and Trust in the Therapist: A Four- Group Randomized Effectiveness Journal of Music Therapy 51.3 (2014): 228- 249. Web. 3 Mar 2017. Warren, Molly. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan 2017.