Maximiliano Lopez Prof. Townsend 12 Feb 2017 Paper 1 Final Draft Offshore Drilling The search for resources is an ongoing struggle that people on Earth have been going through since the beginnings of human civilization. Over the years, many methods have been developed to make more energy for humans to use. One of these methods includes the process of drilling into the planet for the nonrenewable resource called oil. Various organizations have been on both sides of the debate on whether humans should continue to drill for oil, based on the outcomes that it has. Two specific ones, the Arctic Coalition and Oceana, respectively maintain their positions on opposite sides in the debate. Through mutual and cooperative efforts, a compromise is possible between these two organizations that will achieve what they are both looking to accomplish economically and environmentally in the Arctic Region. The Arctic Coalition is a group of 20 organizations representing Alaskan Native communities, labor unions, higher education programs, industry and others (prnewswire.com). The organization is in big support of developing the exploration for oil in the Arctic Region and believes that it will have a positive impact on all those involved in the drilling process. They have the belief that areas in the Arctic should be included when government contracts are processed for the exploration of oil in U.S. territories or interests. Per the Arctic Coalition, a big impact that offshore drilling has on the Arctic are the communities in Alaska, as oil drilling is the big pusher in the economy there (naturalgasintel.com). The Arctic Coalition believes that pursuing this will not only have little effect on the environment of the Arctic, but also keep the infrastructure and economy of Alaska growing and flourishing. In contrast to what the Arctic mission is, Oceana is an organization that looks to abolish any form of offshore drilling in the Arctic Region, or any region that deals with the oceans around the world. Oceana is an international organization focused solely on oceans, dedicated to achieving measurable change by conducting specific, science-based campaigns with fixed deadlines and articulated goals (oceana.org). The main argument cast on by this organization, is that the exploration for oil in delicate regions that are near the ocean increase tremendously the risk of there being an oil spill. This could potentially destroy the environment in that area for decades and even effect the environments all around the world. They argue that the burning of fossil fuels is the leading source of carbon pollution, which contributes to global warming and ocean acidification (usa.oceana.org). Over recent years, the planet itself has been affected drastically by the effects of global warming. This has raised the temperatures around the world, leading to the melting of ice caps/icebergs in the North and South Poles. The oceans around the world also absorb the extra carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, which changes the chemistry of it and everything in it (pmel.noaa.gov). In response to the efforts of an organization like Oceana, the main purpose for the creation of the Arctic Coalition was to counter the push made by activists and organizations that are highly against the tainting of the environment in the Arctic Region by offshore oil exploration. The organization made big headlines in 2016 because they pulled through a big media campaign that pushes through the message for the development of more offshore drilling near the Alaskan Region. The reason for this is to show to both the United States Government and the world that the interest still exists for offshore drilling and that it has positive effects for everyone involved. The program that this organization proposed to keep offshore drilling in the Arctic Region as a possibility is the Outer Continental Shelf Oil & Gas Leasing Program, which will run from 2017-2022 (naturalgasintel.com). The organization known as Oceana pushes for more restrictions on offshore oil drilling based on the reports that were made before it was regulated. Per an article from researchers Michael LeVine, Andrew Hartsig, and Maggie Clements, they found that unregulated drilling for oil in the Arctic Region by oil companies led to the change of climate known as global warming (air.law.duke.edu). Many oil companies would just go into the Arctic Region and begin oil exploration without any form of permission or limit. In this process, a vast amount of oil leaked into the region little by little and brought disastrous effects on the environments of the Arctic Region. The main purpose of the article was to argue for the push for more checks and regulations on oil companies when it came to the reckless exploration for oil in the Arctic Region. Ultimately, this led to recent events where more regulations were put on offshore exploration for oil (air.law.duke.edu). A compromise that both organizations can agree to would be the form of oil exploration that is mandated and regulated. Common sense would say that inevitably the Earth is going to go through the changes of mankind exploring it, whether it is done legally or illegally. There are various things that both companies could agree to when it comes to accomplishing both of their missions in the Arctic Region. Instead of oil companies just drilling in any place to look for oil, reports and investigations could be done by the protesting organizations to find suitable locations that are more likely to produce oil through oil exploration. All this could be funded by the oil companies that leads to a win-win situation that benefits both the oil companies and the protesting organizations. Another possible compromise to reach is that the protesting organizations could look to other ways to manufacture energy resources and let the oil companies know so that they could possibly invest in these of type of energy development programs, such as wind turbine and solar panel installations in the communities of the Arctic Region or areas of great energy production of these energy collectors (wwf.ca). With this, the economy there would flourish as well from financial support from federal/local governments. In conclusion, throughout many years, man has found several methods and variations of energy used in everyday appliances or methods. One of the main resources that powers lifestyle is oil. Oil is a non-renewable resource that has high controversy in the way that is looked for or developed. Oil companies always look to many different areas to find oil and recently have taken to noticing those areas in the Arctic Region. In response to many regulations and limits that have been placed on by the United States government, an organization known as Arctic Coalition was created to keep the efforts alive in the drilling for oil in the Arctic region. Oceana, a for-green organization, seeks to rid the planet, specifically the Arctic Region or the oceans, of oil drilling or oil exploration. Through many efforts, organizations like these have put a plug on offshore drilling in the Arctic region at a limit. Through combined efforts however, both organizations could accomplish a whole lot more to keep the planet surviving and fulfill the energy needs that world asks for. A compromise is possible between the two sides, by utilizing alternative methods of producing energy or allowing for some oil exploration in parts of the region where it is for sure to have little to no effect on the environment. Bibliography About  Oceana. Oceana, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://oceana.org/about-oceana/about us>. Arctic Coalition Launches Ad Campaign to Ensure OCS Leasing Offshore Alaska in 2017  Arctic Coalition Launches Ad Campaign to Ensure OCS Leasing Offshore Alaska in 2017-2022 2016-09-13 Natural Gas Intelligence. Natural Gas Intel, 13 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.naturalgasintel.com/articles/107728-arctic-coalition launches-ad-campaign-to-ensure-ocs-leasing-offshore-alaska-in-2017-2022>.  Oceana USA. Oceana USA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://usa.oceana.org/our Coalition, Arctic. Arctic Coalition Launches Major New Campaign in Support of Offshore Arctic  PR Newswire: press release distribution, targeting, monitoring and marketing. PR Newswire, 12 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/arctic-coalition-launches-major-new campaign-in-support-of-offshore-arctic-energy-300325945.html>. Levine, Michael, Andrew Hartsig, and Maggie Clements. Alaska Law  What About BOEM? The Need to Reform the Regulations Governing Offshore Oil and Gas Planning and Leasing Alaska Law Review. Duke Law, 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://alr.law.duke.edu/article/what-about-boem-the-need-to-reform-the-regulations governing-offshore-oil-and-gas-planning-and-leasing-levine-vol31-iss2/>. Offshore Oil Drilling: The U.S. Arctic  Oceana USA. Oceana USA, 25 Aug. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://usa.oceana.org/responsible-fishing/offshore-oil-drilling-us arctic-ocean>. PMEL Carbon Group. Ocean  PMEL NOAA. PMEL Carbon Program, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/co2/story/Ocean+Acidification>. WWF-Canada. Renewable  WWF-Canada. WWF, 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.