McIver 1 Jasmine McIver Professor Townsend ENC1102 28 January 2017 SeaWorld v. The Orca Project SeaWorld originally opened in San Diego in 1964 as a marine zoological park. Today, there are three SeaWorld locations as well as other parks with the goal of connecting guests with marine life in new ways This amusement park is home to around twenty-two killer whales between their three locations (Entertainment). The orcas are kept in captivity and are shown off to the audience through different shows. The park uses these shows as a way for their visitors to see and learn about the killer whales up close. SeaWorld has been involved in the mistreatment of the captive killer whale issue for years. In a recent interview with Frontline, it was announced that SeaWorld would no longer be breeding killer whales and the remaining orcas were the last of the ones at the amusement park. Jim McBain explained that keeping zoos and amusement parks such as SeaWorld are the only ways to keep the public knowledgeable about wild animals Since then, many parks have imported and bred animals to put them on display for their visitors to interact with. On the other hand, The Orca Project is a corporation that wishes to change the view on marine mammals in captivity through research. Their goal states Awareness of the Captive Orca (The Orca Project). An ideal result for this organization would be to keep these mammals out of captivity and to leave them in the oceans. The Orca Project wishes to involve the government when it comes to the mistreatment of animals held in captivity. Not only do both SeaWorld and The Orca Project want to teach the public about these animals, but they want what is best for McIver 2 them as well. Out of the few ideas for compromise, one idea would include giving boat rides out to the sea in order to see the killer whales in their natural habitats which could be done by taking after or partnering with whale watching companies such as The San Diego Whale Watch. One compromise that SeaWorld and The Orca Project could come to would include an agreement that allowed the animals to be kept in the wild where they belong. If this was the chosen arrangement, SeaWorld could keep their audience interested in and able to learn about the orcas in different ways then they are used to. The parks could teach their customers about these mammals by taking them out on boat rides into the water. For instance, SeaWorld San Diego could partner with the San Diego Whale Watch as a way to get their guests into the sea. The San Diego Whale Watch is a company that provides whale watching all year long (San Diego Whale Watch), meaning they could offer transportation for the SeaWorld viewers throughout the year if they wished to as well. If the two join together, it would be an example of how the compromise of keeping the killer whales in their natural habitat could work. This way, SeaWorld would still able to teach the public about the killer whales and The Orca Project would not have to worry about the orcas being kept in captivity. Another way both stakeholders could meet their goals would include keeping a few animals in captivity. If this was the chosen option, SeaWorld would be able to keep some animals to show off to the public. The Orca Project would just need to make sure their wanted and required standards were met to make sure the killer whales were well taken care of. Although SeaWorld is AZA Accredited, The Orca Project could come up with its own set of regulations to assure the killer whales are given all the attention they need. To be accredited by The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) means the program or institution was by recognized experts in the profession, and is measured against the established McIver 3 standards and best practices of that (The Association of Zoos & Aquariums). This means the organizations have certain regulations standards they must meet in order to be considered AZA Accredited. The AZA responded to how animals were being treated and cared for in 1971 and ever since then has hosted a professional committee to help improve zoological park and aquarium communities (The Association of Zoos & Aquariums). Although the AZA clearly states they care for the well-being of these animals, it would be important for SeaWorld to meet the standards of The Orca Project as well. With this option, it would be made sure of that these captive animals were treated well and given the maintenance they need and deserve. Although the Orca Project would still have to experience the fact that a few animals would still be behind cages, if their rules and regulations were followed it would make the compromise fairer to both stakeholders. Along the lines of keeping some animals in captivity, rescues or animals in need should be the only ones kept in parks such as SeaWorld. If this compromise was used, the animals still held in captivity would be there for a reason and could be getting the treatment or the help they need from a professional. This option would also fill the needs of both stakeholders. On one hand, SeaWorld would still have their share of killer whales to keep and use to teach the public. On the other hand, knowing the orcas kept in captivity were getting treatment, The Orca Project could feel a bit of relief. The organization could still overlook the recovery process to make sure all of their rules and regulations were being followed to assure the killer whales were being treated properly. Both stakeholders make it known that one of their main goals is finding and sticking with what is best for the orcas. SeaWorld and The Orca Project also agree that it is important to teach the public about killer whales, but their ideas on how to come about it are where the two McIver 4 stakeholders come to disagree. Although SeaWorld believes keeping the orcas in captivity is the way to go, The Orca Project believes the whales should stay in their natural habitat and the people should be taken to them. This being said, one of the ideas for compromise would include giving boat rides out to the sea in order to see the killer whales. In this situation, some may need different compromises based on their locations. For instance, SeaWorld San Diego could look into working with the San Diego Whale Watch to ensure their viewers were still learning about the animals and The Orca Project would not have to worry about the killer whales being mistreated in captivity. The next two ideas discussed included SeaWorld being allowed to keep a few orcas in captivity. One suggestion included The Orca Project implementing a set of rules on top of the AZA Accreditation to ensure the killer whales were being well taken care of. Another idea proposed the only orcas kept in captivity were ones that needed to be treated by the SeaWorld specialists. In the end, any of the following compromises would meet the needs of both stakeholders and the treatment of the killer whales would be kept as the most important factor. McIver 5 Works Cited Page Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. Orca Profile  Orca Profile Pages SeaWorld Cares. SeaWorld Cares, Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://seaworldcares.com/the-facts/Orca- Profiles/>. Jim McBain & Brad  PBS. Frontline, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/whales/debate/procap.html>. San Diego Whale Watch.  San Diego Whale Watch. N.p., Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <http://sdwhalewatch.com/>. SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment.  Where Imagination Meets Nature. SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment Inc., Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <https://seaworldentertainment.com/en/who- we-are/history>. The Association of Zoos & Aquariums. About AZA  About AZA Accreditation. Association of Zoos & Aquariums, n.d. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <https://www.aza.org/what- is-accreditation>. The Orca Project. About the Orca  The Orca Project. N.p., 21 Jan. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://theorcaproject.wordpress.com/about-2/>.