Daley 1 Jaheem Daley Dr. Jarad Fennell English Composition II 12 February 2017 How Does the Consumption of Alcohol Affect College Students? According to the dictionary, alcohol is a colorless volatile flammable liquid that is produced by the natural fermentation of sugars and is the intoxicating constituent of wine, beer, spirits, and other drinks, and is also used as an industrial solvent and as fuel. As specified by the Washington Post, approximately 80 percent of college student drink alcohol (Strauss, Valerie). It is proven that drinking moderate amounts of alcohol reduces the risk of developing and dying from heart disease but it still does more harm than good. The NIAAA website states that alcohol consumption has negative effects such as liver inflammations including steatosis, fibrosis, cirrhosis, pancreatitis, and certain cancers and even weakens the immune system. Therefore, college students are as risk for many illnesses, diseases, crimes and injuries as they general consume a lot of alcohol. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) is an organization that works on a daily basis to reduce alcohol-related problems. They go after alcohol companies like Anheuser-Busch which claims to be leading beer company. A can of Bud Light which is an Anheuser-Busch product holds 12 ounce of beer with an alcohol percentage of 4.2 which is fine for an individual that weighs approximately 180 pounds to consume over an hour period and still be safe. However, Bud Light has a slogan that states Means Up For which might influence individuals to drink more than one beer which may lead to an alcohol-related problem which the NIAAA is trying to reduce and prevent. However, if they came together to make compromises things could be a lot better for both organizations. For instance if Anheuser-Busch was to reduce the alcohol percentage in a can of Daley 2 beer, reduce the amount of beer in one can or even change their perception on drinking the NIAAA may refrain from clamping down on them and from promulgating against Anheuser- Busch specifically which could continue bringing business to Anheuser-Busch and help in the NIAAA mission to reduce alcohol-related problems and incidents. According to the NIAAA website, The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism is branch of the National Institute of Health which was established in 1970 in accordance to the Hughes Act which was signed by President Nixon. The mission of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism is to generate and disseminate fundamental knowledge about the effects of alcohol on health and well-being, and apply that knowledge to improve diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of alcohol-related problems, including alcohol use disorder, across the lifespan. Thus, the main idea is to reduce and prevent alcohol- related problems and incidents. This organization has taken many actions since it started, most recent major one being an Alcohol Screening and Brief Intervention for Youths: A Guide which was released in 2011. This shows just how much the NIAAA is trying to reduce the alcohol consumption by youth but in specific college students where it is more prevalent. On the other hand, Anheuser-Busch works daily to sell more and more alcohol. As written on their website, Anheuser-Busch Companies is an American brewing company founded and based in St. Louis, Missouri. Since 2008, it has been a wholly owned subsidiary of Anheuser-Busch InBev which also has its North American headquarters in St. Louis. The original Anheuser-Busch InBev (AB InBev) was formed through successive mergers of three international brewing groups: Interbrew from Belgium, AmBev from Brazil and Anheuser- Busch. Hence, since 2008, Anheuser-Busch has been a division of Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV, now the largest brewing empire. Bud Light is a Brand associated with Daley 3 Anheuser-Busch and may be the most popular. I think most college student that drinks consume Bud Light. They have a slogan that states, Means up For which basically promote never say not to alcohol. Of course they are concerned with what might happen to young individuals but only because they may get a law suit. According to an online article, Anheuser-Busch underwent a few lawsuits over the past year; two of which involved a college student (Lucy, C). On the other hand, the NIAAA is working tirelessly to stop such things from happening. With two organizations like these that are at complete odds; there must be a common ground between them which is simply that neither wants to see the youths or anyone at all become a victim of alcohol consumption. According to a document released by the national institution of health, because of alcohol over ninety-seven thousand college student are victims of sexual assault, over six hundred thousand college student are victims of just assault, one in four college students face academic problem, twenty percent of college student that drinks meet the criteria for alcohol use disorder and over eighteen hundred college students have died due to the use of alcohol. With this being said, they are definitely able to come together to make compromises that are equally beneficial to both entities. Such include the fact that, Anheuser-Busch reducing the alcohol content volume in their beers is mutually beneficial to the stakeholders as it is a step toward reducing alcohol related problem which is what both entities would like to see and also Anheuser-Busch actually promoting safe drinking not things like, Means up For which is also beneficial to both. In fact, changing that slogan could be good for bud light seeing that they would not be telling everyone to drink even though they do not want to. Hence, individuals would be able to stand by their decision without feeling pressured by Anheuser-Busch to consume a bud light which might be one less lawsuit for them. Anheuser-Busch might even win these lawsuit but they are still losing money Daley 4 having to pay lawyers. The NIAAA could support these changes made by Anheuser-Busch but it would come with the price of not going after them and joining them in promoting safe drinking. Even Though the NIAAA would be slightly shifting from its main goals it would be a smart step to take in order to move forward as these are necessary sacrifices for the greater good and the same for Anheuser-Busch due to that that these compromises are indeed equally beneficial. One online article stated that is reducing the alcohol content volume in their beers by a in order to maintain affordability and to also maybe save lives (Stockton, Raoul). They also added safety tips to the commercials. These actions may definitely reduce alcohol-related incidents. Now if NIAAA was to partner with Anheuser-Busch on these decisions, Anheuser- Busch profits might be boosted just because the NIAAA is working with them, their beers remain affordable, they help prevent alcohol incident which shields them from related lawsuits, and NIAAA would achieve lowering the alcohol related problems which is literally what they want. In conclusion, both stakeholders are at complete odds but there is always a common ground that can be found which in the case of Anheuser-Busch and The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism was that they both needed to reduce alcohol related problems and incidents. As a result of there being a common ground between both stakeholders, the arguments of compromises commenced. And later, decisions were made for compromises that were beneficial to both stakeholders which include making changes in the overall stands of both entities. As mentioned in the paragraph before, both benefitted from the changes and even though it might seem like Anheuser-Busch was the victors I assure you that is not the case as Anheuser-Busch might have gotten more but the NIAAA got the biggest and best as they made Daley 5 major headway in achieving their mission and with that being said, Anheuser-Busch work make more changes. However, both would benefit from the proposal of compromise I made. Daley 6 Work Cited Page 1. Strauss, Valerie. much do college students really The Washington Post, 9 April 2013, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/answer-sheet/wp/2013/04/09/how-much-do-college- 2. effects on the National Institute of Health. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, https://www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/alcohols-effects-body 3. National Institute of Health. https://pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/collegefactsheet/Collegefactsheet.pdf 4.  Merriam-Webster.com. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/alcohol 5. of The National Institute of Health. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, https://www.niaaa.nih.gov/about-niaaa/our-work/history-niaaa 6. Stockton, Raoul. To Reduce Alcohol Content by Empire News, 15 February 2015, http://empirenews.net/anheuser-busch-to-reduce-alcohol-content-by-half-in-budweiser- bud-light-to-maintain-affordability/ 7. Lucy, C. Lawsuits and 13 Jan. 2017, https://www.lawyersandsettlements.com/blog/tag/anheuser-busch