Gad Androw Gad Professor Jarad Fennell English Composition 1102 1 February 2017 Finding Middle Ground in the Middle-East Ever since the Jewish state of Israel began to take form in the years following World War II, there has been a constant conflict, bloodshed, and instability in the region. The Arabs claim that the Jews came and took their land by force and removed thousands of Palestinians from their homes without any provocation. The Jews claim that they only started to occupy land that was bought from the rightful landowners and that the servants and workers that worked the land through agriculture and neither side will leave the land to the other. Constant tensions and violence between the two people makes it near impossible to form one peaceful nation in which both Palestinians and Israelis can be productive citizens. . The Palestinians wish for the Israelis to leave and the land that was from them returned. The Israelis on the other hand have no intention of leaving and retaliate harshly to any intrusion or attack that comes from their Palestinian neighbors. The most peaceful solution is to allow the creation of two states, in order for both people to share the land The Israel-Palestinian Conflict: Each Contrasting Narratives The Ethical Culture Society Of Bergen County ). Both sides of this cursed conflict have their own Israeli Each side in the Israeli- Palestinian conflict has its own tale that only conveys selected parts of the truth. Therefore, it is imperative to know which pieces of the truth does each side of the conflict ignore. 1 Gad Neither side likes to take responsibility for the damage or destruction that they cause. This region has seen the rise and fall of three Israeli nations throughout history with the last one being destroyed by the Roman Empire due to an uprising in 70 A.D. The Romans Destroy The Temple At Jerusalem, 70 ). Palestinians feared that the Jews were there to reestablish their territory. Jews started trickling into the area of Palestine since the late Arabs living in Palestine at the time started to notice a growing number of Jews migrating the land that the Arabs thought of as their own rightful land. The Arabs observed the new Jewish immigrants purchasing large portions of land and property from Palestinian Arab landowners. The Palestinian Arabs were also intimidated by how quickly the Jews became organized. Essentially, the Palestinian Arabs of the region felt vulnerable by the influx of Jewish immigrants. Since Palestinians were and still are predominantly Muslim, they are very familiar with the stake in the land and did not feel comfortable letting the Jews into their communities and allowing them to build settlements and infrastructure. This was a very grave hazard for the Palestinians Arabs in the area and they were not about to stand back while their land is being sold to by landowners who sought the money of the Jews rather than keep the land out of their hands. Ultimately, tensions between the two people increased to a breaking point. Riots erupted in 1921 and 1929 when militant Palestinian Arabs attacked Jewish communities and districts. Jews were beaten, robbed, and slaughtered. Many establishments and residences were burned to the ground. To this day, the Palestinian Arabs prefer to address the event as a popular uprising, not as a violent riot. This event caused started much tension and bitterness between the two groups. 2 Gad For example, Ben Gurion, who is considered by many to be founding father, sympathized with the Arab Palestinians more than any other Israeli Leader. He said want you to see things with Arab eyes they see immigration on a large scale they see lands passing into our hands. They see England identifying with The Palestinian bitterness only increased when the British seized control through the British Mandate for Palestine in 1937. Soon after that the Balfour Declaration was created. The Balfour Declaration recognized the Jews right to a nation in Palestine. This gave the Jews an official home that was recognized by one of the main three superpowers in World War II. This also caused Zionism to become more popular among the European Jews and spurred many to migrate to Palestine to take part in rebuilding their new nation (Hassouna, Silvia). As the came to a close, the bitterness of the Palestinian-Arabs culminated in violent revolt that was brutally crushed by the British forces. However, after the revolt, the British appeased the Palestinian Arabs by restricting the Immigration of Jews to Palestine but not completely obstructing it. In 1948, the United Nations proposed a plan to partition the land of the Palestinian region. Both sides rejected the proposal and the Palestinian Arabs of the region declared war on the newly formed nation of Israel. In February of 1949, the war ended in a ceasefire. The peace was fragile and did not last long. Another war broke out in 1967 between Israel and Palestinian. This war was called the Six-day war because it took the Israeli Army six days to conquer lands from Egypt and Jordan. Both Egypt and Jordan were preparing to attack Israel in a coordinated offensive; when Israel used a pre-emptive strike to wipe out major key Egyptian and Jordanian Air Force bases. The Six-Day War in 1967 created a fundamental change for Israel. Egypt and Jordan lost the Sinai region and the West Bank of the Jordan River, respectively. The West Bank was home 3 Gad to thousands of Palestinian Arabs and the Israeli victory resulted in the Israeli occupation of Palestinians. Following the ceasefire, the United Nations proposed Resolution 242. This resolution recognizes Israel as a legitimate nation. However, it does recognize the rights to land that Israel occupied. Fortunately, Israel was willing to trade the land that they gained during the Six-day war for peace with its Arab neighbors Milestones: - Office Of The ). Currently, the unhealthiest facet of the problem is the fact that the Palestinian Arabs and the surrounding Arab nations still do no recognize the legitimacy of Israel as a state. This results in the Arabs unwilling to make any type of deal with Israel to resolve the conflict. The constant attacks by Palestinian terrorist groups such as Hamas, allow extremists to disrupt any long lasting peace by attacking Israel using Missile launchers located near schools and hospitals. Before Israel retaliates with their own missiles to take out the hostile missile sites, they send planes to drop leaflets to warn the civilian population that this area is targeted and warns the civilians to get to a safe distance. Hamas tends to force the civilians to stay their ground knowing full well that the civilian men, women, and children will be killed. Hamas does this so that they can accuse Israel of Genocide and horrific war crimes and to demonize the Israeli state to the neighboring Arab states and the World (Witkin, Nathan). The only possible solution for this conflict is to establish a second nation for the displaced Palestinians. Currently, Palestinians call for the eradication of Israel and the return of their land, However Israel is not going anywhere. The same could be said for Palestinians, they have lived on these lands for hundreds of years and should not be dismissed because of the actions of the militant few Jewish Voice Ford ). However, 4 Gad a two-state system may only work if the Arabs and Israelis of the region work together to teach future generations to love their neighbors in order to establish long and lasting peace. 5 Gad Work Cited Hassouna, Silvia. Spaces For Dialogue In A Segregated Landscape: A Study On The Current Joint Efforts For Peace In The Israeli-Palestinian . Conflict Resolution Quarterly, vol 34, no. 1, 2016, pp. 57-82. Wiley-Blackwell, doi:10.1002/crq.21169. Milestones: - Office Of The . History.State.Gov, 2017, https://history.state.gov/milestones/1961-1968/arab-israeli-war-1967. Jewish Voice Ford . Jewish Voice for Peace. N.p., 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. The Israel-Palestinian Conflict: Each Contrasting Narratives The Ethical Culture Society of Bergen County NJ. (2017). Ethicalfocus.org. Retrieved 11 February 2017, from http://ethicalfocus.org/the-israel-palestinian-conflict-each-sides-contrasting- narratives/ The Romans Destroy The Temple At Jerusalem, 70 . Eyewitnesstohistory.Com, 2017, http://www.eyewitnesstohistory.com/jewishtemple.htm. Witkin, Nathan. The Interspersed Nation-State System: A Two-State/One-Land Solution For The Israeli-Palestinian . The Middle East Journal, vol 65, no. 1, 2011, pp. 31-54. The Middle East Journal, doi:10.3751/65.1.12. 6