Kaytlyn Gill Krista Townsend 22 February 2017 Comp 2 Visual Rhetoric The stakeholder I chose to do my visual rhetoric on is the Dove Real Beauty Campaign. The Dove Real Beauty Campaign is The Dove Real Beauty campaign is a campaign for young girls and young women to celebrate and embrace the bodies they were given and to feel confident and comfortable in the skin they are in. This was created in 2004 by Ogilvy & Mather. Ogilvy & Mather is an advertising company in New York, but started in London. Doves motto is, We believe beauty should be a source of confidence, and not anxiety. why we are here to help women everywhere develop a positive relationship with the way they look, helping them raise their self-esteem and realize their full  (Our Vision) This campaign today is featured on billboards, videos, commercials, and more. To get the real beauty to come out they interviewed many women of different backgrounds and diversity. The Dove Campaign stands for real beauty. It encourages women of all ages, race, color, size, and ext to embrace their beauty and be happy with the skin they are in. care about the stereotypes around. There stake in my topic is to promote and stand for real beauty. No matter what, the other stakeholder stands for that as well, but embraces it in a different and negative way, according to Dove. I will be analyzing how the images I picked appeal to the audience through ethos, pathos, and logos. The goals of each of my images is to get my audience to see what Dove really stands for. Multiple women got together and took this picture in undergarments. All of the women were different shapes, colors, and ages. The images shows they are comfortable in the skin they are in. They also have little to no makeup on, and no edits. The images ask the audience to maybe hop on board with the campaign. easy to explain what the campaign stands for, but its ten times better to see than to just imagine. When young people and older people see this happiness and comfortableness they will too, feel they can accomplish anything. Dove picked brave women to take these pictures and it shows anyone can do it. It shows them photoshop is unreal and not necessary. The images are trying to get an emotional reaction out of the audience. It could make someone feel excited, or nervous, anxious, and even happy to see women care. Image number one is a straight line of women in white undergarments. They are smiling and showing off what they have. The Ethos of image one is the Dove trademark that appears above the woman. Dove is a popular, well known company that has a lot merchandise sold around the US. Ethos is the credibility of the image or work. Why is this image credible? And why should people believe what they are trying to get across? This image is very credible and get any more credible than it already is. When people see the Dove trademark they believe in the promotion more. Rather than just a few women getting together and taking a photo to try and start awareness of something. Moving along to the pathos portion of the image one. Pathos is the emotional appeal that the visual rhetoric gives off. How is one supposed to feel after looking at this image? There are many feelings Dove is trying to get the audience to feel with these images. One main one being happiness and joy. In the picture the women are In undergarments and they are smiling. You can see the happiness in their eyes and smile. This makes the audience see that they are comfortable taking picture like this which is the main goal. They see happiness and joy you automatically feel it with them. Another feeling is comfort. When someone not knowing really anything about the campaign sees this image number one, they will feel comfortable and see that anyone can pose and be comfortable, then they can do it as well. The logos of the image one is next. Logos is the logic used behind the visual rhetoric image. The logos of my images are why they took these pictures. The campaign stands for being comfy in the skin in. So the reason for the picture is to show the audience possible to accomplish that. They are leading by example. easy to say things and say that women need to be more confident but to actually do the action. Before the images the audience aware of people acting on what the campaign stands for. The images give the audience more reason to hop on board. The second image is similar to the first image in many ways. The second image only shows three women in undergarments and it also has written words. For the ethos of this image it too, has the trademark of Dove on it. Also, it has a whole paragraph summing up the true meaning of the Real Beauty Campaign. This is credible because again, the dove trademark is visible on the image and not just some people getting together creating a funding program about beauty stereotypes. Nothing is wrong with women getting together and doing that, but the fact that the trademark for Dove is visibale makes their case better. The second image has similar pathos to the first image as well. Not only are the women standing there smiling and happy with little clothing. But there is a paragraph dedicated to telling the audience what the Dove campaign is really about. This written paragraph on the picture adds to the emotional appeal of the image. The caption of the picture is We see beauty all around  This helps the audience see what they are about to get from the image being shown. Dove wants people to feel joy, and happiness and comfort when it comes to their own beauty. Finally, we have logos of the second image. The logos of this image is simple. Dove created this image with the women still visible in it and the words on the side to add to that appeal. The logic behind this image is that they are showing what they stand for and how you get people on board to your campaign or product. I believe the logic helps out with the emotional background and also the credibility, which is pathos and ethos. Without the pathos and ethos, there really be a logos. In conclusion for visual rhetoric is requires all three of the theories, ethos, pathos, and logos. ultimate goal is to get women to feel comfortable in the skin they are in. The images I chose to go along with the visual rhetoric piece are great examples of images that need to be featured for this whole campaign. The images sum up all of what Dove stands for and they message they want to create for women of the world.Dove thought about how they are going to make the images credible, how they are going to get it to appeal to the audience emotionally, and the logic behind it all. These two images were perfect example of visual rhetoric.