Edouard 1 Carlie Edouard Mr. Fennell ENC 1102 039 10 February, 2017 Animal Agriculture or no? The debate of whether or not meat should be produced has been around for years now. Although the solution may seem simple, the majority of Americans have failed to come to a consensus regarding this topic. Meat, dairy, and egg industries have been trying to be more clear about their environmental reports and have been reducing their carbon footprint and their greenhouse gas emissions. Animal rights activist choose not to support meat, dairy, and egg industries due to the fact that although these industries might try to be more efficient in how they use the resources, in order to mass produce the products they sell, the companies still end up using a substantial amount of resources. The animal rights groups finds this unnecessary. Meat, dairy, and egg goals are to have mindful individuals who think about the products they are buying and the impact of the product on their health and the environment. That way, when they persuade them with their transparent advertisement, the consumers will buy their products knowing the truth about the impact of the product on the environment and the efforts in reducing the negative effects of the production process of their products. On the same token, they are trying to make a profit. therefore, the health of their consumers and protection of the environment could possibly be secondary. Edouard 2 Thanks to them, the act of consuming and consuming the secretions of another species has become normalized in society. Many of the Animal rights groups and many vegans have withdrawn their support for such industries. They choose to be smart about what they purchase. They have come to the realization that they have the power to make a difference on the planet by choosing to discontinue their endorsement of industries that refuse to care about the future if this planet. Their goal is for everyone else to cease the continuation of support for these industries and for them to become aware of the harm that the meat, dairy, and egg industries impose upon the environment. Such include air pollution, water depletion, climate change, and water pollution Environmental ). They also wish that consumers would try to not buy and consume meat, dairy, and eggs in order to decrease the demand for such products, and in turn, the supply will follow the trend of the demand. The supply and demand of meat have not suffered due to the fact that many Americans are disconnected from the reality of what they buy and how it got to the shelves of the store and what it took to produce it. This is so because the meat, dairy, and egg industries make it their mission to ensure that the majority of Americans are unaware of the repercussions of the products they produce and that the consumers are oblivious to the production process. Tyson, however, announced that they are committed to being stewards of the environment and conserving the natural resources Tyson Environment ). They pronounced that they are being more transparent about how much resources they are utilizing and their greenhouse gas emissions Tyson Environment Like Tyson other meat, dairy, and egg companies have been trying to be more aware and cautious about the how their products impact the environment and how they can be efficient in how they Edouard 3 utilize the natural resources. This is due to the fact that this generation of consumers are willing to pay more for environmentally friendly products People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) proclaimed that animal agriculture is a huge waste of land, water, and energy Meat and the ). The animals require much natural resources but unlike plants, one does not reap what they sow. One would put some much energy into raising the animal for food production, but in return for all the resources used to produce it, one would only receive about one-third of what it cost to produce it. Not everyone likes every part of most meat. So therefore, one can only sell certain parts of something they spend much time growing and fattening, suggestion is that everyone adapt a plant-based diet to fight these truths. Some common ground is that everyone wants the planet to thrive and for it to be healthy. A good compromise for both parties is for meat, dairy, and egg industries to focus their time, money, and energy on finding a way to produce meat without having to raise livestock. There is ongoing research on in vitro meat: meat made in a lab with just a small sample of animal tissue. This would be ideal for the environment because land, water, and energy will not be wasted on raising animals for food. In addition, less pollutants, such as greenhouse gasses, will be emitted therefore, imposing a lighter burden on the environment juxtaposition to factory farming techniques (Schaefer, G. Owen). The major compromise for the animal rights and vegans is that this solution still includes people eating meat, dairy, and eggs and supporting their industries. In addition, the animals will be needed for the sample, which in their eyes is still not ideal because the animals are still being exploited. At least they will not be killed. Edouard 4 Works Cited Green Generation: Millennials Say Sustainability Is a Shopping  Green Generation: Millennials Say Sustainability Is a Shopping Priority. Nielsen, 5 Nov. 2015. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Long Shadow: Environmental Issues and  Long Shadow: Environmental Issues and Options. FAO Agriculture and Consumer Protection, 2006. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Meat and the  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Schaefer, G. Owen, and Julian Savulescu. The Ethics of Producing In Vitro  Journal of Applied Philosophy. John Wiley & Sons Ltd, May 2014. Web. 8 Feb. 2017. Tyson Foods 2015 Sustainability Report:  YouTube. YouTube, 31 Mar. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Edouard 5