Stenbeck 1 Zach Stenbeck Fennell ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Creation of Man For every twenty human beings that are birthed into the world one synth are created by the Institute. There are two organizations that cannot come to a compromise over the creation of synthetic human being (synths). The Railroad, an organization who sees these synthetic humans as actual people, are in disagreement with the Institute who believe the purpose of a synth is only to serve as a machine and considers the synth defective if it carries emotion. The Railroad wants it so that all synths are free to do as they please and be allowed to live their own life while the Institute wants to use the synths as machines to collect resources for them without them having any emotion. The disagreement between these two stakeholders is that the Institution only plans to create a new world and they say they are the only organization capable of doing so with their technology while the Railroad wants the synths who are used as slaves by the Institute safe and allowed to live the life they wish to live. To start off, the mission is to try and restore mankind after the bombs had fallen all those years ago. The Institute is a highly sophisticated organization that is composed of scientists who are trying to says Shaun Apples leader of the Institute (Apples, We are the Institute 4). The scientists of the Institute believe they can create a better world because of all their technological advances. The Institute does not allow the synths to have a life and if any of these earlier models show any form of emotion they would have been terminated. Since the scientists of the Institute created the newer models they have been able to Stenbeck 2 display emotion and pass as actual humans. The synths then begin to think they are actual people and take on personas. The Institute disapproves of the newer models behavior and tried to keep them contained within the facility. Apples states, synths are of no use to us if they have emotions corrupting its system and thus being less (Apples, Within the Institute 2). Unfortunately for them, many of the newer models kept escaping to live the life they wish. The institute believes this is a big problem and will ruin their plans. Conversely, the Railroad believes that the newer models of the Institute should be free to live the life they want to live. The Railroad is an organization made up of humans and synths whom have escaped from the Institute. Desdemona, leader of the Railroad, says risk our lives every day to save those who deserve the life they have been dreaming of, man or (Desdemona, We are the Railroad 5). The Railroad has continued to clash with the Institute ever since the new model came out in hopes to free all synths. Their mission entails setting the synths free in order to give them a better life rather than work for the Institute. A writer who is a synth himself explains, able to live my life with these people is a (Jones, The life of a synth 1). They have somewhat succeeded by becoming known to the world and by being a threat to the Institute. They will not stop until they have freed every synth they possibly can. In comparison, the two organizations want to better the world and, or keep it safe for that matter. The Institution strives to better the world, a way in which seems unfair to those who are still living in this decaying land. The Railroad believes in bettering the world where both humans and synthetic creations can live in harmony. A possible compromise between the two organizations could be the Institute can produce a newer model to entice social involvement would better the community rather than take jobs from those in need. This change will not only make the Railroad happy, but provide security and free roaming space for the synths. In order to Stenbeck 3 make this an even deal, the synths would need to be paid for. after the disaster, more and more people suffer from depression because of the loss of loved says Dr. Chung (Chung, The people are sad 3). Anyone in desire for their own synth would be able to purchase and preference it to their own liking. With these changes, the Institute has cash flow and the Railroad is happy that these synths can experience real life. To conclude, these two organizations were unable to seek out a solution to the problems they both had without a fair outcome. With this suggested compromise, the two may be able to come to an agreement. The institute will be able to widen their research with the steady cash flow from the sales of the newer model and the Railroad would in return, see the synths live the life that they think they should deserve. Each organization will have resolved its problems with one another and be able to carry on their business as they see fit. Stenbeck 4 Work cited Apples, the N.p January 18th, 2219 scienceiscool.org. September 14th, 2016 Apples, are the The Institute November 28th, 2210 theinststute.com. September 14th, 2016 Chung, Jackie people are Article 7, People of Health.August 5th, 2220. September 14th, 2016 Desdemona, are the The Railroad February 22nd, 2215 therailroad.org. September 14th, 2016 Jones, Life of a vol.1, N.p. March 7th, 2227. wordsofthewise.com. September 14th, 2016