Geisler 1 Alison Geisler Professor Fennell Composition II 12 February 2017 Should Criminals Be Employed In the world we live in today, it is not rare to come across one who has been charged for a crime. Unfortunately, overpopulation of jails results in convicts being dismissed on a lesser sentence to make room for those who commit heavier crimes. The stakeholders involved are convicted criminals and future employers. Criminals who were convicted have difficulty finding employment due to their past record, which in turn leads them back to a life of crime because they have no other options. In order for one to be released in hopes of no return, he/she will need to complete a rehabilitation program overseen by a correctional officer for as long as necessary before they are sent out. Once dismissed, their record will show that they have completed the program successfully and they will be able to be involved in day to day work related activities without any complications. As a criminal, emphasis is placed on their past which restricts them from opportunities they may want to pursue such as employment. Regardless of circumstances criminals were raised in, they may not know of better ways to live, so they turn towards what they know best. An implemented rehabilitation program before one exists prison would best improve the way one sees life so that they can, one day be successful. their time in jail one is able to take correctional programs which teaches them skills so that they are valuable in the workforce upon their release. These programs have been proven to reduce violence and stop recurring violence. Geisler 2 Still, these incarcerated adults face employment difficulties (Abrams 680). The undeniable truth is that as soon as one is convicted of a crime, their chance of future employment declines due to potential danger to others. This is mostly seen through the person in charge of the workplace rather than the employees. On the other hand, employers in each workplace have difficulty finding workers, but hiring past criminals is less likely to happen. When one hires an ex-criminal it puts not only their business at risk, but the others employees at that business along with the customers coming into the business, they then become liable for these criminals. Throughout the course of the hiring process, when a business gets a resume, it is then put through a system. It then brings up their criminal record and if it passes, what the business maximum crime allows, it will then look at their qualifications relevant to the job. Although this process is difficult, has gone in depth to state that criminals, once hired have a greater chance of excelling within the (Yadoo 13). The two sides to this situation have very different perspectives on the issue. Fortunately, if a criminal is able to get into an area with better conditions, they are more likely to have people help them out and employ them, otherwise they could continue to struggle and go back to committing crimes. In order to reach common ground the employer and criminal need to have an understanding of what it is like to be convicted and rehabilitated for the betterment of the individual. It is usually difficult for one side to see the other because they want it to be that one specific way. That is, the criminals see that they can not get a job because of their record but they do not understand why their qualifications will not help them out. Then, on the other hand, employers see the criminals as a liability to the company, other employees and the customers. Geisler 3 They state that they are a risk by hiring someone that may be temporary rather than someone who has never been in (Zeitler 693). The issue then comes in when one side chooses to not compromise or respect the decision of the other side although it may be valid. In turn, there is often very little cooperation between stakeholders which results in hardships for unwanted ex-convicts. Between the two sides, if they choose to work with one another, the business will be able to grow and may later help out other criminals. Then, the criminal will have a leg up in society where he/she will be able to get better jobs over time because they put in the hard work and effort to get to that point (Cantora 1022). The two sides can work together once they get to common ground but this needs to be achieved in advance to end with this compromise. Relating back to the idea of a perfect world where businesses will hire criminals and then criminals will be able to find a job without a problem, this is where the compromise comes into place. As stated earlier, before a criminal is released back into society successfully, he/she needs to complete a rehabilitation program. This program consists of those who have been on the streets their whole life; without much purpose and learning how to be a part of society which means working in a successful business which would have a regular salary. Not only would it be for those types of people but also ones who just want to relearn how to be apart of society because they have been away from it for so long. They will be taught basic social skills, different business skills, and ways to cope when they reach a situation they do not know how to deal with (Tsai 673). Alongside, their correctional officer will not be there to punish but encourage, there will be no predetermined time in this program but until one thinks they have completed it successfully will it then be on their record that they would be able to work in any minimum wage Geisler 4 business without a problem. Even though employers will still look at them as criminals, if this program is successful enough it could give them another chance and hopefully business will recognize that and give them the chance they deserve. There will never be a perfect world but if enough effort is put into this, everyone could have a second chance. The practicality of the compromise stated is that, correctional officer whom are already assigned to each convict would oversee how they would function within society. After they are taught the necessary skills, their correctional officer will be able to check-up on their prior convict and make sure he/she is handling themselves correctly. Although there may not be more than a second if something were to arise during employment, the fact that they want to start a better life once they get out of prison is a step in the right direction. One may always be connected to a criminal record but hopefully this program will have enough impact on the person that they may be able to feel as though they can have a place in society. Geisler 5 Works Cited Abrams, Laura S., and Charles H. Lea. Becoming  Journal 96.5 (2016): 667. Provided Full Text Searching File . Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Cantora, Andrea, Jeff Mellow, and Melinda D. Schlager. Social Relationships And Group Dynamics Inside A Community Correction Facility For  Journal Of Offender Therapy And Comparative Criminology 60.9 (2016): 1016-1035. . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jack Tsai, Ph.D., author, and M.D., author Robert A. Rosenheck. Psychosis, Lack Of Job Skills, And Criminal History: Associations With Employment In Two Samples Of Homeless  Services 6 (2016): 671. . Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Yadoo, Jordan. Employers miss out when they screen out  Focus 2016: 13. Academic OneFile . Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Zeitler, Norma W., and Laura Luisi. From The Academy: Criminal Background Checks For  Of The Academy Of Nutrition And Dietetics 116.(2016): 692,694-693,694. . Web. 29 Jan. 2017.