Hedderman 1 Michaela Hedderman Professor Townsend ENC 1102 26 February 2017 NCAA Visual Rhetorical Analysis The NCAA, is a membership driven organization dedicated to safeguarding the wellbeing of student-athletes and equipping them with the skills to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and throughout life. The NCAA functions as a general legislative and administrative authority for and intercollegiate formulates and enforces the rules of play for various sports and the eligibility criteria for athletes. The images are trying to portray that the NCAA is a reputable organization that represents sports and can create opportunities for anyone who joins. The first image where the national championship trophy is sitting on the beach, shows that opportunities can be found through this organization which can give the viewer of this photo hope and excitement, making them want to join a sport. While the second photo is more generic and just shows the NCAA logo with some of the organizations most profitable sports represented behind it. Through the utilization of rhetorical appeals, Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos the NCAA is able to promote and advertise their organization while at the same time advertise their most profitable sports. Ethos is one of the four rhetorical appeals, which credibility or an ethical appeal which involves (Ethos). Ethos is used in literature, writing, and in this case visually to create credibility within an ad or photograph that appeals to its viewers. Within the first photo, a viewer would know that this specific photo is credible because the trademarked Hedderman 2 NCAA logo is placed on to of the national championship trophy, which is a well known object in the collegiate sports realm. If the viewer was not familiar with this championship trophy or even with the NCAA itself, they would have to rely on their own beliefs and the creators of this photo would have to hope that the Ethos in this photo creates credibility. Though, the NCAA is an extremely well known organization across the U.S., so it would be peculiar for one to not have any knowledge on this organization. This would explain why every single ad or photo I found for the NCAA was very simple and bare, I conducted research for two days looking for an ad or photo that would be more complex or have more substance. The creators of this photo expect the viewers to already have knowledge of how credible the NCAA is, meaning they put little to no wording or creativity into their visual appeals, since they know the Ethos for these photos comes from the prior knowledge. The photo also says in white lettering on the left hand side of the photo which could be trying to establish credibility as an advertisement for the NCAA. Since it is attempting to show the viewer that through this reliable organization, opportunities are in reach. In the second photo, the NCAA logo is much larger, and Ethos may seem to be more present here than in the first picture since this logo is specifically a logo, and does not present itself as an advertisement like the first photo does. This logo specifically shows the NCAA logo and a basketball, football, and a baseball behind it, showing that the NCAA represents these sports. Pathos, is the second of the four rhetorical appeals which attempts to evoke an emotional response within its persuasion. Pathos is introduced in work to create sensations of sympathy, sorrow and, consequently, to develop an emotional connection with (Pathos). Within this first photo, Pathos is seen here more than any of the other rhetorical Hedderman 3 appeals. The logo states showing anyone that views this photo that opportunities are available though the NCAA and these opportunities are attainable through this organization. This in addition to the national championship trophy could provoke excitement and a longing in any viewer, no matter what sport they play. Pathos in this photo attempts to create a longing in the viewer to join a collegiate sport since an opportunity to win the national championship is possible for anyone who joins a sport through the NCAA. Also, since the photo shows a beach volleyball and sand, one can infer that the national championship in this photo is for volleyball, meaning the photo was intending on appealing towards volleyball players. This could create feelings within a volleyball player of any age, showing them that the national championship is in their reach and motivate them to possibly join a collegiate team. In the second photo, the three sports that are represented in the back of the photo would create positive feelings within a viewer since it represents familiar sports. The Pathos in this photo attempts to connect to the viewer through their familiarity with these sports, and through the feelings that the colors evoke. In addition, the blue colors represented by the NCAA logo and by the background, elicit a comfortable, relaxed feel for the viewer since the color blue a sense of calm and (Cousins). Logos, the third of four rhetorical appeals, which attempts to or persuade the targeted audience by employing reason or (Logos). Logos is different from Ethos and Pathos since Logos mainly the utilization of inductive and deductive reasoning methods of be (Logos). Within Logos, inductive reasoning a specific representative case or facts then draws generalizations or conclusions from them...and must be based on a sufficient amount of reliable (Purdue). While deductive reasoning, Hedderman 4 with a generalization then applies it to a specific case...the generalization with must have been based on a sufficient amount of reliable (Purdue). Even though Logos is present in this photo, it is seen the least out of the four rhetorical appeals. Not much inductive or deductive reasoning can be inferred from this photo, since it is incredibly simple. Though, one could infer through the utilization of inductive reasoning, that the photo without explicitly stating it, is trying to appeal to volleyball players. The use of the volleyball and sand in the background, as well as the use of the national championship trophy is proof that the creators of the photo are trying to appeal to a certain demographic. In the second photo, I recognized that the three sports that are represented behind the NCAA logo are the three highest profitable sports in the NCAA, which all happen to be mens sports. This logo subtlety shows the NCAA is male dominated, without having to state it directly. Even though basketball is played by both men and women, mens basketball is one of the three highest grossing sports in the NCAA, while basketball is not. Around 81% of NCAA revenue, from media rights, mostly from a $10.8 billion, 14-year agreement with CBS Sports and Turner Broadcasting for rights to the Division I Basketball (Jcoram). It makes perfect sense why the NCAA would want to promote their most profitable sport by any means necessary and wherever they possibly can. This would also explain why the proportions for these three sports balls are off, and why the basketball is the largest out of all three. This further proves the point that whoever created this ad was not thinking of showing men and women sports equally, or trying to appeal to both sexes. They were mearly attempting to appeal to the boys and men who play the sports that raise the most amount of money for this organization. Hedderman 5 Kairos, the last of the four rhetorical appeals, refers to the of an an ad or an argument to successful, it needs appropriate tone and structure and come at the right (Louisville). In the first photo, there seems to be double meaning between Kairos and the other rhetorical appeals. The beach in the background, evokes a calming, relaxing feeling which through Kairos, can be inferred that there is no sense of urgency through this photo. The sand and the umbrella add to this feeling, proving that even though there are available, but there is no rush to achieve them. While this photo may specifically be targeting volleyball players, it is ambitious in that it attempts to evoke a calming feeling at the same time. On the contrary, the second photo does not hold any presence of Kairos, since it seems to be a fairly basic logo. There is no extra wording or any other subtle background objects that would hint that the creators wanted there to be a timeliness within it. In conclusion, the creators of these logos for the NCAA effectively created two ads that promoted and advertised their organization through the four rhetorical appeals. Though the first logo was targeted for volleyball players, and the second logo was sexist in the it only was appealing to male sports. Each did advertise the credibility, evoked an emotional response and attempted to persuade the viewers to join an intercollegiate sport through the NCAA. Hedderman 6 Work Cited Cousins, Carrie. Color and Emotion: What Does Each Hue  . N.p., 03 Apr. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://tympanus.net/codrops/2012/04/03/color-and-emotion-what-does-each-hue-mean/>.  . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://literarydevices.net/ethos/>. Jcoram.  - The Official Site of the NCAA . N.p., 22 Nov. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/about/resources/finances/revenue>.  . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Logos, Pathos, Ethos,  of Louisville . University Writing Center, n.d. Web. <https://louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/handouts-and-resources/handouts-1/log os-ethos-pathos-kairos>.  . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Welcome to the Purdue  OWL: Establishing Arguments . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.