Brooke Doran Krista Townsend ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Are the Advertisements Produced by Dead Effective? Not Dead Yet is an organization that is against the legalization of euthanasia, also known as physician assisted suicide (Not Dead Yet). This organization is spread worldwide with any followers willing to put in the time to share their views on physician assisted suicide. This organization ties physician assisted suicide with the possibility of causing an increase in elderly and disabled abuse (Not Dead Yet). Not Dead Yet believes that physician assisted suicide opens the possibility to the elderly and disabled to being coerced into participating in physician assisted suicide (Not Dead Yet). Some doctors may have a different view on a treatment for a certain patient, in the aspect of physician assisted suicide. Not all doctors have the same view on or may misjudge the quality of life; this is another concern of this organization, if one doctor lets a patient do physician assisted suicide while a different doctor may have offered a different treatment then the patient may die instead of getting another chance to live like they deserve (Not Dead Yet). The top priority of this organization it to protect the patients, they believe the best way to do that is to get rid of physician assisted suicide all together. This organization holds many protests to get their message to be herd and to gain more followers; they also use advertisements, like images and commercials to accomplish this as well. I found one image and one commercial from Not Dead Yet that I felt represented them very well that I am going to analyze. The advertisements used by Dead campaign are focused on the abolition of physician assisted suicide through the use of rhetorical appeals to persuade their audience to do the same. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal used to persuade an audience through emotions. The image I chose was produced by Not Dead Yet and is written in a bright red bold lettering, this is so the words pop out and are the focus of the advertisement to the audience. The color red is meant to make the audience feel angry for the people that feel as though they are being oppressed. The word in the statement on the image is the biggest word on it compared to the others, this is to show the audience that the patients want to live and not die, giving the audience a personal connection with the patients (N.d). The commercial I chose that was produced by Not Dead Yet relies heavily on pathos. In the commercial the use of dark and gloomy colors were to make the audience feel sad, and even sympathetic toward who the commercial is referring to. The commercial also has short stories of a few patients to make the audience feel a connection with them, in turn making the audience more likely to have stronger emotions toward this cause. Also the commercial shows empty wheelchairs, empty hospital beds, and an unused walker. This implies that people used to use them, but then they died and left those items behind empty. This is to make the audience feel empathy for the patients and their family. Ethos is a rhetorical appeal used to persuade an audience through credibility and authority. Both the image and the commercial have the Dead logo. This shows the audience that both of these advertisements have credibility through this organization. Showing the logo of the organization will make it possible for the audience to look up the organization to gain more knowledge of the organization itself or the organizations stance on physician assisted suicide. Toward the end of the commercial there is a quote that says cannot improve our quality of life- it is not a solution to from an avid campaigner for Not Dead Yet (Youtube). Adding that quote from an expert toward the end of the commercial adds credibility. Logos is a rhetorical appeal used to persuade an audience through logic and reason. In the commercial it gives short stories of people who have gone through terminal illnesses. Some of these stories are logical and prove that there is a negative cause and effect of physician assisted suicide. However, some of the stories told in the commercial are not directly caused from physician assisted suicide, but the organization is saying they are directly caused by physician assisted suicide. The organization is misleading the audience, this takes away from their credibility. The image uses the phrase us to live not this is a command and in a way telling the story of all the people it relates to. When people are saying this quote or holding it on a sign in a protest they are telling the world that they want to live and not die. It is expected that people want to live, so this is a logical statement. Kairos is a rhetorical appeal used to persuade an audience to immediately take action. In the commercial it states that 11 September 2015 you and your fellow MPs will decide whether to allow the Assisted Dying Bill to progress to the next they posted the commercial itself on YouTube at September 9 th , 2015 (Youtube). This statement appeals to kairos because it is stating that there is a deadline. They posted this video because if people act in time then they cannot accomplish their goal, being to deny the bill to pass. The statement us to live not from the image expresses that the people this applies to do not have much time. Death is a timely manner and to them if this issue is not resolved soon they might die. Overall, the advertisements both expressed pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. Using all of these rhetorical appeals can be very affective when they are used in the correct way. The commercial having a few logos fallacies definitely takes away the credibility from this source and ultimately made the commercial not as effective. Also, this commercial would not be as effective in the United States as it would be in the United Kingdom. This is because they state that they want the audience to vote against physician assisted suicide on September 11 th in 2015; this voting event was not being help in the United States, nor will it directly effect American citizens. American citizens could not actually participate in giving their opinion on the matter at hand at the voting event, but citizen of the United Kingdom can. This commercial would most likely only be effective on people who live in the United Kingdom, however overall it is not effective because of the fallacies it presented as truth. The image however could be effective on everyone partly because it does not single out a specific event. The image made a direct statement and used bold red lettering to get the point across, making this image very effective. At the bottom of the image the logo of Dead also has a symbol, so it can be recognized that that is where it is from. This element does not take away from the effectiveness of the image because the statement being made is universally recognized by this organization. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-TCbO72KfkDU/VfLmbz97f- I/AAAAAAAAWY8/PlQHz6m4WcI/s1600/Not%2BDead%2BYet%2BUK%2Bslogan.png (N.d) Commercial at (Youtube) Works Cited N.d. Blogspot. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Not Dead Yet Disability Activists Oppose Assisted Suicide As A Deadly Form of  Not Dead Yet. N.p., 05 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. YouTube. YouTube, 09 Sept. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.