Visual Rhetoric from PETA 1 Visual Rhetoric from PETA Malcolm Stewart English Composition II University of Florida Visual Rhetoric from PETA 2 Dogs are best cows and chickens are possible dinner options, and rabbits and mice that were in the local pet store might be the next subject for testing a newly developed heart medicine. Animals can be used to do many things for the needs of humans with limited specifications on what can and cannot be done to them. One organization named PETA, or People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, wants to put a change to this. Every year they produce hundreds of advertisements to persuade people to advocate for the rights of animals. One of the images featured in this paper is an image of a person in a sickly rabbit costume holding a sign that says, the gorey This is an example of one of more viewer friendly advertisements. The other image is an example of one of more gory advertisements that features a dead lamb that has its fur removed to protest the wool market. PETA promotes the protection of animal rights through advertisements that evoke pathos, through blood, sadness, and harm happening to animals, to make their audiences feel empathy towards animals. The first image is an image of a man with a beard holding up a dead lamb. The man has a very straight face that looks stern and almost sad in a way. The lamb that he is holding has exposed skin and flesh. The lamb is missing its fur and looks like it has been taken off in a rough and aggressive manner, leaving the lamb looking kind of mutilated. The man is holding the lamb with both of his hands away from his body to suggest that this is not his doing, but the doing of the audience looking at this image. He also has his hand under the neck and the underside of him, in a very respectful position even though the lamb is already dead. This suggests the man has respect for the lamb and cares for it. The advertisement has a black background, bringing the focus toward the words, man, and the lamb. The words in the advertisement are, the rest of your wool These words are in capital letters and Visual Rhetoric from PETA 3 large to grasp the attention of the audience. The target audience is the group of consumers that purchase wool products. The aim is to convince people to stop purchasing these products. The advertisement uses visual rhetoric in the forms of ethos, pathos, and a little bit of kairos. The kairos can be interpreted by the way the advertisement has a dead lamb front and center with a man that looks guilty. This conveys a sense of the audience having the power to stop this before it happens again to another lamb. The advertisement uses ethos by including the PETA logo. PETA is a well-known organization around the world. The use of the logo establishes that this advertisement was made or approved by them. Their logo is an extreme amount of credibility added to the advertisement. The main goal of the image is to use pathos to make the audience feel empathy and guilt for wearing wool. The use of a lamb instead of a sheep is to make the reader think of a baby instead of an adult. Babies whether they are animals or human are easier to convey empathy for (heysigmund). The lamb also looks mishandled by whoever removed all its fur. This is because there are inconsistences in the way the lamb looks, some areas have skin on them and others are devoid of skin and have exposed flesh. Leaving the animal looking mangled and almost to make the audience feel disgusted by the way the animal looks now and possibly about products made of wool now. The second image features a person in a rabbit suit almost like one a mascot would wear. The rabbit looks sickly and ill. The underside of the eyelids are red like they are irritated or the rabbit is tired. The rabbit is holding a sign that says, the gorey The background of the advertisement features a big city with tall buildings in the background and with a few people walking through the background on the side walk. There is not much featured in the advertisement making the audience focus on interpreting the few components of the image. Visual Rhetoric from PETA 4 This image uses the same three components of visual rhetoric as the first, pathos, ethos, and kairos. Kairos is used by showing the rabbit as sickly making the audience want to react fast to the image to help. The use of ethos is from the PETA logo. The logo establishes the image as credible and that it belongs to PETA. The main appeal of this image is pathos. The image uses a rabbit that looks ill to invoke sympathy from the people who view the picture. The rabbit looks sick due to the fact the ears are drooping and there is discharge running down from its eyes. The advertisement seems very washed out making it seem like no one cares, especially with the people in the background just walking past with no one looking at the rabbit or the sign. These two features are to make the reader feel like there is apathy for the issue and that people should be empathetic about what is going on. The advertisements are similar in the sense that they base the main claims of their argument off the use of pathos. Pathos is very effective in convey their message of stopping the misuse of animals. The images differ by the first one being more gory and dramatic in the presentation of the message. The first message shows a real animal that is dead in a hands. This is more effective than the second image that just uses a rabbit costume and really convey the message as clearly. The use of the dead lamb is not exactly as presentable to every audience, but for the audiences that can view the advertisement they would feel compelled to stop by products made of wool and possible other products featuring animal fur. PETA is very good as using pathos to convey a message to their intended audience. In these images, they were also able to kairos and ethos to create a strong visual rhetoric. Visual Rhetoric from PETA 5 References Jona Weinhofen: the Rest of Your Wool (2015, April 07). Retrieved February 21, 2017, from http://www.peta.org.uk/blog/jona-weinhofen-heres-the-rest-of-your-woolcoat/ 35 Things That Happening Today Because of PETA. (n.d.). Retrieved February 21, 2017, from http://www.peta.org/features/35-years-of-peta/ History: Compassion in Action. (n.d.). Retrieved February 21, 2017, from http://www.peta.org/about-peta/learn-about-peta/history/ Posted September 30, 2016 by Karen - Hey Sigmund. (2016, October 03). An Easy Way to Develop Empathy in Children and Adults. Retrieved February 21, 2017, from http://www.heysigmund.com/how-to-develop-empathy/