SAFETY OF SELF DRIVEN CARS 1 Safety of Self Driven Cars and Historical Point of Views Ghaith Al-Ghaithi ENC1101.004S17 SAFETY OF SELF DRIVEN CARS 2 Safety of Self Driven Cars and Historical Point of Views Rapidly advancing technology creates wonderful products that make the human life more convenient and enjoyable. It transforms the way people live and engage in their activities. Regular manual operations are gradually assigned to machines so that the machines would take care of the operating activities. The technology of self-driving cars has become one of the latest revolutionary concepts that would allow an important human operation to be taken over by machines. Once fully developed, it would totally transform the way people commute as computers control the operations associated with driving. However, there are many areas that raise concerns on the reliability on the safety and moral and ethical responsibilities. Furthermore, who and what will be held accountable in a crash due to technology failure are serious issues. One major argument is that allowing computers to make driving decisions while on the road may pose a threat to safety of commuters as well as others on the road. The question of far we can trust self-driving cars and their use in daily needs the consideration of many aspects related to safety and reliability of this novel technology. Many authors have addressed the advantages and disadvantages of this technology over the years. They have made their arguments by taking the side of supporting and opposing the self-driving car technology based on the research findings, historical data and predicted future trends. The debate on this technology over the years shows consistency where both sides focus on making it an increasingly reliable technology that humans can benefit from. The scholarly conversation on the promising potentials of self-driving technology, need of consistent improvement and the debate on eventual responsibility have not changed over time. Scholarly conversation over the years has insisted that self- driving car technology has the ability to reduce the risks of manual operations. According research, large number of people around the world become victims of traffic accidents with estimated death toll found SAFETY OF SELF DRIVEN CARS 3 to be in millions. The author of an article published in 2008 on the future of self-driving car technology provides claims and evidence to support the claims that improved technology on self-driving cars has the potential to reduce safety risk related to manual vehicle operations (Urmson, 2008). Furthermore, Urmson argues that GPS and mapping technologies provide the opportunity for cars to understand the road conditions and control the movements accordingly. Urmson further highlights the remaining challenges to make the technology more reliable such as issues associated with urban driving where close monitoring is needed. His arguments were based on the historical evidence and research findings in the area of self- driving car technology. The claim of scholarly conversation is still remains the same even in 2016 where authors of an article published in 2016 supports the claims of higher safety of self-driving cars over manually driven vehicles. Coeckelbergh, the author the article published in 2016 stresses that self- driving technology can address the issues related to traffic congestions because of increased efficiency in operating a car without frustration and lack of attention by drivers which in turn increases the safety (Coeckelbergh, 2016). Althogu the publications are eight years apart, the claims of both Urmson and Coeckelbergh emphasize the claim of promising benefits and safety of this technology. These climes are further strengthened by the article written by Susan Hassler in 2017 where she highlights how auto manufacturers are competing to develop and market self-driving vehicles to make profits in the future indicating the potential of this technology (Hassler, 2017). Therefore, the arguments of the authors stress the need of continuous improvement to make it a reality. They provide the evidence based on statistics, research findings, and expert opinions in order to make their claims and evidence to back the arguments. These authors highlight the importance of keeping the pace of research and development on this promising technology although challenges remain in SAFETY OF SELF DRIVEN CARS 4 fulfilling the final objectives. Therefore, the scholarly conversation on the promising potentials of self-driving technology has remained the same over time. Scholarly conversation has over the years not changed its stance on further improvements of automated vehicle operations and where the eventual responsibility of car crash should be placed. The authors who completed research in this area convince the audience on challenges but describes the promising future. Scholars have highlighted the areas of obstacles that need to be overcome to make this technology to beneficial one for the society. Evans in his article published in 2001 highlights that self-driving cars may struggle to acquire the needed knowledge on the impact of its trajectory, speed at the moment of collision and the actual weight when making decisions on avoiding a crash (Evans, 2001). He further stresses the need of significant enhancement to react to sudden risks and decisions on stopping a car. Seven years later, this fact is further clarified in 2008 by Urmson. He claims that although testing of automated cars has proven to deliver the expectations of researchers and engineers, the challenge of fully autonomous urban driving has not yet been met (Urmson, 2008). The urban driving needs more complex manoeuvres and quick decisions made by the machines in order to ensure smooth motion of a vehicle without unexpected misjudgements. Moreover, these challenges highlight the need of more advanced technology integration into self-driving cars. Therefore, the scholars have consistently advocated on further improvement of the technology before it comes into fully operational where humans can completely rely on their transportation needs. However, even if the technology comes to the point with needed improvement for satisfactory self driving without human supervision, total prevention of machine failure is questionable. Therefore, many scholars argue one who should be responsible for machine operated car crash. Many scholars over the time have maintained a consistent viewpoint on eventual responsibility of accidents due to possible computer failures. The main focus of Urmson in SAFETY OF SELF DRIVEN CARS 5 2008 and Coeckelbergh in 2016 have been to find a solution to the question, should the driver, manufacturer or the car itself be held responsible in the event of system failure (Coeckelbergh, 2016). Historical data and research conclusions have shown the impact of weight of passengers and cars on the risks of involving crashes. These are important when designing self-driving technologies to avoid or minimize risks in order to enhance the confidence in this technology. The technology needs significant enhancement to react to sudden risks and decisions on stopping a car that need to consider all these factors and integrate the impact. These areas have been consistently on the focus over the years as to who is responsible for traffic accidents; driver, manufacturer or the car itself (Coeckelbergh). These issues need to be addressed in order to maximize the utilization of his technology. Self-driving car technology has been on the focus for years as a promising technology to make driving safer and more efficient. Many scholars have published research articles on the transformation on this technology and the advantages and disadvantages. Over the span of time period from 2011 through 2016, scholars have focused on the promising technology of self driving cars, the challenges that need to be overcome to make it ultimate reality and who should be made responsible in the event of machine failure and car crash. Analysis of these publications show the consistency of their opinion. These authors agree on all the areas associated with self driving car technology. They highlight the potential of safer and reliable operations that can be delivered by this technology. At the same, they have been arguing the further improvement necessary and the responsibility of the operations. While the technology has improved over time, it has not yet reached to the point of full implementation of this technology. Scholarly conversation has not changed its position where they highlight the potential of technology, need of further improvement and finding the answer for eventual responsibility in the event of accidents due to technology failure. Future scholars may focus SAFETY OF SELF DRIVEN CARS 6 on these areas in a consistent manner until the technology reaches its final objective of delivering fully operational self driving cars. SAFETY OF SELF DRIVEN CARS 7 References Coeckelbergh, Mark. Responsibility and the Moral Phenomenology of Using Self-Driving  Applied Artificial Intelligence 30.8 (2016): 748-57. Web. Evans, Leonard. influence of car mass and size on driver fatality Am J Public Health 91.5 Hassler, Susan. Self-Driving Cars And Trucks Are On The Move [Spectral  IEEE Spectrum 54.1 (2017): 6. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Urmson, Chris, and William Whittaker. Self-Driving Cars And The Urban  IEEE Intelligent Systems 2 (2008): 66. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.