Songting Han(Martin) ENC1102 Jarad Fennell February 12 2017 How to Manipulate Old Buildings for a Better Society Nowadays, more and more new buildings are under construction due to the increasingly rapid development of globalization and urbanization.Yet, many nations have been faced with the problem of whether or not old buildings should be demolished. Some groups like Beijing Municipal Authorities think the old buildings should be torn down to be replaced by new ones. However, others like the Heritage Preservation in China ASIA Network believe those old buildings are part of a history and should be protected. Beijing, as the capital of China, has a lot of historical buildings like the Forbidden City, the Quadrangle (Siheyuan) and Hutong. Their historical significance is known to everyone, and their destruction due to urbanization is a cultural loss. Each stakeholder holds different attitudes and beliefs on this issue. In order to satisfy both stakeholders come to an agreement, a reasonable compromise needs to be implemented. In my opinion, compromise would be to maintain parts of the old buildings that have significant historical values for people and tear down parts of dilapidated buildings to make it more inhabitable. China ASIA Network a Being historic culture preservation organization, the primary goal for them is to protect old buildings. Their perspective can be found in the following journal article called Heritage Preservation in Modern China: Problems, Perspectives and In the article, the author Safford demonstrates that Beijing has impressively modernized since 2008 Olympics, they replaced crumbling infrastructure and architecture, street lights, subways, and skyscrapers. Yet, experts say degradation of historic China ensues, and the phenomenon for growing numbers of citizens moving from rural areas to burgeoning cities increase pressures to re-purpose spaces occupied by old structures. Safford in the article reveals that many sites were destroyed, giving way to fast development, but Chinese people love their culture and tradition and now they are beginning to feel nostalgia for the past. As a result of this rapid growth of modernization, many artists began to voice their concerns over our historical culture. Groups like China ASIA Network began to show interest in the conservation of old buildings and old courtyard houses. Given the tragic destructiveness and violence of recent past, Safford claims that can only hope that in rising from poverty, weakness, and humiliation, the Chinese do not destroy so much of their heritage that they lose their (9) Under this bleak circumstances of historic culture loss faced by China , a specific guideline developed by China ASIA Network maintains and protects the image of old buildings, and these criteria can be found in the article called Guidelines for the Maintenance and Protection of Old Beijing In the article,Taylor and Francis illustrate the technical guidelines specifically on how to maintain and protect the image of old buildings. The Modern China ASIA Network Exchange organization uses other construction historical groups to implement their goals and have formulated the rules in relation to old city features. Additionally Taylor and Francis illustrates these efforts in the article by saying that the Modern China ASIA Network Exchange focused on renovations of Beijing streets, hutongs, courtyard houses other than the cultural heritage old buildings. In addition to these guidelines, there is a detailed plan for adhering to the principles of protecting historical authenticity. Lastly, they listed all standards like the renovation of Category 3 courtyards , for protecting the features of Hutongs (alleyways) and for alterations to building (Taylor & Francis 260). On the other side of the argument, Beijing Municipal Authorities contends that old buildings should be demolished to be replaced by new ones.This perspective is explored in the following article like Threatened by Illegal In the article, Jinhua Xing claims that the illegal buildings are unsafely constructed which put historic Hutong in a great jeopardy. Faced with the continued historic disappearance, residents and historians are urgently on calling on authorities to get capital culture protected. Hutong are commonly referred as narrow alleys that were traditionally linked with siheyuan courtyard residences.courtyard residences. It was reported by the amateur historian Zhang Wei that Beijing had 1300 Hutong in 2000 and then suffered a great decrease---half of them have disappeared due to rapid development in urbanization and rampant illegal construction (para 3). In August, the Beijing Municipal Authorities demanded the demolition of illegal structures throughout the city, including in Hutong. According to regulations, people can report illegal buildings to urban management officers and buildings found to be illegal will be demolished by force. However, it has not been easy for these regulations to be implemented. For example, residents who live in old Dongsi Hutong area are greatly disturbed by the construction of the illegal buildings, as China Daily reporter said.(Jin 12). In order to make more money and rent more apartments,some people build more floors to their houses, especially in buildings near main streets, making the alleys in the area looks extremely narrowed and changing the original functions of old buildings. The perspective of Municipal can also be tracked through western influences. According to the article, Authenticity: Alternative Preservation Strategies for Siheyuan in Ida D.K. TAM exemplified the studies on the evolution of urban form, in both physical and social manifestations , he shows how Beijing changed from a planned imperial city into a modern metropolis in the early twentieth century. Ida D.K. TAM describes in the article that Beijing Municipal Authorities need to combine Western ideology and technologies with the Chinese indigenous developments for the sake of a modernized Beijing . D.K. TAM also states that the desire to emulate the past and the preservation of class of Hutong and Dazhalan epitomizes an invaluable lost and that this should remind people of the need to design for the community. Finally, D.K. TAM proposed that and digital.simulation can be seen as a wonderful solution that is capable of maintaining a dynamic Beijing, still with regards to a positive community building environment and pragmatic considerations. Lastly, Beijing Municipal Authorities explores their perspective in the article Historic Buildings Poorly This article shows that historic building are badly preserved and protected, though almost all of them are still functional as a place for living, working, and studying (Para 1). Such facts has been criticized by scholars and experts for misuse of the heritage sites in recent years. The former inhabitants of these places are mainly famous historic figures, ranging from imperial family members and ministers to ancestor of the Chinese revolution. The author also claims that such serious issues has resulted in a meeting conducted by the Municipal From the meeting, it turns out that least 60 percent of the 322 most important historic buildings in downtown Beijing were in constant danger of (para 3). worse is that of old houses were not equipped with fire extinguishes nor had the electrical wiring been renovated which might cause serious health and safety concerns (Para 4 ). To satisfy both stakeholders, a compromise involving how to preserve historical buildings like Siheyuan and Hutong should be utilized. The Modern China ASIA Network Exchange should offer more compensation to residents willing to move away. If residents do not want to move out, the Modern China ASIA Network Exchange then would have to fix it by moving residents out of Hutong using public rent programs per relocation policy so that they can keep Hutongs historical structures. Of course, there are limits as to the amount of money spent by governments. However, to tackle the financial burdens, the Beijing Municipal Authorities could invite investors to renovate and maintain the historical buildings to help cover the costs in return of cut of future revenue from the buildings they would invest in. Just like Pingyao, Pingyao was once the financial center of China. According to the article Threatened by Illegal Construction, Pingyao now draws 20 million yuan a year in tourism revenue after renovations, some of which is used to fund maintenance. To deal with the heavy financial burdens, some experts suggest Beijing should imitate the way Shanxi Province did in its protection and renovation of the ancient walled city of Pingyao. Xinhua News Agency reported that, the The local government had to relocate and compensate, step by step, more than 100,000 residents in Pingyao, and invited investors to renovate and maintain the ancient buildings to help cover the (Para 18). In conclusion, it is imperative that both stakeholders of the debate need to attach great importance to the housing environment and the historic significance for our country, as it is source for living and tourist attraction. I also highly suggest each side should think carefully before making a move, and a deep awareness of the long-term outcome should be highly promoted as well. For the greater good of both stakeholders, it is necessary for an equal compromise to be made so that both sides can positively be impacted. Works Cited Historic Buildings Poorly Xiuhua Agency. Web. January 28 , 2017 Jin Haixing.(2013) Threatened by Illegal Ebejing, China Daily. Web. January 28 , 2017 Ida D.K. TAM (2014). Reconsidering Authenticity: Alternative Preservation Strategies for Siheyuan in Beijing. Civil Engineering and Architecture, 2 , 130 - 141. DOI 10.13189/cea.2014.020304. Web. January 28 , 2017 Safford, L.B., (2014). Cultural Heritage Preservation in Modern China: Problems, Perspectives, and Potentials. ASIANetwork Exchange: A Journal for Asian Studies in the Liberal Arts. 21(1), DOI:10.16995/ane.69 Web. January 28 , 2017 Taylor & Francis (2016)Technical Guidelines for the Maintenance and Protection of Old Beijing Housing, Pages 254-263 DOI 10.1080/00094609.2016.1067552 Web. January 28 , 2017