Ramachandran 1 Vilas Ramachandran Mrs. Krista Townsend ENC 1102 26 February 2017 ENC 1102 Project 2 For centuries, images have been utilized by individuals, groups, and even nations to spread awareness and generate support for a cause. Currently, a battle is being waged in North Dakota over a pipeline, which will transport crude oil from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico. Contention has arisen over the current route of the pipeline, which is planned to run near the sacred source of water of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, Lake Oahe. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe was established in 1873 and is located in both North and South Dakota. They are fearful that the pipeline will eventually leak and contaminate their source of drinking water for decades to come. Thus, for the past year, the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe has protested the construction of the pipeline and has conducted a campaign to generate awareness, among citizens of the United States, about the issue. Just like organizations fighting for justice in the past, the Tribe has generated images to spread awareness and get people to join in the fight to stop the Dakota Access Pipeline. The two images both attempt to reach many people across the country and motivate them to join the fight against the pipeline. The Standing Rock Sioux mission is to protect the sanctity of Lake Oahe for future generations to enjoy. The goal of the Tribe is noble and honorable, but for many people around the country, the mission may not be known (Standing Rock). The first image depicts a young girl, with a shirt on, standing at the banks of Lake Oahe, while she soaks in the serenity of the landscape (Grey Eyes). Statements such as, the are written at the top. The bottom Ramachandran 2 of the image has web and mailing addresses for people to visit, as well as to send donations to. The main purpose of this image is to educate people about the goal of the Tribe, while also acting as a call to action for those people to join the fight. The artist that created the poster utilized many rhetorical strategies to help articulate the message of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe to the audience. It is important for the image to establish the credibility and trust between the audience and the Tribe. This credibility and trust is also known as ethos. Trust is established easily if the audience is able to locate the information and read about it themselves, instead of blindly believing the message of an image. Ethos is established through the various links at the bottom of the image. The first link, arguably the most important, is to the website. Through the website, the audience can read for themselves what is at stake because of the pipeline. The image also displays a link to a legal support page that can help answer some questions that people may have about the legality of the pipeline. The legal support link helps people to formulate their own viewpoints about what the Tribe is advocating for. The image displays the logo of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, which shows that it is an official poster. The image must also generate an emotional response from the audience. Establishing an emotional connection to the image is known as pathos. Elements of pathos are displayed through the landscape and young girl in the image. As stated before, the main goal of the Tribe is to protect their sacred source of water for future generations. When viewers see the girl standing on a rock looking out over the lake, they sympathize with the tribes mission. The shirt on the girl says and this shows what the tribe is fighting for. It is also important for the image to make sense to and the educate the audience about the issue. The various aspects of the image make the audience think outside of the box. There is no mention of the mission, but it is implied through the little girl standing next to the rock. If Ramachandran 3 the audience was unaware of what the issue was, then the picture helps outline that. Through words such as, the and with the Standing Rock Sioux the audience understands who the organization is and why this issue is so important to them. For anyone in the audience who did not know the location of the protest, the image says the name of the lake, Mni Wichoni, in the language of the Tribe. The last major rhetorical strategy that the artist of the image utilizes is Kairos. Kairos is used to give the audience a sense of urgency and timeliness that presses them to act. There is a definite call to action in the first image. The image says the and this helps the audience see that the battle is being fought now and that the Tribe needs their help. The letters are in all caps, which shows that the message is important and must be responded to in a timely fashion. During the final months of President Barack term, he issued an executive order that halted the construction of the pipeline until a proper plan was made Many supporters of the Tribe believed that this move marked a victory. However, President Trump recently issued an executive order that restarted the construction of the pipeline (Eilperin). In response, the Tribe knew that they had to let people know that the battle is not over yet. So, they issued a very subtle add with a bright blue background that says battle is not Despite the image being simple and to the point, the artist still needed to incorporate rhetorical strategies for it to be effective in achieving its intended goal. The image includes the official logo of the Tribe at the bottom center of the image (The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe). This establishes credibility because it shows that it has been officially sponsored by the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, which published it for public viewing. Furthermore, the image is designed in a way that it will make the audience feel something and in this case, it is motivation. This image motivates the viewers to feel a sense of urgency. When viewers read that the battle is not yet over, they are Ramachandran 4 motivated to continue the fight against the pipeline. The feeling exhibited through this image is one of coming together. It is almost as if it is a call to action. This image goes a long way to educate people about the recent developments. Many people may have thought that the pipeline was permanently stopped when Former President Obama issued an executive order to halt construction. This image says that battle is not This serves as a message to the audience that the fight is still on going and that the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe needs all the help they can get. Finally, Kairos is established by the immediacy of the message. The caption is written in all caps, which displays an urgent undertone. The caption says that battle is not This shows that there is still fighting to be done and that the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is in urgent need of people to help. The words are also bolded, which means those fighting against the pipeline are not done yet. Both images depict a few logical fallacies, which are logical errors in the argument, that take away from the message. The first image is guilty of hasty generalizations because they only display one side of the argument. Their conclusion of the is biased because it is based on the facts that they agree with. The major fallacy exhibited in the second image is guilty of Ad Populum, which is when there is only an emotional appeal and no discussion of the issue. The image says nothing about the pipeline, but instead focuses on the emotional aspect of the argument. It only says the the battle is not over, but does not specify what the battle is. The two images are effective in appealing to their own side. However, it does not go far enough to persuade those on the fence to join their side of the issue. Altogether, both images, exhibit the usefulness of visual rhetoric as a form of advocating for the change they desire. These two images have a chance to reach many people across the country. Works Cited Ramachandran 5 Chris, and Lydia Army Halts Construction Of Dakota Access  The Huffington Post, 5 Dec. 2016, www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/obama- Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Eilperin, Juliet, and Brady Dennis. Trump Administration to Approve Final Permit for Dakota Access Pipeline - The Washington  Washington Post, 7 Feb. 2017, www.washingtonpost.com/news/energy-environment/wp/2017/02/07/trump- administration-to-approve-final-permit-for-dakota-access- Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Eyes, Grey. Mni Wichoni-Water of  Painting. http://standingrock.org, The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, s-media-cache- ak0.pinimg.com/736x/14/38/d5/1438d5955074e0195f394c6f3d209820.jpg. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Standing Rock Sioux Tribe.  standingrock.org/history/. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe. Image displays the message: This battle is not over. With a blue background and the logo of the Tribe. Computer image. The Standing Rock Sioux Trube, i1.wp.com/www.cshagen.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Standing- Rock-promise-battle-is-not-over-from-Standing-Rock-Sioux-Tribe-Facebook- page.png?fit=461%2C308. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Ramachandran 6