Burak Cengiz Stakeholders of Stem Cells and the Compromise Stem cells were originally created from early mouse embryos as early as 1980 and within the decade we were able to derive stem cells from human embryos. Consequently, research into stem cells has gone on for nearly four decades by creating and destroying embryos to produce stem cells. Stem cell research has come a long way to benefit humanity even today. For example, there has been a development of skin grafts from original skin duplicated and sprayed on the affected area along with several other experimental and practical applications. embryonic stem cells may or may not possess the innate capacity to provide unique treatments for human disease. But at least for now, live human embryos must be destroyed in the process of creating stem cells. The questionable ethics of such destruction led the US Congress to enact a broad ban on federal funding for human embryonic stem cell Donald W., and Howard A. Zucker). Perspectives and even laws have arisen to debate and regulate whether we should continue to manipulate life in this way with hopes to produce possibly more revolutionary procedures or halt any and all research since we cannot ignore that life is created near that of an aborted child and stopped mid-development to farm these cells. Americans for Cures is an organization that wishes to for stem cell research and therapy development; and, ultimately, to improve the lives of patients and their families suffering from chronic disease and This organization overall stands for the development of stem cells as a means to stop future and present suffering from injury and disease such as that of a lost limb or lack of a needed hormone to the body as a result of a disease. In contrast, Pope John Paul II believes Catholic University possesses the autonomy necessary to develop its distinctive identity and pursue its proper mission. Freedom in research and teaching is recognized and respected according to the principles and methods of each individual discipline, so long as the rights of the individual and of the community are preserved Burak Cengiz Stakeholders of Stem Cells and the Compromise within the confines of the truth and the common (Pope John Paul II). Thus, this catholic branch encourages academic advances, but only when there remains a defined moral compass. Hence, he remains despondent when it comes to embryonic creation only to be destroyed for stem cell creation. Both these organizations favor academic advances for the common good. However, though both may disagree in some aspects as to methods in which that is achieved they can agree that stem cells can achieve a greater good for humanity in terms of medical care and recovery. In addition, the organizations would define science as a way to define the natural world, however, they maybe would deviate in how the world came to be. Furthermore, the catholic church may argue that it is not within our right to create life different than image, they would however be inclined to agree that we are given the power through tools to repair his constructs such as that in regards to our bodies. Though the church disagrees with the original creation of stem cells they are willing to agree with the knowledge provided without utilizing embryonic components. Overall these organizations would agree that stem cell research provide benefits for the good of humanity and that knowledge should expand in this area as for the betterment of humanity. A compromise would seem to entail a way to advance stem cell research to appease the Americans for Cures foundation, yet without the use of embryos to also satisfy Pope John Paul II. From the knowledge we have of stem cells we can define them as cells capable of renewing themselves through cell division, sometimes after long periods of (STEM CELL INFORMATION). Therefore, cells like muscles cells and skin cells are specified cells which are genetically encoded to perform a task, but stem cells lack any of this specificity and have the grand potential to specify, given the proper genetic code, into any type of cell. Embryos inherently produce stem cells in their early phases of development, ergo why it became common Burak Cengiz Stakeholders of Stem Cells and the Compromise practice to develop them for the use in stem cell research. Also, stem cells were unknown for the most part as being unspecified cells and it was unknown that there could be any way to create them without creating embryos. In consequence, through embryonic synthesis we were able to define what stems cell are and how they do what they do. Furthermore, in theory, we could simply unspecify cells that are specific to revert back into stem cells. This is exactly what scientists in 2006 did when they another breakthrough by identifying conditions that would allow some specialized adult cells to be  genetically to assume a stem cell-like (STEM CELL INFORMATION). In conclusion, the Americans for Cures and Pope John Paul II could develop a compromise which would justify the furthering of stem cell research due to the lack of necessity for embryos to continue. The resolution would involve the use of a type of stem cell, called induced pluripotent stem cells CELL INFORMATION). The discussed resolution would entail that stem cells be no longer created from harvesting of embryos, but by solely non-life lethal means or so to say non-embryo killing means. Thus, Pope John Paul II would agree that there is no immoral manipulation of life for the development of academic research and Americans for Cures would be able to continue to research with stem cells to derive cures for permanent injuries and or certain diseases. In addition, the use of iPSCs would be very similar to using embryo derived stem cells and would allow further research development until again a better and still morally correspondent method is derived. Overall, this compromise would unite the stakeholders to a front for academic research in stem cell research and all while being morally understanding and fair to life in addition to allowing seemingly undisturbed stem cell research. Burak Cengiz Stakeholders of Stem Cells and the Compromise Works Cited Our  Americans for Cures. N.p., 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Garfinkel, Michele . Stem Cell Controversy  AAAS. AAAS Scientific Freedom, Responsiblity, and Law Program, 1999. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Landry, Donald W., and Howard A. Zucker. Embryonic death and the creation of human embryonic stem  JCI-Journal of Clinical Investigation. American Society for Clinical Investigation , 1 Nov. 2004. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. STEM CELL  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Pope John Paul II. Ex Corde  CatholicCulture.org. Vatican, 15 Aug. 1990. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.