Topole 1 Rachael Topole Professor Krista Townsend ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Evaluating the Effectiveness of NSCF Advertisements The NSCF, National Stem Cell Foundation, is an organization that advocates for the use of stem cells in research to find cures for rare and complicated diseases (National). Embryonic stem cells are those in which can be influenced to have specific functions as specific cells, but they originally are unspecialized (U.S. Department). This organization believes the use of these embryonic stem cells is more effective than utilizing somatic (adult) cells due to the embryonic ability to be induced for specific functions. While the NSCF has a convincing message, they do not effectively use the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to advertise this message. The first image is of the NSCF logo. Ethos, the appeal relating to credibility, is present in the logo as the full name and slogan are shown on the logo. The audience can trust that the information they are about to read or watch is accurate because the organization is national, so it is credible. The presentation of the full name of the organization also adds credibility because the audience is able to conduct their own research on the organization if they want to find more information or agree with what the organization is saying. While it may not seem like much, showing the official name on the logo actually highly contributes to the credibility of the NSCF, and therefore the appeal of ethos is effective in this image. Topole 2 Pathos is the rhetorical appeal that relates to emotion. The first image necessarily attempt to utilize pathos in the logo. However, the coloring of the logo (white and light teal) provides a warm and welcoming feeling to the audience. This warm feeling can also bring hope and optimism to the audience when they view the logo due to the welcoming feeling, which can be interpreted as welcoming to the idea of stem cell research. Despite invoking these feelings, the first image ultimately use pathos in an effective way to advertise the message of the organization. Logos is an additional appeal utilized in advertisements, and this relates to the logic presented in an advertisement. The first image heavily relies on logos to advocate the message of the organization. The slogan presented at the bottom of the logo, Cures. Changing is short and straightforward to the audience. Due to the short phrases in the slogan, the audience can further think about and use their imagination in an attempt to figure out a deeper meaning of the slogan. This allows for curiosity in the organization to arise, which is effective in the organization getting its message to the audience because they will want to find out more information about the organization. The wording of the slogan is also helpful in getting the message of the NSCF to its audience, as the phrase is powerful and causes the audience to feel motivated in the cause that the organization is promoting. The use of logos in the logo is effective because it promotes curiosity in the organization and their ultimate goal. The last appeal to discuss for the first image is that of kairos. This is the rhetorical appeal that deals with opportunity. The opportune time to present this logo for the maximum effect is on websites, next to informational campaigns, and physical advertisements. This is because the logo gives the audience the opportunity to take away the main message and goal of the organization of the NSCF. Once the audience views the campaign or advertisement, the presence of the logo will Topole 3 add credibility to the information presented as well as short phrases for the audience to remember the organization by. The second image is a short advertisement produced by the NSCF. It shows a skeleton dancing with a short message running across the video underneath the skeleton and the logo at the end of the advertisement. Ethos is present in this advertisement because of the presence of the logo at the end, which gives credibility to the short video. On the same still shot as the logo is a hashtag phrased This hashtag allows the audience to search for this phrase on social media, which adds to the credibility of the ad because the audience can discover more information on this research through other means than the main website. The ethos in this advertisement is effective because it gives the audience many ways to find information on the organization and has good means of credibility. Pathos is present more in the second advertisement than in the first. The dancing skeleton shown in the video is an attempt for the audience to connect to the message being portrayed. Humans have skeletons as a structural basis, so the skeleton present in the ad is meant to relate to the audience. This portrays pathos because the purpose is to elicit an emotional response by the audience of being open to the ideas that the organization is presenting to them. Theoretically, the audience will see the skeletons as themselves and realize how stem cell research can affect them in a positive way. Many aspects of stem cell research also deal with bone marrow and treatments similar, so showing the audience the skeleton further demonstrates what the organization is advocating for. The pathos in this advertisement is effective due to the organization relating to the audience on a more personal level. The logos in this advertisement is shown across the bottom of the screen underneath the dancing skeleton. The wording is a longer phrase divided into multiple parts that provides a very Topole 4 basic explanation of what stem cell research is about, specifically that of adult stem cells. The phrase states that the NSCF supports funding for adult stem cell research repair and muscle and Including this phrase in the advertisement provides the audience with a general idea of what the organization advocates for, and the effect it can have on those undergoing treatments using stem cells. Just enough information about what stem cells can do generates further curiosity in the audience to find more information about how stem cells can repair and regenerate muscles and bones, which in turn gets the message of the organization out to its audience. The use of logos in the short video advertisement is effective as it provides basic necessary information for the audience to understand the purpose of the NSCF and their overall message. The kairos for the second advertisement would be most effective on social media outlets as well as an advertisement before a YouTube video. Due to the shortness of the video (about 15 seconds), it would be effective on social media accounts because the audience would be more likely to watch a shorter video promoting the message as opposed to a longer, in depth video. The advertisement is just long enough to provide the audience with basic information and make them curious to learn more about the NSCF. It would also have a greater opportunity before a YouTube video because most advertisements that are as short as this video allow the viewer to skip through the ad, so forced to watch the advertisement before they can view the video they intended to watch. Giving the advertisement these opportunities to be viewed by audiences would increase the effectiveness of the ads. In general, both advertisements have rhetorical appeals that are present and can be effective, theoretically. However, in reality these advertisements will most likely not be very effective because while the ethos is significant in both, there enough pathos and logos Topole 5 present to ultimately result in the most effect. One of the advertisements is present on the Twitter page, but this page has few followers and would have greater success as an advertisement before a YouTube video. Since the organization take advantage of this kairos, it utilizing all the resources to be effective. Topole 6 Image 1: NSCF Logo https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zeJCFxTGiUk&feature=youtu.be Image 2: NSCF Advertisement Topole 7 Works Cited National Stem Cell Foundation. NSCF. http://www.nationalstemcellfoundation.org/mission/. 20 Feb 2017. U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. Cell National Institutes of Health. https://stemcells.nih.gov/info/basics/1.htm. 20 Jan 2017.