Tato 1 Maria Tato Dr. Jarad Fennell ENC 1102-039 2 February 2017 Concealed Weapons Carry on Campus Safety on campus is a concern that parents constantly have when sending their children away to college or university. Parents may have different opinions on what is the best way to keep their children safe and so might the students and the faculty themselves. There are many ways to be safe on campus, ranging from police, campus security, to personal weapons such as pepper spray. Some people disagree on the weapons that students should be allowed to have on campus to feel safe. One of the most controversial arguments is allowing students and faculty to carry a concealed gun on campus. The debate stretches across the nation and there does not seem to be a compromise between the two sides. Regarding the benefits and disadvantages of concealed gun carry on campus, the debate between two stakeholders who directly oppose each other can be resolved by a compromise: Allow students to have concealed weapons on campus, but only inside a locked car in a parking lot. The first stakeholder that is involved in this argument is the National Rifle Association (NRA). This organization supports the use and carry of weapons in everyday lives for self- defense and for recreational purposes. They are strong advocates for the use of firearms by civilians and have been advocating for years (NRA Explore). In regards to campus carry, the NRA fully supports students and faculty being able to have firearms on them while on school property. As explained by Chris W. Cox, the NRA does not believe that campus carry will cause more problems or more crime on campus. The NRA believes that gun control supporters Tato 2 exaggerate or make up scenarios in order to show the dangers of guns on campus (Cox). The argument states that the issues brought up by gun control supporters are not truly valid because they are a bunch of and they are not true arguments that present actual dangers. Cox also brings up the argument that college websites have pages devoted to extremely positive outstanding merit and talents of the student body, administration and faculty. Given that fact, one would think most college administrators would trust their excellent students, faculty and staff members with campus (Cox). This implies that colleges should agree to allow students to carry guns on campus because the students are extremely responsible and well-behaved. This argument is where gun control supporters disagree and begin to criticize high hopes. The second stakeholder directly opposes this argument in just about every way. The stakeholder is The Campaign to Keep Guns Off Campus founded by Andy Pelosi. The leader of the campaign, stated in a New York Times article that mixing drinking, drug use and the pressures that college students are will lead students to use guns for the wrong purpose (Ruiz). The Campaign to Keep Guns Off Campus believes that students are not as responsible as the colleges and universities make them seem, so they do not trust students to use guns safely while on campus. The article also mentions that the campaign has managed to unite over 120 institutions in 30 states that support banning guns in school, showing the growing support that gun control has (Ruiz). In another article from The Washington Post, Michael S. Rosenwald talks about how many attacks are stopped by another student with a gun. 2000 to 2013 found that in 160 incidents, just one ended with an armed citizen exchanging gunfire with an attacker. Twenty-one incidents were stopped by unarmed (Rosenwald). This statistic is brought up to show that not every attack is stopped by another person with a gun and sometimes Tato 3 a gun is not even needed to stop one. This adds on to the defense that guns are not always needed on campus and might not be the best option. Both stakeholders agree that the focus of this issue is to keep the students and faculty safe while they are on campus. In the article from the NRA website, Cox states: I discuss elsewhere in this issue, the U.S. Supreme Heller decision establishes that the right to arms derives from the right to This shows his focus of people being safe while on campus and not having to fear an attack from someone. The main argument for carrying weapons on campus is to give people the ability to defend themselves if there were to be an attack, that way people will not feel vulnerable and will not feel inclined to attack due to the possibility of someone defending themselves as well. On the other side of the argument, The Campaign to Keep Guns Off Campus agrees that the goal is to keep the campus safe, they just do not believe giving everyone the right to carry a weapon is the way to do so. The Campaign believes that it would be more dangerous to give a student or faculty member a weapon and that it could possibly cause more issues on campus (Ruiz). In order for there to be a compromise, there needs to be an agreement that the main focus of this debate is how to keep students and faculty safe in a more adequate manner. That is extremely close to being achieved, there just needs to be more civil communication between the two stakeholders. The compromise suggested is to pass a legislation that allows students to have guns in their locked cars in the parking lot. There is a law similar to this that has been passed in Florida and it states that a person has of the right to keep and bear arms in motor vehicles for self-defense and other lawful (Statutes & Constitution). This law is not specific to campus parking lots and it in fact bans them from some learning institutions, but it could be revised and adopted by other states who want to find a middle ground to this issue. Tato 4 Having such law would allow students and faculty to have their firearms on campus, but just not with them at all times or at any place on campus. The weapon would be kept safe in the locked car instead of somewhere unsafe like a dormitory, and it would provide a sense of security for those who feel safer while possessing guns. It would also diminish the number of students that could have access to a gun and would help match guns to their owners, since the gun owner would be required to keep their gun in their legally owned car. Only students and faculty that are of age to carry a concealed weapon who also own a car would be able to have a weapon, narrowing down the population of people able to carry weapons. The school would be able to keep a close eye on them while on campus and have biyearly checkups for car and gun registration. If both stakeholders were to come to this compromise, it would benefit both of them and it would work towards their common goal: keeping the university safe. The NRA and the Campaign to Keep Guns Off Campus both have their opinions on the advantages and disadvantages about concealed carry on campus. They do not agree on most instances, but they do agree that the priority is to keep students and faculty safe. In order to do this, they should work on creating a compromise that would allow students and faculty to keep firearms inside their locked cars in the parking lot. The public and stakeholders should try to communicate so that something could be done about this issue instead of each trying to get their way without giving way at all. It is important for these two stakeholders to come to a compromise and finally agree to take action on this problem. Tato 5 Works Cited Cox, Chris W. Report: On Campus Carry, Only Begun To NRA-ILA. NRA, 30 July 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mangan, Katherin. the gun: faculty members in some states prepare for to become The Chronicle of Higher Education 2016: 8. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. NRA Home. NRA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rosenwald, Michael S. go to college. Everything you need to know about campus The Washington Post 2016: Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017 Ruiz, Rebecca R. to Keep Guns Off The New York Times. N.p., 15 Feb. 2010. Web.29 Jan. 2017. & Constitution: View Statutes: Online Statutes & Constitution: View Statutes: Online Sunshine. N.p., 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.