Maximiliano Lopez Prof. Townsend ENC 1102 26 Feb 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Going to the beach is a pastime that many families share for many generations. Imagine a world where you are no longer able to go to the beaches because the water is too hot to go into or there is a vast amount of oil in it. The unsupervised drilling for oil in the oceans led to this. Now imagine that all that could have been evaded by simply supporting organizations that advocate against drilling for oil in areas near or in the oceans. Well one organization, Oceana, is a stakeholder whose focus is to rid the oceans of any oil-drilling activity by big oil corporations. Oceana is an international organization focused solely on oceans, dedicated to achieving measurable change by conducting specific, science-based campaigns with fixed deadlines and articulated goals Oceana). They have focused themselves on pushing forward legislation to stop oil companies from freely exploring for oil in the Arctic region. One of the major ways that they have done this is through advertising through social media to convince people to join their cause and create a voice for themselves by voting to limit what oil companies can do. Oceana, through media posts on social feeds, advocates for anti-oil exploration, and through the usage of rhetorical appeals, they actively continue to successfully fight off big oil companies and make their message known. One of the rhetorical appeals used in media campaign against oil drilling is Pathos, a rhetorical appeal that evokes emotion through an image. In image 1 (Wilson- Facebook), there are two polar bears in their natural environment in the Arctic region. One is Lopez 2 looking in the direction away from the camera, making it seem dramatic for whoever is viewing the image. The other polar bear is on the ground, in what seems to be a defenseless position looking up at the sky, and portrays it be a position as well. The position of the polar bears in the image make them to be more appealing to the viewer by making them to be more attractive to the eyes. The message in the image uses the words and to evoke emotions in the viewer to act to stop oil companies from harming them. In image 2 (Wilson-Facebook), there is a similar message portrayed in it. The stance that the polar bear has in this image empowers those who are viewing it to act upon something, and in this case, to stop oil companies from buying up the Arctic region. The phrase as loud as a polar in the message of the image also brings out an emotional response in people to act. Another rhetorical appeal that is prevalent in the images in the media campaign by Oceana is Ethos, the credibility of information or images. Both images have a similar form of Ethos in their respective ways. In image 1, there is the logo of Oceana at the top right, which makes it seem official to the viewer. The messages at the bottom of the image also insinuate that they are official by pointing out that they are trying to stop one of the oil companies trying to harm the Arctic environment. In image 2, the logo of Oceana appears as well, but this time, it is at the bottom right. The image builds up credibility by showing that the polar bear is fine in its natural habitat without the hindrance of Shell being there, which shows to the viewer that Shell does not belong there like a polar bear does. Logos, another rhetorical appeal prevalent in the images, is the logic of information or an image. Oceana uses this appeal in both the images to instill in the viewer a sense to make it more reasonable for them to support their cause. In image 1, all the letters in the message are in big, black, and capital letters to make their message more viewable for the reader to relate it to the Lopez 3 image. On the left, the image has a message to the wild and on the right a justification is given to the reader on how to the wild The message on the right also gives a justification to the reader on why to defend the polar bears because the oil companies that put them in danger are The word reckless also has two meanings because the polar bears are in the image as well. In image 2, the image of the polar bear in a position gives the message in the image a double meaning. The double meaning is from the message saying that the viewer should or be as loud as the polar bear when it roars to create a voice advocating against oil companies. The message in the image also gives an amount of time on how much the protection will last, insinuating that it is related to vote for a law of some sort. Another rhetorical appeal shown in both the image is Kairos, the usage of time or opportunity in images. In image 1, there is a sense of rush that is instilled into the viewer when they are seeing the image. The image is taken at the right moment to show one polar bear looking off into the distance, and the other in some sort of playful, defenseless position. The following of the word is placed right under the image of the polar bears so that it is more likely to be seen right after the viewer is done looking at the two polar bears. In image 2, there is a form of Kairos where it goes along with the image of the polar bear The message in the image tells the reader to help stop oil companies from buying up the Arctic. This means that the image is created in the right moment to advertise to the public to act in some sort of voting process that will determine if the oil companies are able to do some oil exploration in the Arctic. In conclusion, Oceana created a social campaign to release images to advocate against oil drilling in the Arctic region. Through the usage of many rhetorical appeals like Ethos, Logos, Lopez 4 Pathos, and Kairos, Oceana is able to successfully get out their message to whomever is viewing their images. The importance of these images in campaign to stop oil companies from drilling in the Arctic. This is a highly controversial topic because on one end, oil is important widely-used resource, but on the other end, the exploration for it can lead to many horrible consequences. The campaign created by Oceana effectively puts out the importance of saving the polar environment from oil companies. Through the usage of various rhetorical appeals, Oceana is able relay what they truly feel about oil companies drilling in the Arctic, which does have a big impact on not only the Arctic region, but the entire world as well. Lopez 5 Image 1 Lopez 6 Image 2 Lopez 7 Bibliography About  Oceana. Oceana, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://oceana.org/about-oceana/about us>. Wilson, Alan D. Oceana. Digital image. Oceana Facebook. Facebook, 25 July 2014. Web. 2017. <https://www.facebook.com/oceana/photos/p.10152259314842253/10152259314842253/ ?type=3&theater>. Wilson, Alan D. Oceana. Digital image. Oceana Facebook. Facebook, 24 Oct. 2014. Web. 2017. <https://www.facebook.com/oceana/photos/p.10152442954672253/10152442954672253/ ?type=3&theater>.