Morarji 1 Nabhanya K. Morarji Dr. Jarad Fennel English Composition II 9 February 2017 Project #1, Final Draft In the words of Keith Bellows, ex editor-in-chief of National Geographic Traveler, are some parts of the world that, once visited, get into you heart and go. For me, India is such a A country with a population of 1.2 billion people, and a history that traces back five millennia India has come a long way since its independence from the British empire almost seventy years ago. It has transformed into a land filled with diversity, beauty, culture, and tradition. It is the birthplace of four of the major religions, and is home to 1,652 languages, coupled with twenty-two official languages. Furthermore, being the sixth largest economy in the world, India has been able to produce opportunities for employment for all its citizens. However, in spite of all the success and progress that India can boast, there has been a fair amount of turmoil since the election of the fourteenth Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, nearly three years ago. There has been an immense amount of debate regarding Modi, who has a vast number of supporters as well as critics. On 8 th November 2016, Modi singlehandedly announced the demonetization of 500 and 1,000 rupee notes, and introduced a new 2,000 rupee note that had never been used before. This led to an outrage among the population since those were the notes most commonly used by the masses. Furthermore, the fact that no warning regarding the matter was given whatsoever left the people of India feeling betrayed since there was no time to convert the notes. This led to a pause in cash flow in the country. Although demonetization was introduced as a medium to control the Morarji 2 increasing amount of corruption in India, the execution of it left the country in chaos and confusion. Hence, a compromise between two of the main stakeholders the government, specifically, the Prime Minister, and the citizens needs to be examined. India was governed by the Congress for a majority of the years since its independence. However, their reign was put to an end when the opposing party, BJP, came to power because of Narendra Modi being elected as Prime Minister. People were sick of the false promises of success, and hence chose to elect the opposing candidate who almost guaranteed economic progress. After almost three years of not a lot of change, people who voted for Modi started doubting him. Critics and experts stated a claim that the abrupt decision of demonetization was a direct result of the criticism that Modi faced. In simpler words, Modi cracked under the pressure, and he announced the scheme of demonetization without any planning whatsoever as a way to show the population that something was being done for the country. However, due to the lack of consultation, organization, planning, as well as terribly poor execution, his decision backfired almost immediately when people realized that he did not put any thought to the process. Following the incident, Modi went on to deliver a speech directed at the population during which he got emotional while trying to defend his decision and explained to the public that it was a necessary step that the government had to take in order to keep corruption at bay. The irony in his statement was clear the government had nothing to do with demonetization. It was something Modi formulated without assistance. He further attempted to justify his actions by explaining how demonetization resulted in the government seizing an enormous amount of black money during the raids that were conducted on the general working class population while government officials and people of power remained unharmed. This infuriated Morarji 3 the public even more since it became apparent that Modi had no intentions of conducting raids on high profile people which brought to light the horrifying amount of corruption present within the government itself. Furthermore, this served as evidence for the claim that demonetization was a result of criticism. Modi was supposedly so concerned about corruption that he came up with an agenda to stop it by himself, yet made no attempt to capture corruption within the government itself. Since demonetization was first announced, feelings of resentment and dread have been felt all throughout India. The introduction of it halted cash flow in the country. People did not have change since notes skipped to 2,000 from 500. Businesses suffered, and farmers were dismal. People had to wait in queues at banks for hours on end just trying to exchange their notes in order to have money they could actually spend. On 12 th November 2016, merely four days after demonetization was announced, reports of death while waiting in queues were released. Additionally, the Sensex registered the biggest single-day fall in nine months. Working class citizens had to wait for weeks at a time to be able to stand in line since they did not have time during working hours, following which banks were closed for operation. The plight of the population further increased when the new 2,000 rupee notes were not made correctly in size to fit through an ATM machine. This resulted in the government having to remake the notes and left the people in horror when they realized they had to queue again in order to exchange the notes for the newly sized ones. By this point, people were frustrated and had lost all faith in the government, and even more so in Modi. To bridge the gap between the government of India and its people, a compromise needs to be made. In order for this to happen, finding a common platform for both beliefs and ideals is essential. In this case, the Morarji 4 common ground is simple: keeping corruption in control. Although eradication it entirely would be ideal, it is realistically impossible. Therefore, a compromise beneficial to both stakeholders would be to slow down the process of demonetization. Instead of immediately invalidating 500 and 1,000 rupee notes due to succumbing to pressure and critique, Modi should have first introduced the idea to the public which would have served his purpose of attempting to make a change, but have radically affected the population. Furthermore, if the need for demonetization was as urgent to seize black money as he made it seem, he could have first announced a newer version of the 1,000 rupee notes and given the public enough time to exchange the notes so the cash flow come to a sudden stop. This action would have urged people to change those notes, which would have helped them seize black money as well without harming the circulation of money in the country. Following this, Modi could have introduced the 2,000 rupee note, and then invalidated the 1,000 rupee notes. On the other hand, if experts were right about criticism being the cause for demonetization, further criticizing Modi help the situation and definitely lead to a solution. All in all, the success of demonetization depends on a compromise. Although it might not have been a necessary measure in the first place, the fact remains that it has been implemented. The incident should serve as a reminder of the ugliness of corruption which is something the government as well as the people should consider before further indulging in it time and time again. Furthermore, the controversy sheds light on how the success of failure of a country is rooted in the relationship between the government and its people. (1,254 words) Morarji 5 Works Cited Fallout: Surviving in a Cash-Starved PC Quest 2016: General OneFile. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. All India Congress Committee demands joint parliamentary The Times of India 2016: General OneFile. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. How to respond to the side-effects of The Economic Times 2016: General OneFile. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Acharya, Advait, John E. Roemer, and Somanathan. Corruption And Political Competition In Research In Economic 69. Special issue on Political Economy (2015): 336-352. ScienceDirect. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Anti-Corruption Strategies: A Cross-Cultural Protoview 2015: Academic OneFile. Web 23. Jan. 2017.