Spracklin 1 Ryan Spracklin Professor Fennel ENC 1102 10 February 2017 Should the legal drinking age be lowered? The topic about whether the minimum legal drinking age should be lowered from twenty one years old to eighteen years old has been debated for many years. Organizations who are in favor of lowering the legal drinking age to eighteen years old such as the National Youth Rights Association and Choose Responsibility are attempting to bring justice to this issue. Organizations such as the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) and the Alcohol Awareness Council (AAC) are opposed to lowering the legal drinking age. They claim that lowering the legal drinking age will be medically unsafe for the young adults and make our public roadways much more dangerous. Both sides feel very strongly about this issue and are not likely to give in on their stance, however if both organizations attempt to work together they may be able to reach a happy medium. A possible proposed compromise for this issue is reducing the drinking age to eighteen, but creating and enforcing harsher punishments for alcohol related crimes such as driving under the influence and public intoxication. If more severe punishments are put in place for committing these crimes, the percentage of them occurring would drop dramatically therefore Spracklin 2 satisfying both sides. To begin, the primary objective for the AAC and the NIAAA is to inform the public about the use and abuse of alcohol, as well as to reduce the total number of alcohol related problems in our society. These stakeholders are solely thinking about what is best for the health and safety of the young adults involved. For example, one of their main arguments could be that lowering the legal drinking age would be medically irresponsible. It has been discovered that the frontal lobe of an brain does not fully finish developing until its mid twenties. The frontal lobe is in charge of decision making, complex planning, personality development as well as risk management. Studies have shown that when alcohol is introduced at an early age, it significantly interferes with the early brain development. This interference in a young brain development can increase their risk for greater vulnerability to addiction, poor decision making, depression, violence, and even suicide The Debate On Lowering The Drinking ). In addition, these safety and health organizations are thinking about the safety of others as well. They argue that lowering the legal drinking age will increase the number of drunk driving incidents therefore making our public roads unsafe and dangerous. Statistics show, there are over 159 million self- reported episodes of alcohol impaired driving each year. Over ten percent of the 159 million self-reported episodes were reported by 18-20 year olds AAC - Alcohol Awareness ). It is safe to assume that if the legal drinking age is lowered, the percentage of alcohol-impaired driving by 18-20 year olds will skyrocket. Spracklin 3 In contrast, the National Youth Rights Association and Choose Responsibility fights and defends the rights of young people in the United States in addition to properly educating them to make responsible and mature decisions about alcohol consumption in their own lives Choose ). These stakeholders point out the fact that in the United States of America you are deemed an adult at the age of eighteen. Once you turn eighteen years of age, you receive the same rights and responsibilities as any other adult. This includes the right to vote, serve on a jury, purchase a handgun, purchase tobacco, be tried as an adult if you commit a crime and serve your country and join the military. The National Youth Rights Association and Choose Responsibility argue that if young adults are deemed capable enough to serve on a jury and decide legal fate, mature enough to be tried as an adult if they commit a crime and responsible enough to be able to purchase tobacco after being informed of the harms and risks, they clearly have shown the ability to be competent enough to handle and understand their own alcohol consumption intake Drinking ). The fact that in the United States the same eighteen year old who is considered responsible enough to handle a firearm and carry out military orders, is not responsible enough to consume alcohol is laughable. Undoubtedly, the AAC and the NIAAA wants to reach out to more and more people and inform them about the risks of alcohol, hoping to reduce the total number alcohol related problems. The National Youth Rights Association and Choose Responsibility wants the young adults to have equality and be treated likely every other adult. Although these organizations appear to be at odds with one another, both stakeholders share a similar goal of attempting to do what is best for the health, safety, Spracklin 4 and treatment for all of the young adults involved. There is no perfect solution for satisfying both sides, however if both stakeholders are willing to open and negotiable, a compromise can be reached. After some consideration, a possible compromise for this issue is lowering the minimum legal drinking age to eighteen years old in addition to creating and enforcing harsher punishments for alcohol related crimes such as driving under the influence and public intoxication. If more severe punishments are put in place for committing these crimes, the percentage of these crimes would drop dramatically. This compromise satisfies all of the stakeholders involved. Choose Responsibility and the National Youth Rights Association would achieve their goal by winning young adults equality and the right to purchase and drink alcoholic beverages. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and the Alcohol Awareness Council do have to give in on their stance and allow the legal drinking age to lowered to 18 years old. However, they would accomplish their main goal as the public would be informed about the detrimental health effects alcohol can have on your body. Additionally, thanks to the increased severity of punishments put in place for committing alcohol related crimes such as driving under the influence, more people but more specifically young adults will be much more cautious if and when they decide to consume alcohol The Debate On Lowering The Drinking ). Spracklin 5 Works Cited: AAC - Alcohol Awareness  Alcohol Abuse Education. Alcohol Awareness Council - AAC. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Alcohol: Problems and  Minimum Legal Drinking Ages around the World. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Choose  Drinking Age - Choose Responsibility. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Drinking  National Youth Rights Association. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. The Debate On Lowering The Drinking  CBSNews. CBS Interactive, 01 Mar. 2010. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 .