Koch 1 John Koch Professor Jared Fennell ENC 1102 12 February 2017 The Issue of Gun Control In the United States of America, we have certain inalienable rights that are protected by the constitution. One of these amendments, specifically the second, protects our right to bear arms. While this is a right that cannot be construed by the government, there is currently a heated argument on what exactly this amendment means, and what weapons are protected under it. Because of this, there have been many organizations formed to lobby their arguments, whether it be to ban weapons or to keep them unrestricted as possible to the public. However, considering recent tragedies, such as the 2016 Orlando Nightclub Shooting, there has been one type of weapon that has received the spotlight: assault weapons. By definition, an assault weapon is, of various automatic or semiautomatic (Mariam Webster, 2015). This should not be confused with an assault rifle, which per Mariam Webster (2015), is, of various intermediate range, magazine fed military rifles that can be set for automatic or semiautomatic Basically, an assault rifle has the capability for fully automatic fire. I make this distinction because assault rifles are already heavily regulated requiring extensive training and licenses to obtain. On the other hand, assault weapons are not. The fact that they are relatively unregulated has become a heated topic, especially between these two organizations: The National Rifle Association(NRA) and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. Although the two organizations are on near opposite sides of the spectrum, there is a concern they both share; that of gun safety. Because of this, a compromise that Koch 2 can be reached is that of requiring a license, complete with a gun safety and knowledge course, along with a background check. A very simple process, that if a decent American were to take, would pass in no time. It is no infringement on rights, and only keeps assault weapons out of the bad hands. To begin with, we will explore the perspective of the first organization involved, the National Rifle Association(NRA). The NRA was created in 1871, by Union veterans Col. William C. Church and Gen. George Wingate (N., 2012). Its original intent, per the N. (2012), was to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific And throughout the years, the NRA has grown to encompass a variety of roles, from lobbying for the rights of all types of weapons and their owners, to operating gun ranges and gun safety classes. The NRA considers itself the number one defender of the second amendment, and for good reason. They are strongly against any anti-gun bill, and even provide legal service to those who feel their rights as gun owners have been violated. This makes the NRA very influential, and combined with their influence in politics, and tens of millions of dollars, makes them one of the most powerful lobbyist in the United States of America (Sugarmann, 1992). This organization has rarely compromised with any pro-gun control group, strictly defending all aspects of the second amendment. On the other side of the argument, we have the pro-gun control organization, The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence(CSGV). The CSGV was created in 1974, centered around reducing violence by firearms. Per Cheek (2013), [The seek to secure freedom from gun violence through research, strategic engagement and effective policy As seen by this statement, the CSGV lobbies for gun control bills, and just like the National Rifle Association, uses money and power in politics to influence. The CSGV was a major supporter of the 1994 Assault Weapons Koch 3 Ban, and heavily criticized the fact that the bill was not renewed. Thus, the group lobbies to reinstate the bill, hoping it will reduce the number of mass shootings in the United States each year. Another topic of interest for the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence is that of universal background checks. They believe that by implementing these key points, gun crime could be reduced by nearly half. Now with all these differences stated, one would think that these two organizations, both on complete opposite sides of the spectrum, would be impossible to compromise with. However, there is one thing that both the National Rifle Organization and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence share; and that is gun safety. By using this common ground, one solution to this issue would be that of a simple assault weapons license, for it is promoting firearm safety. This piece of legislation would not affect current owners of assault weapons; however, if they wanted to buy another after the bill is passed, they would be required to get it. That would go for any new buyer after the enactment of the license. Although the license would not fully satisfy each group, the comprise would be completely fair for each. The license would consist of a two hour firearm safety course, provided by either the NRA or the CSGV, along with certified instructors. The course would provide knowledge, along with how to properly shoot and store the weapon, along with legal considerations. The next and final step of acquiring the license would be that of a universal background check, assuring that the would-be buyer does not have any firearm related convictions, including any type of felony. This license would not be infringing on any gun rights, as no one is being refused or having their weapon confiscated. This is also a very liable compromise between the NRA and the CSGV, for the NRA would have to submit to a license and background check, but all types of assault weapons would stay legal. The same goes for the CSGV, for they Koch 4 would get their background checks, however the assault weapons ban of 1994 would not get re implemented. Although there are drawbacks for each in the compromise, there are far more benefits. To conclude, gun control has always been a heated topic in the United States of America, and in light of recent tragedies, that of assault weapons. Because of this, two distinct sides of the argument have formed, being those for increased gun control, and those against it. Two organizations that have emerged as the faces for their sides have been the National Rifle Organization(NRA) and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. Both fight tooth and nail to push legislation that supports their cause, and take shots at each other equally as much. However, a viable compromise can be reached, and it will be in the form of an assault weapons license, complete with a safety course and background check. It will greatly benefit both, and ultimately bring them closer. By doing this, by working together, both organizations would be able to finally focus all their resources on making a safer America, instead of a divided. Koch 5 Works Cited Cheek, B. About  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. CSGV, 5 Aug. 2013. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Schatz, B. (2016). Outgunned and outmanned. Mother Jones,41(5), 5-7. Webster, Merriam. Assault  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, 5 Mar. 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. N. (2012, May 3). NRA Explore. Retrieved January 31, 2017, from https://home.nra.org/about- the-nra/ Sugarmann, J. (1992). National Rifle Association: money, firepower & fear. Wash., D.C.: National Press Books.