Chima 1 Uchenna Ifeanyi Chima Professor Fenell ENC1102.039 25 January 2017 Project 1 Final Draft Living and growing up in privileged countries such as the United States, United Kingdom or even Canada, we tend to forget the basic rights that we are given. Often overlooked, the basic benefits of having the right to be able to get in your car to perform daily tasks at your own convenience is a simple right that may seem we are entitled to, but what if it was taken away from you? Until this day the Kingdom of Saudi-Arabia remains the only country in the world that has restricted its women from being able to exercise this right. Clerics in this religious state who initially created this fatwa, an Islamic legal pronouncement issued by an expert in religious law pertaining to a specific issue (Kabbani) defend their stance through certain religious justifications dating back as far as the holy Islamic book, the Although many women have campaigned against this fatwa through various means in the past, they have been constantly reprimanded. There are many restraints when you restrict ability from driving such as the incapability to help in emergency related situations. Due to the restrictions imposed on the women of Saudi-Arabia as a result of this fatwa being upheld, laws strictly pertaining to giving women the right to drive should be re-considered. With the world we are living in constantly becoming interconnected, many cultures are being lost due to conforming to customs that are being accepted globally. Saudi-Arabia, being Chima 2 built from a strong religious foundation, strongly believes in the preservation of rich Islamic culture thus making higher powers such as the King and clerics create fatwas in order to protect their culture. In fact, in the article written by Olga Khazan, she states, Kingdom has long adhered to a particularly strict brand of Sunni Islam known as Wahhabism, which insists on segregation of the sexes and the veiling of (Khazan). With this being said, it is clearly evident that the Saudi culture greatly influences the decision to prohibit women from driving. Along with going against the Saudi culture, backers of this fatwa also believe that the act of women driving violates certain aspects of the In an interview by Josie Ensor, with Sheikh Abdul Aziz bin-Abdullah al-Sheikh, one of top clerics, he stated that allowing women to drive is dangerous matter that exposes women to and that men who have spirits and are obsessed with could cause female drivers harm (Ensor). However, the fear of going against the culture and aspects of the is something that can be eliminated through the integration of certain laws that allow women to drive under specific conditions. Although this fatwa is believed to conserve both religious and cultural issues, a fatwa of this degree indirectly affects social and economic structures of the country. The fatwa prohibiting women from driving should be re-considered as it not only further adds to the eradication of the basic rights of women in Saudi-Arabia, but also causes other problems that harm the country as a whole. According to a 2006 study done by the General Statistics Department of the United Nations, number of non-Saudi workers in the Kingdom, mostly coming from Asia, was estimated at 8,024,885 (1,244,335 women), out of a total population of approximately 27 (District 6). In an interview by the Al-Arabyia news, with Sheikh Ahmed bin Baz, an Islamic affairs researcher and lecturer, and the son of the late former grand cleric, he states that, are over 740,000 drivers in the Chima 3 Kingdom is harmful to the economy as drivers send remittances abroad, harmful to families as drivers sometimes interfere in family matters, harmful to society as drivers are sometimes involved in crime and harmful to laborers as drivers are often involved in human (Dubai). With these statistics, we can infer that a fatwa of this magnitude does not only create negative economic and social problems but also influences criminal rates. However, these statistics will remain on the incline if the fatwa were to remain upheld thus providing more reason for a compromise to be made. While those for the fatwa against driving note cultural loss as their main issue, those in favor are equally worried about losing their culture. However, just because permitting women from driving holds the risk of cultural disintegration that does not necessarily mean it has to be completely banned. The benefits of permitting women to drive within borders, such as the opportunity to increase the workforce, and the ability to be able to help in critical situations offset the risks that come with the fatwa being upheld. This is true in the case that particular laws were created which monitored driving, as it would substantially lower the risks of cultural loss while at the same time lowering the economic and social problems. Speaking from personal experience, women living in certain gated communities throughout Saudi-Arabia have been empowered the right to drive within their community which insists that permitting women to drive throughout the country would not be problematic. The fatwa against women in Saudi-Arabia shows how religion has the potential to cripple its people in order to maintain certain traditions. Although many believe it conforms to the holy Islamic book, the prohibiting women from driving hinders their freedom while at the same time indirectly harming the countries economy. For both civil and economic reasons, the driving fatwa should be re-considered. This fatwa does not only obstruct on ability to Chima 4 perform daily tasks but also constraints educated women, leaving them at home without work thus making them solely financially dependent on the male figure in the household. By allowing women to drive under certain circumstances, several of these problems would be eliminated, as the number of drivers specifically hired for the transportation women will greatly decrease. Chima 5 Works Cited District, General. Promotion and protection of all human rights, civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to  International Organization 10.3 (2009): 421+. 14 Apr. 2009. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Dubai, Alarabiya. Women Driving Issue Needs No Fatwa: Saudi  Alarabiya.net. N.p., 17 Oct. 2010. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Ensor, Josie. Women driving is an evil, says top Saudi  Daily Telegraph (London, England) 2013: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Kabbani, Muhammad Hisham. What Is a  The Islamic Supreme Council of America. N.p., 15 Mar. 2010. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Khazan, Olga. Negative Physiological Why Saudi Women Allowed to  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 7 Oct. 2013. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.