Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Grow Towards a Better World Using Technology The consumption of food is one of the most basic necessities for humans all around the world. Without nutritious food, the human population could be wiped out in less than one month (Spector). According to the British newspaper, Express, a lifetime, the average person eats 35 tons of (Symons). Although this number may seem absurd, there is great variation between the average food consumption intake of people from one region to another. According to DailyMail.co.uk, the average person in the United States consumes 3770 calories per day, while the average person in the Democratic Republic of Congo consumes only 1590 calories. While most people in the United States are concerned with issues regarding organic food versus genetically modified organisms, families in third world countries are struggling to gather enough food in order to sustain life. Whole Foods Market and Monsanto are two competing, food- providing stakeholders that are often found in the United Sates. Whole Foods is a popular choice among the heath conscious population, while Monsanto runs a big portion of the genetically engineered food market. Whole Foods Market is a strong believer in the natural and organic food process, while Monsanto has been experimenting with the genetic modification of organisms for some decades. Overall, the two stakeholders above have differing views on the issues of food production, the nutrition associated with it, and the labeling that appears on these given foods; however, if both companies come together, they can reach a common goal. Through the use of Student 2 genetic modification, Monsanto and Whole Foods Market can create an environmentally friendly food-donation plan that will impact impoverished people all around the world. Monsanto, considered the mother of biotechnology, is one of the largest genetically modified crop producers in the world. The founder, John F. Queeny named the company Monsanto, after his middle name (Monsanto). In the beginning, the main focus of Monsanto was the production of saccharine, a form of sweetener. It was not until the year 1975 that the company began its involvement in the GMO business, when it first introduced the Agricultural Division and its genetic modification testing on plants. In addition to the never before seen alteration of plant genes, the company focused on producing pesticides and herbicides for the agricultural process. Today, the company produces genetically modified corn, soy, cotton, various oil seeds, and other types of vegetables. Currently, it has developed technology that allows the resources required for plant growth to be altered in order to fit a certain environment. In simpler terms, farmers in a dry area, such as Nevada, could purchase drought resistant corn seeds and possibly sustain life. As seen in Scientific America, research is showing a 7% crop yield increase in current testing throughout the United States (Stecker). Additionally, the genes of vegetables could be altered to resist decay in order to produce a higher vegetation yield. Monsanto has been able to use its knowledge in biotechnology to produce nutritious food that is relatively inexpensive to produce and moreover affordable for purchase. On the other hand, Whole Foods Market is a supermarket chain that focuses on selling natural and organic produce to its customers. The first store opened in 1980 when four small grocery store owners came together in order to create the first natural produce store in Austin, Texas (Whole Foods Market). Over the next two decades, the vision expanded throughout the United States and Canada. Currently the stores offer more than 30,000 organic products and the Student 3 number is set to continue rising. In addition to selling organic products, Whole Foods Market is a known supporter of various environmental causes. The chain is a public supporter of the Non- GMO Project and is, first national grocery chain committed to providing GMO (genetically modified organism) transparency for (Whole Foods Market). Additionally, it supports numerous other non-profit organizations that focus on giving back to local communities through designated give-back days. On a grander scale, the company, with the support of the whole organic food industry, is striving to limit the amount of pesticides and nutrients that are released into the environment in unnatural ways. This effort has expanded beyond the local community, and is now a major concern for many environmental organizations, including the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Both stakeholders discussed above were ultimately created with with one common goal; to provide nutritious food to customers all over the world. Although they strive toward a similar end result, the two stakeholders have a completely different view on the strategy taken to produce this given product. For decades, opposing companies like the ones named above have never taken action and in order to create a compromise that would benefit both sides. In the past, supporters of each side have only considered their individual beliefs and never considered alternative solutions to this problem. Negotiation, as seen in the key terms of Project 2, is the act of finding a compromise between competing stakeholders. In a world where Whole Foods Market and Monsanto do not continue the word battle over GMO production, an active compromise could be reached that has an immense impact on food production for all people around the world. Although scientists have never found concrete evidence regarding the negative aspects of genetically modified organisms, a known stigma has been placed on the production of this food. As seen in the New York Times, 37 percent of American adults said they Student 4 believed genetically modified foods were safe to eat. Yet, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine reported finding no differences that would implicate a higher risk to human health from G.M.O. (Harmon). Through the use of further education, this stigma of genetically modified foods can be lifted, as people learn about the scientific invention of environmentally sustainable foods that are immune to droughts and diseases. Whole Foods Market and Monsanto can come together and create a label-and-educate program that would clearly identify GMO products, and allow people to learn more about them. Whole Foods Market would gain the right to clearly label products that contain GMOs, while Monsanto would gain exposure to a whole new market. Additionally, a buy-one give-one program can be started. A similar program was started by Toms, an innovative shoe company, where the company donates a pair of shoes to a person in need for every pair of Toms purchased (Toms). This program will inform customers that with every purchase of genetically modified produce, the needed GMO seeds will be donated to malnourished communities all around the world. As seen in an article on the website Science Direct, The main advantage of GM food crops is their potential promise of future food security, especially for small-scale agriculture in developing  (Azadi). Using this evidence, Monsanto and Whole Foods Market can greatly expand the food availability through small scale farming around the world. This program can become an integral part in the effort to ensure food security for all people. Through the use of negotiation, Whole Foods Market and Monsanto can find a sustainable solution that benefits both companies, as well as the world population as a whole. These companies have an opportunity to further educate people about the positive and negative aspects of genetically modified foods. The program will be environmentally sustainable, as the seeds that are donated will allow communities to grow food using less resources. This effort has Student 5 an opportunity to reach people in all corners of the world and feed many generations to come. According to One.org, 2030, global food demand is expected to rise by (Elton). As the population continues to rise, people must become aware of the need to produce food using alternative, unnatural ways. Food producers, organic or not, must take action now in order to guarantee the availability of food to all people for years to come. Word Count:1306 Student 6 Works Cited  Monsanto Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Azadi, Hossein. Genetically modified and organic crops in developing countries: A review of options for food  ScienceDirect. N.p., 11 Nov. 2009. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Corporate  TOMS. TOMS Shoes, n.d. Web. 23 Mar. 2017. Elton, Jordan. 14 Surprising stats about global food  ONE. N.p., 03 Oct. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Harmon, Amy. How Square Watermelons Get Their Shape, and Other G.M.O.  The New York Times. The New York Times Company, 11 July 2016. Web. 24 Mar. 2017.  SourceWatch. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.  Whole Foods Market. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Peppers, Margot. Daily calorie intake of countries across the world revealed... and (surprise) the U.S. tops the list at  Daily Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 12 Aug. 2014. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Spector, Dina. How Many Days A Person Can Survive Without  Business Insider. Business Insider, 09 May 2014. Web. 23 Mar. 2017. Stecker, Tiffany. Drought-Tolerant Corn Efforts Show Positive Early  Scientific American. N.p., 27 July 2012. Web. 22 Mar. 2017. Symons, Mitchell. Average human grows 590 miles of hair and eats 35 tons of food... AMAZING human  Express.co.uk. Express Newspaper, 17 Oct. 2013. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Student 7 Wager, Robert, Patrick Moore, and Mischa Popoff. Organics versus GMO: Why the  Genetic Literacy Project. N.p., 17 Oct. 2013. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.