Daley 1 Jaheem Daley Dr. Jarad Fennell English Composition II 11 March 2017 How Does the Consumption of Alcohol Affect College Students? Drinking alcohol is a dangerous act to participate in. Alcohol can affect an body in various ways as well as it can affect you mental state. According to the dictionary, alcohol is a colorless volatile flammable liquid that is produced by the natural fermentation of sugars and is the intoxicating constituent of wine, beer, spirits, and other drinks, and is also used as an industrial solvent and as fuel. As specified by the Washington Post, approximately 80 percent of college student drink alcohol (Strauss, Valerie). It is proven that drinking moderate amounts of alcohol reduces the risk of developing and dying from heart disease but it still does more harm than good. The NIAAA website states that alcohol consumption has negative effects such as liver inflammations including steatosis, fibrosis, cirrhosis, pancreatitis, and certain cancers and even weakens the immune system. Along with these effects, alcohol can be very addictive. Therefore, college students are as risk for many illnesses, diseases, crimes and injuries as they general consume a lot of alcohol. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) is an organization that works on a daily basis to reduce alcohol-related problems. As a result of their mission, the NIAAA has many anti-alcohol advertisements; two of which I have chosen to discuss and analyze. One of the images is simply in the concept of Halloween where a smashed pumpkin is displayed as a representation of what alcohol does to an individual. Meanwhile, the other image is of the human digestive system with the liver being highlighted. However, this paper will be analyzing visual rhetorical appeals represented in each image. Rhetoric appeals include ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. Firstly, ethos is a method of Daley 2 persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or authority (McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan 27). Secondly, logos is the appeal to logic. Logos like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and reasons (Lane, Emily, McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan 32). Thirdly, the appeal to emotion, or is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the argument (McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan 37). Last but not least, Kairos is the rhetoric appeal of timeliness. The first image being analyzed is of the human digestive system. This image is a message from the NIAAA which is basically advertising that drink is not good for an individual. Therefore, the image wants that audience to stop drinking, the image is asking the audience to have sympathy on their liver, the image wants the audience to feel guilty because they consumed alcohol and also the image wants the audience to understand that drink it not good for the body especially their livers. The image relies heavily on ethos as it states many important facts about drinking. For instance below the image itself in fine print they tell you that yes everyone only have a few drinks but the problem is when you become dependent on these drinks. It continues to tell you what drinking can result in for instance liver disease and so forth. It also heavily relies on pathos and I think pathos is the main rhetorical appeal as the image tries to make the audience feel guilty for drinking and make them feel sympathetic on their liver. The feeling of guilt comes Daley 3 from the initial and the final statement on the image. The first statement suggests the liver talking to the person saying that it wish if they supported it just as it have done and the final statement telling the audience to take care of themselves and their livers. This NIAAA image supply information on the liver and drinking in general that the audience may not be unaware of which helps the audience to understand the position of NIAAA on the drinking issue. Therefore, it appeals to both logic and reason. However, this image does not rely heavily on kairos. As there is not any element of timeliness in this image but maybe when we see the statement everyone has a few drinks, but when you become dependent on it, you might have a problem. The in this statement might display the appeal of kairos. However, the advertisement was quite effective seeing that the audience would feel the need to rethink drinking. The other advertisement as mentioned before is an image set in Halloween with two pumpkins being displayed but each is in a different situation. Straight off the bat, the rhetorical appeal of pathos can be recognized. As a pumpkin with a sad and sympathetic look is fixated on a smashed pumpkin splattered all over the ground. The text in the picture also contributes to the pathos appeal as it stated, Halloween not get Immediately we get that the text in pulling on the emotions of the audience making the audience feel guilty and concerned and thus, force to rethink drinking. Another rhetorical appeal that can be identified is ethos as at the bottom of the image the shows the stakeholder that is responsible for this ad and therefore, persuading the audience as the NIAAA is has authority and credibility on the issue at hand. This is assumed just based on the facts that it states, department of Health and Human which the audience would automatically consider credibly. Even though not heavily displayed, kairos can be identified. For instance, the fact that it is set in Halloween. Timeliness in this case is effective as most of the audience is able to relate to Halloween. This image does on heavily Daley 4 depend on logos as it is not displayed. There is no evidence of alcohol hurting and individual nor is the any reason why it would hurt an individual. However, the advertisement was very effective. In conclusion, both advertisements were from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and were both very effective in carrying out its main purpose which was to make the audience realize that drinking is not good for the body. Neither had all four rhetorical appeals present. They both were lacking at least one. The first image no displaying kairos while the secondary image was absent logos. However, both images were equally effective and both did what the NIAAA wanted it to as there must be an individual in this world whose life was changed by either of these advertisements. Daley 5 ADVERTISEMENT 1 Daley 6 ADVERTISEMENT 2 Daley 7 Work Cited Page 1. Strauss, Valerie. much do college students really The Washington Post, 9 April 2013, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/answer-sheet/wp/2013/04/09/how-much-do-college- 2. effects on the National Institute of Health. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, https://www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/alcohols-effects-body 3. National Institute of Health. https://pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/collegefactsheet/Collegefactsheet.pdf 4.  Merriam-Webster.com. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/alcohol 5. of The National Institute of Health. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, https://www.niaaa.nih.gov/about-niaaa/our-work/history-niaaa 6. Lane, Emily, McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Really http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters#page=27&zoom=auto,-203,654 7. https://storify.com/tylerpassman/title-alcoholism-how-the-niaaa-aims-to-cut-down-o