Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 05 March 2017 Does gentrification cause an increase in homelessness or vice versa? There are two stakeholders that will contribute to the question: does gentrification cause in increase in homelessness or vice versa? The process of gentrification is known to displace people from their homes and with one stakeholder trying to end homelessness another may be trying to better the lives of others without considering that their action may make many homeless. While the National Alliance to End Homelessness is concerned with ending homelessness, Tampa Real Estate Insider is concerned upon building new homes for the middle class. These two stakeholders have not been able to reach a compromise because their views are completely different from one another. While one stakeholder is concerned upon helping others while the other is concerned about making a profit from others. This first stakeholder is the National Alliance to End Homelessness. The primary goal of the stakeholder is to end homelessness within the United States of America. They were founded in 1983 by a group of concerned citizens to help meet the needs of the growing population of homeless people throughout the country. Currently the Alliance analyze current policies and try to determine less problematic, more cost-efficient and reasonable solutions. Many politicians sometimes may not know the exact statistics of how a policy may affect others. That is where the National Alliance to End Homelessness come in. They provide all the research and data to the Student 2 policymakers and the elected officials so then they can create a policy that benefits the homeless population instead of hindering them. (endhomelessness.org) The second stakeholder is Tampa Real Estate Insider. The primary goal of this stakeholder is to sell newly built homes to people in the Seminole Heights area in Tampa, Florida. This stakeholder not only sells homes in the Seminole Heights area but also all over Tampa, Florida. Seminole Heights is one of the oldest areas in Tampa and in efforts to pretty-up the area constructors are building up new single-family homes and town homes directed towards first-time homebuyers. Tampa Real Estate Insider has the job of finding these new first-time homeowners the home of their dreams. They help homeowners sell their homes and help new homeowners buy a home. They use the location of the homes and the benefits from living in those areas to help sell homes. (Catanese, TREI) Gentrification is known to displace people from their homes because they can no longer afford to live in the area. The area of Seminole Heights in Tampa, Florida is an area that has been changing for the past few years. Seminole Heights was founded in 1911 and within ten years the population of Tampa reached 26,000. (Greater Seminole Heights Vision Plan, 6) Then came the creation of the streetcar. The streetcar made it easier for residents to live in one area and work in another area. During the years populations increased along with the growth of new businesses. (Greater Seminole Heights Vision Plan, 6) Fast forward to present time and not all those businesses that opened back then are still around today. Abandoned shops and empty spaces presented an undesirable place to live in. In efforts to have the Seminole Heights area be more appealing and to draw in new residents, the City of Tampa decided to create a vision plan to change the area. Old homes are being torn down and new homes are being built. Old shops are going out of business and new ones are taking their place. The area is Student 3 constantly changing to meet the tastes of the middle class who are now moving in. The area itself is also just a five-minute commute to Downtown Tampa which makes the area even more desirable to those who work in Downtown Tampa. The main goals that need to be achieved to make Seminole Heights a more livable area is to show that it shows economic opportunity, feels safe, is attractive, and values the area. (Greater Seminole Heights Vision Plan, 15) Although the plan is great in revitalizing the community, what happens to the people who are already living within the area is the larger question. The appearance of new businesses and new homes are creating through the removal of old homes and businesses. As for the people who live in these homes there is no information as to what exactly happens to them. One thing for sure however is that, if these people are forced to leave their homes then they become displaced and may have no where else to go and result in being homeless. The development of new homes is not the only way of displacing residents from their homes. The Tampa Bay Express is a six billion dollar budget to widen I-275. For the Florida Department of Transportation to be able to expand this interstate they must buy people out of their homes and out of their businesses to make room for their plan. This process will displace nineteen thousand people and end of benefitting five million drivers. However, there are many people in this area who do not drive and there are probably many other residents who will want to give up their homes. (Chambers, TBX could displace Tampa couple for a second time) A compromise that needs to be made between the two stakeholder needs to benefit the goals for both stakeholders. The compromise needs to prevent homelessness for one stakeholder but also needs to be able to create a profit for the other stakeholder. A good compromise would be that the people who are going to lose their homes be compensated a proper amount for them to be able to find a new home either in the same area or in another area. A proper plan would be Student 4 to first scout the area where the new project will be taking place. The next step would be to get an estimate on each and every property that will be affected. After an estimate, has been made it is now important to look at the residents in that area. It is important to see how much they are making and how much they are spending on regular expenses. It is important to look and collect the data therefore a proper compensation can be created. Each plan that is made should be curated to the individual residence. The money that is offered should be able to help the residents can pay for a new place residence and should also help pay for three months of expenses that way it will give them at least three months to help them get situated and to not struggle to buy the necessities for living. Also in addition to giving money as compensation they should also provide options on where would be adequate locations for these residents to relocate to. The reason for this would be that the residents will not be struggling to find a place to reside in and it would be beneficial for the stakeholder to move their project along much faster. With some projects costing over nineteen thousand people their homes and property it could be a very tedious task to create one unique plan for each property however, it helps to keep these residents off the streets and helps the stakeholder to not only pursue with their project but also to make their own profits. Also, helping keep these past residents off the streets helps to keep up a good image for the home developers. The reason as to why this helps keep a good image for the home developers is because they will end up getting more residents who will want to live there. Think about it like this, would a homeowner want to move in somewhere where there is homeless people living on the streets right by them asking for money, or would they rather live somewhere else away from all of that? In conclusion, gentrification is a massive problem. It is both beneficial and devastating. It can displace people from their homes, where they first grew up in. It can also give a chance for Student 5 others to buy their first homes. In the end, there is always going to be one stakeholder that is concerned for the people who are affected by gentrification and then there is another stakeholder that is more concerned about how much of a profit they can make. Regardless there are compromises that can be made where the stakeholder ends up getting their profit and the people do not end up living on the streets and result in being homeless. (WC: 1386) Student 6 Citations New Construction Homes in Tampa Heights, Seminole Heights, Riverside  Tampa Real Estate Insider Blog. Tampa Real Estate Insider, 03 Oct. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Alliance to End National Alliance to End Homelessness, www.endhomelessness.org/. The Greater Seminole Heights Vision  The Greater Seminole Heights Vision Plan (2009): Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Webteam, Carson Chambers WFTS. TBX could displace Tampa couple for a second  WFTS. N.p., 21 June 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mormino, G. R. Tampa at Midcentury:  Journal of the Tampa Historical Society, XXVI (2000). Kerstein, Robert. Stage models of gentrification: an  Urban Affairs Quarterly 25.4 (1990): 620-639.