!1 FIDEL CASTRO DICTATOR OR NATIONAL HERO? PROJECT 2 HISTORIOGRAPHIC ESSAY FIDEL CASTRO DICTATOR OR NATIONAL HERO? JOHNATHAN CLARKE ENC1101 !2 FIDEL CASTRO DICTATOR OR NATIONAL HERO? The conversations about Fidel Castro as a person, a President and a revolutionary have for a long time been and continue to be voiced. There seems to a certain level of uniformity in the understanding of Castro and what done over the years. Sometimes misunderstood but always respected was the general idea throughout many of the articles reviewed. a general trend that is recognizable within the perspectives of the conversation throughout. Firstly and quite frankly anticipated is the tone of writing directly reflects the geographical location or heritage of the authors responsible for leading this conversation . Secondly, most of the articles written about Castro during certain periods of conflict lack transparency often times leaving many questions unanswered and a lot of accusations undisputed.The hostility of the information being presented and the manner in which it is presented simmers down as the topic of the conversation leaves that of the happenings of the late and Though the pioneers of this conversation have passed, successors sharing similar opinions have continued the narrative of the figure Fidel Castro. The conversation commences at the ashes of the Cold War in the mid with the moot posed by that the negative reaction to Castro and his ideals was part of a problem with origins on a grander scale , bigger picture. Soviet interference within nationalist Latin American countries for the republican administration gives off warning signs thus leading to the American insurrection of Government. Many share the opinion that they misunderstood the picture Castro painted for Cuba. This caused extreme surveillance and consequently a hostile !3 FIDEL CASTRO DICTATOR OR NATIONAL HERO? environment between the neighboring nations one fearing for their national security. The fears of soviet expansion stood prevalent in this time and thus was the only motive needed for America to take whatever action they deemed ,2017) Eriksen From the New York Bloomsbury Press continues the conversation from the perspective 20 years down the line. the Cold War ended almost 20 years ago, but between the United States and Cuba, it still very much showing that though decades have gone by the collateral of Cold War for the Atlantic neighbors still exists. The level of hostility however has been lowered since the exclusion of the Soviet Union. At this time , their attention turned to the middle east. The conversation persists with Eriksen offering insight into the current state of affairs and Cuba-Us relations as well as the difficulties that will be somewhat cemented between the Castro regime and the US Democracy. Drawing from interviews from a variety of sources Eriksen tells the story of the people who lived their everyday lives through this time giving the conversation an opinion from the perspectives of both Cuban people and American delegates, causing real thought provoking analysis through his own perspective. Eriksen includes a detailed explanation of the events leading to Fidel Castro stepping down from power and thus providing a reminder that one of the issues between both parties being the trade embargo was purposefully established for the Castro administration to suffer. Eriksen New York: Bloomsbury Press, 2008. !4 FIDEL CASTRO DICTATOR OR NATIONAL HERO? The narrative and consequent conversation on Castro continued to what seemed the close or apparent end to his regime in 2006 where he underwent an intestinal surgery that consequently rendered is abilities as leader near impossible due to his old age. Thus making the main question of the Castro story at this time being happens Naturally, people had Contrasting opinions on future; opinions like that of Julia Sweig of council of foreign affairs the Asserted that under the  from Fidel to Raul, power has been successfully transferred to a new set of leaders, whose priority is to preserve the system while permitting only very gradual (Sweig 2008). Essentially this transition is being put into place to ensure the ease of the of Cuba, After all Raul Castro is in his mid and has openly expressed confidence in the generation of politicians and officials that will supersede him and his brother . Though gone Fidel imprint on Cuba in all aspects in still very much present. I believe , despite the seemingly extreme and somewhat austere measures Castro chose to deploy during his reign as president were in many ways the best ways in which for them to overcome the many adverse issues present within the country. With the Soviet Union as a close ally in the later part of the 20th century Cuba seemed a processing communist nation , however remove what was apparently a major leg from the foundation of a developing country obviously will present challenges and the need for a strict administration which is what Castro provided. With his passing and his reigns end in sight, the narrative of the Castro regime has ended however the conversation has transitioned into Cuba after the Castros. I believe that with the !5 FIDEL CASTRO DICTATOR OR NATIONAL HERO? foundations that have long been played by the brothers the conversation will persist being how they helped Cuba into the country that it will be. References: Mujal-Leon, Eusebio. Survival, Adaptation And Uncertainty: The Case Of  Journal Of International Affairs 65.1 (2011): 149-168. Business Source Premier. Web. Pettina, Vanni. The Shadows Of Cold War Over Latin America: The US Reaction To Fidel Nationalism,  Cold War History 11.3 (2011): 317-339. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 Daniel P. Erikson. The Cuba Wars: Fidel Castro, the United States, and the Next Revolution. New York: Bloomsbury Press, 2008. Gonzalez, Edward, and Kevin F. McCarthy. Uncertain Future After  Brown Journal Of World Affairs 14.1 (2007): 27-39. Business Source Alumni Edition.