Gad 1 Androw Gad Professor Jarad Fennell English Composition 1102 1 February 2017 Separating Fact from Emotion For more than half a century, conflict between Palestinians and Israel has cost the lives of thousands on both sides. The better-equipped, more technologically advanced Israel has often been portrayed as the evil, fascist, and apartheid regime that attack and slaughter innocent Palestinian civilians without provocation as part of genocide plan to wipe out all Palestinians from the land. Hamas, the name of the elected Palestinian government and a known terrorist organization, goes to great lengths to portray the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) as violent blood thirsty, trigger happy soldiers through the use of staged sets and actors in order to gain favor with the United Nations and the nations of the world. Many political cartoonists around the world buy into the emotion packed propaganda of Hamas and create scenes depicting Israel committing atrocities in blood stained images in order to plunge the reader into anger against Israel. However, there are those who see past the pathos of Hamas and choose to portray fact in their images while keeping their emotions in check. One image contrasts between the different defense methods of the Palestinians and Jews while the other samples the propaganda that is produced in Palestine to smear Israel. The first image is split into two halves. This is done to illustrate an vs. scenario. The left half of the image illustrates an Iron Dome missile silo Gad 2 used by the IDF to deter hostile missiles entering Israeli air space. The image illustrates a missile leaving the missile silo, probably to deter an enemy missile. The right half of the image illustrates a masked man dressed in black holding a shield with children strapped to the shield. The left side of the image is captioned Defense The right side of the image is captioned Defense Hamas is a known terrorist organization and has been classified as such by the United States, the European Union, Canada, and Japan. This is due to extensive record of violence and attacks as well as its refusal to end the violence ). Hamas is also notorious for using human shields in altercations with the Israeli Defense Forces. The soldiers of Israeli Defense Forces operate under a very strict set of rules of engagement with very strict punishments. For example, soldiers are not to open fire on Palestinians throwing rocks or Molotov cocktails unless the order is given from a high-ranking officer. Soldiers are also given order to never open fire when there are women, children or any unarmed civilians for that matter. Soldiers are only allowed to open fire only when fired upon by armed militants (Katz). armed coalitions are no match for the superior weapons technology, training and tactical planning (Myre). Hamas knows this very well. So, in order to compensate for superior military, Hamas uses own moral code of conduct against them. Women and children are used as human shields in order to force the Israeli hand to either stop firing and retreat or keep firing and possibly killing the women and children. If women and/or children are injured or killed, Hamas then uses their deaths to propagate hate against Israel by capturing photos and videos which are then used in media propaganda disguised Gad 3 as legitimate news. Hamas Admits To Using Civilians As Human ). Hamas position their missiles near or on top of civilian buildings such as homes, schools, and hospitals. When these missiles are launched the Israeli missile defense shield, known as the Iron Dome, launches missiles of its own to destroy the enemy missiles. This defense system was created to protect the residential and civilian areas in Israel How Does The Iron Dome ). The second image is a collage showing different photographs of a bloodied boy holding what appears to be an injured and bloodied older woman in a hijab in his arms. Presumably, this moment is right after an Israeli missile attack. The top left photograph shows the woman putting her hand on the boys face to comfort him. The top left photograph shows the boy weeping for his soon to be deceased mother. The bottom right shows the boy weeping and crying out to the sky with his mother appearing to be lifeless in his arms. The bottom left photo shows the mother completely lifeless with the boy crying into the palm of his right hand while holding the body of his dead mother in his left arm. There is a fifth photo overlapping the four aforementioned photographs. This fifth photo shows the mother and the boy alive and well. They are holding the same photograph that was featured on the top left. The four bloody, dramatic photos were circulated throughout middle-eastern and western media alike while claiming that this innocent boy is now left without a mother due to heartless attacks of the Israeli Defense Forces. However, the photographs were taken as part of a fabricated scene created by Hamas and Palestinian journalists as part of their propaganda agenda to deface Israel in front on the United Nations and the world. The propaganda that is produced has been Gad 4 termed which is a play on the words and Smearing the international image of Israel is essential for hindering the support that Israel receives from Europe and the United States. As a result, the stories and images produced by Hamas must be gruesome and heart wrenching in order to appeal to the emotions and empathy of their international audience (Kemp). Ultimately, the constant war between Israel and Palestine is not only fought with missiles and guns. Hamas takes advantage of the Israelis humanity as well as the humanity of the world. With Hamas using civilian women and children as human shields and creating false propaganda in order to infuriate the world against Israel; honest journalists and news networks must swim against the tide of the emotional ocean that has been created by the terrorist organization. Gad 5 Works Cited Hamas Admits To Using Civilians As Human . The Tower, 2017, http://www.thetower.org/1067oc-hamas-admits-to-using-civilians-as- human-shields/. How Does The Iron Dome . Haaretz.Com, 2017, http://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/how-does-the-iron-dome- work.premium-1.478988. Is Hamas A Terrorist Organization? - Israeli-Palestinian Conflict - . Israelipalestinian.Procon.Org, 2017, http://israelipalestinian.procon.org/view.answers.php?questionID=00 0374. Katz, Yaakov. IDF Tightens Rules Of . The Jerusalem Post Jpost.Com, 2017, http://www.jpost.com/Israel/IDF-tightens-rules-of- engagement. Kemp, Richard. Civilian Casualties: The Truth Is Very . Gatestone Institute, 2017, https://www.gatestoneinstitute.org/4570/gaza-civilian-casualties. Myre, Greg. The Reasons Why Military Is In Such A Tough . NPR.Org, 2017, http://www.npr.org/sections/parallels/2014/07/24/334893877/the- reasons-why-israels-military-is-in-such-a-tough-fight. Gad 6 . Gad 7