Geisler 1 Alison Geisler Professor Jarad Fennell ENC1102.03 12 March 2017 How Felons Face Life After Prison Discrimination within any job never fails to exist. Along with discrimination comes people of diverse social classes working together at the same job. This common problem comes about in many minimum wage jobs. The epitome of this issue usually arises when the hiring staff hires someone who has a jail record. This mainly occurs because these people have not seen a normal working life within some time. From the perspective hiring a felon is a liability to the company and the other workers. Not only do businesses usually have an issue with finding people to hire, but felons have an even harder time getting a job because they are quickly past up once an employer sees that they have a record. The first image clearly depicts that employers restrict themselves when looking to hire by not looking into potential employees who have a record. The second image brings about the importance of teamwork as it relates to felons who need to work with the other employees to achieve teamwork in the workplace. Help for Felons is an organization which focuses on transitioning felons to life outside of jail or prison (Help for Felons). Each state has multiple programs registered with Help for Felons which has standards that it needs each branch to achieve for it to be labeled reliable. Felons will have to ask to be helped to be a part of this program, but Geisler 2 will be assigned a counselor which is their personal support system. This program not only helps them get jobs, but also housing and other everyday needs. Men and women wanting to enter the workforce after being locked up is one of the hardest things for them to do as they have not had this type of responsibility. Along with getting a loan for a home, these people do not think they have any chances until they meet with a counselor which helps them achieve these things. Since this program is reliable in each state, when a felon asks for help, they are more likely to stay out of any additional issues they may have become a part of otherwise. The first image chosen to describe the issue at hand is, WANTED, No This discourages felons from applying for jobs because they will feel as though they are going to always be rejected. The employers are not giving the employees credibility when they try to sell themselves outside of their criminal record. Employers seem to focus on their criminal record even though it may not be as severe as one thinks. Each felon should be given a chance especially if they worked prison jobs or community service, this expresses that they want to live as normal of a life after prison as they can. Many of these people understand that they will have difficulty after getting out. If they understand that they know what they did was wrong and are willing to work at becoming a better person even while maintaining a job, they should be able to work without any issues. Throughout time in prison, if they are able to obtain evidence that they worked with a program, this should boost them up in the eyes. This being that they understand how to treat others and work as successfully as possible. A program to this extent should make it seem as though a felon will have the same Geisler 3 chances as a normal civilian, but they need to understand that they will have to excel within this job, rather than only work for the money. The photo chosen expresses a lot, including the sticky note stating along the barbed wire fence in front. The typical orange and black sign catches that eye but it could also be discouraging because the orange is reminding of an orange jumpsuit one wears in prison. The sticky note is yellow and it catches the attention which may even be read before the actual sign. Felons are well aware that they are going to have difficulty finding a job but to emphasize it with a sticky note is more discouraging. The barbwire fence, just like in prison expresses that there is no way of them holding a position in the company, especially if this sign is hanging in front of the workplace. This photo is, which is hopefully not real, is full discouragements towards one who just got out of prison and did what they could to potentially lead a normal life. The other photo chosen is acknowledging that teamwork is needed to make a business of any type work. Although one may think that the employer conducts their employees to work together, in reality, the actual workers that need to work together to make teamwork happen. It is essential for the felons who are currently employed to not be distracted because it will hurt them in the end. Being employed will allow the ex-felons to become more positive in what they do and continue to get their life back on track. Working with those around them who have good intentions could also help them along the way. If one who is employed is unable to take anything away from this opportunity, they will be losing out on other experiences that may end up impacting the rest of their life. Companies are looking past what the felon has been through to give Geisler 4 them a job which can allow them an easier transition back into society. When a felon is able to transition back into society quicker, they will be able to excel and will not go back to life before prison. Overall, the opportunity to be employed, which will then constitute teamwork and reliability will allow the felon to move through life more successfully. This simple black and white picture says a lot. The puzzle pieces which are and are not put together, these puzzle pieces have people scattered on a few throughout the picture. The scattered pieces make one think of teamwork because you need to all work together to achieve satisfaction. The people on the pieces not connected may be because their idea are not the same as those connected and for them to attach they need to be able to put their opinions aside and work together. The faceless people express that no matter what they look like or their skin tone, they put everything of that nature aside and focus on the problem at hand. The black and white tones represents anonymity throughout the picture. With this in mind, teamwork is needed to make anything with a bunch of people work. Together the rhetoric within both pictures symbolize the difficulties felons face in order to be successful in life after prison. Besides these difficulties, there are many whom are granted clemency by the president. President Obama granted hundreds of nonviolent drug offenders shorter sentences, dating back to 1993 (CNN). Employers do not read into felons records, and they could see that their record is not as bad as thought. The employers restrict themselves but the felons take advantage of the opportunity at hand and attempt at teamwork within the workplace so that they can continue to be successful in the future. Geisler 5 Geisler 6 Geisler 7 Works Cited Home Help For  For Felons . N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. President Obama Reducing 102 Sentences; Granting Clemency to 774 Individuals  . CNN Wire Services, 06 Oct. 2016. Web. 08 Mar. 2017.