Tato 1 Maria Tato Dr. Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Concealed Carry on Campus There are thousands of ways for corporations and organizations to reach audiences in the present day. They can use media such as the newspaper, television, radio, and most significantly, the internet. Agendas can be spread through the population to try and convince people to join a cause. In the United States, a very prominent issue would be that of gun laws and how they should be implemented into society. This is an ongoing debate that does not seem to have a right or wrong answer, but that does not stop stakeholders from trying to convince the population that their cause is the correct one. The NRA is one of the largest stakeholders in the country when it comes to gun law debates. They mainly advocate for the right of people to own guns to defend themselves and for recreational use. They use many different methods to advocate for what they believe in, ranging from banners and PSAs to ads and billboards. Ads are one of the biggest ways that the NRA spreads their agenda, so two have been chosen for analysis. There are many different techniques that they implement into their ads to make the audience feel a certain way and agree with them. In these two pictures from the NRA, the creators of the images carefully crafted every aspect of the ad to convey a certain point through the use of Pathos, Kairos, and Logos. Over time, the NRA has gone through different phases in what they stand for and represent. Their first ads were much different in rhetoric and purpose than the ones that they put out now. The NRA started out as a pro-hunting organization that credited itself as the biggest Tato 2 hunting and gun organization in America (Gilson). One of their older ads is titled: fun with your in which the described itself as a (Gilson). This shows their main focus was to appeal to hunters and their love for the of it and not just the benefits of guns or any political affiliation. In another article by Steven Rosenfeld, he describes that: nearly a century after, its founding in 1871, the National Rifle Association was among foremost pro-gun control (Rosenfeld). This confirms the fact that the NRA was not what it is known as now. They tried to get people to join the NRA on the premise that they were a hunting organization. As it will be shown, this is no longer the case for current ads. Pathos can be defined as an appeal to emotion and it can be seen in both of the pictures. The first picture is in black and white and it illustrates three children who seem to be playing outside on a field. The American flag is framed to be in between the children playing and the angle at which the picture was taken resembles that of the view of a predator. There is writing in the foreground of the picture that says: the kids more important than with the words written in red while the rest of the sentence is in white. The American flag in the background is used as a way to show that they are in the of the where everyone is equal and to inspire a sense of patriotism in the audience. The colors of the picture highlight the writing, specifically the part of the sentence. The red helps those two words stand out and makes the words resonate within the audience. The words seem to attempt to trick the audience into feeling as if they are the president because the children are protected by guards with guns, which the average Americans are not. The second picture uses a similar technique to the first one. The picture is also in black and white and it is of two individuals preying on a typical suburban home where the silhouette of a family Tato 3 can be seen on the window. The writing says: will have to defend our implying that if one is not able to defend their family by using a gun, then who else will? The words in red in this picture are our which creates a feeling of fear for the families. Kairos is a lesser known form of rhetoric, but it can be simply defined as an appeal to timeliness. The Kairos in both pictures are subtle but it is implied by the choice of words used in the ad. In the first picture the words give the audience a sense of urgency to support their agenda so that they can do something to change that. The feelings created through the use of pathos help the Kairos appeal because the anger causes people to act faster. The use of young children in the picture also appeals to timeliness in that it urges parents to act on it before their kids remain vulnerable for a longer time. In the second picture the feeling of fear also helps the appeal to timeliness by making people feel like the longer them or their families do not own a weapon, the longer they are vulnerable to criminals. For both ads, the time in which they were published is very important. These pictures were published in 2013, a time right after the presidential election, where major controversial issues like gun control are hot topics (School Security). This raises the relevance of the ads since people are looking for information about the topic and the NRA benefits from the increased demand. The last form of rhetoric is Logos, which can be defined as an appeal to logic. In the first picture the stakeholder compares the kids to the average American kids. The main idea is to make the audience think about the fairness of the fact that the children are constantly protected by guards with guns on them but regular American kids do not have the opportunity to be safe everywhere they go. This makes people consider whether they should make an attempt to change that fact. After seeing this ad, the audience will immediately Tato 4 consider: why should the children be protected by guns but my children cannot? The second picture has a similar approach as the first one yet again. It presents the question of how the family will be protected if they cannot do it themselves. The ad implies that a family without a gun is a vulnerable one as well. This will immediately appeal to the logic as it makes them think about the vulnerability of who they care about the most. Since both of these ads were made as part of the same campaign, they have very similar appeals to logic that make the audience doubt the fairness of their current situation. The NRA used different types of rhetoric to make their ads supporting gun rights. The types used include Pathos, Kairos, and Logos which can be seen clearly in both pictures. The appeals used make the audience more likely to agree with the stakeholder and become part of their cause. These are very good examples of ads with major rhetorical appeal in them that can be used to influence the population into thinking one way or the other. The ultimate goal of ads like the ones the NRA created is to convince people to act on behalf or join the organization and to spread the word so that more and more people do the same. Tato 5 Works Cited Gilson, Dave. Collection of NRA Ads Reveals Its Descent Into Mother Jones. N.p., 10 Aps. 2013. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. Rosenfeld, Steven. Surprising Unknown History of the Alternet. N.p., 13 Jan. 2013. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. Stand and Fight. NRA, 2013. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Tato 6