Ryan Spracklin Spracklin 1 Professor Fennel ENC 1102 10 March 2017 Lowering the Drinking Age For years now, the minimum legal drinking age has been debated back and forth by politicians and lawmakers in order to determine the best suitable course of action in limiting the accessibility of alcohol for minors. Although not unanimous, it was decided that twenty one years of age would be the absolute minimum age for citizens in the United States to purchase and consume alcoholic beverages. Organizations such as the National Youth Rights Association (NYRA) have displayed a great deal of opposition to this law by posting advertisements claiming that adults, ages eighteen through twenty, have the same right to purchase and consume alcohol as an adult who is over the age of twenty one. The two images I chose use a combination of emotion, contrast in color in the foreground and background, as well as coherent and powerful statements which capture the attention and makes them question the legitimacy of the minimum legal drinking age. To begin, the National Youth Rights Association defends the rights of young people in the United States and particularly the young soldiers who are risking their lives to defend our country. The first image provided from my stakeholder displays a young soldier who is clearly distraught standing in front of a city that is ravaged by war. The rhetorical element of pathos is being used to connect to the audience on an emotional level. The visual image of burning buildings and black smoke filling the Spracklin 2 skies of the city can capture the attention of someone who may have only glanced at the image. The look and expression on the young face appears to be distraught and forlorn. The audience understands that the young man volunteered to put himself in the situation by choosing to serve in the military because he wanted to protect and defend his country. This act of courage, bravery and self sacrifice makes the reader empathize with the young soldier and the situation he is in. The second visual image provided from my stakeholder NYRA takes a more simple but direct approach to target the sympathy and emotion. A young soldier in uniform standing next to the statement They serve us, but we serve  contains the rhetorical element of pathos as well. The statement makes the reader feel like we are doing these young people a disservice by allowing them to risk their lives to defend this country however not allowing them to enjoy all of the freedoms that the country provides. To continue, the rhetorical strategy of kairos is utilized through the contrast in colors in the foreground and background of the images. The first image provided has a tremendous amount of color contrast which quickly and easily grabs the attention of the audience. The first example of this is the statement Lower the Drinking Age  presented in the foreground of the image. The word  has all of its letters capitalized emphasizing the importance of the issue. All of the letters in the word  including the exclamation point are displayed in a bright red color as well. The combination of bright red colors and all capitalized letters grabs the attention of the audience and establishes a sense of urgency and imperativeness. In addition, an Spracklin 3 example of the element of kairos can be found in the question and statement, Old Enough to Go to War? Old Enough to Go to the . The words  and  are the only words in the statement that have a red underline. The stakeholder is clearly trying to emphasize and associate these two words together in order to get their main message across to the audience. The second image provided has one distinct color contrast which captures the attention of the audience. This is an example of kairos as well. In the statement, time to lower the drinking  the words lower the drinking  are changed to yellow while the rest of the words in the statement remain black. This is done to emphasize the main point of the stakeholder and that if the audience only took one thing away from the image it would be the statement that stood out from the rest. Finally, the NYRA uses the rhetorical strategy of logos in their images by having coherent and powerful statements which directly target the readers attention and makes them think about the minimum legal drinking age and its legitimacy. The question and following statement in the first image, Old Enough to Go to War? Old Enough to Go to the  tells the reader that this young soldier is old enough to join the military but not yet old enough to legally drink alcohol. It seems to be a logical question and statement since eighteen, nineteen, and twenty year olds are deemed responsible enough to have the option and ability to choose to serve their country and enroll in the military, they should also be deemed responsible enough to have the option and ability to purchase and consume alcohol. The next statement in the image Lower the drinking age  addresses the audience directly and clearly states the objective. This straightforward approach is an example of the rhetorical Spracklin 4 strategy of logos. The second image contains two short and powerful statements which effectively communicate the message. The statement time to lower the drinking  is an example of the rhetoric tool kairos being used. The statement makes it seem that this issue has been long overdue and the stakeholders have been waiting for a resolution for quite some time now. Before 1984, the legal drinking age was left up to the discretion of the states where nearly all states lowered their drinking age to eighteen years old concluding that the young adults were mature and responsible enough to purchase and consume alcohol. Organizations like the NYRA have been fighting for young adults and their right to purchase and consume alcohol ever since the government raised the legal drinking age to twenty one years of age. In conclusion, the National Youth Rights Association defends the rights of young people in the United States in addition to properly educating them to make responsible and mature decisions about alcohol consumption in their own lives Drinking ). They especially want to support our young troops who are risking their lives to defend this country by allowing them to enjoy all of the rights and freedoms that the country has fought for. Advertisements like the ones provided are a large part of how the National Youth Rights Association gains support and attempts to sway public opinion. These advertisements use the rhetorical strategies of pathos, ethos, kairos, and logos in order to efficiently and effectively reach their audience. The combination of emotion, contrast in color in the foreground and background, as well as short and powerful statements in these advertisements allows the stakeholders to communicate their message while capturing the readers attention and making them Spracklin 5 focus on the issue at hand. Spracklin 6 Spracklin 7 Works Cited Choose  Drinking Age - Choose Responsibility. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. The Debate On Lowering The Drinking  CBSNews. CBS Interactive, Web. 25 Mar. 2017 . Drinking  National Youth Rights Association. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and  Web. 25 Mar. 2017.