Stenbeck 1 Zach Stenbeck Fennell ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Critical Analysis of Advertisements that Counter Animal Pooching Every year, over 40 million animals are killed for fur worldwide. Approximately 30 million animals are raised on fur farms and killed, about 10 million wild animals are trapped and killed for fur, and hundreds of thousands of seals are killed for fur (About, Inc). These numbers surprise others and some do not even realize how much of a problem this really is. The two advertisements I choose act upon the issues of animal pooching and using the fur and other parts as accessories and clothing. The first, a woman in an airport with a bloody suitcase rolling by her side. The other, a hairy nude man covered up by a sign that says your own and is surrounded by other animals behind the same sign. These advertisements both use rhetorical appeals effectively to get the point across, but in different ways. To start off, the first picture is of a lady rolling a suitcase that is leaving a vibrant red blood streak behind it. It is a gruesome scene but it gets the job done. The World Wildlife Foundation states, Tigers are primarily killed to supply underground black markets with its organs, pelts, and bones. These items are highly regarded in eastern medicine (although these treatments have been disproved and have no real medical value) (WWF, 1) Within this ad, there are only two of the four rhetorical appeals, pathos and logos. Pathos uses the emotional appeals in order to get the message across. The way the picture does this is by Stenbeck 2 making the audience think how awful this actually is. The streak of blood makes them think about what happened in order for this suitcase, this purse, these boots to be made. Logos is the rhetorical appeal that companies use to get their message across by using logic. The suitcase in the picture represents a dead animal being dragged across the floor. Nobody in the right state of mind would ever do this, so why would you? Overall, this is an effective advertisement because of both of the rhetorical appeals that are being used. The picture is set in a familiar setting and the lady in it seems a little lost (like we all have been before). We can relate to this with and without the bloody suitcase. To continue, the second picture has a man and animals surrounding him holding signs that say your own Even though the advertisement is somewhat humorous this is no laughing matter. PeTA reported eighty-five percent of the fur skins come from animals living captive in fur factory farms.1 These farms can hold thousands of animals, and their farming practices are remarkably uniform around the globe (PeTA, 1). In this ad, three of the four rhetorical appeals are real: ethos, logos and pathos. First off, the animals being there represent pathos because of the signs they are holding and how it shows variety between the animals that are usual targets for their fur. Also in bottom left corner in little text it says the skin you are in. Let them keep After reading this the thought should be, would I give away my This advertisement is supposed to show a bit of humor but also brings forward the issue of skinning the animals for their fur. Another appeal would be ethos, the use of ethics to deliver their message. PeTA does this by using the actor Nev Schulman wearing no cloths with only a sign to cover himself up. It is an odd picture but it does a good job at getting your attention. There is a white background and its simply put, stop wearing their fur. Lastly, there is logos which addresses the logic within the ad. What shoppers do not understand is that Stenbeck 3 some of the products that they buy could be made out of their favorite animal. It is not right to kill off these animals because if you think logically you would never want this to happen to you. This advertisement gets the attention of the audience and in a way shows equality between man and animal. We all want to keep our fur. To conclude, advertisements can be used to really sway the thinking of a lot of people. Within each picture, the rhetorical appeals were used effectively. They both really make you stop and think about it. Advertising is an art that holds a deeper meaning, it is supposed to jump out and pull your attention without moving. What the rhetorical devises do to strengthen the advertisement effectiveness by making connections with the audience using ethos, pathos, logos, and karios. The two picture used bellow are effective in their own way, the first one with the lady and the suitcase taking a strong and sad pathos path and the second ad that had the man holding the sign with the animals took a more humorous approach with the pathos appeal. Stenbeck 4 Stenbeck 5 Stenbeck 6 Work Cited Lin, Doris. (2017, February 09). How many animals are killed each year?. https://www.thoughtco.com/how-many-animals-are-killed-each-year-127631 PeTA. (2016, January 6). Inside the Fur Industry: Factory Farms. http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-clothing/animals-used-clothing- factsheets/inside-fur-industry-factory-farms/ (Graphic Content No Warning) WWF. (2015, April 4). Save Tigers Now https://www.dosomething.org/us/facts/11-facts-about-poaching-animals