Diaz 1 Laura Diaz Professor Fennell ENC 1102 10 March 2017 Facts are the facts or are they? Recently, marijuana has become the front runner when talking about the reclassification and legalization of drugs. Despite the growing support, the benefits introduced by advocates for recreational reform are being heavily rebutted. Such rebuttal includes researchers indicating that marijuana is serving as a gateway drug into a life of addiction to drugs such as heroin, LSD, or cocaine(Mason). Furthermore, there is strong evidence that chronic cannabis abuse causes cognitive impairment and damages the brain(Madelbaum). Smart Approaches to Marijuana is a nationwide organization that is against the legalization of cannabis for medical and recreational purposes, and persists that factual marijuana facts be presented to the public. SAM repeatedly calls the potential marijuana industry next Big building on the idea that marijuana companies are misconstruing data and compiling faulty evidence to support detrimental legalization. Consequently, advertisements elude to feelings of targeting and deceit through the exemplification of logos, pathos, and ethos. Image one was found on the website for Smart Approaches to Marijuana. Colorado has been the hallmark for both advocates of Marijuana and those opposed to its legalization. The image depicts the statistics of the effect of legalization on the youth arrest rates since reform was implemented. The words shown on the image read, Black and Hispanic youth are being arrested for pot in Colorado after legalization than This diction is one source of pathos for the image and serves to single out these two minority groups of society. SAM aims to make Diaz 2 Blacks and Hispanics who read this advertisement feel a sense of being targeted in an illogical circumstance where legalization increases probability of an arrest. Also contributing to the pathos is the color choices. Each bar on the graph except the bars accounting for the white youth are given vibrant colors. In order to derive a sense of injustice as well as deem the legalization as counterproductive to the intended Black and Hispanic audience, SAM presents the white youth arrest data in a monochrome color that quickly attracts attention to the only decreasing percentage of arrests in the population. Furthermore, the advertisements most dominant appeal is logos. The statistics account for total juvenile pot related arrests, white youth arrest rates, Hispanic youth arrest rate, and Black youth arrest rates. The data shows a 5% increase for total juvenile pot-related arrests, an 8% decrease in arrests for pot in white youth, 29% increase for Hispanic youth, and 58% increase in black youth. The statistics span a period of two years (2012-2014), which according to SAM has resulted in too many arrests after a period of legalization. This is important because with ideas of recreational reform coming in at an alarming rate, the statistics highlight yet another downfall in voting for legalization of cannabis. Standing behind the statistics is the Colorado Department of Public Safety. This is a state-wide agency that is required to accurately record and share this information. Having the Colorado Department of Public Safety as the source of the data adds to the credibility of the advertisement as a whole. Similarly, image 2 was found on the website for Smart Approaches to Marijuana. This advertisement seeks to attract people who believe that the legalization of marijuana would stop the influx of inhabitants in prison who merely commit a drug crime. SAM relies heavily on each rhetorical appeal in order to debunk the idea that legalization would reduce the prison rate by alluding to the fact that there is no high prison rate for drug offenses involving marijuana in the Diaz 3 first place. Vital to the success of the advertisement, data is presented in abundance. The eye- catching number is 18%. This large, bold face percentage is the percent of sentenced prisoners in prison for drug offenses. The number directly beneath 18% is 0.2%. This percentage is presented on the advertisement in a slightly smaller font, and represents the amount of people out of the original 18%, that are in prison for possession of any drug. The bolded statistics are meant to capture the attention of the audience immediately to convey that in the grand scheme of things, only a minute amount of people are in prison for smoking pot, and therefore, no reform is needed. The 0.3% statistic located on the advertisement describes the percent of state prisoners in prison only or possession of marijuana, and the 0.1% represents the percent of state prisoners with no prior offenses are in prison for marijuana possession only. Loaded with statistics, the advertisement repeatedly hammers down on the insignificance of drug possession arrests in the corrections system. Evidence of pathos lies within the statistics and in the tittle. The advertisement is titled, COUNTLESS PEOPLE ARE IN PRISON FOR SMOKING By claiming countless people are in prison for smoking pot is a myth, SAM invokes feelings of being tricked in the audience; yet again an attempt to sway the audience into believing the legalization of marijuana would be detrimental. The statistics were gathered by SAM from the Bureau of Justice. This is a nationwide agency that is extremely credible and highly regarded. The noting of where the data came from is important in establishing a sense of trust between the audience and the advertisement. Overall, Smart Approaches to Marijuana maintains a tone of neutrality in both advertisements and intends to set a resentful mood toward marijuana legislation reform. This mood is set by the overwhelming statistics in both images that goes against legalized marijuana. The first image sets the mood as by presenting reform as a masked evil, where the legalization Diaz 4 seems beneficial at first, but beneath the mask lies only more chance of legal distress than originally present. The second image sets the mood by downplaying the situation in order to make the audience feel offended that pro-marijuana advocates would test the intelligence and plant falsified in their head. Also similar between the advertisements is the heavy use of statistics coming from extremely reliable sources. Retrieved from a state agency in the first image and a government agency in the second image, it is hard to refute these facts. These organizations are both heavily overseen in order to ensure accurate information to the public. Kairos is embodied in the images as they have been released in the reform boom. Many are looking to study the effects of reform on Colorado, and these photos gather that information. Smart Approaches to Marijuana presents advertisements to the public that attempt to taint the attractiveness of marijuana legal reform. The images force the audience to take a serious look at the statistics and facts at hand. By implementing all four rhetorical appeals in the images, Smart Approaches to Marijuana is victorious in persuading its audience that legal reform is not the answer. Diaz 5 Works Cited Institute for Substance Abuse Studies. Education Module for College Faculty and Teaching Assistants. George Mason University, http://www.gmu.edu/resources/facstaff/facultyfacts/1-2/grass.html Accessed 22 February 2017. Smart Approaches to Marijuana. https://learnaboutsam.org/ . Accessed 25 February 2017. Mandelbaum, David E. and Suzanne M. De la Monte. Adverse Structural and Functional Effects of Marijuana on the Brain: Evidence  Pediatric Neurology, 2017, p. 12. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2016.09.004.