Han 1 Songting Han(Martin) ENC1102 Jarad Fennell March 12, 2017 Get Ready for Donating Money to Help Animals It is not uncommon these days that more and more animals are being abused and neglected. According to American Veterinary Medical Association year, approximately 2.7 million animals are euthanized (1.2 million dogs and 1.4 million (ASPCA. org). Therefore, it is high time we as the public, need to put in efforts to help those animals out. The ASPCA, The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, was the first non-profit and privately funded humane organization in the United States founded by Henry Bergh in 1866.( ASPCA. org). The society seeks effective means to help prevent animal cruelty throughout the United States, and their actions have increased support to millions of people worldwide. To accomplish their goal to rescue abused animals, the ASPCA has employed a lot of rhetorical appeals in their ads. One of the images is an ad that has a photo of a small puppy, pitifully looking at you and saying you be my the other image is about a victimized kitty, along with a roll of masking tape, and a gas tank. The ultimate goal for the ASPCA is to use the rhetorical appeals of logos, ethos, pathos and kairos presented in their ads in order to persuade people to donate money for those abused animals. To begin with, ASPCA utilizes a small puppy in the first ad. It aims to persuade audiences to donate money to helpless animals. They handle their ads by employing lots of rhetorical appeals such as logos, ethos, and pathos.Undoubtedly, by using pathos in their Han 2 advertisements, the ASPCA causes audiences to feel emotionally engaged in this issue and then get their message across. The message of sadness is cemented by the image of a sad puppy. When audiences view this image and the message you be my People might feel very sympathetic and sorrowful and are more likely to support these abandoned animals. Appeals to logic are also evident through the use of the text, which states, WE ARE THEIR  underneath 60 cents a day and help find loving homes for abandoned The statistic of C a reinforces the fact that the amount of money is reasonable and affordable. Lastly, the image demonstrates ethos because the business of the ASPCA situates their logo on the bottom of the image. This proves the credibility of the image because the ASPCA is a trustworthy organization. The goal can also be found in another photo of a victimized kitty, which is the same goal that ASPCA applies: the Public can make a difference by donating and not allowing to do more harm. This ad is directed more towards people who feels passionate towards animals. They handle their ads by using lots of rhetorical appeals such as logos, ethos, pathos and kairos. When users view this image, appeals to logic can be easily found which is providing the statistic about the number of cases the ASPCA would deal with in one year in New York. Ethos is also involved in the given image since the ASPCA is a profound organization. more, pathos is also used in the image for they are getting attention to notice how severity the animals abuse are.More specifically, the ASPCA use a roll of masking tape, a gas tank, and a kitty. People may feel as though there must be something bad happened associated with them, and these elements indicate that this small kitty is in a predicament, hence people will be more willing to donate money to help Han 3 them out.Underneath, it states whatever you can imagine, seen Undoubtedly, they are trying to promote feelings of pain and sorrow and brings more attention to the cause. Lastly, the ASPCA uses the message in the third line telling the audience to see how they can volunteer the organization to make a change by looking through their website. This method is effective because of its salient feature timeliness. The ASPCA not only promotes their ads by using rhetorical appeals but also employs other elements like For the first image with the small puppy, the use of gray coloring of the background creates a very sorrowful atmosphere and make people feel very sad. This is yet another example of pathos. The setting of the text is also smart, they enlarged the font size of you be to catch the public eyes, and they are also intelligent in the way they bold cents a which aim to make people help support abused animals monetarily. For the second kitty image, the use of the yellow color can somewhat reflect the cowardice of the small kitty, which can generate a strong emotional pull to the viewers. What one can easily see is that the ASPCA highlights the message Whatever you can imagine, seen worse to red, this is because they want to alert the viewers that the what would be the future outcome if people continued to abuse animals. These efforts they put into the ads can definitely help them to fulfill their goal which is to persuade the viewer to donate money to their organization in order to prevent animal abuse. After the analysis of the two pictures presented below, one can positively say that the ASPCA is a responsible organization for the protection of abandoned and abused animals. Apart from that, the ASPCA has always planned on providing more updated articles concerning health and food information on its website, Twitter and Facebook to Han 4 make sure every donation from the public can make a great impact on those pitiful animals. The articles mainly talk about to make the puppies and better service for dental care and bath that stuff. If the public has any concern about the safety of an animal, the ASPCA will be very willing to help and presumably set an interview to go through all the problems and find the way to make the life healthier. In conclusion, ASPCA is very well aware of how their goal could be accomplished through their ads by using whatever tactic or rhetorical appeals they can make. I think that reducing long-term animal abuse and neglect issues would depend on persuading more citizens donating or giving gifts to these animals and on ASPCA making more efforts to make sure they get all the results they wanted at the end of the day. The ASPCA should try harder to live up to the hope of the public, and at the same time, the awareness should be improved as the public tries to fight back for those victims and animals, as well as any manner of animal violence.The ASPCA images urge people to come together at once and make it right for a better society. Han 5 Han 6 Works Cited Create stories using social  Storify. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Dimedio, Maria. Pathos in the ASPCA  Powered by Sites at Penn State - WordPress. N.p.,Mar. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Images.search.yahoo.com/yhs/searchMar. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.