When considering stem cell research it is important to weigh the ethics of killing life to create stem cells using common methods, yet also consider the immense potential to improve life that stem cell research can offer. I heavily advocate the progress stem cell research and therapy development has to offer in terms of improving the lives of families of individuals and the individuals themselves suffering from chronic injury or illness. The organization Americans for Cures seeks and assists fellow stem cell advocates with tools and funding to enable milestones in human medical development and is the stakeholder I agree with most. However, as shown by the photos there is a matter of death of life that needs to be addressed. The image to the left of the last page exemplifies the seeming lack of up and coming stem cell advances to allow for furthering life care and meanwhile embryos are killed to provide research. This image tries to push less towards stem cell research due to the use of farming embryos for substance for the research. Overall pushing the audience to notice the slow stem cell research progress and sympathize with the life manipulated for its advancement. The other image critiques the human concept of life. Exemplifying how we can look at war and killing as a necessity for preserving life at times, but view taking advantage of life pre- development or of other organisms takes the front of issues. This picture overall makes us think in regards to what should take the precipice of human discussion in regards to political issues, yet we can confound and distract ourselves often from macro issues to try to debate micro issues. Both images provide a signature from the artist as to allow us to determine for ourselves what we think of them in terms of how what their art portrays. In addition, the image to the right of the last page presents a news source which too can be determined by us if or not credible. The left image has us feel bad for those who have hope for stem cell research to pull through quickly to allow for current recoveries shown by the man assumingly in heaven after death stating he was waiting for stem cell research to pull through. Also, the image implies that we become enraged or saddened by that fact that embryos were killed in the process of creating these stem cells for research advancement. The right image has us reflect on what issues matter more in terms of life being killed and rather we should interfere more with stem cell research or with how our government kills to a greater extent to protect us provided by the man to the left within the quote. The image to the left allows us to logically assert that for stem cell research to pursue as of now the killing of embryos is being utilized provided by the dialogue bubbles of the image. The image to the right would imply that the killing of embryos is micro when we consider the murdering that occurs as the result of wars and battles fought to protect us as stated by the woman in the seemingly cynical remark in retaliation to the statement exemplified by the difference in the article titles on their papers. Given that stem cell research is a fairly new development and its current progress is rather slow and the image to left of the last page exemplifies this and urges us to fight for embryonic life as it is happening. The other image is slightly outdated and really imply a sense of timeliness and or urgency. Links for the photos: For left one http://onlyamustardseed.blogspot.com/2010/10/ stem-cell-research-new-breakthroughs.html For right one https://www.theodysseyonline.com/embryonic- stem-cell-research-yay-or-nay