1 Bryanna Dejorge Lorie Jewell ENC 1101 February 5, 2017 How does the use of Social Media affect youth of society? Social Media. something all come in contact with in some way or another. In the past twenty years, but the last decade especially, social media has become such an influential part of our daily lives. Social media has done everything from feeding us information about going on around the world, to giving us an online communication platform, to just being a source of entertainment when we have absolutely nothing better to do. Society as a whole has been influenced by social media in both positive and negative ways. Sometimes easy to forget the negative effects that such rapid and easy access to so much information can cause. For example, there are some studies relating social media to drug abuse or even mental illnesses. Many primary and secondary sources have shown evidence for both positive and negative connotations of social media. These following articles will help to explain any existing correlation, good or bad, between social media and the way young people think and behave. By the end of this research, it should be better understood how exactly the use of social media affects young adults in society. In this article, the initial start of chat rooms is brought to attention. Jennifer Wolcott interviewed several teenagers discussing their experience with e-mails and chat rooms. It was mentioned that children find the internet as a more productive source of staying in touch with 2 friends for a couple of reasons. Unlike phone calls, you could connect with out of country peers for much cheaper than a long distance phone call. Another reason given was the amounts of people they could connect with at a time. Unlike phone calls where you can only talk to 1-2 people at a time, in these chat rooms you could talk to 20-30 friends at a time. The article continues with direct quotes from teens explaining their opinions about the internet. All but one of the kids interviewed felt positively about it. As for the parents, most preferred their children to communicate on the internet rather than by phone, although some were hesitant about allowing their kids to join chat rooms due to predators out there. Overall, the majority saw the rise of communication via internet as a positive medium. This article is written by Jennifer Wolcott, a self-employed writer/editor. had the opportunity to interview some of her personal heroes, as well as write for multiple news platforms. She is a credible source because been doing her job for 14 years and is considered a professional at it. Marcus, Mary Brophy. Gives Thumbs down to USA Today, 4 Feb. 2010. Wolcott, Jennifer. Hanging out - Online; Chat Rooms and E-Mail Are the Electronic Mall, a Place to Gather and  The Christian Science Monitor, no. 56, 1999. EBSCOhost, This report was about the reduction of blogging among teenagers and young adults. Ever since the new age of Facebook and Twitter, the percentage of people using blogs has been cut in half. The move from one social media platform to another seems to have cause this rapid change. The young crowd switched from MySpace, which was set up as a blogging medium, to Facebook which was created to socialize with people via internet, and then Twitter, which had not yet become quite popular with the young crowd. This could be due to the fact that a complete 180 turn from being able to post long drawn out posts, to having a very brief word limit. With young people 3 especially, easy to get involved and move on to the next new thing. This was the rise of social media where the internet became more about socializing with friends through messages rather than communicating with the world about real life issues. The article showed some statistics predicting that some teens may get back into blogging as they mature and grow into adulthood. This article was written by Mary Brophy Marcus, a health journalist at CBS news network. Her work is credible due to the fact that her area of expertise, and a known professional. For this article she included primary sources such as quotes from real people spoken to, which credits her article even more. Marcus, Mary Brophy. The Young Prefer Facebook to Blogging,  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 03 Feb. 2010. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Brooke Lusk discusses the rise of social media among teens in this article. She explains that media is an aspect of the internet which allows individuals and groups to create and publish online content, share the content, and interact about She continues on by informing about the different groups of people that participate in this online interaction and those people are everyone. Different online platforms are made to integrate different groups of people over one common interest such as LGBTQ, religious affiliation, and mental health problems. A survey was taken of teens with mild-moderate depression who used therapeutic websites along with traditional therapy, the study showed that these together were the most effective treatment. Teens are looking to social media as a place to belong with others who have similar interest and are able to support one another. The article also explains how the social media wave is allowing interest-driven genres which unlike friendship structure that only includes social interaction within people connected through physical friendships, sports teams, or religious groups, are simply focused on particular hobbies and/or interests regardless of outside social construct. 4 This article was written by Brooke Lusk, who is a Director of Communications at The Foundation for Global Sports Development. She is a credible source due to her position as well as her work experience which includes blogging and interaction with customers. Lusk has also been a writer throughout her entire career, so this gives her past experience as well. Lusk, Brooke. Digital Natives and Social Media Behaviors: An  Prevention Researcher, vol. 17, Dec2010 Supplement, pp. 3-6. This article includes evidence of how social media can cause mental disorders as well as fuel already existing ones. A woman named Donna was interviewed in this article and she explained how social media fueled her disorder. Donna struggled with bulimia nervosa, and she spoke about how took part in online discussion forums where people compared weights, binged together, and helped one another avoid (PP2). As many people know, social media sites often have groups for people with similar interests of any kind. This was a group for those with eating disorders. However, instead of seeking help, these individuals used social media in order to fuel each disorders. The growth of social media has made it easier for people worldwide to find a place where they think they belong and are accepted. Statistics in the article show that eating disorder related hospitalizations have increased 24% in the past decade alone. However, although this article talks about pro anorexia sites, it ends with an explanation of a newer site, NEDA, where recovering individuals are able to tell their battle stories and their way to a healthier lifestyle. This news article is credible because the interviewed woman acts as a primary source. She told the story of her battle and stuff she experience first-hand. The article also includes other relevant statistics and information about social media sites in which people with these 5 disorders post. It relates to my research question by showing a positive correlation between social media and eating disorders, which coordinates with the mentality of society. Marcela Rojas, The (Westchester County, N.Y.) Journal News. Social Media Helps Fuel Some Eating  USA Today. Gannett, 01 June 2014. Web. 11 Sept. 2016. This article has evidence for the idea that social media has a correlation with drug abuse. The evidence includes relevant information about pop culture, influence, peer pressure, as well as statistics to back up its stance. It shines a light on the fact that today, social media has made peer pressure so easy to get pulled into. Back in the day when peer pressure was simply defined as the and try moment at a while now you scroll up and down Instagram seeing all these wild party posts that makes you want to become part of the fun. Of course, when someone is receiving a bunch of praise on their posts by and it makes others feel like how to become person in society. This article also lightly touches on how social media has made it so much easier to buy and sell drugs just the simply click of a button. This source also included statistics from a survey conducted by David Tran and UCLA of young people in substance abuse programs in Los Angeles. Engaged in Social Networking: 92% Posted drug-related content: 44% Their friends posted drug-related content: 94% Drug content on social media made them want to try drugs: 66% This article shows real relationships between social media and drug abuse. a credible source because it was published by a resource center for adolescents seeking recovery from drug abuse. The publication date also shows that it was published in the past year, therefore, the data is pretty fresh and up to date. 6 Ridings, Amy. Drugs and the Rise of Social Media - Adolescent Rehab Louisiana - Drug Abuse Treatment Centers  Adolescent Rehab Louisiana Drug Abuse Treatment Centers Louisiana. N.p., 19 Feb. 2016. Web. 11 Sept. 2016. This journal article contains plenty of information explaining the reason behind young infatuation with social media. The reading begins with a real-life situation of a young 13- year-old girl who had become highly addicted to the use of social media through some online chat rooms she had been involved in. She changed from an innocent and athletic over-achiever, to a hostile and violent child who had been taken to the psychiatric emergency room not once, but twice within a week. It then moves on to explain how and why social media is able to cause mental problems including addiction and depression. The article states, connection is not only the most essential part of being human, it is also a key ingredient in happiness and As humans, we have a natural need for novelty, called neophilia. This need is met through viewing tweets, pictures on Instagram and posts on facebook, because of all the new information we are getting at once. The reading speaks of how we as a society are replacing real human interaction with communication behind a screen and explains why being cut off from actual contact can cause psychological and emotional problems. In a nutshell, although social media gives us the same satisfaction as interpersonal socialization, it is not a proper substitute for it because it causes individuals to miss out on real life skills, which may lead to mental disorders such as but not limited to depression and social anxiety. The author of this article, Nicholas Kardaras is an internationally known addiction expert. the executive director of one of the top rehabs, and the founder of a progressive adolescent treatment program. Kardaras has appeared on multiple news and talk shows sharing his knowledge with the rest of the world. a credible source due to his expertise on the subject 7 written about. KARDARAS, NICHOLAS. Z: ONLINE AND AT Scientific American Mind, vol. 27, no. 5, Sept. 2016, pp. As previously mentioned, social media does have an impact on the youth of society. Both positive and negative outcomes have come from this communication platform. After conducting this research, it is shown that the use of social media has done everything from bring people of like interests together, to distract people from the real living world, to tearing people apart. It may be hard to understand how one platform can have so many positive yet so many negative connotations to its use, but the internet for you. To conclude, social media is an online medium where multiple people can all connect together at any given moment in time. Due to its wide variety of usage, it can be taken advantage of in either positive or negative ways depending on the whom is using it for what purpose.