Chima 1 Uchenna Ifeanyi Chima Professor Fenell ENC1102.039 22 February 2017 Project 2 Final Draft In world, visual advertisement is rapidly becoming the prominent method of public protest and mass communication. From flyers to billboards, and to social media, we are constantly inundated by visual advertisements created to appeal to our basic needs, to spread awareness, and to change our perspectives through creative visual techniques. Whether it may come off as obnoxious, remorseful, factual, or entertaining, visual imagery is a powerful tool that can be manipulated in various ways in order to incite certain reactions from its viewers. For example, one of the ways that visual imagery has been utilized to incite certain reactions to stimulate social change occurred during the intense protests and campaigns taken in attempt to eradicate the ban on women driving in Saudi Arabia. One of the campaigns called The created artistic and tactical declaration  stickers to generate a social dialogue and to propel the driving legislation into a central point of discussion within the country and globally. Additionally, other female activists against the religious driving fatwa or law such as Manal Al-Sharif, have taken to social media outlets such as Facebook and Youtube to create awareness on the issue, and to rally others with a similar perspective together. Although both instances uses different visual techniques, they both evoke the rhetorical appeals of kairos, ethos, and pathos as a mean to convince and persuade their audience that the ban should be lifted. Chima 2 Due to the severity of driving ban against women in Saudi Arabia, an advertisement must be credible in order to persuade its uninformed viewers to understand, sympathize, and take action against the driving ban which is displayed in both of my Images. According to the reputable philosopher Aristotle, ethos to a strategy for convincing people of the integrity of a (Popan 1). Although my first image may put credibility into question at first sight, the author of the twitter post, Manal Al-Sharif is a prominent and highly esteemed character in terms of involvement and influencing other women to join the movement against the ban. In May 2011, al-Sharif, 32, a divorced mother of two, decided to take on the issue by posting on YouTube a video of herself driving the Saudi (Baker 74). A personal anecdote in a situation of this matter is very powerful when establishing a ground of legitimacy. Furthermore, in my second image, ethos is established by the incorporation of the brand name the With a campaign whose goal is generate social dialogue on the ban among Saudi the The campaign proves to be credible as its image is created solely in order to fulfill its mission statement (Khan). The idea of the eradication of the ban against women driving is prevalent in both images and, both images utilizes ethos in order to reach its audience. In addition to the use of ethos as a means to persuade its viewers to side with the stance on lifting the driving ban in Saudi Arabia, both of my images also incorporate the use of pathos. Through textual content and imagery provided in both of my images, pathos, described as quality of an experience in life or a work of art that stirs up emotions of pity, sympathy and is established between the viewer and the image (Bernanke 1). For example, my first image displays a text that states to be amongst the Saudi women who lived the ban fought the The text is then followed up by an image of the activist Manal al-Sharif in order Chima 3 to capture the emotions of the viewer. By reading this text that is accompanied by a prominent figure who has had firsthand experience with the driving ban, the viewer is immediately subjected to think about the numerous women who are being seriously affected by the driving ban. In my second picture, the image of a woman pointed towards the text bubble like the back also attempts to evoke pathos and influence the emotions of the viewer. The woman in the image wearing an igal or the traditional ring that only men wear over their headdress as a symbolism for gender equality. By associating these two aspects of the image together, the viewer is influenced in a way which induces empathy and sympathy with the women living in Saudi Arabia. The use of pathos in both of my images is ultimately incorporated as a means to sway the opinion towards that of the stakeholder, the women who are against the driving ban in Saudi Arabia. Another strategy that is used to influence the audience to side with the ban being lifted that is noted in my first image but not the second is the use of Kairos. According to Emily Lane, Kairos is type of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right (Lane 23). This is established through the textual content of Manal post. Seen on the line celebrate the freedom Manal attempts to persuade the viewer to take immediate action towards the cause as she says the ban is something that is to be abolished. The driving ban in Saudi Arabia renders women incapable of performing daily routine activities. With the driving ban being a very controversial topic, preeminent effort is required in order for a possible reformation or eradication of the fatwa. As noted and seen in many instances in the past, visual rhetoric is powerful when it comes to persuading an audience. With the use of a few techniques incorporated within the images presented by the the campaign and Manal Al Sharif, they are able to inspire and influence both women and men around the Chima 4 world. In addition to raising awareness of the situation present in Saudi-Arabia, these techniques assist in inflicting feelings of sympathy, empathy and attempts to draw more supporters to act towards the cause. By harnessing the power of social media, advertisements and coalescing international organizations, social change will certainly prevail within the Saudi government. Chima 5 Work Cited Baker, Aryn. Manal  Time, vol. 179, no. 17, 30 Apr. 2012, p. 74. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aph&AN=74531213&site=eds-live. Bernanke, Ben. Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and  PathosEthosLogos. N.p., 27 Aug. 2010. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Emily Lane, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides. .1 The Rhetorical Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20. Print. Khan, Areej. We the Women (Saudi  10 Tactics Remixed. N.p., 6 July 2009. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Popan, Elena, MA.  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=ers&AN=113931150&site=eds-live.