Peterle 1 Dylan Peterle Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 03/01/2017 About ninety five percent deceased NFL players tested positive for Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE). CTE has become the signature football disease, affecting players during and after their time in the NFL due to brain trauma experienced during their career. Mike Webster died from a heart attack at the age of 50, he was a retired football player who became the symbol for head injuries. Doctors say he suffered from a heart attack at a young age due to multiple concussions damaging his frontal lobe (Bailes). The first doctor that noticed the problem was Dr. Bennet Omalu after he examined the deceased Mike Webster in 2002. After Dr. Omalu explained his findings to the world the NFL encountered a lot of negative media attention. The NFL tried to cover up Dr. finding. After further research, Dr. findings were proven to be correct. Since 2003 the NFL has changed their attitude towards major hits to the head, trying to limit the number of concussions per season. Scientists have changed their tone in conversation. Before Dr. findings, the NFL was not concerned for the health. Because of Dr. discoveries, the NFL is now taking steps to provide safer helmets, modify outdated rules, and invest in head injury related research. Peterle 2 For years NFL players, have worn helmets that were developed before brain trauma was well-understood. They wore helmets that did not protect the head properly leading to hundreds of concussions per season. After breakthrough discovery scientists noticed the problem needed to be fixed. Per CNN, in 2012, 261 players were diagnosed with a concussion (Weinbaum). Scientists linked the high rate of concussions with helmets, and as a result the league tasked engineers with designing new helmets to prevent concussions. One helmet designed to do this is the Zero1. The engineers that created it compare it to a car bumper, with a soft outer shell that deforms on impact and an absorbing interior lining that absorbs on impact. Compared to older helmets that had a hard shell and pads the Zero1 was created to take a hit. Many others are generating similar products to make football a safer sport for the players. After Dr. discovery scientist suggested the NFL modify their existing rules to provide a safer game for the players. One rule that was specifically changed was the legality of hitting a opponent with your helmet, a technique also known as This action was incredibly dangerous, and many players experienced injuries because of it. Another rule change enacted to protect players was the cessation of play in the event of a player losing his helmet. Making this change seems obvious now, but the outdated rules allowed for the continuation of the game even following a helmet coming off. Back in 2010 Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker James Harrison took out Cleveland Browns Quarterback Josh Cribbs with a vicious blow to the head, causing him to leave the game. The NFL is acting to minimize hits like that during the game. After the suggestion of the rule change of game play, the NFL saw a slight decrease in the amount of concussions the following years (DiSavlo). Peterle 3 After Dr. discovery the NFL has paired up with scientists to research head related injuries more in-depth. Just recently the NFL donated thirty million dollars to Bethesda- based Foundation for the National Institutes of Health. Roger Goodell told the press, commitment here is to hopefully help set the standard and lead the way in research about head injuries, and doing it with the leading (Ezell). This sizeable donation was the largest of NFL history. They hope to better diagnose and treat players that suffer from concussions, while defending themselves from allegations of retired lawsuits clamming the NFL did not properly warn them about dangers of head injuries. Before Dr. Omula, sideline doctors never did concussion test on the sideline to determine if the player can play or not. In the future, scientists hope to create a test that will determine if players will obtain CTE after they retire. For example, UCLA recently purchased a license to brain scan and test signs of CTE on former NFL players including Tony Dorsett (Weinbaum). Scientist are pairing up with the NFL to help limit victims of CTE through the advance in technology. Over time, scientists noticed the severity of CTE and its effects on players after they retire. It starts with multiple hits to the head and the impact of that could be as serve as causing suicide. Players such as Lou Creekmur, Ray Easterling, and many others have committed suicide because of the lifelong impact the game of football had on them. Dr. Omula first noticed CTE in Mike Webster and changed views about the safety of the players. Scientist have helped and will continue to help the NFL make football safer for the players. They have created safer helmets, changed the rules, and donated money to research head injuries. In the future scientist hope to have created a test to determine the likelihood a player will suffer from CTE once he retires from the league. After many incidents of bad media towards the NFL they are changing their ways by making the game safer for all. Peterle 4 Work Cited Abreu, Marcos A. Comarite, Fred J. Spradley, Brandon D. Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) and Former National Football League Player Sport Journal; 2016 pp1 12. 18 Feb 2017 Bailes, Julian. What Is  What Is CTE? Brain Injury Research Institute. BIRI, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://www.protectthebrain.org/Brain-Injury-Research/What-is-CTE-.aspx DiSalvo, David. Is The NFL Doing Enough To Prevent Brain Trauma? Probes For  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 16 Nov. 2015. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. http://www.forbes.com/sites/daviddisalvo/2015/11/16/60-minutes-probes-what-the-nfl-is doing-to-decrease-brain-trauma-from-head-injuries/#3741908a31ba Gibeaut, John. Thrown For A Loss: Retired Players Sue, Claim NFL Hid Brain Damage  ABA Journal 97.11 (2011): 29. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Weinbaum, William. Former Players Want in on CTE  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 05 Apr. 2014. Web. 26 Mar. 2017