Gabriela Shephard Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 22 March 2017 The impact of Music Therapy on disabled children It is evident that music is a versatile form of communication and means of entertainment, yet it is often overlooked as a source of treatment for children with special needs. Music therapy is a musically- based therapeutic practice that benefits children through one on one meetings or group sessions based on the needs. While music therapy has not always been the most renowned form of therapeutic procedure until more recently, it is now defined as one of the most desired types of therapy because of the positive effect on children with disabilities and disorders. The initial benefits presented by music therapy are countless; some consist of the exposure of abilities both musical and non-musical, building memorization skills, encouraging various functions and movements, and supporting physical and mental awareness. Research studies have broadened towards children with autism, emotional and behavioral disorders, and learning disabilities. According to research, in 2006 there was not a great deal of information on treatments for children with emotional and behavioral disorders (EBD) (Sausser 1). Although investigation on music therapy has remained fairly consistent in regards to its benefits on children with special needs, ideas have been expanded and researched further in the past few years. In the research done between 2000 and 2010, one of the methods in which music therapy was determined to be beneficial was mostly done by experiments and testing. Research was conducted through studies that utilized a control group and an experimental group to verify the end result of music therapy. A program was created for the music therapist to use. The authors of model for Music Therapy with Students with Emotional and Behavioral Shannon Sausser and Raymond Waller discuss the study completed to analyze the advantages of music therapy and its effects on children with emotional and behavioral disorders (EBD). They said with EBD receive a variety of diagnoses, including schizophrenia, depression, anxiety disorders, attention- deficit hyperactivity disorders, autism, or other sustained disturbances in (Sausser et al 1). Because Sausser and Waller mentioned EBD in various forms, it contributes to the evidence that music therapy has been reached to children with these diagnoses and how beginning to develop. In this article the authors also conversed about a curriculum for children with EBD. They created a model for the music therapist to follow during music therapy sessions. Likewise, in Jinah article Motivational and Interpersonal Responsiveness of Children with Autism in Improvisational Music the study compared children with autism engaging in an improvisational music therapy session versus a session of playing with toys. The authors explained the importance of the results between the two sessions and exchanged similar ideas on conducting studies related to children being exposed to music therapy. The results in both pieces also gave confirmation on the effectiveness of music therapy and gave details on the approach of music therapy and impact on children. The research following 2010 shows the results and progress from music therapy methods and supports the notion of music being an essential part of disabled well being. According to research, the responses towards music therapy have been very diverse and authors discuss the responses received after sessions in music therapy at the present. According to author Fulvia Anca Constantin, children portray emotional responses and develop new feelings because of the influence music has on them. The text says, both communicates and induces emotions through various characteristics: tempo, melody, intensity or sound quality. It is only one of the benefits of engaging with (Constantin 178). This passage contributes to the conversation about what music therapy does and how this is evidence of its functions. The author continues to mention the emotions the children portray and gives specifics on how music has an effect on them. This article supports the idea of music therapy benefiting children with special needs and the how its manifestation has increased over time. In another article from 2015, Therapy: an Approach in Improving Social Skills of Children with the writer maintains the conversation of music therapy and children specifically with autism to retain the concept of music therapy and its unchanged system. Ghasemtabar talks about conducting an experiment, as well as mentioning the control of emotions of autistic children and encouraging verbal and nonverbal communication. Both studies have stayed consistent because they both used experiments and tests to determine the effect of music therapy. However, they are now visibly seeing the results through the children and clearly observe how treatments promote new emotions and social behaviors. This evidence has caused experimenters to not solely rely on test results and scores. The scholarly views of the research done on music therapy have not been altered greatly throughout the years, yet music therapy was not seriously investigated until after 2010. Research used to be conducted with studies and experiments to determine the success of music therapy but more recently they observe the children and how they portray new emotions instead of only relying on a test or an experiment. The conversations on music therapy and its effect on children with disabilities and disorders have not changed significantly, merely the way research was conducted was openly accepted and a new perspective on how to study children and the results became more advanced. Works Cited Constantin, Fulvia Anca. Effects of Music Therapy on Children with Special Journal Plus Education / Educatia Plus, vol. 12A, 2015, pp. 178-183. EBSCOhost, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ Ghasemtabar, Seyyed, et al. Therapy: An Effective Approach in Improving Social Skills of Children with Advanced Biomedical Research, vol. 4, no.1, 2015, pp.157, Academic Onefile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=HRCA&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE% 7CA473859645&it=r&asid=ed186d5f5a8f7ec09409208a799ad448. Accessed 19 Feb 2017. Kim, Jinah, Wigram, Tony, and Gold, Christian. Emotional, Motivational and Interpersonal Responsiveness of Children with Autism in Improvisational Music  Autism: The International Journal of Research & Practice, vol.13, no. 4, July. 2009, pp.389-409. Sage Premier, doi:10.1177/1362361309105660 Sausser, Shannon, and Waller, Raymond J. Model for Music Therapy with Students with Emotional and Behavioral The Arts in Psychotherapy, vol. 33, no. 1, 1 Jan. 2006, pp. 1-10. ScienceDirect. doi:10.1016/j.aip.2005.05..003