Alfaro 1 Ariel Alfaro Professor Dennis ENC 1102-003 12 March 2017 A Minimum Wage Increase: The Real Consequences The issue of a fair minimum wage is a problem that has existed since presidency when the administration raised the federal minimum wage to $7.25 to 2017 where the minimum wage remains the same despite rising costs of living. To discredit the minimum wage, Barbara Ehrenreich conducts an experiment, in her novel Nickel and Dimed, to live in three different states and attempt to survive on one or multiple minimum wage jobs (Ehrenreich, Nickel and Dimed). The fist area was Key West, Florida where she was hired for two waitreesing jobs that payed about $2.43 an hour plus tips as well as a maid job. By the time she had taken four jobs just to pay $500 for an apartment, she quits everything and moves to the next location due to stress (Ehrenreich, Nickel and Dimed). Ehrenreich stated that she had a safety net of money and a stable job as an author but every other minimum wage worker does not, therefore they cannot leave as she did when everything becomes overwhelming (Ehrenreich, Nickel and Dimes). To combat poverty in the United States, some individuals and organizations, such as the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign, have proposed the idea of raising the minimum wage to $15 within all states which has, of course, sparked the rise of opposing organizations such as the Faces of $15 campaign. While the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign believes that there should be a raise in minimum wage within all states to decrease the percentage of impoverished peoples, the Faces of $15 campaign opposes such a wage adjustment because they Alfaro 2 believe that this raise would only hurt small businesses and cause unemployment rates to spike throughout the nation. The spike in minimum wage has caused some business owners to close their doors permanently such as Annisa, a local favorite in New York City that was forced to close their doors because they could not afford the new labor costs (Faces of $15). The beliefs of the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign revolve around the idea of fair wages to ensure that full time minimum wage job employees have a fair chance at rising above the poverty line. The goal of this campaign is to reveal the cruelty of the current minimum wage as well as all the struggles that minimum wage employees face. They openly state the they are for a wage that families can live (Raise the Minimum Wage campaign). According to Dr. Amy Glasmeier, single-mother with two children earning the federal minimum wage of $7.25 per hour needs to work 138 hours per week, more hours than there are in a 5-day week, to earn a living (Glasmeier, 2015 Living Wage Data). Chaney, Small Business Trends Alfaro 3 The image above supports the beliefs of the minimum wage campaign as it depicts a group of minimum wage workers protesting for a better wage. Ethos is apparent in the use of the location for the protest. The protest is taking place in front of a McDonalds which is one of the most iconic fast food restaurants as they employ 1.9 million minimum wage workers and are present in 100 countries Corporation). The fact that a is the location of a minimum wage protest discredits this franchise as the assembly of workers protest even this iconic wages. Not only does the location of the protest appeal to ethos but so does the actual protest itself. In the bottom-right-hand corner of the image the phrase (Chaney, Small Business Trends) indicates that the protest that is occurring is organized. This shows that the crowd of minimum wage workers belong to an organized idea and group which indicates that there may be statistics and reasoning behind their cause. At the bottom of the image there are also locations listed that apparently also support the cause. This may also indicate that other minimum wage employees from these locations that are listed support the idea of raising the minimum wage to something that meets the current living wage. This image not only relies on ethos but also pathos as a source of persuasion. There is a red tint over this image that may give way to feelings of anger or frustration. These feelings may come from the minimum wage employees as well as those who are in support of the cause. These feelings may root from the entire situation of unfair pay which has left families with no way of escaping poverty. The statement back on the image also instills a sense of determination as this movement claims that they will never give up. The audience also gains a greater sense of frustration and anger upon seeing two police officers in the image escort a possible protester away from the group. Alfaro 4 This image also uses a considerable number of components that contribute to logos. The author strategically included the three police officers leading away an apparent protester then proceeded to place the phrase back next to it. This shows the audience that no matter the cost, they honestly will not stop their organized protests under the name of for Also, even though there is a large protest occurring outside of the fast food restaurant, McDonalds still seems to have their sign illuminated which shows that they are not actually understanding the message that the minimum wage workers are saying and are instead still making a profit regardless if these employees choose to work. The Faces of $15 campaign revolves around the idea of exposing the true consequences of raising the minimum wage to $15 (Faces of $15). On their website, this campaign lists about 81 small businesses that have closed due to an increase in the minimum wage which substantially increased the cost of labor. They also advocate the idea that if the minimum wage were to increase the job loss throughout the nation would be substantial. As the Congressional Budget Office states on their website, even raising the minimum wage to $10.10 would cause Warren, Minimum Wage Spike Alfaro 5 500,000 jobs to be lost (Congressional Budget Office). For this reason, the Faces of $15 campaign has made it their mission to bring these issues to light in society and explain what they and many others believe will happen if there to be such a drastic increase to minimum wage. To make an impact on the audience, the author used components of ethos by using Barack name in the title. Using this former name also brings into question past administrative decisions this president has made regarding the topic of minimum wage. Being a well-known advocate for an increase in minimum wage, bringing past administrative support makes this the argument of this image seem to have a better foundation. This image also includes what the Obama administration was attempting to increase the federal minimum wage to which is what this image is responding to by including the increase from $7.25 to $10.10. Also, the fact that this minimum wage increase is presented on a graph makes it seem as though this image is a negative statistic of the consequences of a minimum wage increase This image also utilizes pathos by presenting an obvious minimum wage worker being skewered by the line that represents the minimum wage increase. This represents the idea supported by the Faces of $15 campaign which consists of the fear that if businesses were to suffer due to an increase in minimum wage, so too would the minimum wage jobs as they became unavailable which would cause an overwhelming spike in unemployment. Having the minimum wage worker being skewered instead of saved by the increase in minimum wage would cause the audience to feel panic as they realize that what some have been fighting for may end up causing job instability in over 500,000 jobs (as presented on shirt) according to the image. Realizing this possibility, it may also cause the audience to feel unsure about the movement as they begin to worry about themselves individually. Alfaro 6 Though this image has many components that appeal to ethos and pathos, it also has components that appeal to logos. The minimum wage worker being skewered by the increased minimum wage not only causes a sense of panic or instability, it also causes the audience to rethink what the consequences of having the minimum wage increased in any way will be. It also begs the question of who will be hurt by this minimum wage increase overall. There is also blood coming out of the skewered minimum wage worker which adds to the idea that the minimum wage workers are ones who will be hurt the most overall. Adding to this idea, the minimum wage worker is also in a sort of spotlight as if to say that this individual will be the victim in the change. Also, the image does not show the face of the skewered worker which could mean that these types of individuals will be in a position of less power than they were before the minimum wage increase. The Raise the Minimum Wage campaign believes that there should be an increase in the minimum wage to compensate for the increase in the cost of living. This belief is enforced by the actual experiment that Barbra Ehrenreich conducted in her novel. Throughout Nickel and Dimed, Ehrenreich encountered little success in minimum wage jobs. Being single and without dependents, she could barely even care for herself with the little money she earned (Ehrenreich, Nickel and Dimed). The image shown above supports this goal by showing a protest for higher minimum wage. The Faces of $15 believe that the minimum wage should remain where it is due to the fear that any change would cause businesses to close and would therefore cause a spike in unemployment. This is supported by the 81 businesses that have closed due to an increase in the minimum wage that left owners unable to adjust. Alfaro 7 Works Cited Chaney, Paul. for Protest Demands Increase of Minimum  Small Business Trends. N.p., 29 Nov. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Ehrenreich, Barbara. Nickel And Dimed: On (not) Getting By In America. New York, N.Y. : Henry Holt, 2002. Print. Faces of  Faces of $15. EPI, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://www.facesof15.com/> Glasmeier, Amy K. Living Wage  Living Wage Calculator. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 20 June 2016. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. <http://livingwage.mit.edu/articles/18- new-2015-living-wage-data>. NELP.  Raise the Minimum Wage. NELP, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. <http://raisethe minimumwage.com/> Our Company ::  Our Company :: Corporation, n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Alfaro 8 The Effects of a Minimum-Wage Increase on Employment and Family Congressional Budget Office. Congressional Budget Office, 12 Aug. 2015. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. <https://www.cbo.gov/publication/44995>. Warren, William. Cartoon: Minimum wage  NetRight Daily. N.p., 20 Feb. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://netrightdaily.com/2014/02/cartoon-minimum-wage-spike/>.