Jordan Reed ENC Comp 1 Mrs. Ricketts March 1 2017 Intermediate Draft In 1999 speculation was brought up if teachers should be armed, because of a horrific massive shooting that occurred in Colorado at Columbine high school. This shooting consisted of students Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold they murdered 1 2 students and one teacher, injured 21 additional people and three more were injured while attempting to escape the school. A lot of sources seem to be against teachers being armed in schools and would rather put more time in getting extra security in schools. Arming teachers in school would both be beneficial and non beneficial for both parties. There have been many school shootings before the Columbine shooting, especially several overlooked incidents around 1998 including shootings in Paducah, Kentucky, Jonesboro, Arkansas and Springfield, Oregon. , according to Jennifer 1999 article. No legislative action was taken when these shootings happened to prevent further incidents until Columbine. Fredrick does mention multiple alternatives instead of teachers having guns in school, and proposed putting security guards around the school for safety of the kids, installing metal detectors so no student or teacher may come into the school with any kind of weapon to harm anyone, and also having a search of lockers and backpacks to make sure that no foul play is going on inside the schools at all times. In 1999 it seemed that most scholars were against having guns in school and arming teachers was not a commonly talked about idea around those times. At that point in time many believed that these methods were very simple and could be done in all schools. Eight years later, in 2007, after several other mass shootings Joe and article changed the scholarly conversation slightly. In it he explains that people still felt like teachers should not have guns in school, and argued that guns in school will have a negative effect on everyone in schools and also will affect the students learning process. Agron mentioned Nevada senator Bob proposed bill, the first of its kind, that would allow teachers to carry guns in classrooms; Beers stated that this would serve as a prevention strategy to decrease school violence by allowing teachers to defend themselves and students against immediate threats in the classrooms. However, Agron explained that teachers carrying weapons on top of the security guards, whose presence was proposed in Jennifer article, would put many more lives in danger and that the security was more trained than teachers, and good enough to prevent shootings, much like argument in her article. Even though Agron shoots down bill, it shows that after the many mass shootings in schools from 1999 to 2007, scholars began voicing their opinion on the idea of arming teachers. in 2010 Tyler Pratt wrote an article that again altered the scholarly conversation slightly by addressing the increases in funding that schools were receiving after a series of mass murders in order to further increase security inside schools specifically by the hiring of School resource An SRO is a officer that is armed to protect schools this is different from a security guard because security guards are not armed. Pratt stated that one school in Texas had recently allowed teachers to carry firearms in school despite receiving funding, and that they were the only school district that allowed this major change in schools. This is a significant shift in the scholarly conversation because a school actually took action on teachers being armed in schools. In 2015 Danielle Weatherby she discusses how things have changed since 2010 because of the recent events such as The mass shooting of Sandy Hook Elementary, In response to the shooting of Sandy Hook Elementary lawmakers now as compared in 2010 they proposed bills in over thirty states to authorize school officials to carry weapons on their persons during the school day and that they could protect the children and there self from danger. This article states that the teachers can not lose sight of the appropriate role as a teacher in the school system and that they are there to teach and not protect or anything more than what they are already authorized to do. on the topic of if teachers should carry fire arms in school, has changed drastically from 1999 to 2015 These scholarly articles have made many points and have really evolved throughout the years and are really making a stretch on making this a possible idea in the near future. Having teachers armed in school could be both beneficial and none beneficial for both the students and the teachers because of the way the teacher will act with a weapon and also how the students will react with there teachers having a weapon in school. Works Cited: Frederick, Jennifer. CHALK TALK: Do As I Say, Not As I Do: Why Teachers Should Not Be Allowed To Carry Guns On School  Journal Of Law & Education 28.(1999): 139. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Agron, Joe. Armed ... And  American School & University 6 (2007): Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Pratt, Tyler. The Fourth Shortcomings For Police During School  Valparaiso University Law Review 44.(2010): 1095. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. WEATHERBY, DANIELLE. Opening The Arming Teachers In The War Against School Violence And The Government-Created Risk  Connecticut Law Review 48.(2015): 119. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.