Langenbach 1 Blanche Langenbach Dennis ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Stem Cell Research: Save the Baby or Everyone Else? In 2008, Edgar Irastorza, a property manager and break-dancer with a wife and three children, had a heart attack at the age of 31 that damaged his heart so it could only pump a third of its original capability. In an effort to be able to pick up his children and dance again, Irastorza had stem cells directly injected into his heart through a medical research trial (Weintraub). Even though stem cells seem to hold a key for medical advancement, there is considerable controversy surrounding their use and research. The most effective type of stem cell comes from human embryos, which creates the basis of the argument due to the infringement on unborn rights to life. The New York Stem Cell Foundation provides an emotional photo to persuade the viewer that exploration in medicine, especially through stem cell research, will lead to cures for omnipresent diseases (Stem Cell Treatment). The National Right to Life Committee presents the second sentimental image to convince the audience that all people, born or unborn, have a right to life Rights). These stakeholders have conflicting beliefs on the ethics of stem cell research, but compromises have been attempted. Established in 2005, The New York Stem Cell Foundation (NYSCF) has invested $150 million toward scientific advancements in stem cell research, which is the development of unspecialized cells from embryos into almost all types of regenerative specialized cells, such as nerve, fat, liver, and bone cells (Zawada 3). This stakeholder has already made medical breakthroughs, including turning skin cells into human bone (Geronemus 1). They support stem cell research as it continues to further develop treatments and cures for prevalent diseases, such Langenbach 2 as ALS, disease, diabetes, and so many more. According to the Coalition for Urgent Research and the Alliance for Aging Research, over 130 million patients could be treated with stem cell therapies (Perry). NYSCF also believes in using all types of stem cells, especially embryonic stem cells, which are stem cells derived from human embryos (Geronemus 1). According to much research, embryonic stem cells are the most promising option, proving effective and pluripotent, able to become a wider variety of cells. The image below depicts what life could continue to be like for patients if stem cell research were prohibited. NYSCF aims to show that stem cell research holds the opportunity to cure disease and improve quality of life for millions of people through four major rhetorical appeals within this image. The most captivating appeal of this photo is the pathos, which used color most prominently to create emotions of sadness and concern in the audience. For instance, the background of the first image, which is primarily blue, evokes a feeling of sadness. Additionally, Figure 1 New York Stem Cell Research (Stem Cell Treatment) Langenbach 3 the diseased area of the brain is red to represent anger and fear, and the grey-scaled part of the image depicting the older woman induces a worried reaction. On top of this, the concerned facial expression of the woman with her hand holding her forehead encourages pathos because psychological display rules confirm that nonverbal expressions can be interpreted by society (Display Rules). Her nonverbal expressions represent many negative emotions, including fear, worry, and sadness. The image also uses the other rhetorical appeals to persuade the audience. Ethos, which is the rhetorical appeal of credibility, is depicted in Figure 1. This photo seems credible because of the image of the brain scan behind the woman, which connotates a doctor or medical professional. The photo also represents logos by inspiring questions to ask of the image. From the image, a viewer can understand that stem cell research can find cures for diseases, such as the older Lastly, kairos, the rhetorical appeal describing a powerful moment in time, is shown in the image. This is the concerned look of an older woman who is for the first time discovering her diagnosis of disease. Overall, the New York Stem Cell Foundation makes use of sympathy and is able to convincingly show the vitality of stem cell research. The second image is represented by the stakeholder, National Right to Life Committee (NRLC), which is invested in protecting unborn rights to life and preventing the destruction of human embryos (National Right to Life 1). This stakeholder is continuing to inform the public about the process of obtaining these stem cells, which requires dismantling the embryo, and working to gain support. NRLC currently has about 3,000 chapters in the U.S., and has been supported by former President Bush since his vetoing of the Stem Cell Research Langenbach 4 Enactment Act of 2005 (Zawada 2). Their wish to protect all children from stem cell research is inspiring and their position is evident in the image below. The perspective the National Right to Life Committee is attempting to support is shown in the second image through rhetorical appeals. The most evident rhetorical appeal in the photograph is pathos, because the miracle of life is astonishing and maudlin. There is a lot of emotion in childbirth, and the image of a father lovingly holding and protecting the pregnant belly gives an emotion of both joy and fear. Also, the fact that the viewer can see the baby through the belly, emphasizes that there is another life inside the mother. Even though the photo is black and white, the black gives the idea of darkness, which adds fear to the photo. Logos in this photo is obvious, especially when associated with the stakeholder, National Right to Life Committee. The father holding the pregnant belly is a way of protecting the baby from embryonic stem cell research. The baby is unable to protect itself, and the white of Figure 3 National Right to Life Committee Rights) Langenbach 5 the photograph around the baby emphasizes its innocence. The color black surrounding the outside of the protective belly of its mother represents death, which is a direct result of stem cell research. Two other rhetorical appeals, ethos and kairos, are represented in this photo, although not as prominently as the previously mentioned ones. Ethos is not heavily focused on in this image, because there is not specific credibility depicted in a logo or professional. However, the ability to see the baby through the belly reminds the audience of an ultra sound, which is done by a doctor or medical professional. Kairos is also represented in this photo because pregnancy is a unique moment in time, especially a moment similar to that shown in the photo, where the father is hugging the belly. This gives the image a powerful motive and evokes sentimental memories from the audience. Even though stem cell research is not widely discussed by the public, each stakeholder is actively attempting to sway the opinion on the ethics of stem cell research. Both the New York Stem Cell Foundation and the National Right to Life Committee emphasize their different beliefs through rhetorical appeals used in images. Even though both stakeholders use pathos, ethos, logos and kairos to convey the importance of quality of life, they both hold completely different viewpoints on stem cell research. While New York Stem Cell Foundation attempts to persuade the viewer of the importance of stem cell research, the National Right to Life Committee focuses on protecting unborn children from infringement on their rights to life. Even though attempts at compromise have already been made, both stakeholders need to work together to help improve quality of life. Everyone is impacted by stem cell research in one way or another, and for some, like Edgar Irastorza, it could be lifesaving. Langenbach 6 Works Cited Display  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, 31 Dec. 2016. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Geronemus, Roy, MD, and Susan L. Solomon. The New York Stem Cell  NYSCF Research Institute. N.p., 7 Nov. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Killing Human Embryos (Human Cloning and Related  National Right to Life Committee. N.p., 15 May 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Perry, D., Coalition for Urgent Research, and Alliance for Aging Research. Voices: The Powerful Sound in the Stem Cell  Science. American Association for the Advancement of Science, 25 Feb. 2000. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Stem Cell Treatment for Digital image. The Regeneration Center of Thailand. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Weintraub, Karen. Stem Cells: Plenty of Hope, but Halting  The New York Times. The New York Times, 15 Sept. 2014. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Rights. Digital image. The Most Misunderstood Religion. N.p., 18 Dec. 2013. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Zawada, W. Michael, PhD, and Karen E., PhD Kalumuck. Stem  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Science (2016): Research Starters. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.