Al Ibrahim 1 Ammar Al Ibrahim John Williams ENC1102 27 February 2017 Social Media Addiction These days, social media is considering a benefit factor for a large percent of people as it helps them keep connected with all people around them. playing the main role in daily socializing life and most people spend much time in posting on different platforms. It has become very unusual to find a person who is not interested in any form of social media platforms (SMP) at all. In the last ten years, social media has taken over the world and people have become using it in different aspects for different aims from purely socializing. That helped to increase the number of social media users around the world and make it as a most needed thing in daily life. Large numbers of people are logging online every day and spend a long time on without doing anything else except socializing. People who do that everyday scientist calls them addicts. When people lose a day in only posting on SMP this is a big psychological problem that may bring issues into lives. Facebook is one of SMP that has many and many users from different nations of the world. Many anti-social media addiction organizations are trying to aware people about the danger of being an addict by creating photos that have rhetorical appeals, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos. Facebook is an American for-profit online social media. The purpose is connecting individuals everywhere throughout the world, making the Earth a worldwide town. Mark Zuckerberg and his friends launched this monster platform in 2004. The site Al Ibrahim 2 mostly goes for interfacing individuals or helps them mingle and makes its income out of publicizing. This website allows people post status updates, share digital photos and videos, share links, and exchange messages. Also, it enables people to join common interest user group, so allow them to meet close friends and people from work or people who have the same hobbies. Due to the value data that every profile carries, Facebook gives users the choice to block people and make profiles private. According to Kissmetrics Blog, Facebook is the largest social media in the world with 500 million active users. 50% of them log in on Facebook daily, which means Facebook is a perfect place where people can reach a large number of friends than any other SMP. Additionally, based on the active users, Facebook got the most popular SMP in April 2016. Since everyone knows what Facebook is, their Ethos is understood in the images. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that sends for emotional aims. In the first image the creator successes in sending emotions to the audience in a very effective way. The image shows a woman who is giving a birth. Giving a birth is considered as the happiest moment for every woman and many consider it as the most important moment ever. While in this image the woman is caring about updating her status on Facebook to share her status online instead of looking to her birth. The literal use of this situation is made to make the point that says Facebook and social media in general, has brought people addiction in using them all the time. The scenario of this image may make the most audiences get shocked. This may help to aware people about the addiction that most people are facing at this time. The second image shows a man who got lost in the middle of nowhere and there are two big sings for the directions. The man was following Internet direction instead of following water one. This action indicates the level of addiction that Al Ibrahim 3 he reached to because any normal people would follow the water to still alive. This image makes the audience feel people become a very addiction to using the Internet and social media. In the previous paragraph Pathos appeals to the emotions however, Logos is the appeal that seeks for logic or reason of using something in the image. Without making logos in images people would not be able to get the point of the scenario, so it is very important. In the first image, the logic of choosing that scenario because being a mother is a sensitive moment that logically nothing would be more important than it. The woman is asking about the sex of her birth for only posting it on her status and shares it with her friends. This represents how she becomes addicted because she forgets everything about motherhood and being responsible for her baby. In the second image, the man chose to not follow the logic road, which is water. But he chose the Internet, which is the wrong thing that no one would do. Both images are very persuading for people by providing sensitive situations. Kairos is the way that a photo evokes time. Kairos is very rare to find in images because creators do not usually use time. They use time only for shopping or advertising aims. In the first image, the creator used time by making the woman ask the doctor for the sex to update her status as fast as she can. She wants to share the status in a very quick way, which refers to the time. The second image does not really have Kairos. A large number of people see social media as a helpful factor because it helps them be connected with friends, families, and people. Nowadays, it has been playing a central role in keeping people in touch with each other. It made the world very small village where you can talk and see others face-to-face. It provides many platforms with Al Ibrahim 4 different facilities and different tasks. In the daily life, it has become very unusual to find a friend who is not using all forms of social media platforms. People become losing many hours and days on SMP. Those people who spend a long time on SMP without doing something else except socializing scientists call them addicts. What people become doing many doctors describe it as a big psychological problem that may bring issues and side effects into lives. People have admitted their addict to social media in this decade. Al Ibrahim 5 Al Ibrahim 6 Works cited Kissmetrics  Facebook Statistics. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. https://goo.gl/images/CMH0Es. (Second image) https://goo.gl/images/FAwHZX. (First image)