Lopez 1 Adela Lopez Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 26 March 2017 Is Prison Time Based on a Convicts Profile? Every night there is another story on the news of someone found guilty for committing all different sorts of crimes including: murder, rape, drug possession and alcohol consumption that has led to illegal activity. They are processed and then convicted for their crime but, there is more discrimination involving a class, gender, and specifically their race than one thought. Many ask why the physical description of a person determines the amount of time they receive in prison. Well, according to the NAACP, American and Hispanics comprised 58% of all prisoners in 2008, even though African Americans and Hispanics make up approximately one quarter of the US Between 2000-2010 and 2011-2017 the primary difference has been the awareness and the different approaches this subject has had. With the help of social media, like Twitter and Facebook the shift in the research and the shift in the argument has increased within the past two decades. It is actually larger than it appears to be, the earlier approach between 2000-2010 to this subject has been mere statements, just to inform the public, but the later approach from 2011-2017 has been more of a call to action, scholars have had stronger appeals towards this subject. Between the years of 2000 and 2010 there has been a numerous numbers of scholarly articles that have been published involving cases of discrimination within the criminal justice system. In 2006, Fernando Rodriguez published an article that focused exclusively on the gender role within this act. Rodriguez found that women will tend to receive a lighter punishment Lopez 2 compared to that of a man. He writes, studies find that females benefit from their (page.1). Women are too often seen as the victims of a crime involving a man. Although depending on the situation the women may be just as or more at fault than the male involved. The court would look into the case only to determine that the female will be given a lighter punishment compared to the male. For example, she gets put on probation and he gets a year in prison, or they both get prison time but she would still get a smaller time. In 2011, Michael Tonry published a booked focused on the phenomenon that the physical profile of a person can to often lead to prison time. Michael Tonry stated that, not from racial differences in crime or drug use but primarily from drug and crime control policies that disproportionately affect black (2011). Michael Tonry was the beginning of the change between 2001-2011 and 2012-2017. His book was published six years ago from today, but it still speaks on the controversial topic of discrimination involving crime. Just last year there were numerous cases involving police brutality, and how they have been targeting blacks. But six years ago before Michael Tonry also wrote, are much more likely than whites to be stopped by the police, arrested, prosecuted, convicted, and imprisoned, and are much less likely to have confidence in justice system officials, especially the Something this author spotted years ago is so fundamentally important today. But before both of these articles held a ton of information but no one seemed to really take it into account, and if they did they probably get far because of the lack of awareness in their surrounding communities. The media influence has grown immensely between 2011-2017. Social Media is currently the biggest way people are spreading news and revolutionizing the way others voice their opinions, social media has been the key to the change in the way things were interpreted between these two time periods. According to Sonja Starr a researcher at the University of Michigan Law, Lopez 3 she states may help-a lot-to be a At this time more and people are aware of the that are being seen within the justice system. Researchers say that more men compared to women are seen convicted to longer terms. Women are too often seen as weak and unstable, and then their crime is not really the focus of the sentence. The ruling looks to maintain their well-being or are often found looking for an excuse to penalize them with minimal punishment. By this time period lots of people are becoming more and more aware of what is happening in the criminal justice system. For example, on twitter one can find tons of minute long you videos explaining the inequality suffered. These videos tend to go viral getting millions of views within the first 24 hours of it being posted. So there is more of a call to action message spreading rapidly between people using social media, something that get done before. Just last year Richard Biersbach published his article called Wrong with Sentence taking it back to the Warren Court, a system of procedures that was created to be followed when dealing with criminals. This set of procedures was established long before 2000 to terminate all unethical and racial treatments towards criminals. According to this it is unethical for someone to see that the convict is a white female and thinks that she deserves a lesser punishment. The difference is that this article poses the question of what is wrong, this article was published within our recent time with the support everyone who has been able to speak up because of social media and argue their opinion to profile anyone based on their physical look. Although this is a controversial topic that has not gotten much change, the outlook and the way its advocacy has been spread has definitely been the biggest difference. This subject has been a mere statement up until recently where it has been able to bring more awareness within the different time periods. The development of technology has been the commentator giving Lopez 4 topics similar to this more attention allowing there to be a path built for change in the Criminal Justice system. Lopez 5 Work Cited Page Bierschbach, Richard A. Wrong with Sentencing Virginia Law Review, vol. 102, 2016, pp.1447-1450 Rodriguez, Fernando S. Differences in Criminal Sentencing: Do Effects Vary Across Violent, Property, and Drug Wiley. Vol. 87, no. 2, 2006, pp. Starr, Sonja. Large Gender Disparities in Federal Criminal Michigan Law. Nov., 2012. https://www.law.umich.edu/newsandinfo/features/Pa Accessed February 2017. Tonry, Michael. Punishing Race. Oxford University Press, 2011