Al Moosawi 1 Majid Al Moosawi Prof. John Williams ENC 1102 20 March 2017 Anti-Tobacco Advertisements There are many large international companies drawing growing profit from the tobacco industry. These organizations pay a great deal of money for their own tobacco advertising, such as by marketing new tobacco products as healthier for people. However, there are also a growing number of organizations focused on discouraging tobacco smoking or even completely banning the sale of tobacco. The journal Tobacco Control was established in 1992 by the British Medical Journal, an extension of the British Medical Association. Tobacco Control features anti-tobacco advertisements on the cover of every one of its monthly magazines. This article analyzes the different rhetorical strategies used in these two images, and the central finding is that both of these anti-tobacco images heavily utilize pathos and kairos to scare viewers away from smoking, and ethos to make the messages convincing. These two images therefore clearly reflect the goals of Tobacco Control, specifically the desire to and control the global tobacco epidemic through population level (Tobacco Control). In Image 1 it is clear that the intended audience is women, particularly young women who are concerned about their beauty. The image features a young, attractive woman who has Al Moosawi 2 light skin but could have one of several different ethnic backgrounds, so it is an image designed to appeal to a wide range of women. It is generally believed in the population that smoking makes a face look older, faster. This advertisement encourages this belief by providing a claim and supporting it with an image that intentionally shocks the viewer with realistic skin wrinkles on an otherwise young and beautiful woman. The purpose here is to discourage young women from starting to smoke and to encourage women to quit smoking. This advertisement is part of an advertising campaign launched by the United States Food and Drug Administration in 2014 called The Real Cost, which was aimed at youth smoking in the United States. The campaign was specifically for people age 12-17 who already began smoking but smoked less than 100 cigarettes, and youths who have not yet smoked but are at risk of smoking. Much like the first image, Image 2 also features a woman, but it is likely that the intended audience here is both men and women because there is no reason to believe that the health issues (emphysema and lung capacity) are any different for men then for women. The emphasis on lungs likely appeals to people who are interested in health or exercising. The emphasis on emphysema likely has more appeal for people who have smoked for a long period of time and are at risk for developing this health problem. The purpose here is to discourage smoking, but the more important reason is to get people who smoke to quit. This is demonstrated by the central message of the advertisement, which is that quitting smoking will give significant improvements in lung capacity in just 3 months. The secondary suggestion is that if you do not quit, you will certainly develop emphysema (which is a serious respiratory disease that can become weakening). The examination for both images are better detailed through rhetorical analysis. One of the major appeals in both advertisements is the appeal to ethos, as both images offer facts that are supposed to scare the viewer and the facts are offered along with the logos of Al Moosawi 3 organizations that are designed to make the image seem more reliable. Furthermore, the British Medical Journal is a well-respected publication and Tobacco Control is affiliated with them. These images are presented on the front page of a well-respected, peer-reviewed academic journal. Image 1 presents the logo of the FDA, while Image 2 presents the logo of the organization NYC Quits. These are both government organizations and of course the logic is that the facts presented in both image are objective and true. Putting the campaign name, The Real Cost, in red further encourages this sense of truth and authority. The claim is clear, and the letters in Image 1 are bold and capitalized. The wording in Image 2 is also deliberately clear without any ambiguity. Once again, the colour red is used to emphasize an unpleasant truth. Pathos is definitely the most important rhetorical elements in both images, as they are trying to scare potential smokers or scare smokers into quitting or never starting. Image 1 encourages fear by showing the damaging effects of tobacco products on the skin, which is further emphasized by using a beautiful and young woman with otherwise clear skin and good looks. The use of pathos is even more emphasized in Image 2, as the advertisement threatens the viewer with a serious health issue: emphysema. The prominent wording on the top of the page mentions better lung capacity but the picture is of a person who appears to require critical care, presumably because of emphysema. Thus, there are two emotional appeals: first, the suggestion that lung functioning will quickly increase after quitting, and second, that a very serious health condition will develop if you keep smoking. Logos is important because both images make clear and rational arguments to the viewer. The argument in Image 1 is that smoking with give you wrinkles, and in Image 2 there are two arguments: firstly, that quitting smoking is good because it improves lung capacity, and second, that smokers will eventually get emphysema and end up in the hospital so it is important to quit. Al Moosawi 4 Kairos is also utilized, particularly in Image 2. The first message, which is about lung capacity, encourages the viewer to quit smoking but the second message, which is about emphysema and the chances of ending up in the hospital, emphasizes the importance of quitting smoking. The word emphysema is bolded and surrounded in red, in the front of a person who appears to be having a serious health problem. After careful analysis, it is clear that both images are closely aligned with the goals of the primary stakeholder, the Tobacco Control publication. Both goals are to educate the viewer about the dangers of smoking, both aesthetic and life-threatening. Image 1 aims to prevent people from starting a lifelong smoking habit in the first place, while Image 2 aims to get people who have a smoking habit to quit as soon as possible. The images use very similar rhetorical appeals, focusing on ethos, pathos, and logos, while Image 2 emphasizes kairos as well. Evidence suggests that these sorts of public awareness campaigns are often quite successful, and it is quite appropriate that a publication with Tobacco goals features these kinds of advertisements so prominently in its monthly publications. (Word Count: 1101) Al Moosawi 5 Al Moosawi 6 Al Moosawi 7 Works Cited Tobacco Control. 2017. Web. 26 February 2017. <http://tobaccocontrol.bmj.com/pages/about/> Myers, Matthew. Evidence-Based Policies Remain a Key to Ending the Tobacco Tobacco Control 22 (2013): i45-i46. New York City, Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. Smoking January 207. Online image. Tobacco Control BMJ. 26 February 2017. <http://tobaccocontrol.bmj.com/content/26/1> The Real Cost. Can Cause Premature March 2017. Online image. Tobacco Control BMJ. 26 February 2017. <http://tobaccocontrol.bmj.com/content/26/2?current-