Francis1 Karelia Francis. Professor John Williams. ENC 1102. February 2017. Images of the NAACP. The organization selected is the NAACP, (The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.) It was formed in 1909 to help to fight for the rights of minorities. They played an extremely important role in the civil rights movement and allowed for some rights that apply today. My topic is action. Equal opportunity or Reverse This organization stands by one side and one side only, the equal opportunity side. The images selected showed perfectly the concerns of the stakeholder. Both images reflect the theme but specifically, the first one refers to the lack of equality in housing due to skin color and the second image is descriptive of the main points on affirmative action. There are four rhetorical appeals namely; pathos, logos, kairos and ethos, some of which are in images. The NAACP was created in order for colored people to have access to equal opportunities. These visualizations strongly reflect the goals. They want the rights of people to be equal politically, economically, socially and otherwise. The full equality in housing that they were fighting for and protesting about was definitely aligned with their mission and their vision. They were peacefully showing displeasure with the housing program because at that time colored people were only given very run down places but caucasians were given access to great areas and comfortable housing. Francis2 Within the first picture, there are examples of pathos, logos, kairos and ethos. Pathos, which is the appeal to emotions/values, is very evident in aspects of the picture. The faces of the protestors show anger, sadness, disappointment and oppression. That in itself evokes and appeals to the emotions of the reader because anyone with real morals/values would understand why these people are protesting. People have to be passionate about something to protest about it in the first place but the signs also tell the story of hardships due to improper housing limiting their freedom. While pathos is the appeal to emotion, logos is the appeal to logic and reason. The signs read Freedom is equal housing This is very logical seeing as colored people are people too and are no less than anyone else. Reasoning skills would let the reader realize that they were being treated less than humans by the quality of the housing back then. The NAACP also appeals to logos through the fact that so many people in long lines were protesting. This shows that it a small problem at all and it affects many people which logic will tell you must be legitimate. The amount of people gathered there be there if it a serious issue that needed addressing. Logos does stress the logics behind the images but kairos is also within this first picture because the NAACP is creating a sense of urgency for change in the housing. Kairos is the appeal to time. The amount of people also portray that the issue needed to be addressed in a timely manner. It definitely appeals to time and how badly they need it to be done quickly. We also know if they are in the blazing sun or the freezing cold but it could be either one of those and it stopped them showing that they need a change to happen soon. Though Kairos is very important, one of the most important appeals is ethos in the picture. The credibility or trust is created by the fact that it was supported by two reputable Francis3 organizations that support the rights of black people. The NAACP and Negro Preachers were both fighting for and supporting the cause which would allow onlookers to realize it anything that was made up or fake. It was a very legitimate cause and definitely one that needed attention. It may also have made the government and other related entities realize how serious they were which would push them to take action quickly/ in a timely fashion before the peaceful protest became violent. IMAGE 1. Within the second picture, there are examples of pathos, logos, and ethos. Pathos is shown in this picture through the appeal to emotions once this picture is understood. It depicts a caucasian hand reaching down to help up a minority to be on the same level as the other Francis4 caucasians. That hand that is helping the minority up is affirmative action. This picture will appeal to your emotions greatly because you can see the minority suffering below the line that everyone else is at until affirmative action helps them to get up to the normal level. The appeal evokes a feeling of pity for some people and sadness for others. The fact that everyone is human and there is no race gene shows that race really is a social concept that was built to keep some people down and empower others. It may anger some people that minorities are way below the line while everyone else is sitting comfortably. Pathos in this scenario definitely will evoke emotions but as effective if logos or the appeal to logic in the image. In this picture, logos is displayed through the fact that people opposed to affirmative action can see what it actually means. One of the main points The NAACP tries to get across is that affirmative action is a helping hand to allow minorities to be on the same level and have access to the same resources and opportunities as caucasians. There is a common misconception that affirmative action is reverse racism but this picture will appeal to logic and show you that it is not the idea of putting minorities above caucasians but simply at the same level. It also makes you think that the caucasians sitting on the bench have way more than enough space for the minority, if they moved over a little bit and it affect them. There is a lot of logical things in this picture that just require some thought such as the point of affirmative action being simply that all races should be equal and everyone deserves a chance to achieve greatness. While that explains the logos in the picture, Kairos is definitely in image 2 as well. The timeliness and urgency is shown in the way that the minority man is desperately reaching for the hand of affirmative action. His arm is extended as far as possible showing how badly he needs the assistance of affirmative action. This lets people see that it is important to keep the law Francis5 around because because it helps people who have huge disadvantages. IMAGE 2. Works Cited 1. IMAGE 1. http://africanamericansinthe1920s.weebly.com/uploads/1/7/3/5/17357723/908379285.jpg?307 Francis6 2. IMAGE 2. http://www.kstatecollegian.com/2013/04/22/affirmative-action-is-fair-necessary-to-make-up-for- opportunities-lost-to-minorities/ 3. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROGRAMS SUCH AS AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PREVAILS IN SUPREME  NAACP. N.p., 27 June 2016. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. http://www.naacp.org/latest/naacp-supported-equal-opportunity-programs-affirmative-action-prevails- supreme-court/