!1 Lyan Almasoud Pro, John Williams Comosition1102 17 MAR, 2017 Animal Cruelty Animal cruelty is still happening. Whether one is an animal-lover or an animal-hater, an- imals have a major role in lives. Nowadays animals are used for all various of reasons namely, in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment indus- try. Animal cruelty still exist till this day and because of people ignoring the facts that animals has rights and feelings, there are two organizations that had a creative way to hook at- tention to stop animal cruelty by an image for advertisement. First image was made by an orga- nization called PETA and fighting that animals are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment or abuse in any other way (PETA). Second image was made by an organization called Against Animal Cruelty (AACT) which they are fighting for animal right and for all ani- mals no exceptions. Both stockholders are aiming for people to share the belief of animals be treated this way through rhetorical appeals including, Pathos, logos, ethos and Kairos in both images. Pathos is the way that an image evokes emotions. First image, is representing a lady with blood and bruises on her skin carrying bleeding abused lamb. The goal is stop wools and saving these who are getting tortured for their fur. This image made by PETA is !2 grabbing the attention of the female audience saying that women who are abused and in pain are no different from the and lambs who are being in physical and emotional pain. The pic- ture is so clever to change perspective once there is a common ground of somewhat feeling or experience. The image is also for the male audience because its showing a naked pic- ture of a model that can grab the attention of the eyes and make them read about it. Sec- ond image is showing a picture of a women and a dog is experimenting makeup on her face and the women instead of looking prettier she looks distorted because that what animals are facing on animal testing. While pathos evokes emotions, logos is the logic of the image. In the first image they have used logos by taking a picture of a fur-less lamb and a naked woman with a sentence of the naked Saying that this what a wool does to a lamb, this is what a naked lamb looks like and this is what a naked abused woman looks like. It all make sense in so many levels just by representing the picture of two naked abused creatures who are sharing the same emo- tional, physical pain. Second picture, is showing the opposite of what happens in animal testing to persuade the people that the make up that makes one looks prettier and more beautiful is de- stroying and ruining animals face and skin. And the image mentions a sarcastic sentence wont hurt a to make one feel the terror and the pain that the animals go through including, blistering, ulcers, blindness, agony, just to make a good mascara. While logos provides the logic in the picture, ethos is the credibility of the information or the image. Both images are by a very known organizations PETA is PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world. According to website, PETA is an American non-profit !3 organization based in Virginia focuses on finding non-animal testing methods and stopping killing animals and using them in any way that would elude their animal rights, with more than 5 million members and supporters. PETA has won many awards for their love of animals and many people have been supporting their organization. According to AACT website, is an Animals Tasmania is an independent animal advocacy organization based in Tasmania. Their broad aim is to eliminate exploitation, abuse, and suffering of all non-human animals. Nevertheless, Kairos is the appeal to timeliness of the image. In the first image made by PETA, the model representing the abused woman is actually an American model and a TV star who is also an animal right activist. Joanna Krupa has a lot of emotions and she is fighting for animal cruelty. She wants her fans to follow her believes and love for animals. Joanna also does not wear cloths made by animals. According to Barrett, She was the first PETA model since 2009. Her first picture was of her naked and holding a cross and behind her tons of dogs to pro- mote dog adoption. Her second was also back in 2009 of her with the lamb fighting for wools after watching a videos of being skinned alive for their fur. Her last image was of her covered in body paint in 2015 for the SeaWorld animals (Barret, 2). Animals have a major role in our lives and be treated and cruelty. Animal should be well-taken care of and providing them shelters and food and love. Especially in animal testing, animals are being suffered and tortured with no pain killers for makeup and hair products that people can live without if they could feel and see what they get through for one to have a cool fur coat and breathtaking makeup. More organization should be competing on !4 Advertisements for against animal cruelty to stop killing innocent animals and letting them have a peaceful life. ! !5 Work Cited: Barrett, Annie. Joanna Krupa and PETA vs. the Catholic League: How Are You  EW.com. Time Inc, 02 Dec. 2009. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.  Animals Tasmania. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. PETA Catalog: Shop for Vegan, Vegetarian, and Animal Rights  PETA Catalog: Shop for Vegan, Vegetarian, and Animal Rights Merchandise! N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017