Ghofran khoj John Williams ENC 1102 February27, 17 Stop Homelessness. Helping stop homelessness is a hard thing to do. People should do it in a wise and fair way. Many people tried to help them by their own ways. Some of them are doing shelters for them and some are giving money to the organization because they do not want homeless people to live in the same place that they live in. Many organizations are doing advertising to encourage people to stop homelessness. They use techniques to appeal to people. They use Ethos, Pathos, Logos and Kairos. These techniques are so helpful to make the people trust and help to stop homelessness especially Pathos. These two advertising images are showing these techniques and have a powerful affect on people. The two advertising make people angry and sad just by looking at them, so this is how people know if the advertising is effective or not. The advertisings show if people do not help homeless they will end up living in the street and have no job. They will suffer and may die. Pathos is an appeal to the emotions. Both advertisings used it in very meaningful way and in effective way. It shows how homeless people need to have house and job to get better. Showing the homeless in the very sad way and how the street is their house. The cardboard that has someone in the job and the homeless sleeps in it is very meaningful and hurts everyone sees this advertising. This causes an emotional reaction in people. Using Pathos is one of the most important things to use in the advertising. People like when the advertising touch their emotions or having a celebrity in the photo and these two advertisings did the requirements that make people love it and act about the issue that shown. The emotions are very clear in Pathos and it is a very important thing, but also there is something has the same importance, that is Ethos and it appeals to credibility or morality. In another word, it is the organization or the company who do the advertisings. They include their names, websites, and the logos. It is important to show these things because it helps people who is interesting in stopping homelessness to see and get more information. Also, people can join to this organization. The Covenant House Company is the largest company that helps homeless and poor people to stand on their foot and provide shelter, food, immediate crisis care, and services to homeless people and runaway youth. The runaway youth is for kids 14 to 20 ages. They do this advertising because they want people to help homeless by donating goods or any kind of help. Because they do the runaway youth for kids 14 to 20 ages, they sometime write in some of their advertisings a slogan talks about the kids and show people Pathos and Kairos. Ethos is an important role for homelessness, but there is also something called Kairos that has a great impact on the advertising. Not all advertising are using Kairos. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness. The two advertising have kairos by seeing do not plan to live on the This sentence showing that they do not have time, if people do not help them, they will get worst and no one wants them to get worst. It is good to see kairos in the advertising. It is going to make it powerful. Also showing statistic is helping people to think more and help more. In the first picture, it says, Covenant House gives street kids a safe place to stay with 27/7 crisis It is a good idea to show statistic to make people think that there is no time to wait. People who can do a big different in stop homelessness are the businesses and the organizations. Both of them have the same goals but they want to do it in their own way, even if this way is going to harm homeless people and taking benefit from them. These two advertisings are giving them the opportunity to do a good thing to stop homelessness. The first advertising is showing the bedroom of a homeless girl. It says that homeless people do not have a home and the second advertising is showing that homeless do not have a job. So businesses and organizations can solve the problem by doing short-term rental subsidy. use of short-term rental subsidy vouchers to offer a new approach to addressing the housing needs of families facing (Mohan). This organization is so helpful for them. They help rent home step by step. In this time the businesses can help them by offering a job for them. There are many solutions to do but first they have to gather and deal with it. Stopping homelessness is a big issue. People have to find solutions as soon as possible. The homelessness increases every year. According to Mohan are currently 610,000 homeless people in the United States and 7.7 millions Americans at risk of becoming homelessness due to economic (Mohan,1). Making advertising is a good way to make businesses and organizations help to stop homelessness. They should gather and do something. Creating advertising is going to decrease the rate of homelessness. By producing advertisements that use the rhetorical appeals, logos, ethos, pathos, kairos, and example like do not plan to live in the are able to successfully make the viewers believe the images that homelessness should stop. Works Cited  Macpherson, Angus.  Coloribus.com. Covenant House Agency For Homeless Youth, 22 Jan. 2008. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. TAXI, Toronto. Covenant House - Computer by TAXI, Toronto -  AdForum.com. Christmas - Covenant House, 13 Feb. 2008. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Mohan, Erica, and Carolyn M. Shields. The Voices Behind The Numbers: Understanding The Experiences Of Homeless  Critical Questions In Education 5.3 (2014): 189. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 4 Oct. 2016.