Running head: CONTROVERSIES OF ANDREW JACKSON 1 Controversies of Andrew Jackson and Why He Should Not Be Idolized Emily T. Coniglio University of South Florida CONTROVERSIES OF ANDREW JACKSON 2 Abstract Among all forty-four Presidents of the United States (U.S.), Andrew Jackson is often listed as one of the best leaders the country has ever faced. As the centuries passed and Americans have changed their moralistic values and requirements for President, citizens have realized how horrific beliefs and legislations were. This paper goes through all of Old most controversial movements explaining why they were seen positive at the time of his presidency, and why it is frowned upon nowadays.Smith (2005) includes the immature cabinet assignments of spoils system, where he appointed unqualified colleagues to his senate. Whaples (2014) explains fears of capitalism, and why he sought out to destroy the bank system in the nation. most controversial law, the Indian Removal Act, is discussed by Remini (2001) and Kirn (2016); however, Kirn focuses more of point of view on the issue, while Remini focuses on the effect it had on Indians. spoils system, Indian Removal Act, bank war, Cherokee, Trail of Tears CONTROVERSIES OF ANDREW JACKSON 3 Controversies of Andrew Jackson and Why He Should Not Be Idolized Andrew Jackson is typically known as one of the best Presidents for expanding the United States, being a war hero for the War of 1812, and for being a Democrat, or one of the ordinary Americans. Over the centuries since his presidency, Presidents have stated personal inspiration from work, such as James K. proposition for Manifest Destiny, or have had similar proclamations, like Franklin force of Japanese internment camps. Historians have debated for years since his presidency whether his actions were excused or not. With the discoveries of documents such as amendments, diaries, and letters, researchers have pieced together why Andrew Jackson was considered a madman. Also, values have changed throughout the centuries, thus ruling policies as unconstitutional for being based on racism and corruption. One of Andrew most known strategies was appointing his colleagues to his presidential cabinet. Historians have declared this as the spoils system. Majority of his friends had no experience in whatever they were specified to do, such as John Henry Eaton who was assigned as Secretary of War, but had no war background. This lead to the stereotype that Democrats were overly friendly when it came to political power, as well as the time he allowed ordinary citizens in the White House for his inaugural party. Interviews with the sophisticated partygoers expressed their distaste with how the event unfolded. In (and Ladies) of Misrule: Carnival, Scandal, and Satire In the Age of Andrew Supreme Justice Joseph Story said, mansion was overrun by immense crowds of all sorts of people, from the CONTROVERSIES OF ANDREW JACKSON 4 highest and most polished down to the most vulgar and gross in the (Smith, 2005, p. 53). Smith even stated that Andrew Jackson escaped his own home during the event because of how wild it became. Jackson was also susceptible to backlash, just like any other President. He was jokingly called King Andrew for his patriarchal-like rule. Political cartoons showed him dressed similarly to European kings, and these cartoons have continued decades after his presidency either specifically about him or comparing him to other Presidents such as Donald J. Trump. Overtime, regulations have been put in place to allow only specific and invited guest to the home. It has been rarely seen after Jackson that the spoils system was in place; however, our nation is currently being ruled by one. For example, Betsy Devos, our current Secretary of Education, had no educational background and paid millions of dollars to Donald Trump to be hired as such. Sadly, we have no laws to prevent leaders from hiring inexperienced officials. Bettering the economy has always been the number one reason to elect a President. When Andrew Jackson was a presidential candidate, the economy in the greatest position. Thanks to John Quincy unsuccessful term, the country believed Jackson would save them from poverty. plan was to remove Native Americans from their land so white settlers can pay to own that land. This was successful until the proposition of the Second Back of the United States came forth. Though this was suppose to boost the economy even more, own fears of capitalism allowed him to veto this plan. Robert Whaples (2014), author of the article Andrew Policies for the demonstrated thought process saying, aimed to demolish the power of this large interstate bank chartered by the federal government and favored competition among state chartered banks, and CONTROVERSIES OF ANDREW JACKSON 5 so he vetoed rechartering of the bank in (p. 548). His plan to demolish the bank system introduced a new policy, the Specie Circular. This legislation stated that land will only be bought with hard money such as gold and silver. Historians, like Whaples, concluded that the Specie Circular was responsible for the Panic of 1837. This Panic was the biggest economic depression of time, and larger ones followed in footsteps. Whaples states that reckless opposition might have cursed the United States with a series of economic drops that lead to the Great Depression about a century later. Most Presidents after Jackson have also based their election plans solely on the economy, so not much has changed in that department. However, Presidents nowadays try to stay out of the business and banking aspect of the economy, and have tried to give citizens more jobs to boost it. In 1832, Andrew Jackson initiated the Indian Removal Act to relocate Native Americans further West. Most of the tribes listened to Jackson; however, the Cherokee Indians refused to leave and thought the Act was unconstitutional. The Cherokees went to the Supreme Court to try to stay in Georgia. They lost after Supreme Court Justice John Marshall declares that Native Americans are not allowed to bring forth national issues nor own land because of their race. Robert V. Remini (2001), an Andrew Jackson biographer, states in Jackson Versus the Cherokee Cherokees) even approached the President, but he curtly informed them that there was nothing he could do in the quarrel with (Georgia), a statement that shocked and amazed (p. 48). After that, they were forced to move to Mississippi where as many as ten thousand Indians died which historians now call the Trail of Tears. This is Andrew biggest controversy during his presidency, and is still debated today as a positive or negative legislation. Throughout the years, racism has been tolerated less; so researchers, such as Remini, CONTROVERSIES OF ANDREW JACKSON 6 ultimately declare Indian Removal Act as a horrible order with no consideration for the lives of Native Americans. Just like during the Civil Rights decade in the Americans learned that people with Native American heritage experience the same amount of backlash. Oppression against Native Americans started since the very beginning of the discovery of America. Diseases brought by European explorers killed thousands of Native Americans, and Andrew Jackson killed whatever was left. Today, Native Americans are still stereotyped to be naturalistic and extremely reliant on spiritual entities despite modern advancement. However, Native Americans have always been adjusting to white culture and accepted to change their society. Also, historians discovered that dislike of Native Americans to only reason to relocate them. As stated by Whaples, Jackson wanted more land available for white settlers to buy. They believed that Indians use their land proficiently, and thought it was unfair to have it for free. Despite this discovery, historians focus on ignorance towards the Natives as his main motive to remove them. To dig deeper into Andrew thought process during the passing of the Indian Removal Act, historians must research his history with the Native Americans. Jackson fought during the War of 1812 against the Indians. When the war ended, Jackson continued to fight, resulting in the Battle of New Orleans which he was given an order not to fight there, but did so anyways. He constantly expressed how uncivilized the Natives were, and that they deserve the land they conquered. He used his leadership position to woe Native land owners so he could buy land off of them. When the Indian Removal Act was finally passed, Jackson believed he was on the Native side. federal Indian policy Jackson inherited was nonsensical CONTROVERSIES OF ANDREW JACKSON 7 and that Jackson truly believed removal was necessary to save Native Americans from says John Kirn President Andrew Jackson, Cherokee Chief John Ross, and a Great American Land (2004, p. 673). Very few people believed that Andrew Jackson thought this would save Native Americans from extinction. His decision to go through with the removal was made with poor choice and no consideration for the amount of lives that would be lost. Nobody stopped Andrew Jackson or showed remorse for the Natives when the law was passed; however, standards have changed; and when Donald Trump and Barack Obama attempted to pass laws restricting entrance of Muslims in the country, society revolted and claimed that the laws were unconstitutional. demonstrations like these that prove that Andrew Jackson is no longer idolized like he used to be in the Nineteenth Century. Modern view on Andrew Jackson has changed over the years thanks to historians and researchers such as Smith, Whaples, Remini, and Kirn who have delved into the mind of Old Hickory. Further analyzation of documents and encounters revealed true motives to his overpowered presidency. Furthermore, letters and diaries were found that explained how stubborn Jackson acted towards his people. Intolerance has been criticized over the years, and studies show that policies were based off of his distrust of the bank and racism towards Native Americans. People today realize how terrible of a President Andrew Jackson turned out to be; and nowadays people grow away from spreading his ignorance throughout the country. CONTROVERSIES OF ANDREW JACKSON 8 References Kirn, J. F. (2016). Jacksonland: President Andrew Jackson, Cherokee Chief John Ross, and a Great American Land Grab. Of Southern (3), 672. Smith, J. (2005). Lords (and ladies) of misrule: Carnival, scandal, and satire in the age of Andrew Jackson. In American (12), 53. Remini, R. V. (2001). ANDREW JACKSON Versus the Cherokee Nation. (3), Whaples, R. (2014). Were Andrew policies for the (4), 545. CONTROVERSIES OF ANDREW JACKSON 9