Aloraimi 1 Mohammed Aloraimi John Williams Composition 2 March 19, 2017 The dangers of carbon dioxide emission emission of carbon dioxide gas caused the global warming phenomenon that considered a serious environmental problem that threatens the planet earth. The world has been suffered from the harmful gases emissions so that the governments need to avoid the increasing of these gases on the air so that they avoid the climate problems such as, melting the poles, global warming phenomenon, and see level rise which could lead to the disappearance of coastal cities. The burning systems that happen in factories and cars gradually impact the ozone layer so it is seen as the central reason behind this issue and the governments endeavored to keep up a vital separation from this phenomenon by making laws that deflect or lessen the sources of carbon dioxide emission. However, the damages of this problem are very dangerous and the solution of it is too hard and slow to respond so that they need to avoid the problem before happening. And so on, if the people still ignore the environment, the global warming will start to increase and that will lead to the poles melting which can cause a serious climatic fluctuation and affect the human health and the vital organization believe that the extreme temperatures are a new occurrence on earth and scientists who claim increased carbon dioxide to be the cause are doing so for reasons other than concern for the future. They argue that there were times in history when temperatures were much lower than what is being experienced medieval climate was normal and phenomenal than climate yet CO2 levels were much higher then. This only means that global warming might have a lot to do with burning fuels after all. However, Meinshausen point is that the temperatures levels are in a continue increasing so that the environment will be affected. Thus, the people around the world will witness strong climatic fluctuation such as, hurricanes and the poles melting which can lead to the disappearance of the coast cities. This implies climate will get to be intolerable. On the off chance that there are expanded floods then food crops be created and neither would they be able to be delivered in the dry season (Coppock, Rob, 307). That means, the people will have less sustenance to eat and also the creatures will be also affected by these organization contends that there were times in history when temperatures were much lower than what is being experienced as of now. The medieval atmosphere was typical and wonderful than atmosphere yet CO2 levels were significantly higher then. This exclusive implies that a worldwide temperature alteration may have a great deal to do with smoldering powers all things considered. However, Meinshausen idea is that the temperatures levels are in a keep expanding so that nature will be influenced. Along these lines, the general population around the globe will witness solid climatic vacillation, for example, storms and the shafts softening which can prompt to the vanishing of the drift urban communities. This infers atmosphere will get the opportunity to be terrible. In case there are extended surges then nourishment crops be made and neither would they have the capacity to be conveyed in the dry season (Coppock, Rob, 307). That implies the general population will have less sustenance to eat and furthermore these issues will additionally influence the have mostly been worried about the fact that increasing temperatures might be unbearable at one point. True as this may be, animals too are not any safe. The picture presented shows how the polar bear suffered from the ice melting which is due to the high percentage of CO2 and he cannot go anywhere and that represent the pathos. However, the source of this picture is credible because it came from an official and scientific website. On the other hand, the kiros of this picture is the ice melting. For example, the poles used to be a full iced area but now it is not full iced anymore and it is in a continuous melting. Scientists predict that the poles will disappear in the coming 100-year and then the polar bears and the animals there will not find any place to is a multi-causal and complex environmental issue, and can have serious socioeconomic consequences. This picture shows a guy whose sitting in front of a dry lake and he looks like he is very sad about that because he believe that the water is the most important thing in our life and his sadness represent the pathos. However, the credibility of that source is strong because it came from a scientific website. On the other hand, the drought problem is a very dangerous if we ignore it and it is due to the high temperature in the earth and that lead to Evaporation of water. Thus, the entire planet will be affected due to the importance of the water especially the sources are consider an academic sources and hey are very credible due to the way of containing information from official cites. Native Village is a website talked about the drought and the danger of it in the future and they posted a photo describe their thoughts which is a man looking to a dry lake sadly. The second website which is Inhabit and they focused on how the animal suffer from the human actions and they talked about a polar bear that have no place to stay due to the carbon dioxide conclusion, the earth is the only place we can live in it so that we need to be careful in how we deal with. However, the most important thing we need to control is the carbon dioxide emission because if we did not do that other problems are going to happen because the environment is considered as episodes all are connected together. For example, the increasing of carbon dioxide will make the global warming phenomenon to increase so that will lead to the poles melting. Then, the seas levels will rise due to the poles melting and that can create dangerous climatic fluctuations that might hit the costal cities. Last but not least, we need to start from ourselves to help the earth by using electrical engines instead of petroleum engines so that we make a clear imprint to help our Work cited Work cited Coppock, Rob. Climate  Issues In Science & Technology 17.3 (2001): 19- Guide Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 28 Jan 2017. Meinshausen, Malte, et al. Greenhouse-gas emission targets for limiting global warming to 2  Nature 458.7242 (2009): 1158-1162. Web. 28 Jan 2017 http://www.nativevillage.org/Archives/2011%20Archives/MARCH%20News/Limit%20 Set%20for%20Native%20Polarr%20Bear%20Hunters.htm http://inhabitat.com/scientists-report-dramatic-jump-in-carbon-dioxide-emissions-in- 2012-predict-faster-warming/