Petropoulos 1 Maria Petropoulos ENC 1102 John Williams 27 February 2017 Black Lives Matter Black Lives Matter is the term used by those who are opposed to the actions they have witnessed the government, government officials, or police officers take towards minority groups, especially blacks. Lives Matter is a call to action and a response to the virulent anti- Black racism that permeates our According the black lives matter website, this is a moment, but a This movement is about more than the racism that has stemmed from the events of the senseless killings that have taken place since Trayvon, it sticks up for any person who is black as well as a part of some other minority group, whether it be blacks in the LGTB communities, disabled persons, and those with questionable pasts (blacklivesmatter). They want the white privilege that they have witnessed their counterparts indulging in for long before their time; they are about the ways in which Black lives are deprived of basic human rights and (blacklivesmatter). They blame white supremacy for their discrimination and merely want to be equal, and for the accomplishments and safety of the minorities to be just as important as everyone To fight for #BlackLivesMatter, images are utilized to show what the purpose of the movement, and images evoke kairos, logos, ethos, and pathos in order to spark emotion to its audience. Racism is a topic that has been relevant throughout American history. Today, it is still prevalent; though it may not be as violent as it has been in the past it is still a big deal. This #BlackLivesMatter, has a large young adult and, of course, minority support. The Petropoulos 2 hashtag was created by three sisters a call to action for Black people after 17-year-old Trayvon Martin was post-humously placed on trial for his own murder and the killer, George Zimmerman, was not held accountable for the crime he committed. It was a response to the anti- Black racism that permeates our society and also, unfortunately, our (blacklivesmatter). Because it is mostly used on social media sites for people to comment on their thoughts and opinions of the recent events, #Black Lives Matter has spread awareness of the discrimination towards the vast majority of minority groups with support. The purpose of the following images is to strike a chord within the hearts of those who view them, and to make them want to put an end to discrimination. They are calls to action, telling people that they can do something to help. This image uses photos from various #Black Lives Matter riots, which are used as the background image. The forefront image is a digital drawing of a young black man, wearing a black hoodie with evident passion across his face has he holds up a dandelion with a crowd being him, also with their fists up. The young black man represents Trayvon Martin on the night of his death; Trayvon had been wearing dark clothes and a black hoodie. This image depicts pathos through the various images in combination to the digital drawing. Pathos comes from the emotion that this image draws from its audience. The targeted audience is for those who have felt Petropoulos 3 the repercussions caused by the discrimination of minorities in America. This image is meant to call its viewers to action, to fight for the movement #Black Lives Matter. The color scheme of this image, black and yellow, is meant to represent the police tape used to block the public from entering crime scenes. By utilizing these colors, the image and shape of it are meant to remind people of what was truly lost, and what will continue to be an issue if we do not take action. This image was taken during a #Black Lives Matter riot and appeals to the elements of ethos, logos, and kairos. The leftmost sign reads you are neutral in situations of injustice you have chosen the side of the this appeals to logos because no one wants to be the wrongdoer, but they stay neutral. By doing this, they supporting those in need of help, not speaking against the oppressor causes the oppressor to believe they are not at fault. This sign is attacking the idea behind #All Lives Matter. basic premise behind Lives = we should not highlight that black lives matter because all lives (Damiani). Not only are there news coverage of the increasing police brutalities, but there are statistics to prove the disproportionality between the deaths of blacks and other minorities versus whites from the police (Gaines et al.). This image appeals to kairos and ethos with the center sign reading tired of it all I just want To be ethical, you think about morals and what it means to do the right thing. The right thing would be peace. For kairos, the woman is tired of it all, implying Petropoulos 4 that the issue has been going on for far to long, which it has. Discrimination and racism has been occurring for far too long, we are more advanced than to take part in such demeaning practices. Petropoulos 5 Works Cited #Black Lives Matter. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Larson, Eric D. Lives Matter and Bridge Building: Labor Education for a Jim Labor Studies Journal 41.1 (2016): 36-66. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gaines, Larry K., Roger LeRoy. Miller, Don R. Hopkins, Neil Stratton, and Marc Neithercutt. Criminal Justice in Action: The Core. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, 2014. Print