Alahmadi 1 Muataz Alahmadi Prof. John Williams English Composition II 19 March 2017 The Most Convenient Way to Transport Since the invention of cars, the only short transportation method that was used is taxis. As time goes by technologies evolve and develop. Technologies developing made life and the daily tasks so much easier, which later on led other business to invent more convenient ways to travel short distance to compete for a market share. A stake holder named is competing with the other stake holder which is a more environment friendly taxi, for a share in the short distance traveling market. Taxis are well known and very traditional almost everybody knows what a Taxi is. For the ones who Taxis are the cars in the street that are usually yellow and drive people around for compensation. In the other hand Uber is a smart phone application that uses a instantaneous GPS location to request rides anywhere and anytime for cheaper fares. Uber costs 0.90 dollars per mile and a base fare of zero dollars, with a minimum fare of 5.15 dollars (Dough, 2016). This research represents two pictures or advertisements for companies, one for each stakeholder. These pictures have four rhetorical persuasive techniques to convince the viewer to use their services. The techniques are ethos, logos, pathos and kairos. Alahmadi 2 Furthermore. Pathos is the way that an image evokes emotion on in other words. A rhetorical persuasive technique that appeal to the emotions or empathy. For the first picture, it has a lot of emotions first of all the color green represents an environmental pro stakeholder. It says safe and reliable, also it says your designated which is an emotional approach towards the viewers of the advertisement. In the second picture there is no use of emotional persuasive techniques other than the simplicity. There are no other words in the picture only the word in all white. Also the white color associated with light, goodness, innocence, purity, and virginity. It is considered to be the color of perfection. White means safety, purity, and (Color Wheel). In the other hand the word says it all. In addition. Ethos is the characteristic spirit of a culture, era, or community as manifested in its beliefs and aspirations or in other words. a rhetorical persuasive technique that appeal to the ethics or credibility. In the first picture it says reliable and those three words indicates credibility. Also the writing that says shows that Green Cap company is a credible business that uses meter rates and there is no way for scam. Other than that the green color of the text indicates an environment friendly business which is very ethical. In the second picture there is a picture of the smart phone application. Also there is the word this shows that there is no need for words, Uber says it all. Which shows how obvious is the repetition of Uber and how people trust it. Equally important. Logos is logic in Greek, in literature logos is a rhetorical persuasive technique that appeal to logic. In the first picture it says reliable and which are the logical qualities to look for in a ride. Also the metered rates written in the advertisement below shows that all the rate are calculated by the meter and there is no way to get scammed. In Alahmadi 3 the second picture it is mostly about the logical appeal. It says and there is a photo of the smart phone application. The photo of the application shows a lot of features that the application has. Like instantaneous GPS, Pick up location, time estimated and what kind of Uber to request. As shown in the advertisement there is multiple choices of rides like Uberx, which is the regular Uber which can be any car. The second option is a taxi which is basically an ordinary cab. The third option is black car, black car is a brand new and a luxurious car that are mostly made 2016 and after. Also the black car rate is more expensive than Uberx. The last option is SUV or as known as sports utility vehicle, this is basically a larger car to fit more people, it usually fits 6 or more people. With all of these features Uber bring to the table. very obvious that Uber is very convenient and a very good choice for a short distance travel. All of those facts mentioned earlier shows the appeal in logic. Besides. Kairos is a propitious moment for decision or action. Also known as a rhetorical persuasive technique that appeal to time. For the first picture it has a phone number. Which means that there is booking for convenience. For the second picture in the smart phone application it shows the text pick up location 2 The application show the approximate pick up time which is very convenient for the user and help the user to make his decision. This feature on the application helps with the time management which appeals to time. In other words, as it were the two stake holders have the same motives and reasons. Uber and Green Taxis both want to give people rides for compensation. Both ways to travel short distance are very convenient and easy. It is easier and cheaper requesting an Uber or maybe even more convenient because of all the options the offer. Yet some people prefer the Green Taxis just for environmental reasons. Both advertisements are produced by rhetorical appeals, Alahmadi 4 logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos. This information should help the reader decide on which ride to choose, or when to choose which ride. (Word Count: 1014) Alahmadi 5 Alahmadi 6 Alahmadi 7 Works Cited Color Wheel Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. Dough. How much does Uber cost? Uber fare  RideSharingDriver. N.p., 09 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Digital image (1). Http://mobileadvertisingwatch.com/native-ads-uber-allies-mobile-app- taxi-service-may-go-native-to-counter-consumer-concerns-17412. N.p., n.d. Web. Digital image (2). Http://mobileadvertisingwatch.com/native-ads-uber-allies-mobile-app- taxi-service-may-go-native-to-counter-consumer-concerns-17412. N.p., n.d. Web.