FUEL CELL AND HYDROGEN ENERGY ASSOCIATION (FCHEA) 1 Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA) Kaung Su Khin Zaw University of South Florida FUEL CELL AND HYDROGEN ENERGY ASSOCIATION (FCHEA) 2 Abstract The paper discusses how rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, and logos were used in two images provided by the Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA), to promote its organization. Before analyzing the images, the background information is provided to understand FCHEA and its aim to support hydrogen fuel cell usage in the future. Then, the first image is discussed along with the rhetorical appeal that it utilizes. Ethos was used by including the logo to instill a sense of credibility in the audience, pathos was used by using colors and symbols to convey an ecofriendly image, and logos was used by using a catchy slogan that provides information about hydrogen fuel cells. The benefits of hydrogen fuel cells were better communicated using the second image because an actual hydrogen fuel cell was present. In this image, pathos was used through the fascinated facial expressions, ethos was used by including the logo, and logos was used by posing a question about the benefits of fuel cells for pathos. Despite their differing uses of rhetoric appeals, both images attempt to persuade people to use hydrogen fuel cells instead of fossil fuels in the future. Keyword: Hydrogen fuel cell, Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association. FUEL CELL AND HYDROGEN ENERGY ASSOCIATION (FCHEA) 3 Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA) Due to higher rates of air pollution and global warming around the world, people are willing to use an alternative eco-friendly energy resource such as hydrogen fuel cells in the future to keep the environment green. According to Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA), hydrogen fuel cells are the best option to replace fossil fuels in the future because they do not produce any gases harmful to the environment and their waste product is simply water. (fchea.org) In a fuel cell, hydrogen combines with oxygen to produce heat which make engines operate. Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association is a world leading organization that produces alternative energy resources, especially hydrogen fuel cells to replace fossil fuels in the future. By stating environmental benefits of hydrogen fuel cells, the organization attempts to introduce people with these fuel cells using two images. In these images, FCHEA uses rhetorical appeals such as ethos with its logo for showing the credibility, pathos with colors and background for showing emotions and feelings and logos with information about hydrogen fuel cells to promote its organization and aim. The first image is the main advertising image for hydrogen fuel cells and uses certain rhetorical appeals to convey information about the benefits of hydrogen fuel cells. For ethos, the logo of the organization is included at the bottom right corner of the image to make the information provided in this image more credible. is written in bold to emphasize the logo of the organization. For logos, a slogan of its organization is emission, zero to give information about the benefits of hydrogen fuel cells. This slogan implies that since there are no hazardous byproducts, the environment will not be harmed. The slogan uses and changes the letter with the number zero to grab attention and emphasize the cleanliness of hydrogen fuel cell emission. (fchea.org) For pathos, the image subtly makes the FUEL CELL AND HYDROGEN ENERGY ASSOCIATION (FCHEA) 4 use of the power of colors. Two-thirds of the background is bright green, so that people feel a sense of naturalness. The remaining third is blue, representing water which is the waste product of hydrogen fuel cells. Therefore, when the blue overlaps the green, the environmental benefits of hydrogen fuel cells are represented. To add to this visualization of clean waste, a splash of water is present in the green and blue background. In addition, with the aid of design and font size of letters, this image conveys more information about hydrogen fuel cells. In the logo, a symbol before the abbreviation clearly shows that this organization focuses on energy production. The symbol has a green arrow and a blue arrow joined together in form of a circle with a lightning bolt in the middle of the cycle to represent clean energy.(fchea.org) To improve the purpose of the image, the slogan is written the middle of the image in big, white capital letters to grab the attention. Since the white font color makes the words appear easily distinguishable on the green background, people can easily notice the slogan. Thus, people may find it easy to understand the purpose of this image as the image includes the benefits of a hydrogen fuel cell so the image effectively persuades the audience. Unlike the first image, the second image has an actual hydrogen fuel cell and uses rhetorical appeals effectively to persuade people. For ethos, the image provides the website in white at the bottom left corner of the image so people can easily notice the image and gain a sense of credibility toward the information the image provides. For logos, the image states a question, you know the only tailpipe emission from a fuel cell electric vehicle is This implies that the waste product of hydrogen fuel cells is clean and eco-friendly and attempts to make people interested in hydrogen fuel cells. (fchea.org) This question is placed in the middle of the image, in different font sizes, and in FUEL CELL AND HYDROGEN ENERGY ASSOCIATION (FCHEA) 5 white, so that it is noticeable and the benefits of hydrogen fuel cells are easily conveyed. Similarly, the phrase conveys the same message as the question, where hydrogen fuel cells are clean and eco-friendly. For pathos, the image provides a clear description about the waste product, water. In the picture, two people with somewhat fascinated expressions on their faces are filling up a bottle with water from the tailpipe of the hydrogen fuel cell. From the faces and the location of the image, the image implies that the people may be someplace where clean water is not easily available. This image shows not only the ecofriendly benefits of hydrogen fuel cells but also how hydrogen fuel cells can help people in situations such as when people are travelling to places where water is not easily available. Using such imagery, the image efficiently persuades people and creates excitement about hydrogen fuel cells by displaying the hydrogen fuel benefits. Also, despite the absence of kairos, this image effectively conveys goal of replacing hydrogen fuel cells in the future. To conclude, the Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association (FCHEA) desires to use hydrogen fuel cells instead of fossil fuels in the future. Since fossil fuel burning causes severe environmental pollution through its harmful emissions, people are becoming more interested in using eco-friendly energy alternatives like hydrogen fuel cells. Because hydrogen fuel cells produce only water as waste, they are considered one of the most efficient and eco-friendly sources of energy. The FCHEA attempts to convey the usefulness of hydrogen fuel cells through two images using different rhetorical appeals and simultaneously, attempts to further achieve the goal of convincing people to utilize hydrogen fuel cells as their main source of energy in the future. FUEL CELL AND HYDROGEN ENERGY ASSOCIATION (FCHEA) References Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association, (2017). Retrieved from http://hydrogenandfuelcellday.org/ Launches Zero Emissions, Zero Compromise Outreach (2016, October 2016). Fuel Cell & Hydrogen Energy Association. Retrieved from http://hydrogenandfuelcellday.org/ Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association. (2017). Retrieved from http://www.fchea.org/post- cards-gallery/68dn5bn6ssabt0xhtseczjmu3u7pvf Image One FUEL CELL AND HYDROGEN ENERGY ASSOCIATION (FCHEA) Image Two: