Kellman 1 Abraham Kellman ENC 1102.003 Dennis 26 January 2017 Physician Assisted Suicide: Dignified death or Homicide? IMAGE 1 IMAGE 2 Kellman 2 On New Day of 2014, after months of excruciating headaches, Brittany Maynard was diagnosed with brain cancer. She went through several doctors and several intense surgeries, finally leading her to remission. The cancer came back with a vengeance. Brittany was then diagnosed with six months to live and with those doctors recommended she go through many treatments that would drastically reduce her quality of life. She researched for months to try to find better treatments that could cure her, but came to the awful conclusion that nothing was left. She considered hospice care, but realized that with her young body she could still hang on for months while the cancer slowly caused her brain to deteriorate and her body could develop drug resistant pain. As a last resort, Brittany explored something called physician assisted suicide (PAS). Brittany saw this as her saving grace, but where she lived, California, did not allow PAS. She uprooted and moved her whole family, changed physicians, made her husband take a leave of absence from his work all to qualify for death with dignity in Oregon (Maynard 1). Per Death with Dignity National center, only five out of the fifty states allow PAS, and even then, to qualify for it is a whole other ordeal (Figure 1). Therefore, organizations like Kellman 3 Death with Dignity (DWD) were created. DWDs mission is to promote PAS for the terminally ill with six months or less to live nationwide, which is why image one best is a great depiction of the action being done to achieve this goal. However, institutions like Care Not Killing believe that PAS is murder and should be prohibited, and image two best illustrates this belief. DWD is an organization that is in support of PAS legalization for the people who choose to utilize this option. While they do support it, they also believe it should be regulated. For instance, they believe that PAS should only be used by patients who are terminally ill with only six months to live and that the patients should be mentally sound (DWD). DWD is a charity non- profit organization with a yearly budget of $600,000 and has the same opinion of approximately 68% of the US population (Dugan 1). The overall message and goal of DWD is that all eligible terminally ill patients nationwide should have the choice to participate in PAS and die with dignity. Image one best offers a look into what people are doing to achieve this goal. Image one is a very powerful and interesting photograph. The focal point of this piece is the two women who are in opposing views, one for and the other against PAS. One major purpose of this image is to appeal to the emotions of the audience of the pathos. The warm colors and crazy font on the sign the woman is holding brings up positive feelings. The woman holding this sign is looking directly at the camera and smiling again bringing up happy feelings. All adding to the overall feeling this image tries to evoke: PAS is not a bad thing, but a peaceful and dignified choice. Another appeal to pathos is the other young woman next. Her sign is black and white, very formal and very plain, and she is looking away with a straight face. These factors create a negative feeling around her and cause the audience to be deterred by what she represents, in this case the opposition to PAS. Kellman 4 In image one, an old woman holds up a sign in the middle of a protest and next to her a young woman does the same. The old reads a message of support for the choice to utilize PAS, while the young sign does the opposite. The young sign states that not only is PAS an easy thing to do but that it hurts or is to our families. These things on her sign lead the audience to believe that the young woman is, in fact, in opposition to PAS. Although this image contains appeals to logos and pathos, it lacks any appeal to kairos and ethos, unlike image two In opposition to DWD, Care Not Killing does not believe in PAS. They believe in goes against what a doctor should be doing and that it is not a dignified death, but murder. They represent the people from disability and human rights groups, health organizations and religious groups who do not support PAS. Because this is an alliance of organizations, there is no clear number of members and no clear budget or income for it. Image two contains the rhetorical appeals of pathos, logos and ethos. The only appeal to kairos is the fact that someone is flatlining, in other words dying. Nevertheless, the appeal to logic begins with the heart rate line. Here the audience sees a live, green line, this lets the viewers know that the person is going or is alive. While the part of the line after the hand is red and still, illustrating the life has just stopped or death. This hand that just stopped or took this life belongs to a doctor, which can be concluded because the hand belongs to a person wearing gloves, a stethoscope, and a mask. A doctor, an individual whom society associates with the job of healing and saving lives. Bringing audience to the conclusion that PAS is not what a doctor should be doing or is a good thing, but instead a drastic decision that takes life away. Kellman 5 The appeal to pathos here is the pathos here is the striking and vibrant colors. Green, people associate this color with movement, life, nature, and the word go. The red, commonly associated with stillness, stopping, and death, in addition to the green, causes the audience to feel sad about the life that was just lost. Also, the doctor, whom society believes to be healers, makes the audience feel betrayed by taking this life instead of trying to save it. All creating this message that PAS is not the job of a doctor and is indeed murder, or not a viable option. Lastly, the ethos is what was stated before about the doctor, making the picture even more credible for audiences. After Brittany settled into Oregon and got all the requirements needed for PAS, she went to her physician and got the medicine for the act. During November 2015, while she was still happy and satisfied with her life, Brittany decided to take the medication to end her life in a dignified and peaceful way. This is why DWD was created, so people can have a death like except without leaving there home and life behind, and image one best depicts the fight that DWD is having every day. While many people agree to what DWD is fighting for, many others disagree and a great example of that is the alliance Care Not Killing. They believe that it is not right for a doctor to have to take part in PAS and that the act itself is murder not dignified death, which is best shown in image two. In all, the fight between PAS support and opposition will, most likely, last for many years to come. Kellman 6 Work cited Drum, Kevin. My Right to  Mother Jones. Mother Jones, Jan. & feb. 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Dugan, Andrew. In U.S., Support Up for Doctor-Assisted  Gallup.com. Gallup.com, 27 May 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.  Death With Dignity. Death With Dignity, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Promoting Care, Opposing  About Us - Care NOT Killing - Promoting Care, Opposing Euthanasia - Care Not Killing. Care Not Kiling, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Scarlet, Mik. Assisted dying: for and  Disability Horizons. N.p., 24 Nov. 2013. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Somerville, Margaret. Next, limit the harm: proposals for new euthanasia  MercatorNet. N.p., 19 Feb. 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.