Wiggs 1 Michael Wiggs Comp 2 Prof. John Williams February 27, 2017 Masterful Manipulation: The Use of Rhetorical Appeals What if someone were to walk up to you and say that they could influence and manipulate your brain and its thoughts? What if through the manipulation of 4 simple characteristics you were able to control the minds of millions of people, and influence the way that they saw things? Incredibly, this is all possible through the use and manipulation of the four rhetorical appeals: Logos, Ethos, Pathos, and Kairos. These four devices are all used in the art of persuading readers and viewers into a certain way of thinking. Logos is described as the use of logic to persuade an audience, using facts, numbers, or knowledge to influence the way of thinking. Ethos is best described as persuasion through credibility of the source providing the reader or audience with the knowledge. Pathos manages to persuade audiences simply through appealing to emotions. Finally, Kairos is a rhetorical appeal that manipulates timeliness and persuades readers to act with urgency. The National Football League or the NFL has worked to create images that send a message to those that see it. These messages have a variety of characteristics and properties that allow them to be deemed effective. In the two images below, the National Football League uses a combination of the rhetorical appeals to help promote viewership through a family atmosphere, and help enlighten fans on the possible perspective and view of actual athletes. The family unit is something that is valued very much. In the first image produced, the audience is exposed to a photo containing just that, a family. The NFL puts this key component Wiggs 2 on display in an image with the family in the forefront of an image that was obviously designed to produce a happy or good feeling by each person who sees the image. The picture is used to show that the NFL along with families make up football, and without the family football would cease to exist. It allows the viewer to see that they play just as big a role in the NFL as a whole as the actual game itself, which is supposed to make fans feel good. The first element displayed in the image is Ethos. The thing(s) that add credibility to the picture and make it valid are the fact that these statements about the game of football are being made by the NFL, the highest- ranking organization in all of football. If the NFL were to say anything about football, it must be true or must be something that has validity to it being that this is the game played at the highest and professional level. The next rhetorical device provided in the image of the family is pathos. The Elements of pathos are the smiling faces and interactions of the family as well as the unity created through the jerseys. These elements are intended to create a feeling of happiness, unity, and belonging to and within the NFL as a whole. Of all four of the rhetorical appeals, only two of them seem to be present. Both the devices Logos, which uses facts and logic, and Kairos, which create somewhat of a call to action, were left out in the image and failed to have any effect on the way that people viewed the image that was created. Millions of dollars, fancy cars, lavish lifestyles, who love a life that contains such things? In society professional football players in the United States are seen as huge public figures that have attained all that life has to offer; or so we think. This second image being viewed is a cartoon of a football player speaking to a therapist and seems to be complaining about the things that most of us as spectators and fans view as fantastic rewards and benefits of playing in the NFL. This image is one that is designed somewhat out of satire from the point or perspective of the actual NFL athletes. It is used to show that the perspective Wiggs 3 changes the way we view things as far as the lifestyle that the athletes have at the professional level. It is designed to not necessarily provide sympathy for the athletes but to get the fans, and viewers to think and realize that maybe the things that we view as rewards of success may in actuality, be the things that cause professional athletes the most problems. The first rhetorical devise present in this image is Ethos. Validity is added into this image by using the perspective of the professional athletes themselves. When speaking on the issues that NFL players face, what better source than the NFL player them self? The next rhetorical appeal shown in this image is Pathos. The use of a office as the overall setting, the display of tissues in the office, along with the big, burly, crying football player, are all in place to create an emotion of sympathy for the athletes through humor. The third element of Logos is seen through the provision of simple or vague facts such as the general statement of a or are general facts about the profession that may make the person seeing and interpreting the picture in a certain way. Like the first image, the second image fails to incorporate the fourth and final element of Kairos. There is nothing in this image that forces a viewer to take time into consideration when making a decision or interpreting their feelings toward the image. Mind control is certainly not a thing of science fiction or myth. The minds of millions of people can be easily influenced and persuaded using what are known as the four rhetorical appeals. The use of Logos, Pathos, Ethos, and Kairos are the four elements used to persuade and influence the thoughts and actions of an audience. The NFL uses these devices in a series of combinations to create images that are designed to convey a certain message to a wide audience of people. The first image uses two of the four devices to show that football is more than just a game, its family. The second image used three of the four techniques to show that the things that Wiggs 4 we as fans and spectators view as rewards can actually be detrimental simply due to a change in perspective. There are so many ways that people can learn to control the things around them, but when using the four rhetorical devices Pathos, Logos, Ethos, and Kairos, what would you be able to control next? Wiggs 5 Wiggs 6 Work Cited Together We Make Football. Digital image. NFL.com. Nation Football League, 19 Sept. 2013. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. <http://www.nfl.com/news/story/0ap2000000247217/article/nfl-starts- together-we- make-football-your-story-celebration>. Dave Granlund. Digital image. Dave Granlund. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. <http://www.davegranlund.com/cartoons/2011/03/07/nfl-player-demands/>.