Jacob May1 Jacob May Ms. Ricketts Comp. 1 3/4/17 Perspectives of Russian History Russian history is one shrouded in controversy and is ever changing. When looking at sources from Russian origin, and then sources with a Western origin, how we approach this information is different. We tend to value one over the other, depending on where we are raised. Between the years of 2010-2017 we can compare a more modern look on the topics of Russian history. Between 1995-2010 we can see a large difference between the topics chosen to study as well as what focuses they had within the studies. Now this is important to examine as many Russians currently have a (Beissinger pg. 295). Within modern times, many are looking towards their past to see how they should handle many current situations and how they should feel as Russians with their actions. Currently Russia has taken a larger portion of the international media coverage; politically Russia has done many things, things many Russian people know how to feel towards their governments actions. This lack of guidance from their lacking in history has created an identity crisis within Russian, this crisis can be examined. By looking at how Western historians and Russian historians record and study history over a course of time, we can receive a broad sense of how the study of Russia has changed. There are many differing focuses of the historians in the 2010 and 2009 sources, of which one is Western and the later Russian respectively. Within the first article, Elizabeth Pontikes, in 2010 we see that there was a focus on the study of home grown sympathizers who were affected Jacob May2 by the McCarthyism of the Cold War within Hollywood. This study dove into the misfortunes that many faced during these trying times. It showed how many of those in the United States viewed the Soviets with disgust and all those who sympathized with them, alienating many of those who only wished to allow for their views to come across. During this time, much was occurring between the than USSR and the US, the Cold War. This was a major splitting point at the current time that split many historians from one another as both became enemies. This process lost a large amount of information between the two countries. Much information about the true involvement with the Soviets and the Hollywood stars are either unknown or altered due to the need for need to fit the narrative of the time (Pontikes pg. 457). The 2009 source, Victor Shnirelman, chose to study how the Russian have a certain stigma when it comes to their history. When examining Russian history, the many controversies stem from discrepancies between Western historians and Russian historians and their sources of information. These leads to the Post-Cold War identity crisis that now plagues the Russian citizens. The correlations between the two is that they both face how they were impacted with each culture and how that shaped them into what they are now. As Shnirelman explained, historians see their differing ideologies and source with hostile intent, rather than to bond (Shnirelman pg. 60). The focuses that each pursue shows that both chose to look deeper into their own history and see how other influenced them and shaped their current society. Looking at the 2006 and 1995 study, their focuses varied as well as the time between the study and the events that happened. Within the 2006 study, Mark R. Beissinger, dives into identifying the history of the Soviet Empire by approaching it differently. The author approaches this study as a study comparing one another as a family rather than what newer studies have done Jacob May3 and bounced each country off each other. Instead choosing to place blame of the many misfortunes the Russians are plagued with, the author directs his attention to how the Soviets truly the worst of all the guys but simply have gone through what all the significate countries of the world have gone through during their history. When examining the 1995 study, Alexander S. Khodnev, the focus shifts towards how the world leaders of the time of the rise of communism chose to deal and how they set boundaries for future engagements with the newly formed USSR. Khodnev states how Wilson choose to handle the USSR, Soviet Union is a treat to the free world and we should look to our allies for support with this growing (Khodnev pg. 11). This showed how the Russian historian viewed the first historical interaction with the growing influence as negative. By studying the leaders of the time and their thoughts and their actions, this allows for the capability of understanding the origin of many future leaders thought process when dealing with the actions that the newly formed USSR would do during the next century. By examining Woodrow Wilson and the rise of the USSR, we can peer into how many of the populace of the viewed this new and very foreign entity. The progression of the changing of focuses of Russian history has changed. By looking to the farthest source, it is seen that the focus was on more of the New-Born Soviet Union interactions with the establishing United States. Which progressed to how the people in the United States were treated within the United States for empathy towards the Soviets Post-WWII. This shows that the shift changed from international to more Western focused, with Russian the Soviet being the influencer on the United States people. Jacob May4 Work Cited Beissinger, Mark R. Empire as Slavic Review. vol. 65 no. 2, 2006, 294-303. JSTOR. 19 Feb, 2017 Khodnev, Alexander S. legacies of Woodrow Wilson and the League of Nations in World Affairs. Vol. 158 Issue 1(1995) 8-18. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Pontikes, Elizabeth. Red: A Study of Stigma by Association to Blacklisted Artists during the in Hollywood, 1945 to American Sociological Review. vol. 75, no. 3, 2010, 456-478 JSTOR. 19 Feb. 2017 Shnirelman, Victor. by History or by Historians? The Peoples of Russia in School History History and Memory: Studies in Representation of the Past. vol. 21 no. 2, 2009, 40-110. JSTOR. 29 Jan. 2017