Greathouse, 1 Caroline Greathouse Dennis Composition II Section 3 March 12, 2017 An Analysis of Visual Rhetoric Concerning Sexual Education in the United States According to the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, nearly 20 million people have a sexually transmitted disease (STD). Despite this, nearly 50% of adults younger than 45 years of age were never tested for any STDs besides HIV/AIDS. These alarming statistics suggest that the access to sexual health information in the United States is unbalanced. There are countless groups working to create their own standard of sexual education to improve these figures. One such group is Advocates for Youth. Their aim is to provide adolescents access to accurate and comprehensive information regarding sexual health (Advocates for Youth). Ascend is another group and they encourage abstinence education (We Ascend). In order to gain support for their methods of sexual health education, Ascend and Advocates for Youth both use compelling visual advertisements that utilize a myriad of rhetorical techniques. Ascend was founded in 2007 and was formerly known as the National Abstinence Education Association (Ascend). Since then, the organization has raised nearly $500 million to support sexual risk avoidance (SRA) programs. These programs are not only Instead, they teach a holistic view of sex and sexual health while emphasizing abstinence as the best method (NAEA). Valerie Huber leads the organization and has worked in the SRA field across the nation by training sex educators and lobbying in Washington, D.C. (Ascend). This organization operates on the national level with their most senior staff Greathouse, 2 communicating with the Ohio Department of Health, the Administration of Children and Families, and even the Federal Department of Health and Human Services (Ascend). In fact, their headquarters are located right next to the White House in D.C. on Pennsylvania Avenue NW. Overall, Ascend works to promote abstinence on a national level through lobbying, sex educator training, and widespread networking. The organization believes that adolescents are better prepared for their futures when they do not participate in pre-matrimonial sexual activity. The infographic above is from an Ascend publication highlighting recent research regarding sexual health education. It contains three of the four main rhetorical appeals: ethos, logos, and pathos. There is no kairos present in the infographic. The main source of ethos is in Greathouse, 3 the bottom right corner of the image, which contains the Ascend logo. Their symbol, name, and motto are found and they all provide credibility to the infographic. The image was clearly made to represent Ascend and its goals. Furthermore, the inclusion of source information, author, and the research study name also contributes to the ethos of this advertisement. The infographic relies heavily on logos. The pie chart and accompanying text logically appeals to undecided viewers by stating that 77% of Americans are on the side of Ascend. This chart also weakens the argument of opposing sides by suggesting that they only have 23% popular support. The right side of the chart focuses on money and provides statistics on the spending for sexual health education. The dashed diagonal white line separating the two financial statistics suggests that there is a great disparity between the opinions of people and the actuality of how money is spent. The facts then confirm this notion. The use of green colors emphasizes this focus on money, which is a powerful element of logos. Logically, money should be spent how people want it to be spent. Further building on the financial focus are the dollar bill and coin images, which interests people and provides context before the statistics are even read. Finally, there are very few appeals to pathos. The main appeal to pathos is the shock generated from reading the provided statistics. This shock is intentional and the infographic utilizes it to generate support for the SRA field and Ascend. Overall, the infographic uses many rhetorical appeals (mainly logos) to persuade the viewer to support the SRA field. Advocates for Youth, however, does not support the SRA field. The organization has operated in the field of informing adolescents of their reproductive and sexual health for more than thirty years. (Advocates for Youth). It is led by Debra Hauser, who has worked in the organization for decades. The group is in Washington, D.C. as well. According to Advocates for Youth, 95% of people have sex before they are married. Instead of trying to convince more teens Greathouse, 4 to wait for marriage, Advocates for Youth prepares their students with risk-reducing strategies and resources. For example, in 2016 alone, the group distributed 1,200,000 condoms on college campuses (Advocates for Youth). Their annual expenses last year totaled nearly seven million dollars. Advocates for Youth employs the 3-R approach to sexual health education: Rights. Respect. Responsibility. This motto summarizes their global and local programs which all share the common goal of empowering youths to take charge of their health without societal backlash. Advocates for views are represented in the above image, even though it is not directly from them. In the picture, the condom is a clear symbol for sexual education, which is an appeal of logos. The paper cutout figures are both boys, which is implied by the lack of feminine features, such as dresses, long hair, or skirts. From these two elements, an inference can be drawn regarding homosexual youth and sexual education. Combining this inference with the background on Advocates for Youth, this ad asserts that the organization is supportive of comprehensive sexual education. This comprehensive sexual education includes topics that pertain more to homosexual teens than to teens in general. The light blue color also reinforces Greathouse, 5 this connection to boys, as it is a typical symbol for baby boys. All that together is an appeal to logos. To continue, the color is an appeal to pathos since it is soothing, calming, and comforting. The cutout figures are equal in size, suggesting that Advocates for Youth is a group that talks with adolescents, not down to them. This appeal to pathos is reinforced by the placement of the condom between the figures as if it is being shared or passed on. This could also symbolize the sharing of information and education that Advocates for Youth provides. The smooth lines of the cutouts suggest that the organization is not focused on strictness but instead on being helpful and friendly. There are no elements of ethos or kairos in this image. The state of sexual education in the United States is unbalanced. An example of this is the level of teen pregnancy in the U.S. to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in 2002 there were an estimated 757,000 pregnancies among young women ages (Planned Parenthood). Additionally, the CDC reports that 2015 is the second year in a row when all cases of the three nationally-tracked STDs (syphilis, gonorrhea, and chlamydia) increased in number. They estimate that half of the new STD cases per year (roughly 20 million) are in youth aged 15-24 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). There are many groups that work on the national level to improve sexual education and restore balance. Two of these groups, Ascend and Advocates for Youth, are at odds with one another. Ascend fights for abstinence education while Advocates for Youth believes in promoting the sexual health rights of teens and their access to information and resources. Both organizations use visual rhetoric in their ads to gain support. Greathouse, 6 Works Cited Advocates for Youth. Advocatesforyouth.org. N.p., 2008. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Ascend. Sexual Risk Avoidance Works. Publication. Washington, D.C: Ascend, 2016. Print. Borg, Evelyn . WHY MALTA NEEDS TO UP ITS SEX  Eve.com.mt. Eve.com.mt, n.d. Web. Only an image was used from this article. CDC. CDC Fact Sheet: Reported STDs in the United States. Rep. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Oct. 2016. Web. 10 Mar. 2017.  We Ascend. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://weascend.org/>. Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood Federation of America Inc., 2017. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. NAEA - National Abstinence Education  NAEA - National Abstinence Education Association - FAQs. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.abstinenceassociation.org/faqs/index.html>. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.siecus.org/index.cfm>.