Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 4 March 2017 Tackling Depression In contrast to the past, depression has become a more widely known illness that has gradually improved in attempts to overcome it. Those who dwell on their sickness are bursting with emotions that such an individual should not have to grip or suffer through. Reviewing the stupidities and failures of life pushes punishments that one may or may not have committed, while all the time begging for peace (Rowe 37). But choosing the ways to approach these elements reflect the unfolding of human knowledge in this expanding area of clinical care and research (Epidemiology, Symptomatology, and Diagnosis). Various treatments have become universal and there are many different approaches to tackling depression. One stakeholder involved in this issue was HealthGuide and their perspective is to provide various coping styles and techniques that are more therapeutical and improves on the mental health. A stakeholder with an opposing standpoint is Pick The Brain: Grow Yourself, and their objective is to offer numerous exercise options and healthy food choices that can positively impact a victim of depression with persuasion of a healthier lifestyle. Organizing these techniques will provide a more physical aspect to destroying this illness. Deriving these differences into consideration, the first stakeholder introduced a more mental way to treat your depression while the second stakeholder used a more healthy and physical perspective. Due to similar objectives of exploring various treatments to help depression, a compromise could be sorted that would assist in building a healthier lifestyle and overall more positivity for those unfortunate victims of depression. Student 2 Focusing on one aspect of this issue, HealthGuide was established in 2012 as a California nonprofit public benefit corporation dedicated to charitable and educational purposes Servicing this foundation for years and collaborating with Harvard proves its reliability and dependability for victims of depression seeking any unknown tactics that could benefit their well-being and rid this sickening disease. HealthGuide argues that the best possible solutions to treating depression are using therapeutical sessions and encouraging optimistic thoughts and behaviors. Believing that the mind is deeply intricated with depression encourages their readers to form a strong mentality that would be very beneficial. Depressed patients were characterized by their ideal of low self-esteem, self-blame, overwhelming responsibilities, and desires to escape. It is important for the patient to discover the distortions in their thinking by tracking spontaneous thoughts associated with certain moods and/or situations. (Beck 18). Numerous of professionals can agree that depression is derived from a combination of poor thought processes and mental aspects. Therapy that positively enhances the outlook is the most vital outcome for treating this disorder. Perhaps linking this strategy with the work of another stakeholder with the same drive could result in a new-found compromise that could result in an altercation. In contrast, another stakeholder opposes a separate viewpoint from that of HelpGuide; Pick The Brain: Grow Yourself, whose main objective is to assimilate exercise and healthy food choices into those affected with depression. With over 200 bloggers from around the world contributing content, PTB is not only a great passion project but has truly become a powerful global voice and brand in the self-improvement space, being read in over 35 countries daily (Falconer 2). Additionally, after conducting a study in the 1980s of over 80 different cases, a few significant findings were discovered linking exercise and depression. The greater the length of Student 3 the exercise program and the larger the total number of exercise sessions, the greater the decrease in depression with exercise (North, McCullagh, Tran 68). Strictly focusing on health improves the body and mood of any individual, but specifically one with depression. Overall, the point attempting to be considered to subdue this disease is to improve health by taking a jog in the morning, or going for a swim, while also accumulating any fruits and veggies instead of late- night ice cream. Making small changes in a lifestyle could make quite the difference. Combining a healthier lifestyle with a positive mindset could be the initial stages of a more satisfied individual. Fortunately, HelpGuide and Pick The Brain are both making it a priority to help any victim unfortunate enough to be suffering from depression. While the first stakeholder is focusing more on enhancing the mind with a more constructive mindset and participating in therapeutical sessions, the other stakeholder merely sets its heart on the health benefits that exercise and a well-nourished diet can obtain. Clearly, the two stakeholders hold differing views on more successful treatments for depression, but it is evident that both stakeholders avoid the practical notion of over-the-counter medications and costly surgeries. Ultimately, with depression becoming more widely-shared across the nation, it is vital to develop a compromise between these two conflicting organizations with the notion of finally emerging the appropriate procedures one can undergo to fight this disease that society has lacked over the years. Proceeding with this belief will aid in addressing matters that fail to be resolved and guide these victims towards a better future and a new start. Pursuing a government-funded camp for depressed individuals that could benefit the objectives of both stakeholders, could possibly be an effective route to diminishing the negative effects of depression. Utilizing the precious tax dollars that are directed towards the government Student 4 could be put in good hands towards treating depression definitively. Obviously, both sides having to give a little in order to negotiate, HelpGuide can intricate more outside time and healthier food choices and Pick The Brain can promote more positivity in their outlooks which can result in a successful modification. Avoiding the topic of the technique and any statistics of which procedure is easier achieved, a camp to help those with depression using two successful campaigns could easily decrease the amount of depression around the world. A week-long camp of about 50 individuals (male or female) including counselors, nutritionists, and exercise trainers would all reside there for about seven days. Each individual is selected based on a first come first serve basis after signing up. It will be promoted by small talk- sessions every day with a professional counselor and being surrounded by those with similar emotions that could assist in distinguishing the feeling of Also, what will be included are plenty of healthy meals and snacks that boost energy and a few, short exercise sessions about three times daily to keep movement flowing and minds off any negativity. Pursuing this constant routine for seven days could develop into a habit which would help promote an optimistic mentality along with a healthier lifestyle. Enforcing connections between peers and professional helpers will assist in always having the proper guidance and motivation to build a better future. Therefore, satisfying both stakeholders and those that pursued a camp based off of self- improvement could be the start of an amended life for several that help build friendships, escape reality, and upgrade well-being and mental health. Although HealthGuide and Pick The Brain do possess some differences in prosperous treatments of depression, with enough efforts from each party, a well improvised plan could be integrated into society that gratifies both purposes from each organization. With adequate dedication and the drive to help, the quantity of people affected by depression could easily be Student 5 lessened and future diagnosis could be ceased. If a compromise does evolve into a successful method, individuals can develop new hope for their sick loved ones and for the world around them as depression could drop immaculately and self-improvement could be more widely encouraged. (WC: 1249) Student 6 Works Cited Falconer, Erin. Pick the Brain Motivation and Self Improvement, 22 Nov. 2006. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. Gilson, Mark. Chapter 8  Overcoming Depression : A Cognitive Therapy Approach. 2009. 127-52. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Hays, Kate F. Overcoming Inertia: Exercise and Depression. Washington, DC. American Psychological Association, 2004. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Keen, Ernest. Depression: Self-consciousness, Pretending, and Guilt. Westport, CT: Praeger, 2002. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lewis, Bradley. Depression Integrating Science, Culture, and Humanities. Hoboken: Taylor and Francis, 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rowe, Dorothy. Depression: The Way out of Your Prison. Hove: Brunner-Routledge, 2003. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Schwartz, Thomas L., and Timothy J. Petersen. Depression Treatment Strategies and Management. New York: Taylor & Francis, 2006. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Smith, Melinda. Coping with  Coping with Depression: Self-Help Tips to Deal with and Overcome Depression. Robert Segal, 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Student 7