Collins 1 Ashlyn Collins Ms. Ricketts ENC 1101-010 March 22, 2017 Possible Causes of and Treatment Options of Chronic Headaches and Migraines Roughly four to five Percent of the population is affected by chronic daily headaches (CDH). have many different diagnoses including migraine, chronic tension-type headaches (TTH), new onset daily persistent headache, and hemicrania (Lake III et al S8). The World Health Organization has even listed migraines as being of the top twenty disabling (Chang et al 9). The correct diagnosis to the type of headache a patient is suffering is crucial to proper treatment of the headache. Due to the fact that there are many different types of headaches researchers are still conducting tests to determine what causes which type of headaches. The advancing data is changing the conversation about what causes headaches and the treatment options for those headaches. Advancing in the understanding of migraines as well as other headaches is very important with the severe nature of the condition. Through research been discovered that many headaches are caused by several different things, one of the possibilities that arose is that there is possibly a relationship between headaches and sleep disorders. Even though headaches and sleeping disorders have been found in the same patients it is still unsure how their relationship really works. Morning headaches could be caused by several sleeping disorders such as hypoxia or hypercapnia, while sleep disruption could be caused by a primary headache disorder Collins 2 (Freedom 240). Researchers have found that the most common sleep disorders pointing towards headaches are sleep apnea, circadian rhythm abnormalities, and primary insomnia. Patients who were experiencing migraines where also dealing with extreme daytime tiredness, three times more than those who are headache free. Besides the excessive daytime sleepiness severe sleep disturbance was found to be five times more likely in patients experiencing migraine headaches and three times more likely in patients with TTH when compared to headache free test subjects. In a test based on a large chunk of the population, Uhling et al found that migraine and tension type headaches were significantly related to insomnia symptoms (Freedom 241). The problem with this is discovering which comes first, if there is a correlation, the headache or the sleep disorder. It has been found that there are strong correlations between sleep disorders and headaches. The treatment of one can cause improvement in both conditions as well as the worsening of one condition causing the other to worsen as well (Freedom 246). Although the second article disagree with the first they do have different data to backup their research because the headaches they are researching are different. Migraine and are the most common headaches in children. An issue arises when trying to properly diagnose these two headaches as they share many clinical features (Genizi et al 1). Children diagnosed with learning disabilities have also been diagnosed with mixed headaches, making a connection worthy of mentioning. Researchers have found that learning disabilities have a higher correlation between migraines then TTH alone. As with the article exploring a correlation between sleeping disorders it has been found that there is a strong correlation but insufficient proof still to truly say one causes Collins 3 another. Because correlation does not mean causation at this point it in the research one cannot say that having a learning disability gives you migraines and vise versa. When it comes to this illness a proper diagnosis must be made in order to provide the proper treatment options, as each headache needs special treatment. Chronic daily headaches are classified as headaches that last for four or more hours occurring fifteen or more days a month. There are several pharmaceutical treatment options such as muscle relaxants, serotonin agonists, ergots, serotonin antagonists, anxiety agents, and other miscellaneous One example of finding the proper treatment for the headache at hand are patients who experience migraines also experience other types of headaches, some being TTH. These specific headaches respond to Sumatriptan meaning that the headaches root cause is a serotonin deficiency (Lake et al S8). Meaning that just because someone gets migraines the root of the problem is not the same in everyone. Which is why the correct diagnosis is so important. In Treatment of Migraine they delve more into migraine classification. Primary headache disorders fall into one of three classifications, migraine, tension-type headache, and cluster headaches (Chang et al 9). It is important that a patient takes care of them selves after being diagnoses with one of these conditions, which means they need to migraine triggers, get regular sleep, meals, exercise, and avoid Treatment to these diagnoses involves behavioral therapy, acute care, or daily medication to prevent an onset if necessary (Chang et al 11). Once a diagnosis is made a patient must learn what their trigger are and what preventative measures need to be taken in order to live a more pain free lifestyle. Because proper treatment is of the upmost importance it is critical for patients to understand their condition as well as the severity of that condition. Collins 4 The research conversation over time about chronic daily headaches and all diagnosis under this classification and their treatment options is evolving, and will continue to do so as more information about what causes which headaches and what the best treatment options for the headache arise. Finding a solution to this condition is not straightforward and will take more research. Scientists are playing a game of which came first and mix and match in an attempt to decode this confusing prognosis. When each patient is plagued with a different headache with a different starting point a realistic fix seems out of sight but with more research on the topic a solution could be near. Collins 5 Works Cited Thomas Freedmon, MD Headaches and sleep disorders, Disease-a-month, 2015,www.elsevier.com/locate/disamonth, accessed January 28,2017. Jacob Genizi et al, Pediatric mixed headache- the relationship between migraine, tension-type headache and learning disabilities- in a clinic-based sample, the journal of headache and pain, 2016, link.springer.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu, accessed January 28, 2017. Alvin E. Lake III, PhD, and Joel R. Saper, MD, FACP, FAAN, Chronic Headache New Advances in Treatment Strategies, Michigan Head- Pain and Neurological Institute, AAN Enterprises, Inc. 2002, ovidsp.tx.ovid.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu, accessed February 18, 2017. Marisa Change, MD, Alan M. Rapoport, MD, Acute Treatment of Migraine Headache, Techniques in Regional Anesthesia and Pain Management, 2009, www.sciencedirect.com.exproxy.lib.usf.edu, accessed February 18, 2017