Tsai 1 Sharon Tsai Alison Missler ENC1102 16 March 2017 The Strongest Supporter of Children- UNICEF UNICEF is an organization under UN which aims to defend rights including rescuing children under danger, providing aid and supplies to children while ensuring children they receive quality education. Without a doubt, UNICEF is the representative of every child especially the most disadvantaged children and makes every effort to exercise its beliefs that all children have rights to survive, thrive, and fulfill their potential(UNICEF). To promote their organization and missions successfully, UNICEF not only use straightforward expression but also use creative visual rhetoric. Their uses of rhetoric appeals can be seen in the two most representative images of UNICEF. In the first picture, UNICEF tries to advocate the diversity between every child and to embrace that difference. As for the second one, they want to encourage the audience to stop buying the products from unethical companies so as to decrease the number of child labors. UNICEF creatively use the rhetorical appeals like, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in both images. With the effective promotion on their missions, eventually UNICEF will successfully reach its goal that every child gets the chance to prosper and exercises the thought that anyone can be In the first picture, UNICEF uses several rhetorical appeals to disseminate the ideas that every child was born equally and children should unite to overcome the difference between them. There are a lot of elements of pathos in the picture which easily stimulate the emotion of audience. At first, there are four kids standing together hand in hand with big Tsai 2 smiles on their faces which automatically gives the audience the sense of peace because blue is often used to evoke the sense of or (Color Psychology). It has been proven that the different shades of blue can concentration, stimulate thinking and provide mental (Color Psychology). With the smart use of blue, UNICEF leads the audience to think in depth and to motivate their sympathy. Also, the baton in the left hand of the boy on the right is one of the important elements to inspire audience to take the idea into action. People automatically relate a baton with a relay race which is the best example of cooperation. In the relay race, every participant might start at the different places but they run the same distance which implies that everyone whether with disability or not is in the same race called life. Therefore, people should unite and work together to win the trophy in the game of life. The baton itself can be seen as the symbol of love which indicates the idea that not only children but also the audience should love each other without reservation and it forward the way that participants of relay races pass on their baton. Moreover, the image seems to be painted by four different kids which suggests that even kids know the concept that everyone was born equally and people should love each other. Hence, audience should be able to understand the concept and exercise it in their lives. On the other hand, the ethos in this image is the logo of UNICEF which is at the corner since UNICEF is a well- known and credible organization who focuses on children. This organization is trustworthy because it is under the administration of UN and it has carried out a lot of projects which benefit children. In this image, pathos and ethos collaborate well and successfully move the hearts. In the same image, the application of logos and kairos strengthens the power of image and completely states the mission that everyone is born equally and people should unite. Initially, most people might think that there are two kids with disability and two kids by their sides to assist them. However, there are two interpretation on those two kids who are Tsai 3 relatively advantaged. These kids can represent people without disadvantages which reveals the thought that audience should love those with or without disadvantages and stand on their sides to help overcome any obstacle or challenges together. Furthermore, these two kids without physical disability could represent the people who have disabilities which are not visually noticed by like psychological illnesses, deafness, and dumb. Those two kids encourage people to be more sensitive and considerate to the one who surround them because they might have some invisible needs. It strongly supports the goal of the image that not only children but also people should unite to conquer the barriers of disability. On the other hand, kairos in the picture shows the urgency to take the idea of unity into action. The image visualizes the beautiful future if people really take action to eliminate the inequality of disability, which gives the audience the incentive to make the movement immediately. The smiles of the kids also suggest that the action is necessary and worthy since no one wants kids to live in nor disappear or sorrow. Therefore, this image is perfectly applied every visual rhetoric and successfully propagates goals of diminishing the inequality of children and spreading out love. In the second picture, UNICEF uses different rhetoric appeals to educate audience not to buy the shoes from NIKE which contributes to child laborers. There is a little boy sitting on the dusty ground with a chain and a check mark on his left ankle who is the best representative of child laborers. Elements of pathos in this image are clear and effectively change the attitude of audience. The scar on the face and the chain symbolizes the suffering of child labors which easily evoke the sympathy. The scars represent the physical harm that child labors frequently get and the chains indicates the fact that child labors are under the control of employers without having any freedom. The picture arouses the awareness of audience more directly than reports and statistics because audience might have children in the same age as the boy or they might happen to be in the same age of him. Tsai 4 Thus, the pathos in the image are really powerful which moves audience effectively. Also, the ethos in the image is the logo of UNICEF which certificates the legitimacy of the concept. UNICEF is known for being the authority in children issues so the source and information are correct and credible undoubtedly. Hence, both pathos and ethos work brilliantly in this picture which definitely would change the attitude toward the child labor. UNICEF also uses logos and kairos to make the image more persuasive, so that the audience will be more willing to not buy shoes from Nike. There are two examples of logos in this image including the check mark and the slogan. The check mark plays an important role in this picture not only because it is the Nike logo, but also it signifies the suffering that child laborers receive. The Nike logo made of two simple curved lines represents the meaning of motion and speed Does the NIKE Logo Also, the brand name Nike is the winged goddess of victory in Greek mythology Does the NIKE Logo Without a doubt, Nike has the victory in business, but they got that victory by exploiting child laborers. The check mark is branded on the ankle, so it is a parable to the traumas that child laborers experience. They are unforgettable and everlasting. In addition, brands are used to identify livestock and slaves, so the brand implies that child laborers are treated as property instead of people. Furthermore, the slogan DO is as powerful as the check mark. It originates from the famous slogan DO which is filled with positivity and urges people to buy more Nike products. It is ironic that the slogan is now used to communicate how to stop child labor by boycotting products from Nike. Now, the new slogan is even stronger than the original. The kairos is the image itself which perfectly expresses the urgency and timeliness of the child labor issue. Therefore, UNICEF properly uses visual rhetoric to move the audience to take action and not buy Nike shoes. In conclusion, UNICEF has a general goal to uphold rights and they fulfill Tsai 5 this goal by promoting different ideas through visual rhetoric. The first image focuses on the inequality between advantaged and disadvantaged children and the second emphasizes the child labor issue. Even though they seem like they have no connection to each other, they share a common purpose of benefiting children which is exactly what UNICEF stands for. By successfully propagating these specific goals, UNICEF can achieve its ultimate goal in the near future. Tsai 6 Works Cited Blue Meaning - Blue Color  Color Psychology, www.colorpsychology.org/blue/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Redding, Dan. What Does the Nike Logo Mean? Magnetic  The Magnetic State Blog Dept. N.p., 6 Oct. 2014. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. UNICEF. A Critique on Campaign Against Child Labor and  Photograph. Visual Literacy, 2012, Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. UNICEF. Launch of State of the Children 2013: Children with  Photograph. G3ict: The Global Initiative for Inclusive ICTs, 2013, Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Tsai 7