Blew 1 Ryan Blew Alison Missler ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Including the Image Throughout the past few years, there has been a major debate on whether those with autism should be included or excluded in the classroom. The Florida Inclusion Network is an inclusion group whose mission is to collaborate with districts to provide customized services and supports ensuring all students with disabilities have the same educational, social, and future opportunities with their peers (About Us). FIN shows their mission through images that are shown throughout their website. In the first image, the audience is shown their staff, which gives a glimpse of what the organization is about. In the second image, the audience is shown the logo, where the audience is able to see the willing to be a place of comfort for those of disabilities. Through both of these images, FIN uses the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to explain the necessity of having students in a Florida Inclusion Network supported school. The FIN uses effective images, which contain design elements, that successfully implement rhetorical appeals. These rhetorical appeals allow for the organization to successfully portray their mission through a use of images. One of the ways FIN does this is through ethos. In the first image, the organization appeals to ethos by saying Inclusion (About Us). This allows for the audience to see the credibility of the company because branding allows for the clarity of the relationship between the people and Blew 2 the organization. Also, the fact that the image is classified under the staff, it is assumed that the people working for the company met the mission and values of the company. One other aspect about the part of the photo is they would also need to meet the qualifications, so they can be trained to work and help people with questions. Not only does the company portray ethos, it also shows pathos. In the first image, most of the people are wearing blue. Blue is a color that is symbolized as wealth, trust, and security. (Madden). A company would not want people to believe that it is not worthy enough, so FIN chose to put blue for it to be respectable. Not only did FIN choose blue to show emotion, but they also made sure that everyone is smiling. According to T. B. Broch, an author dealing with sports science, he states that smile does not only have a contagious effect on happiness, it does with other ideas as well (Broch 157). This is stating that a smile does have an effect on happiness, so the staff is smiling to show how happy they are to work for the company. By doing this, the image furthers goal of providing services to those with disabilities to have the same opportunities as those of their peers. This idea can be further seen by the including the green playset. Green is known as being peaceful, gentle, and calming (Madden). This is done to show the type of care this staff will bring to the students. FIN did this because they want to maintain their mission of bringing a friendly atmosphere to better fit the children and the parents. The playset in image one also refers to logos, the appeal to logic. According to Justus Randolph, a professor with a Ph.D. in education research and program evaluation, he states that playgrounds academic achievement of students and what factors are Blew 3 responsible for This is stating that the company is using the playground in the background to show that the students with autism should be active on playgrounds to be successful for social and academic success. In fact, sixty percent of children work more in the classroom when playing outside, including those with disabilities (Randolph 413). The company is working to make students more successful, so the playset is an appeal to logos. Another piece of the first image for logos is the gate. The gate is represented as a hinged barrier between the students with and without a disability. In a recent study of 109 youths, the researchers wanted to figure out how many students feel excluded with a disability. Through a screening, the researchers found that almost 9% of the students with autism felt excluded. The goal of FIN is to get rid of the barrier, and the staff is stepping in to help. FIN does not want the students with autism to be closed off, so the staff is included in the barrier to show that they are with those with disabilities. The final rhetorical appeal that is present in image one is kairos. Both images are using timeliness by only being posted less than a year ago. FIN stated, to Florida Inclusion The exclamation point means which explains why the company is welcoming viewers right away (Joki). The company wants the viewers to immediately feel as if this is a place for them to be welcomed every time they visit the site. This makes the audience want to keep coming back. In the second image, it shows ethos because of it being the logo of the company. The company is showing their credibility by implementing new techniques of district capacity building, school passed planning, resources, and family support. This credibility is shown in their Blew 4 image by the shadow in the background. The shadow is foreshadowing these goals for their future. The next form of rhetorical appeal that is shown is pathos. The letter also being a person reaching towards the top of a tree is showing that the students are reaching to be at the top. In image two, the company is also referring to pathos. The letter is represented as person. This person is representing the students. The letter symbolizes inspiration and compassion, traits that define those with autism (Meaning of Letters). It was also shown that the letter is between two things, so it is the most included letter of the image. The person is shown to be included, so it is showing that FIN would be with the students no matter what. Another form of pathos is the yellow road. In the Wizard of Oz, the yellow brick road refers to as the way home (Andrew). That is the message the FIN is trying to portray. The end of the road is at the end of the words of denoting that FIN is home for these students with a disability. However, the lack of bricks is meant to be there because bricks refer to as falsity because it is considered a fake stone (Swedenborg). The organization does not want the audience to think any of their statements are false, so they chose to leave the bricks out. Logos is a present rhetorical appeal that is apparent to the audience in image two. Logos is represented by the road because when one creates a path it is logical to follow through till the end. The FIN is using this in order to show that their organization is the path that students need to take to get to the end of exclusion. Using rhetorical appeals and their mission statement, the Florida Inclusion Network is able to explain the credibility of their company, appeal to the emotions of the audience, the logic behind their images, and the quick approach to viewing their company. The Florida Blew 5 Inclusion Network plans to reach out to more schools to make sure that all schools implement inclusion. The best way for them to get their mission across is by continuing their current images, to foreshadow the big picture of their company, as they have successfully done with their current advertisements. Blew 6 Works Cited About  Florida Inclusion Network. Florida Inclusion Network, n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017. Andrew. Following the Yellow Brick Road: The Real Story Behind Wizard of  Off The Grid News. Off the Grid News, 2012. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Broch, T. B. The Cultural Significance of a Smile: An Ethnographic Account of How Sport Media Inspires Sport  Young 23.2 (2015): 154-70. EBSCO. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Joki, Kimberly. Avoiding Exclamation Point  Grammarly Blog. Grammarly, Inc., 21 Aug. 2015. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Maden, Thomas J., Kelly Hewett, and Martin S. Roth. Images in Different Cultures: A Cross-National Study of Color Meaning and Journal of International Marketing 8.4 (2000): 90-107. Web. 28 Feb.2017. Meanings of the  Affinity Numerology. Will Bontrager Software, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Randolph, Justus J., Marjaana Kangas, and Heli Ruokamo. Creative and Playful Learning on Technology-enriched Playgrounds: An International  Interactive Learning Environments 24.3 (2013): 409-22. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Swedenborg, E. Spiritual Meaning of  Bible Meanings. Bible Meanings, Feb. 2002. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Walmsey, Joanne. NUMBER  NUMEROLOGY - The Vibration and Meaning of NUMBERS. Blogger, 23 Feb. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Blew 7