THE CONTROVERSIAL EVOLUTION OF DISTANCE RUNNING 1 Jon Jackson Instructor Carr Composition 1 3 March 2017 The Controversial Evolution of Distance Running Throughout history, we as a society sculpt the way we think about certain topics and ideas through thoughts and actions that challenge what is thought to be fact. When applying this concept to the scholarly conversation on distance running over the years, we notice trends of opposing ideas as the conversation develops and more and more revolutionary ideas are entertained. More recently, we have seen a substantial shift towards the opinion claiming running to be a contributing to health problems later in life. This recent change in opinion illustrates how the conversation concerning distance running has changed dramatically in comparison to 20- 30 years ago due to what is likely a bias developed subconsciously over time against running and its established theories. During the 80s and 90s, exercise physiologists and other health professionals sternly advocated for more running to improve ones well- being. However, over time the argument against distance running has developed and strengthened monumentally, with more evidence than ever supporting the anti-running argument. I believe this development in the conversation is primarily due to the natural tendency of the scientific community to continually challenge established theories in an effort to either expel or legitimize their basis. The testing of these hypotheses is directly responsible for changing the conversation by forcing development through constant re- evaluation. THE CONTROVERSIAL EVOLUTION OF DISTANCE RUNNING 2 Perhaps the most prominent evidence for the dramatic changes in the conversation over the past few decades is the staggering amount of articles being published in an effort to disprove running as a health benefiting exercise. In the past we have seen this natural occurrence as a means of advancing the scholarly conversation. While this is beneficial to the conversation and legitimacy, we must also consider the bias that it hinders. While searching through sources, I found an overwhelming plethora of articles advocating against running published more recently; likewise, nearly all the works published before 2000 contained a theme based solely around how running improves quality of health. This contrast in themes shows a dramatic change in the conversation by illustrating how researchers have changed their focus to a disapproval standpoint thus further challenging the established theories. For instance, in Body Image, published in 2007, author L. M. Anderson discusses how positively affects physiological aspects of a life even after they stop To offer contrast to this, in Palaestra, published in 2016, author Caroline Mueller entails the long term structural damage caused by stress intense exercise like running. Both of these works are prime examples of how the conversation has developed by offering a striking contrast between how running was once endorsed as a vital concept for overall fitness to a detrimental overuse injury waiting to happen. Undeniably the biggest factor in the changes happening in the conversation concerning distance running is the natural tendency of the scientific community to challenge established knowledge. In the past, there seemed to exist an abundance of works advocating for more running to an essential exponential point. This has changed more recently, likely due to the fact that over time scientists and other exercise THE CONTROVERSIAL EVOLUTION OF DISTANCE RUNNING 3 physiologists in the field have begun to challenge the claims established by their predecessors. For instance, in Running and Holistically Interpreted Health, author Oborny Josef advocates for unbiased research by bringing attention to the fact that over the last 10 years, there has been more research conducted to disprove running-related health benefits than those proving health benefits by a near 2:1 ratio. This abrupt turnaround illustrates how the conversation has changed through statistical data representing the transition from research merely confirming health benefits of running to more recent research challenging the idea as a whole. To fully conclude my thesis, I believe that the monumental shift in the scholarly conversation around the topic of distance running is due in majority to the bias pushing scientists and researchers to disprove rather than confirm stereotypes surrounding running. This theory is reinforced through my own research highlighting the rapidly expanding library of anti-running related content in more recent years as opposed to what was a more emphasized counter argument decades ago. This shift, I feel, can also be noticed in other topics where ideas have slowly transitioned from being fresh, new accurate research to dated, unreliable fossils of the modern era. I synthesize that the changing of the seasons when it comes to popularly researched topics is primarily caused by the nature of science to rigorously challenge widely accepted facts and theories to advance the scholarly conversation. This hypothesis relates to my topic as it would explain why we have seen such a significant turnaround in research regarding running and how it has evolved the argument. Likewise, if this trends continues, we will most likely start to see nearly every argument in favor of running dispelled and discarded as THE CONTROVERSIAL EVOLUTION OF DISTANCE RUNNING 4 and could very well see the argument turn back around in future decades as these ideas will replace what is now widely accepted and by the same nature be challenged just as their counterparts currently are. THE CONTROVERSIAL EVOLUTION OF DISTANCE RUNNING 5 Annotated bibliography: Anderson, L. M. (2007). Body Image (Vol. 17). New York, NY: Body Image. doi:6 February 2017 In this book, the author discusses how running positively affects physiological aspects of a life even after they stop running. The introduction explains an experiment conducted on 9 different healthy males running the same intensity and duration on a treadmill. The results consistently showed improvements in posture, balance control, lower body weight and lower blood pressure after exercise. These results strengthen a staggering argument for the long-term benefits of running and why the pros outweigh the cons. The improvements in posture and balance help strengthen the spine and prevent injuries and sorenesses brought on by long term muscular imbalances most people notice until their later stages of life. The lower body weight and lower blood pressure do volumes for any persons health as it reduces the amount of stress the body is typically put through in a lifetime; thus contradicting the stereotype claiming running adds wear and tear to the body causing aches and pains later in life. This book relates to my research as it provides studies that address stereotypes about running with actual facts as well as test results that I can cite in my paper to provide insights on how running really affects people long term. This book offers a multitude of summaries about experiments conducted to see how a human body reacts to long-term exposure to long distance running. I plan on citing this writing frequently to contrast common misconceptions from truths based off experiments described in this book. Not only does this book offer feedback on experiments, THE CONTROVERSIAL EVOLUTION OF DISTANCE RUNNING 6 but also an impartial vantage point on health effects of running as opposed to a book dedicated to proving why running is necessarily a good or bad thing. This aspect is important because it will potentially offer research for both sides of my argument so that a weighed, unbiased decision can be accurately made. John A. Hawley. 2000 January 18 th Oxford; Malden, Mass. Oxford College. January 29. This book pertains mostly to the drawbacks of running, listing several unwanted side effects and long term ailments associated with distance running. More specifically, in Chapter 6, titled Considerations for we find an in depth analysis of the unwanted health drawbacks brought on by running. Chapter 6 lists how running can seriously damage the intestines of runners and how they digest different foods, posing a serious threat for long term damage to digestive tract if not given medical attention. Another common and often times undetectable side effect of running is dangerously low iron levels in the blood brought on by the bodies natural tendency to deplete iron levels during strenuous long term exercise. Perhaps the most prominent side effect listed in chapter 6 is how badly running can impact the bodies immune system. Regular long distance runners have been proven to be more susceptible to contagious diseases and infections due to the body having to work to help itself recover from strenuous exercise, thus taking energy from the immune system to support its own physicality. THE CONTROVERSIAL EVOLUTION OF DISTANCE RUNNING 7 Caroline Mueller, Elizabeth Ackley-Holbrook. 2016. (Vol. 30 Issue 1). http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail In a book entailing extensive research weighing the benefits and drawbacks of distance running, author Caroline Mueller compares moderate runners to elite distance runners in terms of general health. Mueller cites that while the elites have a multitude of advantages, such as heightened cardiovascular strength and lower BMI, bodies tend to undergo levels of stress unsustainable for the human body. These stresses include pounding on bones and joints that over time destroy their structural nature and often times lead to cracking and bending. Short term, this can mean stress fractures or tears; however, long term it is almost certain these same athletes will experience chronic use pains such as arthritis. While moderate runners do not possess the level of fitness and efficiency as these elite runners, their bodies will develop better over time as they do not undergo the strenuous activities that destroy bones and joints at such a high volume or intensity. Rather, they will gain just enough fitness to improve their overall quality of health whilst nearly eliminating the drawbacks associated completely. This article does volumes for my research as it explains the trade-off between pros and cons in running through proven science and observations. This source will help answer my research question as it provides sound, logical explanations for how running impacts a persons health and furthermore implies much is too in an effort to reach a point of optimality. The source is credible as the author has a PhD in exercise science and has conducted several studies similar to the one entailed in her book which have been reviewed and THE CONTROVERSIAL EVOLUTION OF DISTANCE RUNNING 8 confirmed by other members of the running community. This source ties into my research question as it addresses how common stereotypes can be misleading and what you can do to prevent yourself from going overboard when exercising. I plan to use this source to reinforce my stand on the topic by concluding that running is beneficial for health if implemented in a safe and sensible manor. With all this taken into consideration, I think it is safe to say that when summarizing this book, the author would agree that in moderation running is one of the best ways to improve your quality of life with minimal drawbacks in comparison to other forms of strenuous exercise. Oborny Josef. 2016. and holistically Interpreted (Vol. 26). http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail In this book, author Oborny Josef writes based on interviews with veteran runners and how they feel running has impacted their life. The objective of the research was to find how a runner feels rung has affected them through opinions and retrospective thoughts. This differs from my previous source as it details personal experiences rather than mere statistical data. Throughout the book, we hear detailed descriptions of how running has changed each individual life and whether it was a positive or negative impact. To summarize each runners response, they generally felt that while running improved the way they felt throughout they day, they also experienced a substantial increase in random aches and pains throughout the day. Several outliers claimed to have a net loss in overall health due to delayed recovery and mineral deficiencies brought on by suboptimal dietary habits. Runners also credited distance THE CONTROVERSIAL EVOLUTION OF DISTANCE RUNNING 9 running to improving self-discipline because it served as a regular long-term challenge. However, when the author asked older audiences of former runners, the general response consisted of long term gains in mental strength and discipline but reported serious pains with joints and nerves in their legs. When directly asked if each runner thought that running was a positive or negative impact on their life, over 75% answered positive, providing substantial evidence for the argument for running to improve general health. This book ties into my research very well as it provides personal opinions for people to interpret themselves without any sort of statistical bias. I plan to make full use of this research in my paper as it is possibly the most accurate way to analyze and conclude whether running has a positive or negative impact on our health. This said, this source will also serve as an effective contrast to articles supporting opposing information conducted in a statistical manor rather than an opinion based one. The source connects to my research question by offering a realistic, well-supported answer without being too biased to be considered legitimate. Perhaps the most important part of this source is that opinions are shared without a tainted bias from statistical data listed in other sources.