Michael Hampton Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101 26 March 2017 Final Draft In all my years of playing football I have never knowingly encountered or shared the same field with a homosexual football player. Some may say homosexuals should not be allowed to play football or maybe in some cases some players would refuse to be on the same team as a person who is homosexual and quit the team. But who is to say they are not good enough to play on the team because of their sexual preference? Throughout the history of the NFL there have been very few cases of accepting a gay player. The possible reasons the NFL might have for not accepting gay players reflects society not accepting the gay community, or simply that fear comes from ignorant prejudice. As football has not been traditionally accepting of homosexual players, this issue has not changed over time due to our unaccepting society, and the NFL is still not accepting of homosexual players. Sports in general have not been a very accepting environment for homosexual players. In 1998 there were two famous cases involving MLB player Paul Priore and world figure skater Brian Orser. Both athletes were involved in lawsuits centered around their sexuality. Paul Priore sued other Yankee players for humiliating him with gay-bashing remarks, harassment and threats with sexual assault (ESPN,1998). Brian Orser case was he was sued by his ex-boyfriend and wanted to keep the documents sealed because homosexual athletes want to their gayness closely because of the likely impact of public disclosure on their .In the history of the NFL, the NFL is also known for these type of issues. For example, players like Roy Simmons would keep their furtive gay life a secret because he would not want to get humiliated by teammates and the public like Paul Priore and Brian Orser. A former NFL player, Roy Simmons, kept his gay life a secret while he was in the NFL, but that secret last long. Years after he retired he appeared on a national tv show and announced he was gay.His family, friends, and former teammates were all in shock and jaws-dropped. In 1997, Roy Simmons got the news that he was HIV positive.(Orth,2003) NFL teams that accept and support members of the LGBT community can help change view. However, it still took 12 days after the Orlando massacre for three NFL florida teams - Buccaneers, Dolphins, and the Jaguars - to donate $400,000 to the OneOrlando Fund (Blum, 2016). After other major sports league donated the NFL just followed instead of being the first to reach out. This shows the NFL is still not supportive of the gay community because even after the biggest massacre in American history it still almost took them two weeks to offer support. In this way the NFl continues to fail at all fans feel comfortable regardless of their sexual preference or gender identity , therefore the assumption is that sport is still not welcoming environment for LGBT (Blum, 2016). Gay NFL players have the same problem. As a former college football player who was the SEC defensive player of the year, Michael Sam has never made a active roster while attempting to play in the NFL. He was voted best defensive player in his conference which is the best conference in college football but can not make an active roster in the NFL.(Gibbs,2016) The NFL is not very accepting of gay players. The history of the NFL has shown it. The acceptance of a gay player can bring negative attention to the NFL and a team organization. Players like Paul Priore, Brian Orser, and Roy Simmons were all professional athletes who kept a secretive gay life because they did not want to be harassed by teammates and the public. Meanwhile, Michael Sam who was the best player in his conference can not even make a active roster. The situation with gay players is getting so out of hand the fans do not feel comfortable coming to games. Situation like these makes the NFL look bad to the gay community and to the society in general for not accepting players based off of their sexuality. Work Cited Blum, Sam. Why Professional Sports Still Has a Gay  27 June 2016. Accessed 3 Feb. 2017. The Brief History of Gay ESPN. 18 December 1998. Accessed 19 February 2017. Gibbs, Lindsay. Sam Says Coming Out As Gay Played A In NFL Teams Not Signing ThinkProgress, 23 Sept. 2016, thinkprogress.org/michael-sam-says-coming-out-as-gay-played-a-huge-part-in-nfl-teams- not-signing-him-4cf478530e5f#.cxhgs3wsn. Accessed 12 Feb 2017. Orth, Maureen. Out of the Locker Room, and the  New York Times, 30 Nov. 2003. Web. Accessed 3 Feb. 2017.