Alharbi 1 Tahani Alharbi John Williams ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Uphold Animal Rights During everyday life lies the tendency of parents feeding their children with unhealthy foods as a way of pleasing or entertaining them. Also, some people tend to wear furs as a way of a modern fashion. Some people do it without knowing what the negative effects while others do it knowing well the negative effects in the human health and in the lives. Some people do not realize that every piece of meat in their meal or any fur come from an animal that is killed. Parents and public need to realize that feeding children with meat is exposing them to toxic substances which affect their health. Respecting animal rights means to take care by providing favourable living conditions. There are two images that show a strong effort by a stakeholder known as for the Ethical Treatment of in the fight for the wellbeing of animals using advertisements that appeal strongly to the public to treat animals with respect. PETA supported this idea by creating advertisements on its website, and through using the rhetorical appeals PETA is trying to persuade the viewers about the need to uphold animal rights. A stakeholder known as for the Ethical Treatment of (PETA) is an organization established in 1980 whose main objective is to create awareness of animal rights. The mission is are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other (PETA). The vision is to champion for animal rights by campaigning against fishing, eating meat, and use of animals in entertainment (PETA). PETA Alharbi 2 seeks to remind the public that animals have rights that should be respected. It is aimed at changing negative attitudes towards the animals. One of the rhetorical appeals is pathos which is defined as the way an image is designed to evoke emotions. The first image shows a baby smoking cigarette. It evokes the emotions of the readers, particularly parents, since this is an unacceptable behavior in the modern society. The image reminds the readers that children learn from their behavior. It shows a baby lying on the floor holding a cigar in the mouth instead of reading the book in front of him. This picture shows unbearable behavior that makes many parents angry since they cannot imagine their kids smoking at the age of five. Showing a child smoking is symbolic since the image is used to offend the thinking by relating smoking and eating meat. Since meat comes from animals, the organization succeeds in its mission of creating public awareness against the meat consumption as a way of protecting and preserving the rights of animals. The most important thing is that the image touches on the most sensitive aspect of human lives because cigarettes are known to cause a wide range of health issues such as respiratory and lung diseases. Linking smoking with meat consumption evokes painful feelings about the dangers that parents expose their children to when they feed them on meat elements. In the second image, closeness of the dog and man evokes feelings of love and respect for animals. This image seeks to demonstrate that human beings and animals can live peacefully together when humans learn to respect the rights of the animals. Besides the rhetorical appeal pathos, there is ethos which refers to credibility of images or information. The two images are obtained from a famous organization called for the Ethical Treatment of (PETA) that deals with animal rights. In their advertisements, the organization has provided a website link that viewers can use to access important information or Alharbi 3 seek further verification if they want. The organization seems more legitimate because it has an at the end of its website link. The organization can be trusted by the viewers due to the presence of ethos, and it gives the readers the opportunity to search for more information about the organization. Also, in the second image, it uses a famous actor who is Goran Visnjic. He is producer and American actor. He played a role as Dr. Luka Kovac in ER series which is the best known in the United States in 1994 to 2009. From 1994 to 2009 is the period that the second advertising was created. Therefore, some people will trust anything in the picture because of their favorite actor is in the image. This is an effective way to influence people and gain their trust to the whole image. Another rhetorical appeal is logos that defined as the logic of the information or image. Logos is evident in the way the organization has succeeded to persuade the viewers and readers to explore further information about the advertisements. The first image has a short text that makes it easier for the reader to understand the hidden message. The phrase Let Your Child attracts the attention of the parents who may want to read further to get more information about it. The second image is equally logical because the close distance between the dog and man was chosen in purpose to show the close friendship that is painful to end. The phrase you wear your please wear any is logically designed as an opportunity given to people to save animals lives by not hurting them. Therefore, both images are convincing because they persuade the readers to change negative behaviors and attitudes towards the animals. Today, news of animals killed by hunters, vehicles and other human causes fill newspapers and news channels. Therefore, PETA started the awareness campaigns to protect animals from human activities that may risk their lives (Schecter). The two images provide the Alharbi 4 readers with an important platform to rethink their approach towards the animals, particularly the issue of killing animals for any purpose. Comparing consumption of meat to smoking persuades the readers and viewers about the dangers of consuming meat. The topic is also relevant in the modern society, which is becoming increasingly aware of healthy eating habits. The overall topic uses the rhetorical appeal Kairos which is used in a good way to enhance the comprehensibility of the topic. Another way of using Kairos is the word that appears in the first image and it increases relevance of the advertisement. Also, its appeal to the readers which is a good way of putting Kairos into proper use. In conclusion, animal rights should be taken seriously because uncontrolled human activities such as fishing, hunting and poaching could lead to complete extinction of some animal species. Statistics show that more than 50 billion small and large animals were slaughtered in the United States in 2015 alone. This include: chicken, fishes, pigs, cows, goats, sheep, and ducks (Faunalytics). Therefore, strict laws should be created to punish people that hurt animals by killing them for meat or any other use. By producing advertisements that petition the public against animal abuse using rhetorical appeals, PETA was able to persuade the viewers that animal killing for whatever reason must stop. Alharbi 5 Alharbi 6 Works Cited Faunalytics. Farmed fundamentals. 2015. https://faunalytics.org/fundamentals-farmed- animals/?gclid=CjwKEAiA3NTFBRDKheuO6IG43VQSJAA74F77n2ciHTUGXyHI3Q If You Wear Your Dog Please Wear Any Fur. Digital image. PETA, https://mevans38.files.wordpress.com/2010/02/peta.jpg Schecter, Anna. PETA: There is no such thing as humane wool. NBC News, 8 Jul. 2014, www.nbcnews.com/news/investigations/peta-theres-no-such-thing-humane-wool- n151326 Smoking Baby Billboard Meant to Highlight Eating Choices. Digital image. PETA, http://www.mediapeta.com/peta/igc/smoking-child-billboard.jpg PETA. (2016, August 23). Animal Rights Uncompromised: Zoos. Retrieved February 26, 2017, from People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. http://www.peta.org/