Alondra Galvan ENC1101 Ricketts 23 March 2017 Research Over Time: Dance Movement Therapy 1 in 68 children is diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder. Autistic children share the lack of motor control, coordination, communication, and socialization. 21st century of this disorder, have been viewing the same qualities in diagnosis and misdiagnosis of children with ASD. These researchers have also partaken in spreading Dance Movement Therapy as a form of relieving the deficits occurring in the diagnosed children. Over the 21st century, researchers have changed the way they manage the diagnoses and have evolved the activities used to target the deficits like using rhythmic patterns, mirroring, and synchronization. These activities have always helped in the therapy sessions but the response in these sessions have gradually changed and has allowed researchers to reveal misdiagnosis. Rhythmic patterns have been used as an intervention for children with Autism Spectrum Disorder but researchers have discussed changes to increase effectiveness. In 2010, psychologist Baudino researched a case study of a little girl named Lisa. In this case study, throughout the sessions, the therapist used tapping and rhythm; Lisa responded very well to the rhythmic patterns. The therapist stated rhythm and within her repertoire and preferences revealed ways of being disconnected from her emotional and psychological (Baudino 125) Building upon the idea that this child is showing emotional detachment, in 2013, autism consultor Amos explained that diagnosed with ASD often appear to experience states that fluctuate more widely and more often, sending them out of sync with typical daily 2) This portrays how rhythmic patterns are a key component for children with autism in daily life. Baudino and Amos describe the effects of rhythm towards enhancing attachment, communication, social understanding, and motor coordination. In 2014, therapeutic instructor Martin describes rhythm as a way to facilitate interaction and communication and to help organize the thoughts and feelings. (Martin 549) These researchers lived to show how rhythm can help misdiagnosed children and other children with disabilities. Researchers united to show how over time rhythm patterns positively affected the lack of communication and socialization that children with autism live with. Researchers are exploring how mirroring can be a key component in DMT; they explain mirroring as the action of knowingly embodying the movement of another person, object, or feature. In 2010, Lisa was misdiagnosed with ASD and a case study showed how she reacted to sessions that focused on mirroring. Clinical psychologist Baudino illustrated aim is to mirror and echo in order to create a place of reflective 124) This quote about explanation of the concentration in mirroring compares to what psychologist Scharoun stated. Scharoun stated that mirroring allows for a child to visualize their body, and interact with a therapist on a more developmental and emotional relationship. (Scharoun 216) Both researchers established common ground on the most effective activity to pinpoint a self-awareness. Scharoun further developed mirroring by manipulating the activity to show how mirroring bettered children in interpreting and establishing relationships. Baudino explained how behavior was completely different after they used mirroring. Lisa became more reliant and fond of the therapist because she was mirroring actions. Researchers have determined that mirroring children and allowing them to take the lead has effectively helped build relationships. Researchers noticed that mirroring has been effectively used as an activity in sessions and has erased major defects in children with Autism Spectrum Disorder. Throughout the 21st century, researchers continuously indulge in the study of synchronization and how it could allow effective body control. In 2007, the Andrea Rizzo Foundation spread intervention sessions to children in primary schools. Their main focus was to use synchronization amongst a bigger group of kids to enhance interaction and ability to connect with (Tortora 54) This researcher goes on to explain the environment of the group sessions and how children become more social and responsive. As time went on, in 2014 psychologist Scharoun built off of the Synchronous Movement Profile which was established by Costonis. Costonis built this profile to changes in synchronous movements through 214) Basically, Scharoun details how synchronous movement intervenes and helps find body placement and relationships. Synchronization is introduced to us at birth by our caregivers, those whom we inherit body language, verbal language, and personality traits from. Research shows that synchronization has developed as a key component in Dance Movement Therapy and researchers agreed to the effects of this activity and how it is intervening in In conclusion, throughout the 21st century, research among Dance Movement Therapy has not changed but has evolved. Researchers have used rhythmic patterns, mirroring, and synchronization but recently have expanded the qualities of these activities to justify motor coordination, socialization and communication. As we can see these researchers continue to use these activities as a form of therapy but through case studies and experiments they hope to improve the effectiveness and decrease the misdiagnosis amongst children. I plead you to become aware of children in your neighborhood who suffer from Autism Spectrum Disorder, make their life easier and spread intervening awareness. Works Cited Martin, Mary. Moving On The Spectrum: Dance/Movement Therapy As A Potential Early Intervention Tool For Children With Autism Spectrum  The Arts In Psychotherapy vol. 41, no. 5, 2014, pp. 545-553. PsycINFO. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.aip.2014.10.003. Accessed 29 January 2017. Vincent, Susan, et al. Collaborating With A Mission: The Rizzo Foundation Spreads The Gift Of Dance/Movement  American Journal Of Dance Therapy vol. 29, no. 1, 2007, pp. 51-58. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. DOI:10.1007/s10465-007-9028-5. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Baudino, Lori M. Spectrum Disorder: A Case of American Journal of Dance Therapy 2, vol. 32, no. 2, 2010, pp. 113-129. Academic OneFile. DOI:10.1007/s10465-010-9095-x. Accessed 29 January 2017. Scharoun, Sara, et al. Dance/Movement Therapy As An Intervention For Children With Autism Spectrum  American Journal Of Dance Therapy vol. 36, no. 2, 2014, pp. 209- 228. International Bibliography of Theatre & Dance with Full Text. DOI:10.1007/s10465-014-9179-0 Accessed 19 February 2017.