Zhou 1 Guangzheng Zhou Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 Spring 2017 February 27, 2017 Outline page 1 I. Introduce background information. A. Key points: 1. history 2. Discover of graphene 3. Super properties 4. Expectations on application. B. Thesis: Although with an optimistic developing speed and unprecedented preeminent research scale which involved tons of intuitions all around world, graphene studying still in progressing and still far from real electronic applications. II. Body A. Sub-topic: Graphene studying keeps to fascinate attention and rising very quickly. And will have more academic and mercantile achievement in future. 1. Before 2010: Studying in graphene is quickly rising and become the center of attention. Zhou 2 Outline page 2 a. Evidence: (1) A brief overview of the number of publications about graphene (Fig. a) indicates the growing number of publications in this field since its discovery. This diagram shows an increase by factor of approximately 10 in five years based on the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) database. The total number of citations per year, based on the data obtained from Web of Science (WoS), is shown in Fig. b (Taghioskoui 35). (2) is interested. IBM is interested. Samsung is there. DARPA [the US defence research is says Geim (Dempsey 37). 2. After 2010: A large numbers of comprehensive graphene research and patent in worldwide were made. a. Evidence (1) Technology consultancy Cambridge IP states that developers and manufacturers have filed 13,000 graphene-related patents in the past five years alone, and in late 2013 the European Commission launched a billioneuro, 10-year graphene research initiative that Zhou 3 Outline page 3 brings together academic institutions and industrial groups from 17 nations (J 70). B. Sub-topic: Understanding on graphene is still superficial and developing. 1. Before 2010: The graphene research is on initial stage and still need to be developed. a. Evidence: (1) are at a very early stage. In fact, you could even say that we less today about graphene than we did two years ago. New research has changed our perception of the material and reversed some of our original Geim says (Dempsey 35). (2) Despite the fact that scientific results show superb advantages of graphene for super-fast electronics, the technology is still immature. Only preliminary steps have been taken, and there is still a long way to go for possible exploitation of graphene-based commercial products (Taghioskoui 37). 2. After 2010: Graphene studying is more systematic than before, but before bring on stream, there are problems still need to be overcome. a. Evidence (1) It is unlikely that graphene will make it into high-performance integrated logic circuits as a planar channel material within the next Zhou 4 Outline page 4 decade because of the absence of a bandgap (Novoselov 194). C. Sub-topic: As the final step of material mess produce and process graphene into commercialization is always one of the primary problem need to be solved. 1. Before 2010: Preparation and production of graphene needs to improve both in quality and quantity, also develop process for proper product. a. Evidence: (1) and structural issues there are still to be overcome for the production of those devices on an industrial scale (Dempsey 36). (2) A crucial step in graphene research is the post processing of graphene sheets because it may provide a wide range of attractive properties (Taghioskoui 36). 2. After 2010: Although some efficient methods have appeared, those methods still required to develop for specific requirement on production. a. Evidence: (1) The market of graphene applications is essentially driven by progress in the production of graphene with properties appropriate for the specific application, and this situation is likely to continue for the next decade or at least until each of many potential applications meets its own requirements. Currently, there are probably a dozen methods being used and developed to prepare Zhou 5 Outline page 5 graphene of various dimensions, shapes and quality (Novoselov 192). III. Conclusion A. Key Points: 1. Graphene studying is now in an optimistic rising in a relatively long period. 2. We have learnt a lot than the past but still need to do more researches. 3. Manufacture graphene is still developing for more efficient method. 4. Before mass produce and process graphene, it is necessary to determine the requirement of the product quality, while application is still developing; which makes graphene product will not come true in one step. Zhou 6 Graphene is Still on the Way. Have you ever heard about graphene? Do you remember the promise of next generation flexible electrical device form some transnational big companies? By apply graphene, not only the bendable phone or PC will come true, but also some materials would play important roles in our daily life. In fact, graphene is not rare, most of graphite product, like your pencil, is full with graphene. And interestingly, human used graphite for 6000 years! New evidence may even increase this number. The reason why graphene is such highly respected in academic and commerce circle now, is mainly because its super characteristics; super thin that only has one thickness, high conductivity in both heat and electricity, which means graphene electric applications may not need auxiliary radiating device! Also, graphene has super strong ability which human have ever measured: 50 times stronger than the strongest steel! However, the studying of graphene in scale was just begun from 2004, when the mechanical stripping was performed on graphite by Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov, the first second-dimensional was obtained, since that, an upsurge in graphene studying was begun and still rising. But, when will we have those graphene-made products? In consideration of the developing speed and tendency, obviously, those fantastic applications will come soon, however, not that soon. Hopefully, the rising of graphene studying and its scale is unprecedented fast! A Zhou 7 research in 2009 provided an intuitionistic evidence: brief overview of the number of publications about graphene (Fig. a) indicates the growing number of publications in this field since its discovery. This diagram shows an increase by factor of approximately 10 in five years based on the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) database. The total number of citations per year, based on the data obtained from Web of Science (WoS), is shown in Fig. b (Taghioskoui This article shows huge amount researches were done and rising in a very high ratio. Also, an interview on Dr. Andre Geim (who was one of the Nobelist by his contribution on graphene research) in 2008 revealed that some major companies like Intel, IBM and Samsung were trying to get into graphene developing; even national institution like the US defence research agency (DARPA) was interested (Dempsey 37). Clearly, in the end of 21th century 10s, studying of graphene was very promising. Then, in 2014, an article shows the glamorous potential of graphene attracted huge amount of support from lots of countries on its studying: consultancy Cambridge IP states that developers and manufacturers have filed 13,000 graphene-related patents in the past five years alone, and in late 2013 the European Commission launched a billioneuro, 10-year graphene research initiative that brings together academic institutions and industrial groups from 17 nations (J There is no doubt that the graphene was attracting large scope of Zhou 8 attention from all over the world, graphene studying keeps to fascinate attention and rising very quickly. And will have more academic and mercantile achievement in future. However, although a decade had already passed from 2004, we first time obtained pure graphene in laboratory, our understanding on graphene was just through fundamental studying to application research; or in another world, graphene studying need to voyage the technological swamp into real application. In 2008, Geim said: are at a very early stage. In fact, you could even say that we less today about graphene than we did two years ago. New research has changed our perception of the material and reversed some of our original (Dempsey 35). Also, 2009, an article emphasized on the tendency argued similar statement: Despite the fact that scientific results show superb advantages of graphene for super-fast electronics, the technology is still immature. Only preliminary steps have been taken, and there is still a long way to go for possible exploitation of graphene-based commercial products (Taghioskoui 37). Clearly, they both state an objective forecast on graphene situation during that time. Encouragingly, in 2012, an article wrote by Konstantin Novoselov exhibit a general situation on graphene research (Novoselov 192-200), several scalable methods for mass product graphene and physicochemical properties were listed in detail. However, he still mentioned: is unlikely that graphene will make it into high-performance integrated logic circuits as a planar channel material within the next decade because of [technological (Novoselov Just as an old Chinese goes: endless road ahead full with challenge and the Zhou 9 sun is setting, our step and mind should be Which means people should rise to the occasion and try to find the best solution for the challenge. For the developing of mass production and commercialization for graphene product, the major concept during the research from decades ago to nowadays is not find best and cheapest methods, but find the graphene demand, then develop appropriate method for produce. In short words: we need to solve the application problems first. In 2008, article stated: and structural issues there are still to be overcome for the production of those devices on an industrial scale (Dempsey And later year, another article provided similar statement: crucial step in graphene research is the post processing of graphene sheets because it may provide a wide range of attractive properties (Taghioskoui In 2012, article showed: market of graphene applications is essentially driven by progress in the production of graphene with properties appropriate for the specific application, and this situation is likely to continue for the next decade or at least until each of many potential applications meets its own requirements. Currently, there are probably a dozen methods being used and developed to prepare graphene of various dimensions, shapes and quality (Novoselov Far from being some exaggerated commercial propaganda, real application of graphene production is still far from us. However, developing of graphene technique and related researches are increasing in an optimistic speed, despite of some hinder on our way, it is worthy to believe break though in application would be taken in short years or months. Because mass produce and process is necessary to determine the Zhou 10 requirement of the product quality, while application is still developing; which makes graphene product will not come true in one step. But we should be hopeful, at least we are now witnessing the beginning of a new era. Zhou 11 Works Cite Dempsey, Paul. Flat Out For The  Engineering & Technology (17509637) 3.19 (2008): 34-37. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. J., A. Small  Entrepreneur 42.12 (2014): 70. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Novoselov, K.S., et al. A Roadmap For  Nature 7419 (2012): 192. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Taghioskoui, Mazdak. Trends In Graphene  Materials Today 12.10 (2009): 34-37. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.