Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Redistributing Food to Reduce Food Waste Food is an everyday necessity that people need to survive. However, according to Finn, waste nearly half of all food produced- more than one billion tons annually- yet nearly one billion global citizens go (Finn 992). Food waste is an important issue to both non-profit organizations like Food Forward and large companies like Darden Restaurants. Food Forward is a non-profit organization that collects left over fresh produce from markets and wholesale markets that does not get sold. Whereas, Darden Restaurants is a large restaurant chain that tries to prevent food waste and redistribute the food that could be otherwise a waste. Both stakeholders are actively involved in their communities to reduce the large amounts of food being wasted annually. Darden Restaurants can help out a smaller organization such as Food Forward by mentoring them with some ideas and practices that work for their large company. Food Forward can expand their knowledge and resources from only collecting produce, to learning about more creative ways to prevent food waste from a company such as Darden Restaurants and they both can make a bigger impact in the prevention of food waste. Food Forward manages to rescue about 300,000 pounds of otherwise discarded produce each week and they donate to hunger relief groups (food forward). This organization focuses on reducing as much food waste in the 8 counties they service in Southern California by rescuing produce before it gets wasted. In order to achieve their goal, they accept volunteers who want to Student 2 aid in their mission and help out the cause. Food Forward started off in 2008 by collecting from neighborhoods and backyards that contain citrus trees to assure any unused produce was going to good use. Over the years they expanded and were able to reach out more in to the community from starting off in the neighborhoods to moving up to markets. Now they mainly focus on collecting produce from markets and wholesale markets. Collections take place after the markets have closed, without these collections there would be an unimaginable amount of edible food thrown away. When produce is thrown away it starts to rot and lets out gasses that can be detrimental to our environment. This is mostly because of the amount of food in our landfills that lets off all types of greenhouse gases. gases (GHGs) have been steadily rising every (Omar,159). Food Forward realizes that produce is often overlooked and tossed out when it can be used to feed those in their community. Not only does Food Forward reduce food waste in landfills but their impact reduces the amount of pollution from the gasses most food lets off. Now imagine if they expanded their efforts from only collecting produce to collecting all types of food. That impact on food waste would be even bigger. With some assistance they could collect all types of food, they could expand past their 8 counties, or they can come up with different ways to redistribute food in their community. Food Forward can link up with Darden Restaurants to be more informed and come up with different ideas on how they can accomplish their goals of reducing food waste. Darden Restaurants is a large food hospitality chain with restaurants all over America whose number one goal is guest satisfaction at every one of their branches. Along with providing good food and authentic hospitality, they reduce and repurpose food to prevent food waste. This company consists of Olive Garden, Long Horn Steakhouse, Eddie 52, Yard Ale, Capital Grille, and Bahama Breeze. This company has come up with a method that works well at Student 3 preventing excessive purchasing of food to all seven of their branches. uses advance forecasting systems and manages the distribution of food to our (Darden Digest). In addition, a few years ago they came up with Darden Harvest. Darden Harvest is intended as another food waste prevention method, with their primary goal of donating all of the unused food to hunger relief organizations. Whenever there is leftover food at the end of a night they prep, package, and call the hunger relief organizations to pick up their donation. has become the first chain to have all its restaurants participating in the (Santich A1). Another contribution is with the partnership between Darden Restaurants and Organic Matters. All of restaurant chains donate food scraps off of guests plates and their trimmings after they prep food so that Organic Matters collect it and turn it into dog food. These are ideas that the employees and company came up with over the course of many years. sure they would be more than happy to lend a helping hand to Food Forward to jump start their own ideas that would work with expanding their way of saving food. Spreading the knowledge helps out both and the overall mission to reduce as much food waste as they can. Darden Restaurants represents a company that has evolved and continued to come up with new ways to reduce food waste. Food Forward could learn from Darden Restaurant on how to expand their focus on produce or even branch out to more of California. If Food Forward expanded they can collect unused produce from more areas and come up with better ways to use the food if not all of it can go to human consumption. They can come up with different ways to use the produce if they collect a large quantity and cannot donate all of it. Darden Restaurants has so many ideas that are tailored to their needs as a company and can do that for Food Forward. This is partnership can benefit Food Forward as a company being able to expand their Student 4 ideas and resources with the help from Darden Restaurants that spreads knowledge, awareness, and hopefully an end to the waste issue. Food Forward and Darden Restaurants share a common goal to reduce food waste. They both try to do everything they can to minimize the amount of wasted food and maximize the amount of people they can feed. If Food Forward partners up with Darden Restaurants they can first learn other redistributing ways to use the produce they collect. Food Forward benefits by becoming more knowledgeable and seeing a bigger picture to their overall mission. Darden Restaurants can benefit from partnering up with Food Forward because they can spread the knowledge of different methods that will work for their company and can aid in larger quantities of retrieved produce. These organizations are trying to do everything they can to prevent food waste but by working together methods can be shared and implemented to yield more results. Food Forward has focused on collecting produce from their community either through neighborhoods or markets. While Darden has many food waste reducing plans in place. By these companies partnering up they would help each other in their overall goal of food waste prevention. In working together these companies can make a bigger difference in their communities in the issue of food waste. As nothing is more powerful and uniting the knowledge. With Darden Restaurants shared knowledge Food Forward can expand their resources and come up with innovative ideas to further succeed in reducing more food waste. Word Count: 1,213 Student 5 Works Cited Darden Digest. Can a restaurant company eliminate food waste? https://www.darden.com/blog/can-a-restaurant-company-eliminate-food-waste. 2014 March 18. Accessed 2017 Feb 15. Finn, Steven M. Our Food: Minimizing Waste and Optimizing Zygon: Journal of Region & Science, vol. 49, no. 4, December 2014, pp992-1008. EBSCOhost, doi:10.111/zygo.12131 Food Forward. https://foodforward.org/. Accessed 27 Jan 2017. Omar, Hecham M. and Sohrab Rohani. of CO2 from Landfill Gas with Landfill Leachate Using Absorption Process. Journal of Greenhouse Gas vol.58, March 2017, pp 159-168. EBSCOhost, doi10.1016/j.ijggc2017.01.011 Santich, Kate. Florida restaurants directing unused food to those in http://infoweb.newsbank.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/resources/doc/nb/news/14F59CA4632 FCF0?p=AWNB 2014 July 27 Accessed 2017 Feb 15.