Running head: CHANGES IN THE CAUSES FOR PREMATURE BABIES 1 Changes in the Causes for Premature Births Vanessa Torres University of South Florida Instructor Carr CHANGES IN THE CAUSES FOR PREMATURE BABIES 2 Abstract This paper analyzes four published articles that all report on results from research conducted on causations to babies being born prematurely. Over the last few decades have constantly wondered why are they having children whom are being born prematurely. Quite frankly no one has had a direct answer for these mothers until these studies have been conducted. Both Jocey et al., (2001) and Day et al., (1992) show how substance abuse can cause premature births. Dr. B. Prathap Kumar (2015) tells how there are different type of congenital anomalies that can cause babies to be born prematurely. Congenital anomalies include mutations in chromosomes, spina bifida, omphalocele, Lastly, Often et all., (2016) tell us how Medical Advancement can be a factor in why babies are born prematurely. Medical advancements include Induced labor, c-section, or in vitro fertilization. All these studies conducted have helped us to figure out why and what contributes to babies being born prematurely over the course of years. CHANGES IN THE CAUSES FOR PREMATURE BABIES 3 The topic of babies being born prematurely and the reasoning behind the premature births has evolved a lot over the course of these last few years. I feel as if mother are experiencing new complications because of method of trial and error. Mothers were having children and smoking and that did not benefit their children. were having their children rapidly back to back, and that did nothing good for the second child. You see these mothers are doing what they think is the social norm, but little did they know it was actually negatively affecting the baby. Furthermore, In babies were born prematurely because of the drug use of Thalidomide. Currently drug use is not the main reason why babies are born early, because people have learned that mothers who smoke, drink, or do drugs while being pregnant will face pregnancy complications. Recent studies have shown face issues that are genetic rather than being self inflicted like congenital anomalies, medical advancements, or multiple births. drug use was the leading cause to premature births, the women did not know nor did doctors know using substances would harm the baby. The pregnant women who were drinking, smoking, or doing drugs while pregnant did it as a social activity, and had now clue of a negative outcome for the baby with practicing these social habits. Hereafter, we are well aware of these negative health hazards for not only the mother smoking, drinking, and doing drugs but as well as the negative effects on the child. According to Joyce, Racine, and Mocan (1991) Cocaine use also is believed to slow fetal growth and increase the chance of premature birth and congenital but according to Day and Richardson (1992) drug abuse is not the only issue here alcohol use can result in physical malformations of the heart, skeleton, and nervous system. More specifically, fetal alcohol syndrome is characterized by CHANGES IN THE CAUSES FOR PREMATURE BABIES 4 growth deficiency, malformations, and central nervous system dysfunction, which can result in permanent disfigurement and cognitive As most know already smoking is not only bad for the lungs and causes cancer for mother, but can cause lung problems for the baby plus the baby will be living inside the mother with all the toxins she inhales with the cigarette. After learning about how drugs increase the rate of premature births and those habits for were changed; premature births keep occurring. The next conclusion was congenital Anomalies like Omphalocele, which according to Dr. B. Prathap Kumar (2015) is when is an anterior abdominal wall defect with a covering amnioperitoneal membrane. The herniated organs can be bowel loops, stomach and liver. Most of the omphaloceles contain liver (80%) and less small bowel and rarely stomach and bladder. Omphaloceles can have associated malformations. They are also associated with fetal chromosomal Moreso, Omphalocele is the least of the worries compared to the second most occurring congenital anomalies- Spina Bifida. In reference to Dr. B. Prathap Kumar, he says Spina Bifida is part of a congenital anomalies when there are abnormalities with the formation of the spinal cord. Lastly the number one most common congenital anomalies is down syndrome which is a mutation with the 21st chromosomes. These are all effects on the babies that cannot control unlike substance use. Another effect of babies that cannot control are medical advancements. After being well aware in 2015 of how congenital anomalies cause preterm babies more Medical Advancements began to grab attentions in 2016. In the year 2016 Often, Busterud, CHANGES IN THE CAUSES FOR PREMATURE BABIES 5 Irgens, Haug, and Rasmussen say in Norway and other countries have shown that this increase in preterm birth was, to a large extent, attributable to medical interventions, such as induction of labour, caesarean section and an increase in multiple births resulting from in vitro Foremost, Induced labour is when stimulating contractions of the uterus or ripening the cervix before the projected delivery date, could be because the mother experiencing some difficulties that could be painful/life threatening. So the mother gives birth early, giving birth to a premature baby. Secondly, Cesarean sections are also a problem according to Often, Busterud, Irgens, Haug, and Rasmussen, because they require very organized check ups to see how the babies is, and when the cutting open of the stomach to deliver the baby should occur. If a mother attend her organized check ups, then she is indications for the induction of labour, may cause a paradoxical lower non-spontaneous preterm birth rate in deprived Lastly, Multiple births resulting from in vitro cause preterm births because the mother had less time to rebuild her stores of vitamins, minerals and amino according to Often, Busterud, Irgens, Haug, and Rasmussen. Aware of multiple births by in vitro causing babies to be born prematurely we are now discovering that having multiple births in a brief timeframe is a cause to babies being born prematurely. Just as Often, Busterud, Irgens, Haug, and Rasmussen said mothers had less time to rebuild her stores of vitamins, minerals and amino having multiple births is a short period of time. Therefore for when the baby is born it is malnutritioned. Furthermore, not only will the baby be malnutritioned, but because the mother give her body time to build back up her uterus lining is weak and the baby can literally fall out early once the uterus can no longer CHANGES IN THE CAUSES FOR PREMATURE BABIES 6 hold the child. Also having multiple babies are once like twins, triplets, quadruplets, etc, are more likely than not to be born prematurely. Mothers nowaday face complication that back in no one would have thought would have been an issue. For instance if you ask your grandparents how many children they had, and how many your grandparents parents had I would assume they would answer between 4-6 kids, now the average amount of kids to have is 1-2. Who would have thought having multiple births could be a contributing factor as to why parents have children who are born prematurely. Another thing to look back on is how now a days we totally shame parents who do drugs or drink while they are pregnant, but back in the late parents has no clue that drug or drinking use had a contributing factor to premature births. I used the term trial and error when it came to having premature births, because no one knew that using drugs hurt the babies still they stopped. No one knew having multiple babies back to back would cause pregnancy complications till they stopped, and studies were conducted. Hereafter, no one really knows what causes premature births until a mother does something, and then someone else later realizes that what that mother was doing can cause a premature birth. Therefore reasons why babies are being born premature are ever changing. CHANGES IN THE CAUSES FOR PREMATURE BABIES 7 References Day, N. L., and G. A. Richardson. (1991). Prenatal Alcohol Exposure: A Continuum of Effects. Seminars in Perinatology 271-279. Joyce, T., A. D. Racine, and N. Mocan. (1992). The Consequences and Costs of Maternal Substance Abuse in New York City. of Health Economics 297 314. Oftedal, A., Busterud, K., Irgens, L. M., Haug, K., & Rasmussen, S. (2016). Socio-economic risk factors for preterm birth in Norway Journal Of Public 587-592. Prathap Kumar. (2015). Ultrasound Diagnosis of Rare Congential Anomalies. of Evolution of Medical and Dental Sciences, 15024-15030