Running head: PROJECT 2 1 ENC 1101: Project 2 Intermediate Draft Jordan Taylor The University of South Florida PROJECT 2 2 ENC 1101: Project 2 Medical marijuana has been a controversial subject of debate for decades now, with research mainly focusing on what it can be used to treat or what symptoms it can provide relief for. As marijuana becomes more prevalent in the U.S., there has been a recent shift in research concerning the negatives rather than the positives of medical cannabis. Earlier, circa 2000-2010, research seemed to be focused on finding possible therapeutic and symptom relieving applications to gain leverage when deciding on legislations regarding medical marijuana. This proved to be a challenge, however, because researchers needed a special license from the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), and would need to go through the National Institutes of Drug Abuse (NIDA) to provide any marijuana for research purposes. There were simply no other options at the time. Now that more than half of the U.S. states have legalized medical marijuana, conflicts with the federal prohibition placed on marijuana are only becoming more apparent. The conversation about medical marijuana has changed. Research involving medical cannabis from around 2011 to the present day is now focused on finding alternate methods of delivering the therapeutic effects of marijuana while minimizing health risks, addressing concerns of the negative long-term effects of smoking medical cannabis, as well as analyzing a national trend highlighting a more pessimistic view of marijuana, showing that a large number of people regard smoking marijuana as completely safe and risk-free. While marijuana can be used to treat a variety of symptoms caused by certain conditions, the risks involving smoked marijuana should not be underestimated. Regardless of the federal obvious bias against marijuana, researchers have found a wide array of therapeutic and symptom relieving applications of smoked marijuana. From 2000 to 2010, research conducted on medical marijuana was mainly focused on finding PROJECT 2 3 safe and effective ways of treating certain conditions with smoked marijuana. This proved difficult, however, due to the obstacles set by the federal current scheduling of marijuana. According to Peter Cohen, is now considerable evidence in the peer-reviewed scientific literature that smoked marijuana has legitimate therapeutic and palliative uses that are not accompanied by dangerous side (Cohen, 2010, p.657). Confirmed treatments include combating weight loss caused by AIDS, controlling nausea caused by chemotherapy, and relieving multiple sclerosis-induced spasticity, among many others. In W. Hall & L. Marijuana article, alternative methods of delivering THC are severely undeveloped and are at the moment inferior in terms of effectiveness to smoked marijuana. These alternative methods are, according to the article, best prospects for the medical use of (Hall, W., & Degenhardt, L., 2003, p.689). While awaiting significant developments in that field, however, Hall & Degenhardt suggest the method of exempting approved citizens from criminal prosecution of growing marijuana for their own personal use. This method is already being implemented in Canada, and helps address concerns of legal liability faced by physicians or clinicians deciding whether or not to prescribe cannabis to their patients. While research from 2000 to 2010 focused mainly on symptoms and conditions that could be treated using medical marijuana, research from 2011 to 2017 focuses mainly on the negative effects of smoked marijuana and how to minimize those effects through alternative applications of THC, as well as analyzing a national trend of an increasingly pessimistic attitude toward marijuana in general and the potential effects of this trend on societies as a whole. It seems that with research regarding medical marijuana finally gaining some traction, most of the proven applications usable as leverage when deciding state legislatures have been studied and PROJECT 2 4 discovered already. Researching the negative effects of smoking marijuana to relieve symptoms can also benefit advocates of marijuana legalization because they can address the problem, then find a solution or alternative to that problem. The inconsistencies across the various state legislatures and the conflicts that each individual legislature has with the federal prohibition on marijuana are only becoming a bigger issue as more states legalize, so recent research has also seen a shift of focus towards rectifying these incompatibilities. The shift of focus on research regarding marijuana from 2011 to 2017 is the result of years of state and federal policies and regulations dancing around each other trying to find an underlying compromise that would ultimately satisfy the federal government. In order to determine the long- term effects of smoking marijuana, research also shifted from identifying positive effects to negative effects so that marijuana may be justified as a potentially life-long medicine. According to J. Bestrashniy & K. Winters, four areas of health have been identified with a strong link to smoking marijuana, including to marijuana and other substances, diminished life achievement, motor vehicle accidents, and symptoms of chronic (J. Bestrashniy & K. Winters, 2015, p. 639). These negative impacts of marijuana raise concerns, especially with the increasing amount of national support for marijuana legalization as well as an increasingly relaxed attitude towards marijuana in general. to a recent Gallup poll, the number of adults that report being current marijuana users has almost doubled from 7 percent in 2013 to 13 percent in 2016. Over 60 percent of Americans now support the decriminalization of (AS STATES LEGALIZE, 2017, p. 28). Another concern is the impact medical marijuana policies may have on teenagers or children having easier access to the drug or disregarding any health risks associated with smoking it. PROJECT 2 5 The rate at which states in the U.S. are implementing policies that legalize marijuana for medical use make the dream of national legalization seem all but inevitable. There is, however, so much more to learn about the potential long term health effects that smoking marijuana may have on an individual. Advancements in the field of synthetic cannabanoids may one day bring safer alternatives to delivering THC, such as topical THC ointment to the national market, without compromise of the therapeutic and symptom-relieving effects that plague current synthetic cannabanoids options.