Andre Boothe English 1 Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts 26 March 2017 Final draft Stop and Frisk is a major police policy that originated in the but was not a common practice until the This policy allows officers to stop, question and search anyone they find suspicious of carrying a weapon or dangerous object. The first case of stop and frisk occurred in 1960 when police stopped, checked, and arrested a group of men waiting by a jewelry store after finding weapons on them. Since the search happened with less evidence required to do so, it lead to much debate and controversy over the incident. Debate over this practice lead to the Terry V Ohio supreme court case in 1968 which officially greenlighted the practice. However since this practice is based on suspicions or gut  and not evidence stop and frisk has become as a major debate topic over time from early to present. During this time views have shifted on the constitutionality, effectiveness, and fairness. From 1960 to present the constitutional view of stop and frisk has shifted between researchers. After the 1968 Terry V Ohio case the original method of using stop and frisk was deemed unconstitutional due to lack of reasons to support probable .Instead the court gave an explanation of the proper way to conduct stop and frisk. The new ruling an officer can conduct a brief investigatory stop when the officer has a reasonable articulate suspicion is (Belin 1502).Researcher David Harris agreed with this ruling since it gave a clear window on what the constitutional friendly way of doing stop and frisk was. However more post studies from Researcher Jeffery Belin showed that many stop and frisk cases were not done under the Terry V Ohio ruling. As a result outraged filed a lawsuit that escalated to another supreme court case in Floyd V New York in 2011. The case ruled the stop and frisk method unconstitutional since records showed possible signs of racial profiling and not crime prevention. As a result the NYPD had to revise their stop and frisk policy and add retrain sessions for the method. Jeffrey Belin was satisfied with this result since it revises the policy instead of outright removing it from the NYPD rulebook. Stop and frisk has also been around for New record high period in the and record lows in the early Thanks to data collected during both times the expert opinion on the effectiveness has changed. Based on Andrew research on the the boosted use of stop and frisk helped to lower New crime rates to record lows by the early Andrew Gelman goes as far to say the approach during the has been widely credited as a major source of the sharp crime (Gelman 813).Meanwhile NYU researcher Dennis Smith was more neutral on his view on the effectiveness since he felt the policy was good at lowering minor crime but was awful at lowering major crime stating that the  has statistically significant and negative effects of the lagged stop rates on rates of robbery, burglary, motor vehicle theft, and homicide and no significant effects on rates of assault, rape, or grand (Matthews 5). However David research had a different view on stop and effectiveness since his research in the showed that the rate of arrest the method produced was low compared to the total amount of people who were stop and frisked. So much that despite the rate of stop and frisk going up each year from 2002 to 2011 only 12 percent of stop and frisk cases lead to arrests. The most recent argument on stop and frisk is whether the practice and use of can be considered fair. Jeffery research showed that in the neither the police nor people had any balance issues with stop and frisk. Thanks to the crime wave of the and the broken window policing method or method focusing on stricter policing on smaller crimes, along with larger ones not reducing the crime rate enough people and police were more open to try anything. However David research of the showed that stop and frisk during this time was possibly being used unfairly. In his research many people were being subjected to multiple stop and frisks despite having no criminal record. Furthermore cases showed that from 2002 to 2011 about 80 percent of the total friskies were either Latin American or African American raising the racial profiling question. He also voiced that the incident that caused Terry V Ohio and in recent cases sometimes abused to in deliberate efforts to control and assert power over black (Harris pp 859).Overall he felt stop and frisk under the supreme courts rules was fair but still debatable whether the use of it was fair. All in all stop and frisk was created to stop crime but has ran into issues been agreed on by various experts and researchers on the topic. It helped to lower crime in the but effectiveness declined after the The court revised versions of the policy are completely constitutional but it required multiple supreme court cases to polish out issues with it. Thanks to the court revisions stop and frisk is also a fair and balanced policy on paper, but cases showed that stop and frisk has been possibly been abused among still highly contested on if truly constitutional, effective, and fair as a policy. With more research and more court revisions we can create a stop and frisk policy that can consistently satisfy these three factors . Works Cited page Belin, The Inverse Relationship Between Constitutionality and Effectiveness of New York Stop and . Boston University Law Review, Vol 94, pg 1495- 1520,2014,Accessed 26 March 2017. Social Science Research Network. Gelman Andrew, Fagan Jeffrey, Kiss An Analysis of the Police Stop and  Policy in Context of Racial Journal of American Statistical  ,Vol 102,September 2007,pg 813-823. Accessed March 26 2017. American Statistical association. Harris, David. Across the Hudson: Taking The Stop and Frisk Debate Beyond New York  .N.Y.U Journal of Legislation and Public Policy,2014. Accessed March 26 2017. Social Science Research Network. Matthews, what you need to know about stop and frisk and why the courts shut it down. The Washington Post, 13 August 2013, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2013/08/13/heres-what-you-need-to- Accessed 26 March 2017. Rivera, Ray, Baker AL, Roberts, A Few Blocks, 4 Years, 52,000 Police .The New York Times,July 10 2010, http://liblog.law.stanford.edu/wp- content/uploads/2012/10/Over-4-Years-Nearly-52000-Police-Stops-in-a-Few-Brooklyn- Blocks-NYTimes.pdf.Acessed 26 March 2017.