Bourne !1 Aaliyah Bourne Professor Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 25 February 2017 The World Health Organization Views on Vaccination In the past recent years the controversy regarding vaccines have increased. Some or- ganizations believe and preach about the negative effects and ineffectiveness of vaccines, while others try to plead to families about the importance of vaccines. The controversy spiked due to the fact that people felt vaccines caused long term diseases like autism and that too many vac- cines are required in such a short time period. The World Health Organization (WHO) is an orga- nization connected with the United Nations, they are concerned with public health on an in- ternational level. This organization supports the vaccination of individuals of the community as they believe that vaccines improves immunity to some diseases. The World Health Organization believes that vaccines are safe and there are no long term side effects of vaccines in comparison to the long term effects of diseases like measles. These two images taken from The World Health Organization both effectively uses ethos, pathos, logos and kairos to persuade their respective audience to get vaccinated. The World Health Organization mission is to achieve their Global Vaccine Action Plan by 2020. According to Global Vaccine Action Plan The World Health Organization vaccine and immunization goal is to routine immunization to meet vaccination cov- erage targets; accelerate control of vaccine-preventable new and improved vaccines and spur research and development for the next generation of vaccines and WHO has been around for sixty-eight years with their overall goal being to allow Bourne !2 all people to attain the highest possible level of health (who.int). They are a specialized branch of the United Nations that is concerned with public health around the globe. According to WHO, despite the significant progress over the last fifteen years there are still 19.4 million infants who are still not receiving basic vaccines. The two images reflect the stakeholders views on vaccina- tion; the stakeholder is trying to plea to the audience to vaccinate your family.This is so as WHO does not believe in the fact that it is better to be immunized through the disease itself. They say this process is ineffective and dangerous as someone can pay the price of developing a mental illness. The journal article written by Elizabeth Miller titled and challenges of vaccination: an interview with Elizabeth shares the same views as the World Health Or- ganization. In her article she speaks about the harm unvaccinated persons can bring to a commu- nity. When that child or adult is not vaccinated and contracts a disease he/she is able to sicken others who are also unvaccinated; this can then lead to an epidemic. Miller and WHO shares the same opinion, but in this case WHO is actively trying to do something about the cause by vacci- nating people while Miller is spreading the word about the consequences of not vaccinating your family. The first image appeals to everyone. In the first image there is a representation of all gen- ders, races, age, cultures and religions. This is so as they are appealing to the world on a whole and the world includes different types of people. The audience is everyone as vaccines are not specific towards one gender or culture or even race; vaccines made for everyone. Vaccinating one culture for example puts the rest in danger. In the second image The World Health Organization appeals to families with small children. This is evident as the shadows are representations of small children. Parents and caregivers will feel sympathy for the one child on the other side of the side of the gap which represents an unvaccinated child. This contrasts with the four happy chil- dren on the other side of the gap which portrays vaccinated children. Bourne !3 In both pictures there are elements of ethos present. According to Rhetoric Matters, is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to per- suade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or ( Hoffman 24). In the first image the logo for the organization is presented at the bottom, there is also the logo for World Immunization This shows viewers that the organization approves the image. This is important as The World Health Organization is the biggest organization for human health and so it gives the image value. In the second image the logo for the WHO is present at the bottom, along with a link to the website. This allows the audience to further research about ing the gab on on the website. Both the logo and the link points to the credibility of the image as it shows that this well known and reliable organization supports vaccination. The World Health Organization uses pathos to help the audience develop some sort of emotions. According to Rhetoric Matters pathos is described as a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the ( Hoffman 34). The first image allows the audience to see that everyone from every race, age, religion and gender is being vaccinated. This makes the audience feel pressured and somewhat isolated if they are not vacci- nated. This is so as people from their own culture or race are vaccinated and happy, which will make them think someone like me is doing it why The image works to bring a sort of persuasion towards the unvaccinated viewer. The picture consists of many colors, all bright and eye-catching. These colors invoke happiness and joy in the viewers as this is what the people in the picture are feeling as you look at the section that is vaccinated. Their bright smiles and facial expression along with their colorful clothing allows the audience to see and feel the kind of happiness they will experience by being vaccinated. In the second image the audience may feel a sense of fear. This is so as the last child who is supposedly on the side of the cliff looks like he is getting ready to jump to the other side. He may fall trying to reach the Bourne !4 other side of the cliff or he may reach safely. If he falls this will represent a child getting sick while unvaccinated and possibly dying. This invokes fear in families with children as they see the possible negative effects of not being vaccinated and fear that for their own child. While at the same time seeing how happy, healthy and carefree the children on the opposite side, the vaccinat- ed children, of the cliff seem. Logos is used by WHO in both images to appeal to logic and reason. According to Rhetoric Matters is the appeal to is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Hoffman 29). In the first image the difference in stance of the vaccinated and unvaccinated people allows the audience to become of aware of the risks of not being vaccinated. Due to the fact that the unvaccinated population is tumbling down makes the audience think about the risks of not being vaccinated and that although one person may have the disease all unvaccinated persons will contract it. This contrast the vaccinated per- sons in the image that are standing straight, holding hands and smiling. This represents the level of health and strength vaccinated persons have when compared to the tumbling down of unvacci- nated persons; which may portray that unvaccinated people are weak or sickly. The holding of hands represents the large vaccinated community and how each person is helping and supporting another just by being vaccinated. The words on the block protect your world get appeals to everyone that they have a responsibility to protect their community and further their world from vaccine preventable diseases. One more person in the world being vaccinated can definitely make a difference. In the second image the place of the phrase along with the words and which has the biggest font, draws the audience attention as the organization is trying to make the audience acknowledge the gap and that vaccinating your family will close it. It also allows the viewers to realize the amount of children who are vaccinated versus unvaccinated and the possible negative effects of not vaccinating your child; which is equivalent to the child Bourne !5 falling off the cliff while trying to cross. It also implies a positive outlook in that there are fami- lies vaccinating their child and that is why the child seems to be running to the other side of the cliff. The World Health Organization uses kairos to appeal to the audience. According to Rhetoric Matters kairos is appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/per- form the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman 38). In the both images a sense of urgency is invoked in the audience. The first image makes the audience feel a sense of urgency as everyone in their community, no matter what background they are from is getting vaccinated. This is especially so if the audience sees someone in the picture they can re- late to. The words on the block also allows the viewers to feel a sense of responsibility and ur- gency in wanting to be vaccinated in order to protect their community. Again, especially if they see someone in the picture from their culture, they will feel a connection which will further in- crease that sense of responsibility and urgency to keep them safe and protected. In the second pic- ture as the boy is ready to jump across this makes the audience realize that everyone is joining the vaccinated community and that they need to hurry and vaccinate themselves and their family. This picture bring about urgency in the audience in wanting to the The World Health Organization uses the band wagon logical fallacies in both pictures. The band wagon fallacy can be defined as when something-an idea or object-is very popular and so many people attempt to join for a feeling of validation. This is a fallacy this stakeholder uses throughout his pictures. In the first picture by presenting all the different types of identities to an audience it will make them feel as if someone like them is being vaccinated they can as well. This causes the viewer to no longer feel like an outcast in his own community. In the second image the display of a child about to jump from the unvaccinated part of the cliff to the vaccinated part clearly represents this logical fallacy. WHO makes their audience think about everyone who is Bourne !6 crossing that cliff and becoming vaccinated. Not only that, but also the amount of people who are vaccinated versus unvaccinated and in this picture being vaccinated would be considered the thing to do. Looking and analyzing these two images produced by the World Health Organization we can say that they choose to make viewers who are not vaccinated feel like an outsider. The pic- tures are set up in a way to make the viewers feel like if they are not vaccinated they are the one or wont be happy. In the first picture with every culture being shown, a person who sees someone like them an is not vaccinated will feel like an outsider and further contemplate becom- ing vaccinated. On the other hand, in the second picture, seeing the amount of people on the vac- cinated side versus the unvaccinated side will make viewers feel lonely if they are not vaccinated. Making unvaccinated viewers feel like an outsider will make them feel lonely and want to on the and get vaccinated. In conclusion the goal of the pictures is to appeal to the audience sympathy and logics by further allowing them to think about vaccinating their child, or even keeping up with booster shots. The first picture ask the audience to see the difference between a vaccinated community and an unvaccinated community. The second picture allows the audience to see that the gap to- wards vaccination is closing and that the people who are unvaccinated are thinking about vacci- nation or trying to get vaccinated soon. Both images appeal to our timeliness, logic and emotions in order to get the view across. We further trust this information due to the credibili- ty of the images. With both images, the World Health Organization makes their target audience recognize the difference from being vaccinated and unvaccinated is with only a few words and a powerful picture. Bourne !7 Bourne !8 Bourne !9 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Miller, Elizabeth. Controversies And Challenges Of Vaccination: An Interview With Elizabeth  BMC Medicine (2015): Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. World Health Organization. United Nations Economic and Social Council, http://www.who.int/en/. Accessed 25 February 2017.