1 Professor Sarah Roth ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Steps to Improving Child Marriage Child marriage, the act of marrying young women or boy before legal age, is a common worldwide practice that affects the lives of children under 18. Child marriage affects girls in far greater numbers than boys. Up to 43% of girls in some countries get married before the age of 18. Child marriage occurs in both high and low income countries but it is more common in the latter. Poverty is considered to be the biggest reason why girls get married at a young age (Girls not Brides, 2002). In many countries, parental consent is legal and the parents can choose who their daughter marries. A large number of parents are not able to feed their children so they decide to marry them off. They exchange money with a man who is marrying their daughter and hope that she will have a better life, which rarely happens (Nasrulah, 2014). The majority of child brides are at a higher risk of sexual, physical and psychological violence throughout their lives when they are forced into marriage (Child Marriage n.d.). However, child marriage has decreased over 20 years with the help of stricter laws and education for young children that have also changed the perception of child marriage in people over time. Laws may be effective in child marriage but in many impoverished countries they are not necessarily the final word. Poverty, culture and religion are all factors why law is not helping young children from child marriage. Poverty is considered to be the biggest reason why girls get married at a young age simply because that their only choice to survive (Girls not Brides, 2002). Even still, some laws have been enacted to try to help the situation. For example, in India, they passed the Child Marriage Act in 2006 by giving the bride and 2 bridegroom the choice to get their marriage declared void (Sameeksha, 2009). This can restrain child marriage by requiring a man who divorces the child bride to keep paying for her until she remarries. With this law, perception about child marriage also changes because the men do not want to have that responsibility. The scholarly conversation on the topic of child marriage has changed because the perspective of men has also changed in correlation with the risk that comes with child marriage. Other social institutions such as education can help the effectiveness of these laws. In this way, the conversation of child marriage has changed from poor women having no choice to poor women having more opportunity through education. The biggest recent contribution to decreasing statistics for young child marriage is education. In many developing countries, young girls do not get the opportunity to educate themselves and it is more common that the families will invest in the education. Poverty and child marriage are correlated because with a little amount of money the boy is sent to school and the girl is married off with the exchange of money with a man. However, this global problem has decreased in the past 20 years because young women are getting the opportunity to educate themselves and higher education results in lower poverty. This also changes the scholarly conversation about child marriage as women find more power through education. Professor Raj examined Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) from Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Pakistan from 1991 to 2007 and found that rates of early marriage for girls under 14 decreased by 35 percent in India, 45 percent in Bangladesh, 57 percent in Nepal and 61 percent in Pakistan (Girls Not Brides, 2012). The effects of education on young women include that they are healthier, participate more in the formal labor market, earn more income, have fewer children, and provide better healthcare and education to their children compared to women with little or no education (ICWR, 2014). Once young women 3 understand the power of education then their perception of child marriage changes so they feel like they have to do it. These findings show that education is a big part of decreasing child marriage in developing nations. In short, the main point to understand what child marriage is and what causes it. Child marriage is often seen as the easiest way to handle poverty in lower middle class families so they and their children can live a better life, which many believe is wrong. Marriage for young children can be solved by restraining laws of child marriage and providing more opportunities for education in impoverished countries. Over the past few decades, child marriage has decreased and will hopefully continue to decrease going forward. This progress can change many young lives and give them the opportunity to live a healthy and stable life. Children at this age should not have to experience a marriage with a man who is much more mature than they are. They do not get the opportunity to live their life and experience the feeling of a first love or to be excited for another person. They are too young to have all these responsibilities and with marriage comes various problems which they have to go through and in some cases the young brides end up dying because they were not physically or mentally ready for it. They are not ready to take care of their husband, children or home and instead they should be playing around with their friends, playing sports or games. In some cases, culture and religion is the reason why girls cannot choose when or who they marry. We cannot change culture or religion but we can fix poverty. 4 Works Cited Girls Not Brides. About Child Girlsnotbrides, http://www.girlsnotbrides.org/about-child-marriage/. ICRW. Child  International Center for research on women, http://www.icrw.org/issues/child-marriage/ Nasrulah, Muazzam, et al. Knowledge and Attitude towards Child Marriage Practice Among Women Married as Children-A Qualitative Study in Urban Slums of Lahore, BMC Public Health, vol. 14, no. 1148, 2014. Sameeksha Trust. Restraining Child Economic and Political Weekly, vol. 44, no. 15, 2009, pp.7.