Running Head: PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 1 Promotion of Positive Body Image Through Media Liliana Alvarez University of South Florida Instructor Carr PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 2 Abstract This purpose is to emphasize how scholarly conversations about influence on body image perceptions have evolved over time. This paper refers to four scholarly, peer-reviewed articles in the time frame from 2009 to 2014. According to Perloff (2014), unrealistic body images promoted through media can lead to body dissatisfaction, which is key to self-esteem, depression, perfectionism, internalization of the thinness ideal, and centrality of appearance to (p.367). For that reason, many positive body image activists have encouraged on the promotion of positive body image by including diverse shapes of women, adding disclaimer labels and subvertising, and lastly, popularize positive body image campaigns. Keywords: body dissatisfaction, media, body image. PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 3 Promotion of Positive Body Image Through Media The perception of body images has changed greatly as the years go by, but it a 21 st century topic. Changes in body image perceptions have occurred before. For instance, in the article, Joe or Average Joe? The impact of average-size and muscular male fashion models on and body image and advertisement Phillippa Diedrichs and Christina Lee (2010) argue that, centerfold became progressively thinner from 1953 to 2003, with 69% of centerfolds from 1979 to 1988 weighing 15% or more below the expected body weight for women of their age and (p.218). However, with the advance of technology, there are more sources where people can find posts that can impact concept of beauty standards. For that reason, the sources I utilized for this project were intended to be the most recent ones. The purpose of the paper is to inquire on how promotion of positive body image has changed over time? People who own the means of communication are often unaware of the power they have on thoughts in general. In the article, Multidimensional Media Influence Scale: Confirmatory factor structure and relationship with body dissatisfaction among African American and Anglo American Kristen Harrison (2009) claim that, It is sometimes assumed that consciousness of the effect on own cognitions and emotions should make one impervious to those effects, but the acknowledgment that media effects on body image are occurring in own life does not decrease body dissatisfaction. Indeed, media influence appears to increase body dissatisfaction (p.207). PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 4 In the article, Media Effects on Young Body Image Concerns: Theoretical Perspectives and an Agenda for Richard Perloff states that, key feature that distinguishes contemporary social media technologies from conventional mass media is (p.366). Moreover, regular mass media differs from social media in its bond with people, since social networking sites are available from any place at any time. So, people can reach easily the promoted images of thin ideals. Explaining why body dissatisfaction may have increased over the last few years. There are many websites promoting anorexic and bulimic lifestyles, and teenage girls and women who visit them are more likely to have higher levels of eating disorders and body image concerns. Since social media influences tend to be very complex, is unrealistic to expect that exposure to social media will exert a simple, direct impact on body disturbance, and a number of studies have failed to find clear-cut effects of media exposure on body dissatisfaction or thin (p.367). Fashion models and celebrities promoted in media are believed to be the ideal image for beauty and success, so they become target for comparisons among other women. Since their body sizes and appearances are not generally representative of the general population and they are often digitally altered, they impart unrealistic images of female beauty (Diedrichs and Lee, 2010, p.219). These unrealistic images most of the times lead to body dissatisfaction, which is key to disordered eating, low self-esteem, depression, perfectionism, internalization of thinness ideals, centrality of appearance to self-worth and many other complications (Perloff, 2014, p.367). The development of eating-disorders behaviors is generally associated with promotion of unrealistic image of femininity (Lynch, 2011, p.582). For that reason, many have felt the urge to find different procedures to approach society in a way that positive body image can be promoted. PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 5 Taking into consideration how body image perceptions among women can change due to media, it is important to act and try to promote positive body image. Many researchers have used different approaches. For example, a study aimed to use average-size models versus muscular models. It was concluded that for women, the use of average-size models was equally effective in advertisements as the muscular ones. Moreover, average-size models were associated with a more positive body image (Diedrichs and Lee, 2010, p.224). Furthermore, other research tested disclaimer labels and subvertising. purpose is to prevent consumer confusion. For example, adding image has been is a way of promoting body satisfaction. Frederick, et. Al (2016) stated the following examples of subvertising: 1. Taking an advertisement of a slender model and adding Photoshop tool bars. 2. Taking a perfume that lightened the skin of a model and adding the phrase is Aishwarya Rai, and she is Indian. been whitewashed. 3. Taking and advertisement for Special-K cereal featuring a woman in a bathing suit and adding the cheeky phrase there Special-K lady. I know you thing I should diet so that I can be slim just like you. Thing is, I think I look pretty fabulous the way I am. Also, Special-K tastes like cardboard so piss However, instead of providing a positive image, it can also bring more attention to the image and increase body dissatisfaction (Frederick, et. Al, 2016, p.171). Likewise, other researchers have studied and promoted media counter-discourses, which its purpose is to educate girls and women about negative messages promoted by media and to increase self-esteem. For instance, the Dove for Real launched in 2004, aimed to promote the acceptance of a variety of feminine physical beauty possibilities. In PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 6 the article, for beauty? A critical analysis of Operation Meghan Lynch (2011) studied the blog called Operation Beautiful, launched in 2009, which differs from any other media counter-discourse because the author, Caitlin Boyle, updates it daily with stories and photos on how it has changed lives. Body perceptions have existed and evolved over time. But in the last decade, with the development of technology, the unrealistic body images have been easier to reach than before. Which has led to an increase in body dissatisfaction, which is key to low self-esteem, depression, perfectionism, internalization of the thinness ideal, and centrality of appearance to self-worth. For that reason, many positive body image activists have encouraged on the promotion of positive body image. After investigating the effects it has on people, I believe it is extremely important to find and analyze different ways to promote positive body images through media. Authors have studied including diverse shapes of women, adding disclaimer labels and subvertising, and lastly, popularize positive body image campaigns. PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 7 References Diedrichs, Phillippa and Christina Lee. GI Joe or Average Joe? The impact of average-size and muscular male fashion models on and body image and advertisement  Body Image (2010). Harrison, Kristen. The Multidimensional Media Influence Scale: Confirmatory factor structure and relationship with body dissatisfaction among African American and Anglo American  Body Image (2009). 27 January 2017. <http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/l ogin.aspx?direct=true&db=edselp&AN=S1740144509000345&site=eds-live>. Lynch, Meghan. Blogging for beauty? A critical analysis of Operation  Studies International Forum 34.6 (2011). Perloff, Richard. Social Media Effects on Young Body Image Concerns: Theoretical Perspectives and an Agenda for  Sex Roles: A Journal of Research 71.11-12 (2014).