Fennimore 1 Christopher Fennimore Alison Missler ENC1102 26 February 2017 Era of Marijuana Marijuana is the most commonly used illicit drug by Americans today. With alcohol and tobacco taking the lead, marijuana is the third most used drug for recreational purposes (NORML). According to government surveys, nearly 25 million of the United States have consumed this substance with 14 million of them admitting to making it a regular habit (NORML). The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws is the largest non- profit organization who fights for the benefits of marijuana. During the NORML first had success with decriminalizing cannabis in 11 states and helping lower the offense charges amongst the other states (NORML). They believe that there should be a responsible use for adults to consume this substance safely but at the same time be affordable (NORML). Ever since, they try to convince the public to make a stance against the negative propaganda marijuana has received over the years to further legalization. By analyzing all the rhetorical appeals in these two images provided, one can understand how these campaigns work in the art of persuasion to influence future participants or sponsors to take into consideration of the benefits legalization of can provide. The rhetorical appeal of Ethos is shown through the symbol of Rosie the Riveter. Rosie the Riveter was a way of getting household mothers to help win WWII by joining the work force to build war equipment and drive trucks while the men fought. This woman represented the first time females felt like they were contributing to their patriarchy for their country. As well as Fennimore 2 being a huge part of WWII, she is also a symbol of rights. the rights movement of the 1960s and 70s, new life breathed into Rosie as a symbol of the past, present and future (Frank 8). With the sign of Rosie the Riveter being a very successful way to help convince females to participate in winning the war, one can see how this applies to Ethos. The symbol of this flexing woman is very recognizable and can conclude this source is credible through her past success. Rosie the Riveter reached has reached out to women over the years in different meanings. Fighting in the war was seen predominantly as a male based activity. Then, as women became more active within the military force, they felt like they were contributing to the war (History.com) In a survey conducted of cannabis users, more than 1,400 respondents, 64% were male, and 36% (Hello M.D. 8) With this statement, one can see the lack of females in support for the fight for legalization of marijuana. 2/3 of the marijuana users happened to be male which is almost doubled of that of women. As Rosie the Riveter being a popular symbol amongst females, one can how this feminine symbol is incorporated in the image. The recruit of female based representatives for this argument is crucial for the process of legalization. With logos, the audience can reason with logic. In image one, going back to the past success females have had in the war with supporting a cause, there is no doubt that the females cannot help win this battle of legalization. Women have supported and overcome to win many obstacles in their life. Rosie the Riveter shows the reasoning that if females join the movement, the battle be won similar to WWII. Similar to the battle, Rosie the Riveter has been a symbol for rights movement across the United States. She is a symbol of strength, unity, and revolution. The connections of what she represents can evaluated with how Rosie the Riveter Fennimore 3 demonstrated the help from women. This supports logos and reasoning to back up the fact women are needed through their history of being strong. The call of action within the photo wants the reader or audience to act now before the time is over. In photo one, past experiences can be drawn from World War II that there was a huge epidemic within the United States. The fight of the War would not have been won without the contribution of America as a whole. Rosie the Riveter is there to show that this is the new big epidemic. Marijuana is the new fight or battle that needs to be voiced. This involvement women can provide in the next big movement is mandatory. It makes the audience feel as if they need to be a part of the next big breaking news. They reach out to the public letting them know this is current, and needs to be heard. The next image analyzed also demonstrates Ethos through putting the 2014 on the side of the image along with showing the states of Colorado and Washington. In 2014, Barrack Obama legalized the use of Marijuana and research of the drug in states that permit it (Huffington Post). By demonstrating these states that have already legalized marijuana, NORML can be trusted and be proven to be credible. As being already an advocator since the and being around for more than almost 50 years, the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws has had accolades of past accomplishments. NORML has had helped this process of legalization of marijuana in every step, and can expect to see an influence on the other states as well. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws uses colors to encourage their argument of legalization to connect on the emotional side of the reader using Pathos. The second image relies on the color scheme of green, blue, and white. all countries, blue, green, and white are strongly associated with and (Madden 97). Marijuana contains many soothing properties just as this color scheme does. Psychiatrist Tod Fennimore 4 Mikuriya, M.D, states that the power of cannabis has the strength to fight depression. They also imply the effect of marijuana relaxes the autonomic nervous system of the body. Marijuana helps relieve the stress many people experience with tasks. As one reviews, one can see how colors can convince the audience, NORML uses this color scheme of green, blue, and white in correlation to promote medicinal benefits to help legalization. The color green used throughout the whole image demonstrates the future profits in this industry. Marijuana has been project to be a billion-dollar industry in 2020 if legalization was in place (Huffington Post). Marijuana will provide tax money for the government especially with the growing number of Americans who consume marijuana regularly. found that if all 50 states and the federal government legalized cannabis, combined sales for both medical and retail marijuana could balloon to $35 billion a year by (Huffington Post). This money could be used to pay off the national debt and even help some welfare programs our country depends on. Using green to show the symbol of money, one can see how NORML uses green to show the positives marijuana could contain in legalization. NORML uses the rhetorical appeal of Kairos through the moon being casted over the Rocky Mountains. The Sun and the Moon can be seen a symbol of time descending from morning to night. The moon above the mountain range can represent that the time is ending. Eventually the time will run out before legalization will no other be possible. full moon is the representative for marking a time for death or (Desy 1). The moon is also seen as the opportunity and beginning of enlightenment. From seeing how the moon is related to a sign of time during the day, one can see how this is a representation of the call of action to fight now. Kairos sends the message to the audience this war is closing and it is time for a change. Fennimore 5 The National Organization of the Reform for Marijuana Laws is an organization who is in favor of supporting the legalization of marijuana. This non-profit organization uses the four rhetorical appeals to help support their argument. These four appeals are Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos used through famous symbols and colors to portray moods to their audience. The more an image or ad uses these strategies to defend their opinion, the stronger the stance will. By evaluating all the different rhetorical appeals used I both images, one can conclude that these images are in favor for legalization the marijuana. Fennimore 6 Works Cited Cannabis Used For Stress Relief . medicalmarijuana.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Desy, Phylameana. How To Prepare For And Participate In A Full Moon . ThoughtCo. N.p., 2017. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Frank, Miriam, Marilyn Ziebarth, and Connie Field. Rosie The . Society 21.3 (1984): 75-78. Web. Madden, Thomas J., Kelly Hewett, and Martin S. Roth. Managing Images In Different Cultures: A Cross-National Study Of Color Meanings And . Journal of International Marketing 8.4 (2000): 90-107. Web. Marijuana Industry Would Be Worth A Fortune Under Full . The Huffington Post. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Medical Marijuana Patient Survey Results. San Francisco, CA: Hello MD, 2016. Print. NORML.Org - Working To Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.Org - Working To Reform Marijuana . Norml.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.Riveter, Ask. Rosie The Riveter - World War II - . HISTORY.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.