Campbell 1 Albert Campbell Professor Paquette Composition 1 26 March 2017 Facial Transplantation Historiographical Essay The extensive research and debate which prequels any groundbreaking surgery is a necessary component of developing a safe and ethical treatment for patients. The journey to get approval for a surgery is often greatly underestimated. This process can be witnessed through the development of facial transplantation and the continuous conversation surrounding it from its origin to its implementation in the present day. An understanding of the medical achievement of facial transplantation requires an appreciation of the changing dialogue about it. Only a decade ago the medical community was divided between advocates of the procedure and those who disapproved, and the conversation revolved around that dispute. However, recently the conversation has transformed to primarily one side where professionals engaging in the discussion are focused on using the results of the treatment to improve facial transplants in the future. Before its first application, there was extensive debate surrounding facial transplantation. In the years 2000-2004, there were far more skeptics than those who promoted its usage. Much of the academic discussion during this period focused on disapproving of the few doctors and teams who believed they were ready to perform the operation. For example, Karen Maschke and Eric Trump were among those who strongly urged doctors not to utilize the surgery without a Campbell 2 clear understanding of its risks. Together they wrote an article supporting an assessment that the University of Louisville was unprepared to undergo a partial face transplantation (Maschke, 33- 35). This portrays the clash occurring in the conversation regarding facial transplantations before one had been performed. During this time, the conversation was centered around the debate of whether facial transplantation should be a practiced procedure. Without having full knowledge of the risks of the procedure, scholarly conversation was a debate over the ethics and safety of performing it. Despite some teams wanting to begin putting the surgery to use, they faced many adversaries who preferred treatment without transplantation. As time progressed, outcomes seen of the first partial transplantations from 2005 and 2006 did not alter much of the conversation within the medical community. Those who wanted to implement the surgery were firmly objected by professionals who believed it was safer for patients to avoid the possible complications of facial transplantation. For example, Michael Freeman and Pauline Abou express their dissatisfaction with the results of partial transplants when they state that they the case for face transplants has not yet been They conclude their article by calling for a halt in the procedure until a long-term assessment could be made of current recipients (Freeman, 81). Their opinions largely reflect the majority opinion in the conversation about facial transplantation at this time period. By this point the conversation had not changed, and although there were now results of performed partial transplantation surgeries to be analyzed, the original disapproval of the procedure remained. Many scholars still believed the unknown risks of the procedure were too dangerous for the surgery to be performed safely and ethically, which was pronounced throughout academic discussion. Campbell 3 Following years of extensive debate, the conversation about facial transplantation ultimately changed once the benefits were witnessed by the medical community. The conversation shifted as the unknown risks were expunged by the evidence provided by actual case studies. Professionals, including Marcelo Goiato, could justify the surgery once it was shown that it could restore function and aesthetic quality. Now the conversation consisted of detailing case by case results and suggesting possible ways the procedure could be improved. In 2014, Marcelo Goiato studied seven facial transplant cases and evaluated how successful the treatment had proved. Based on the data he gathered he claimed that facial transplantation was the best treatment to restore function and aesthetic quality to patients. This praise is accompanied by ways Goiato believes the surgery can be safer for future patients (Goiato, 733-739). As shown by work, by 2014 the conversation about facial transplantation was no longer a debate, but instead a study of its results and discussion of how to continue to improve the practice. After realizing the benefits and success of facial transplantation, the conversation surrounding the surgery shifted to be accepting of the procedure. Medical professionals no longer debated its practice, but instead worked to find ways to improve facial transplantation. Further evaluations of facial transplantation in 2016 results yielded a similar conversation to what occurred in 2014. By this point, the conversation of facial transplantation still focused on analyzing what the surgery had accomplished and formulating modifications to enhance the procedure. Laurent Lantieri, a frequent voice in discussions about plastic surgeries, offered the longest to date study on the results of facial transplantation. Lantieri examines seven cases to process the successes and failures of the surgery to offer advice to advance the surgery in the future. He acknowledges flaws in patient selection which were apparent through his research, and discusses better techniques to treat patients in the future (Lantieri, 1398-1407). As shown by Campbell 4 Lantieri, the conversation has not changed from 2014, but doctors are still persistent in their efforts to improve the care for patients. After the dispute surrounding facial transplantation had been extinguished, the discussion evolved as a way for doctors to make the practice more satisfactory for future patients. The change in the conversation surrounding facial transplantation was inevitable after the benefits of the procedure could no longer be disputed. Before the benefits of the surgery could be firmly cemented, the conversation was largely a platform of debate which divided proponents and their opposition. Following the achievements of the surgery, the conversation became focused on interpreting results and postulating causes of failure to modify the procedure in the future. This change in conversation observed with facial transplantation is an aspect of medicine which helps to provide the safest and most developed care for patients. Debate and caution has the important role of ensuring doctors are prepared for the potential dangers of a surgery. The evolution of a medical conversation is a portrayal of the great caution taken preceding any experimental medical procedure. Works Cited Freeman, Michael, and Pauline Abou Last Taboo: The Ethics of Face Journal of Medical Ethics, vol. 33, no. 2, 2007, pp. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/27719793. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Goiato, Marcelo C. et al. Facial Reconstruction: Facial Journal of Dentistry of Tehran University of Medical Sciences, vol. 11, no. 6, 2014, pp. 733-739. Directory of Open Access Journals, https://doaj.org/article/1ae90a0494194fddb22dbd49c2be9fe4 Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Campbell 5 Lantieri, Laurent, et al. Face Transplant: Long-Term Follow-Up And Results Of A Prospective Open  Lancet 388.10052 (2016): 1398-1407. Business Source Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Maschke, KJ, and E Trump. Facial Transplantation Research: A Need For Additional  American Journal Of Bioethics 4.3 (2004): 33-35. CINAHL. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.