Gormley 1 Cassidy Gormley Instructor Alison Missler English Composition 1102 27 February 2017 The Hidden Truth The controversy about animals being held in captivity is debated worldwide. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is a well-known organization that advocates for rights, one platform being the entertainment industry. PETA believes that teach people that it is acceptable to interfere with animals and keep them locked up in captivity, where they are bored, cramped, lonely, deprived of all control over their lives, and far from their natural (PETA). To share their views, PETA publishes a variety of animal rights advertisements that contain four rhetorical appeals: ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. One advertisement displays an elephant named Mali wishing for her freedom for Christmas (PETA). This is intended to sadden the audience and take away from their holiday spirit. A second advertisement captures Laura Vandervoort, a Canadian actress, trapped in a tank exposing entertainment industry (PETA). The purpose of this advertisement is for the audience to question whether or not forcing animals to perform tricks for their own entertainment is ethical. PETA effectively uses the rhetorical appeals in these advertisements to spread awareness of the immorality of the entertainment industry while keeping captive. Both advertisements use ethos effectively because of the credibility that PETA holds. In both images, the PETA logo is seen in white print at the bottom of the advertisement on red and black borders. The white print catches the attention first so that the audience feels clarity when further analyzing the image. This logo represents the largest animal rights group Gormley 2 organization in the world with millions of supporters behind it (PETA). In addition, the image regarding SeaWorld pictures the famous actress, author, and producer Laura Vandervoort. Vandervoort has her own website that declares many of her achievements and states, has built a loyal, international fan base of men and women of all (Laura Vandervoort). Vandervoort makes the message more believable because she is well-known and has a following from both sexes and all ages. Overall, both of these images persuade the audience of their credibility through logo and Laura Vandervoort. In addition, the use of logos in both images is crucial for getting mission of awareness across. White print on a black background is found at the bottom of each image explaining reason for the advertisement. In the zoo advertisement, the print informs the audience with another living option for Mali, the elephant. It suggests that a sanctuary would give Mali room to roam, proper care, and other elephants to be with. In the picture, it clearly shows a metal bar that Mali is trapped behind with no other elephants in the picture (PETA). This embodies the statement written on the advertisement. Similarly, the SeaWorld image uses words to share message. The statement reads, see Laura as confined to a tiny tank and forced to perform tricks for your entertainment! Learn the truth behind the show, and Boycott (PETA). This statement gives the audience a different perspective on forcing animals to perform for their own entertainment. Acting as if Laura is a sea animal puts the viewer in the shoes of an animal in captivity. Both of the statements give perspective as well as information about argument that captivity is immoral. Furthermore, kairos is used in both images in different ways. The image with Mali uses Christmas time as a recurring theme. The picture includes a Santa hat, mistletoe, a red border, and an I Want for Christmas Is My think bubble. For those who celebrate Gormley 3 Christmas, it is a time spent with family and friends symbolizing happiness and thankfulness; however, in this advertisement, those jolly feelings turn into despair. The emotions and logic in the image create a feeling of hopelessness for Mali rather than joy. As stated in the image, all Mali wants for Christmas is freedom, which implies that the end of December is the deadline. The deadline encourages the audience to fight against captivity and visit the Facebook site, listed on the bottom of the ad, so that Mali could receive her only wish on Christmas day. In the image regarding SeaWorld, there is an exclamation point after the truth behind the show and Boycott This implies urgency as exclamation points also used to express surprise, astonishment, or any other such strong (Your Dictionary). This strong emotion that PETA emits aims to tell the audience that these unethical actions are being done now and must be boycotted. All in all, PETA relies on timeliness to inspire the audience to make a difference in the life of an animal. Lastly, pathos is the most evident rhetorical device used in both images because of the emotional subject it touches on. Starting with image, the Christmas theme puts a damper on the traditional holiday spirit. The mistletoes represent loneliness in the life. This is because has been considered a plant that increases life and (Wonderopolis). Without other elephants to fall in love and reproduce with, Mali will continue to be lonely. To add, PETA also takes Mariah joyful song I Want for Christmas is and turns it into a very serious issue. As children and families are celebrating, the elephant itself is all alone locked up for the holiday away from his family and friends. Mali also does not have a special elephant to love which further supports the idea that Mali will always be lonely. Additionally, the bar that Mali is trapped behind is evidence that the elephant does not have a sufficient amount of room to roam around and go about a natural life. To add, apartment buildings are seen Gormley 4 behind the rock wall which exhibits that Mali is not in her natural habitat. Apartment buildings are typically built very close to each other in a small amount of space, emphasizing confined home. The bar and buildings motivate people to make a change because they could vividly see horrible living conditions. Additionally, the image with Laura Vandervoort also uses pathos to get the message that captivity is immoral across. The overall goal is to call SeaWorld out on the unethical practices they exhibit. To start, the woman in the tank, Laura Vandervoort, looks scared for her life. PETA uses this facial expression to represent the tragic stories of creatures. The Oxford Dictionary defines tragic as or characterized by extreme distress or (Oxford Dictionary). These creatures are caused distress by being held captive in such horrible circumstances. Furthermore, she is very skinny which implies that the animals are unhealthy or even starved. Separate from her looks, she is bare naked which resembles vulnerability. Ruth Barcan is the author of a book called A Cultural and writes, functions as that which cannot be freely like to be able to show, but what we think accept; what lies just outside the (208). When an individual cannot fully represent themselves because of boundaries, they become vulnerable. The animals are vulnerable and cannot show fully what they are made of because they are held captive. The use of nudity in this advertisement not only catches attention, but it holds a deeper meaning. The animals held in captivity are powerless as to what their future consists of, similar to how a human reacts to nudity. Lastly, Laura is sinking to the bottom of the tank which symbolizes a loss of hope. She is looking into the distance of complete darkness. Black is a color associated with fear and the according to the color psychology website (colorpsychology.org). Vandervoort fears what her future holds because it is unknown Gormley 5 what her future consists of. This creates an eerie feeling about what is to come for the animals trapped. The emotion in both of the images convey the message PETA intends to send. To conclude, the rhetorical appeals used in the advertisements effectively brought the audience to the final conclusion that the entertainment industry is immoral. The image with Mali shows that zoos cause animals to be lonely and un-active. The image regarding SeaWorld sends the message that the animals are unhealthy and hopeless. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals mission is to spread awareness on these issues. Credibility was given to the advertisements when logo was visible in both images and when Laura Vandervoort became an advocate for PETA, as well. The logos in both images provided reason for intended message to the audience. Lastly, the message successfully was delivered to the audience through the use of pathos and kairos. The emotion and timeliness created an angry yet hopeful attitude for what is to come for these animals if people start taking action. The immorality of using animals for entertainment is clearly a huge issue in platform and is demonstrated in both advertisements. Gormley 6 Gormley 7 Gormley 8 Works Cited Barcan, Ruth. Nudity. [Electronic : A Cultural Anatomy. Oxford, UK ; New York : Berg, 2004., 2004. Dress, body, culture.  Color Psychology. Color Psychology, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Kit, Download Press, and Website Design: E-daptive Media. Laura  The Official Website of Laura Vandervoort. Laura Vandervoort, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.  Oxford Dictionary. Oxford University Press, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. When to Use Exclamation  Grammar.yourdictionary.com. LoveToKnowCorp, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Why Do People Kiss Under  Wonderopolis. National Center For Families Learning, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Zoos: Pitiful  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.