Running head: IDEAL MARRIAGE AGE 1 Marriage Age Over Time Elijah A.Langlois Nancy Carr University of South Florida IDEAL MARRIAGE AGE 2 Abstract This paper explores three published articles and one table that report on results from research conducted on how the Average Marriage Age (AMA) changed over time. The articles describe the factors that affect the AMA. In (2006) article he uses national polls of 1946 and 2006 to describe how gender and education changed expectations of the Ideal Marriage Age. In (2003) article she describes how marriage rates are affected by economic standing. In (2008) article he gives the AMA of Nepal, and gives many major and minor factors that affect them. U.S. Census Bureau (2003) gives us a table on the AMA of the US for the last one hundred years. Key Words: age, gender, education, marriage, change, time. IDEAL MARRIAGE AGE 3 Ideal Marriage Age and How it Changed Over Time Although the source of is unknown, the saying, is like a fine wine, it gets better as you it is one that has been passed from person to person for years. While thinking about this quote, the question of what the ideal marriage age is was in my head. The purpose of this writing is to explore how the average marriage age (AMA) has been affected over a stretch of time, about less than a hundred of years in the past. I feel this topic is relevant because it shows how the age that people decide to get married at directly affects other factors such as birth rates, marriage rates, and increased cohabitation According to data given by the U.S. Census Bureau (2003), the average marriage age has been increasing since 1949, but this is rather odd since up until that point the average been in a decline. This may have been due to the after effects of the Great Depression, which happened just 10 years prior, and could symbolize that the economy is recovering. There were also new trends such as the baby boom (increase in birth rate between 1949-1964), nuclear families (2 childs), and increased cohabitation (living together before marriage). To show how average marriage age has changed you have to look at how its major factors such as age, education, gender (roles), and changes in laws and how they each influence the change in the average marriage In (2006) article he gives us 4 different graphs, data from 2 different national surveys asking people what them for their ideal marriage age (important to note that IMA is different from AMA because IMA is biased). Two of the graphs show how a majority of the people in 1960 voted that they had to get married before the age of 25, especially the women. The 2006 graph shows that the men become more spread out between 21-25 and after their 30s, IDEAL MARRIAGE AGE 4 while the female votes lost half in before the age 21 to after the age of 25. The other 2 graphs given are based off by educational (the level of schooling that a person has reached when they get married). The graph for males were similar to the 2006 Polls for just marriage and remained practically the same for 1960 and 2006, and female graph from 1960 say women should get married before 25 to 2006 being between 21-25. To summarize the data that I just stated, it is basically saying that the IMA has increased over those 60 years, and affected the women more than the men thus showing that females face bigger discrimination and prejudice when it comes to marriage. It gives a good representation of how women were more faced more prejudicely when it came to marriage, and shows how women who are more educated are more likely to marry later. to Oho (2003), she states, higher economic standing decreases marriage in countries with a relatively high degree of role differentiation by gender but encourages marriage in countries with more egalitarian gender So to simplify it means that women who got a higher education so they could higher paying jobs are less likely to get married at a young age. To give another example of the increase in the AMA you should look at Nepali article (2008), in which he wrote, the past 40 years in Nepal the singulate mean age at marriage (SMAM) of men and women has increased steadily. For example, the SMAM of men increased from 19.5 years in 1961 to 22.9 years in 2001. For women, the SMAM increased from 15.4 years in 1961 to 19.5 years in 2001 (CBS 2003). Therefore, despite the increase in the age at which both men and women marry, women still marry at an earlier than article is a great way to show many different laws that can affect the AMA (same thing as SMAM), especially in a foreign country in comparison to the US. The most recent was The Prohibition of IDEAL MARRIAGE AGE 5 Child Marriage Act that was put into action in 2006 and you can be given a harsh punishment of two years plus behind bars (if over 18 years old at the time or/and without getting approval from parents or/and they are not 2 years away legal consent age). Sah explains reason for such a harsh punishment is because in India marriage is a sacred and gives how the gender is can influenced the notion of purity, religious belief, and gender discrimination. To conclude average marriage age has been increasing in the US and many foreign countries, such as Nepal, over the past century because of factors such as education, laws, gender (roles), and culture. These factors are interwoven into a much bigger web that affect many other things such as birth rates, cohabitation, occupation, schooling, and even schooling. As the years passed by more people began pursuing a higher education but had to put off getting married at a younger age, and that allowed them to get higher paying jobs. But you must make note people may not have the same access to the resources (money or available schools) to be able get a higher education and that could be influenced by the location, culture, and gender. Gender plays a huge role in deciding marriages because depending on their locations cultural practices women, who face more gender discrimination, are either homebound and/or financially dependant on males thus have to marry at an earlier age. References IDEAL MARRIAGE AGE 6 J Jones, J. M. (2006). Ideal Age for marriage: 25 for women and 27 for men: average ideal age for both genders has increased in last 60 years. Poll Briefing , 5-8. Ono, H. (2003). economic standing, marriage timing, and cross-national contexts of gender. of Marriage & Family , 65(2), 275-286. Sah, N. (2008). How useful are the demographic surveys in explaining the determinants of early marriage of girls in the terai of nepal?. Of Population Research , 25(2), 207. U.S. Census Bureau (2003). Annual social and economic supplement: 2003 current population survey. Current Population Reports, Series P20-553.