Running Head: COLLEGE WORTH OVER TIME 1 College Worth Over Time Ravindra P. Kapila University of South Florida Carr COLLEGE WORTH OVER TIME 2 College Worth Over Time The idea of college always such a strongly recommended and desired step of life, it used to be purely for high class usually white men that were from rich families studying to be doctors, lawyers, engineers, and businessmen. Over time it seemed to be more and more important and seemingly required to get a good paying job. It appears society just created this concept that college is everything and as soon as a child is 18 they need to go to college to get a degree and follow a career based on that degree. It the social norm now, the expectation of all young adults in world whereas in the past, college considered as the only surefire way to get a high paying job, it was an option to get more education. the same way today except the actual reason for college has fallen under the covers and its viewed as a normality, no longer special because it is expected. People often tie college worth to monetary standards, so most of the change seen is from the basis of tuition cost and economical differences between now and the past. Most studies and surveys convey negatively towards the idea of college being worth it in the present day, in the article College Worth Michelle Adam (2012) claims majority of Americans (57%) say that the higher education system in the United States fails to provide students with good value for the money. In addition, only 19% of 1,055 college presidents surveyed said they believe that the U.S. system is the best in the world. Four in 10 believe the higher education system is going in the wrong (p.1). From a study in 2012, it shows that more than half of the Americans asked said higher education is not worth the money and a huge chunk if college presidents disagree that America is the best system in the world with 40% of the general population believing American higher education changing for the better but for the worse. Today these numbers would be slightly different but as predicted by the article, the COLLEGE WORTH OVER TIME 3 tuition costs went up, the amount of college presidents who believe in the US system being the best has decreased, and the four in ten has gone up where more people believe the higher education system is moving in the wrong direction. In previous years, there so much of a problem with the US education system, less people were expected to go to college making it more affordable for the students and faculty, more students went to college of free will unlike today here they are highly expected or even forced to go to college, and the colleges did more for the student such as deliver free housing to every student that got accepted. In a recent survey found in the same article as before, Adam (2012) says of those surveyed said they did not get good value for their money with higher education, and 75% said that college is too expensive for most Americans. Yet 86% of college graduates said that college has been a good investment for them personally, 94% of parents surveyed said they expected their child to go to college, and most said that their earnings potential increased substantially with higher (p.1). Although it seem to be worth the costs, people still seem to go because built into society as the only acceptable thing to do after graduating high-school, the only way to solidify a job that can support a family. Although people say this, I found an article stating their findings on jobs and their correlation with college and major choices. In this article, Myth That College and Major Choice Decides Janis Dietz (2010) says that research was designed to test a relationship between the academic ranking of the college a student chooses, their major, and their total compensation or the sales of the company where they are CEO, measured by the CEOs of the Fortune 500 companies in 2007. The closest any of the variables came was a relationship between the type of college where a graduate degree was earned and total sales of the company. The undergraduate choice of school was not significant for school or (p.1) As you can COLLEGE WORTH OVER TIME 4 see, some of these CEOs of Fortune 500 companies went through lots of schooling for the same responsibilities and income as CEOs of similar companies that rank the same but have much less education in varying majors and minors. If talking about change over the years, I took information from a different article, College Costs Worth It? How Ability, Major, and Debt Affect the Returns to Douglas A. Webber (2016) claims that debt arising from student loans has steadily risen in recent years. The most recent graduating college cohort is burdened by an average of roughly $30,000 in student loan debt, while the national total has surpassed $1.2 trillion, a figure that some claim represents an economic bubble which could have substantial negative effects for future (p.1) see a substantial increase in the cost of college over the years from hundreds to hundreds of thousands. surprising to see the change and how it can affect the economy in the long run. This information is only on the accumulation of debt in college and not only the costs in total. With education these days, the challenge comes with finding the right college at a cost you can afford and make the most out of it. It might not be an ivy league but better than dropping out midway at a highly-ranked school. In the article College Still Worth author Brian Kelly states average, about 40% of students drop out, without obtaining schools in primary and secondary (p.1). College dropout rates increased over the years due to not picking the right school and low motivation. It is recommended that a 2-year college is better to start with and then moving onto a 4-year institution and within the past couple of years it has been more common. Over the years, students have been more open to it due to financial changes and new economic variables changing how students can pay for college. 2 year institutions are almost always cheaper than 4 year institutions and universities. COLLEGE WORTH OVER TIME 5 As stated before, college has changed quite a bit since higher education was created in 1636, it has grown to be a national and world wide phenomena that more than 80% of children in the united states are attending as of late. Before, it was reserved for mostly the very wealthy and fortunate families but not because only they could afford it, it was due to the fact that no one saw it necessary. As the world has aged and present day creeps upon us it seemed to be more and more important that people attend college. Many jobs now that pay decently require some type of higher education whether that be a degree in pertinent subjects or specialized training in that field. COLLEGE WORTH OVER TIME 6 References: Angeli, E., Wagner, J., Lawrick, E., Moore, K., Anderson, M., Soderlund, L., & Brizee, A. (2010, May 5). General format. Retrieved from http://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/560/01/ Kelly, B. (2010). Is College Still Worth It?. U.S. News & World Report, 147(8), 6. Buenstorf, G., Nielsen, K., & Timmermans, B. (2017). Steve Jobs or No Jobs? Entrepreneurial activity and performance among Danish college dropouts and graduates. Small Business Economics, (1), 179. doi:10.1007/s11187-016-9774-1 Webber, D. A. (2016). Are college costs worth it? How ability, major, and debt affect the returns to schooling. Economics Of Education Review, 53296-310. doi:10.1016/j.econedurev.2016.04.007 Dietz, J. (2010). THE MYTH THAT COLLEGE AND MAJOR CHOICE DECIDES FUTURE. College Student Journal, 44(2), 234-249 Adam, M. (2012). College Worth Education Digest, (6), 58.