THE EFFECT OF STEROIDS ON PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 1 The Effect of Steroids on Professional Sports Shahir Kamil University of South Florida Instructor Carr THE EFFECT OF STEROIDS ON PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 2 Abstract This paper explores how the argument of the effect of steroids on professional sports has changed over time. To get the point across, the paper uses 4 different scholarly articles that each provide evidence and different aspects on the chosen topic. Looking at the big picture, there has been an increase in the number of athletes using performance enhancing drugs to perform better and at a higher level. This increase has showed cases where athletes have faced serious health risks and even a few cases where they have died due to the usage of steroids. Due to the increased use, there has also been an increased desire to spread awareness and take action to help regulate the number of athletes. Major organizations have also implemented stricter policies to keep these athletes in check. Overall, I believe that the world is moving in the right direction to solve this debate and come up with more effective solutions to regulate the negative effects of steroids in professional sports. steroids, professional sports, increase, health risks, awareness, stricter policies THE EFFECT OF STEROIDS ON PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 3 The use of drugs to enhance the performance of athletes dates back all the way to original Olympic Games back in Ancient Greece (Heisler, 2009). Since then, the use of steroids in professional sports has evolved and revolutionized throughout the passage of time. The word or the use of performance enhancing drugs, in fact is originated from the Dutch word doop, which is a type of PED used back in Ancient Greece. With the advancement of technology and studies, specialists have revealed more and more risks associated physically, psychologically, and even mortally(Millman et. al, 2003). As more athletes start to use different types of steroids, we observe different symptoms and side effects. The overall attitude has also changed as the sports world has several differing ethical/moral views of doping or taking steroids. Many authorities figures have voiced their opinions and reasoned whether healthy or not for the respected sports. Increased awareness of athletes using these drugs has also led to the increased number of bans and regulations placed by different sports organizations. Overall, this topic has grown larger over time as the number of athletes found using steroids have increased and so has the number of people against the action or idea. Through numerous studies done and historical examples, the risks involving the use of steroids has become more evident over time. Steroids work by increasing the physical capabilities and muscle mass or just simply making them stronger and faster which helps an athlete in pretty much all sports. They perform this function on the body by boosting the testosterone level, however, it stops the natural production of it from the body (Millman et. al, 2009). Other health risks associated with the use of steroids can be seen psychologically, or even mortally. Psychological health risks discovered include different mood and schizophrenic disorders found in athletes. Mental disorders are very dangerous as they deal with the brain, THE EFFECT OF STEROIDS ON PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 4 which is the main control center of the body. Many successful athletes such as, Diego Maradona, Lance Armstrong, Alex Rodriguez, and Arnold Schwarzenegger, have used steroids or performance enhancing drugs in their respected sports dating back from the 1960s. Although none of these athletes have faced a direct health issue related to doping, there are examples such as Danish cyclist, Knut Jensen, who was the first Olympic athlete to die on Aug. 26, 1960 due to the use of performance enhancing drugs. Later in 1992, there was another case of NFL defensive end Lyle Alzendo, who died of brain cancer which was believed to be the result of more than two decades steroid and HGH use. There are several differing ethical/moral viewpoints behind the use of steroids and performance enhancing drugs in the sports world. As the use of steroids have increased among athletes, more people start to argue about its immorality amongst its respective sports. Several arguments arise such as the use of steroids disrupts competition because some players are at another level physically. While other authority figures also discuss that it is an act of cheating as it gives the doping athlete an unfair advantage over the rest. Back in 1988, President Reagan was the first president signed the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 which outlawed the sale of non medical steroids. Subsequently, Congress also passed the Anabolic Steroid Act in 1990 to regulate the amount of steroid use by athletes (McGrew, 2015). Important figures such as Senator Jim Bunning who reasons that doping the integrity of the game and distort statistics and demean (Gayles, 2009). Another notable example was when President Bush stated in 2004 that the use of the wrong message that there are shortcuts to accomplishment, and that performance is more important than As it becomes a bigger issue and topic of concern, Bush urges that important to look out for the kids who are the THE EFFECT OF STEROIDS ON PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 5 future. Because it has grown so much throughout the years, it sends the wrong message to the children and sets the wrong example, because of the dangerous side effects. Although the effect of steroids stressed as much back when they originated, there have been more efforts to raise the proper awareness of PED use. As the number of doping athletes have increased in all professional sports, most sports organizations and leagues have placed regulations and bans on the use of steroids and performance enhancing drugs (Heisler, 2009). After the first casualty in the Olympics due to doping occurred in 1960, the IOC (International Olympic Committee) established a medical commission to fight doping and implemented their first drug testing in 1968 to ensure no one is using steroids. By 1975, the IOC added anabolic steroids to the list of banned substances and steroid testing was conducted for the first time in the 1976 Montreal Olympics. Last year, the IOC released Anti-Doping Rules for the 2016 Rio Olympic games which subjected all athletes to testing for performance enhancing drugs. Additionally, major sports leagues such as the NBA (National Basketball Association), MLB (Major League Baseball), NFL (National Football League), etc placed regulations on performance enhancing drugs use and implement regular scheduled check ups during the season to make sure that their athletes abstain from these drugs. With the advancement of technology, specialists have found easier ways for these leagues to test or check athletes whether they have performance enhancing drugs in their system. As the committee got stricter, they started banning athletes such as British sprinter Dwain Chambers, who was banned for Olympics for HGH use in 2003. Steroid use dates back to the start of the Olympic games back in Ancient Greece when the stakes of the competition were at its highest. Since then, the use and number of athletes have THE EFFECT OF STEROIDS ON PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 6 only risen as the athletes have found many ways around the system and obtaining these drugs. In the article, Final Frontier of Anti-Doping: A study of athletes who have committed doping Engelberg, Moston, and Skinner (2015) composed a recent study in which they interviewed 18 doping athletes from bodybuilding, powerlifting, cricket, kayaking, rugby, and swimming about anti-doping policies. The results of the interviews showed that the use of steroids and performance enhancing drugs have become in those sports, especially bodybuilding. hard to completely get rid of steroids or performance enhancing drugs, because there will always be new drugs to take the place of the banned steroids. The use of performance enhancing drugs became more prevalent through bodybuilding and weightlifting, and eventually reached every sport. As the level of play and competition keeps rising, the players feel the pressure to perform and therefore resort to such drugs. hard to eradicate the use of steroids in professional sports and can not be done instantly, however with the right awareness, tools/technology, and education, it can eventually and gradually lead to the prevention of doping across all sports. Overall, I believe that the world is moving in the right direction to solve this debate and come up with more effective solutions to regulate the negative effects of steroids in professional sports. THE EFFECT OF STEROIDS ON PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 7 References Gayles, J. (2009). Steroids and standardised tests: meritocracy and the myth of fair play in the United Educational Studies 1. Heisler, S. R. (2009). Steroid Regulation in Professional Sports: SARBANES-OXLEY AS A GUIDE. Arts & Entertainment Law Journal, 199-241. Engelberg, T., Moston, S., & Skinner, J. (2015). The final frontier of anti-doping: A study of athletes who have committed doping violations. Management 18268-279. McGrew, R. J. (2015). Raising the Bar: Why The Anabolics Steroid Control Acts Should Be Repealed and Replaced.. Journal Of Health Law & 15233.