Feyas 1 Victoria Feyas Jenifer Paquette ENC.1101 26 March 2017 Adderall Over Time Adderall was created in 1996 and has been used ever since to treat diseases like Attention Deficit Disorder(ADD) and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder(ADHD.) After the drugs introduction, it was not long before people began to abuse the drug by taking it without prescription or need. This problem was seen largely in college students and as time has gone by the abuse of Adderall on college campuses has inflated dramatically. Students rely on this drug to keep them focused and awake to study harder and longer for exams. (Moneer, 3) The problem is that Adderall is proven to be an addictive substance and inhibits creativity in people who do not need it. Over time, researchers have all noted that the use of Adderall in people who are not prescribed or are not in need of the drug has increased greatly and studies show side effects that are detrimental to health. In 2008 Martha J. Farah wrote, we enhance cognition with Adderall, do we sacrifice creativity? A preliminary Within the study, she concluded that Adderall only effected the performance of convergent tasks. A convergent task is when one must make a decision, for example, test taking, where there is only one correct choice.. (Farah, 4) research differed greatly from Kyle Try This at Which he wrote in 2004. Smith focused on a different aspect of the drug, its addictive properties. In his study, he tested how addicted household mothers would become if they used the pill as a me throughout the day. Numerous women reported weight loss and dependency on the drug which Smith concluded were the two most common side Feyas 2 effects. When looking at these two journals, one can see that researchers were attempting to find out exactly what the side effects of using Adderall were during this period. The drug was still relatively new so people were not sure of what is was doing to body when they were prescribed to take it daily. Further along the timeline, in 2012, Stephanie Stolz wrote, Abuse: Regulating the Academic Within this journal Stolz writes about Adderall moving into college campuses and about the that has been generated because of it. Stolz also notes that the drug can be extremely addictive to people who have not been prescribed to take it which coincides with Kyle research from 2004 (which was summarized in the previous paragraph) about the addictive properties of the drug. Smith reiterated multiple times throughout his journal that Adderall was (Smith, 2) In 2015 Moneer Osman writes, to which is pretty much exactly what it sounds like: a journal all about how addictive Adderall is. Within his writing, he makes it clear that Adderall has had a large impact on college campuses and that the side effects vary from person to person. He states that is an extremely addictive and that side effects can range from mood changes and headaches to dangerously high blood pressure. (For those that do not know, high blood pressure can cause one to have a stroke.) Although these journals were written just three years apart, Moneer mentions numerous side effects that Stolz does not which makes it appear that new information about the drug was discovered within this time frame. The findings from research coincides with in terms of the high user dependency for those using the drug. These journals vary in age with some being 10 years old while others are only two years old. Despite the time gap each one mentions addictive properties of Adderall and each one seems to be identifying additional issues with the drug. In the earlier years, it appears researchers were trying to figure out what the drug did to the body but in more recent studies it seems that researchers know what it does and are now trying to figure out how vast and detrimental the effects are. Overall, Feyas 3 researchers have built new ideas while using the old ideas as building blocks and continue to learn additional information about effect on the human body. Feyas 4 Sources Cited: Farah, Martha J., et al. we enhance cognition with Adderall, do we sacrifice creativity? A preliminary Psychopharmacology, vol. 202, no. 1-3, 2008, pp. Moneer, Osman, et al. Addicted To  Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal 9. (2015): 8. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Kyle. Try This At  Suzlon Energy Limited SWOT Analysis 62.25 (2004): 87-88. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Stolz, Stephanie. Abuse: Regulating the Academic Journal of Law and Education, vol. 41, no. 3, July 2012, pp.