Amjad Al-Toky Ashley Tisdale ENC1101 February 2 nd 2017 Cell phones on youth This has been an ongoing topic that have been talked about, studied and experimented for years once the cell phones evolved. I woke up to a beautiful spring morning in Miami last year, when I saw a newspaper headline, from an unfamiliar publishing company saying The Young Generation Are to the cell phone Walking around the campus you see many students glued to their phone texting, calling or maybe using an application that might be quite beneficial. Without a doubt, Cell phones truly evolved in a large scale, 7 th grader now own a cellphone on the other hand cell phones are now referred to as if owning a whole computer in your own pocket! As any other topic the cell phone has advantages and as well it has its disadvantages. And on the usage of the cellphone, some may use it in a negative manner such as unnecessary texting, sexting or playing games and others may use the cellphones to their benefit on its maximum potential. It begs the question: are we really addicted to our phones and does cellphones really affects us? Kyung-seu and jae-Moo Lee. of smartphone addiction proneness of young children on problematic behaviors and emotional intelligence: Mediating self-assessment effects of parents using vol.20 jan 2017. 303- 311 This article talks about an analysis made on how are cellphones addictive and the reason of we do the teenagers are addicted to the cellphones. It also talks about the ownership of the cellphone at a younger age and how it affects the teenagers both physically and mentally. The article states a fact that since the launch of the Apple iphone in June 2007, the smartphone has been widely used by approximately 3 billion people and that the number of the smartphone users by 2020 will reach upto 6.1 billion people. The states that one of the reasons the smartphones are addictive is that it is generally to use, therefore the usage increases then leads to the addiction of the smartphone. The article says that the addiction of the smartphone is likely to happen at adolescents rather than an adult age. Studies shown that the addiction on youth showed behavioral problems such as depression, aggression, anxiety and impulsivity. This article was published by Elsevier Ltd by two authors one from the Department of early childhood education in Eulji University, South Korea and the other from School of continuing education in Dankook University, South Korea. Maya Samantha, Nazir S.Hawi. Relationship Among Smartphone Addiction, stress, academic performance and satisfaction with Elsevier Ltd. April 2016. 321- 325 This article talks about the effect in addiction of the use of smart phones and the link on academic performance of students in high school. It states that there is a negative association between cellphone use and academic performance. This article also states that there is a negative link between smartphones and stress and life satisfaction. Factors such as family issues also leads to the overuse of the smartphones which leads to addiction. The overuse of smart phones leads to unsatisfactory of life.. with the use of social media people post pictures of them on a 5 star vacation trip with their friend however on the receiving end certain people get jealous and therefore this leads to a decrease in life satisfaction, I believe this is a critical issue which is considered high effective on the mental part of using the smartphone or the general use of social media. The article was publishes on April 2016, written by two authors Samantha Maya and Nizar S.Hawi. Those two authors are experts in phycology, stress and addiction. They have a huge experience in this field and wrote loads of articles regarding those issues. Aljomma Sulaiman.S, AlQudah Mohammed.F, AlBursan Ismail, Bakheit Salaheldin, Abduljabar Adel.S addiction among university students in the light of some Elsevier Ltd. August 2016. 155-164 This article states that university and as well school students are the most aimed at by communication technologies, that is because this group age are the most interested in owning a smartphone which they spend so much time and energy on. This article also listed the theories explaining technology and smartphone addiction this included behaviorism and as well psychodynamic theory, psychodynamic theory explain that some people use their smartphones as a response to avoid pressure and to achieve forgetfulness. This article also states the affect of smartphone addiction on daily behavior in general life a fact shown says that using smartphones while driving not only causes accident but as well generally weakens concentration. Smart phone addiction also weakens academic performance as a result smartphones become a priority and studies are secondary This article was published by Elevier Ltd, this is a company that is known for its effective resources. The authors of these articles are professors from the king Saud university in Saudi Arabia whereas all of them have a huge experience in this field. This makes the article more credible and more useful for different resources. Oberst Ursala, Weggman Elissa, Stodt Benjamin, Bernd Mathiass, Chamaro Andres. consequences from heavy social networking in adolescents: The mediating role of fear of missing Elsevier Ltd. Feb 2010. 51-60. This article states the term social network sites (SNS) and how youth are attracted to it and how it correlates to the term FOMO, which means the fear of missing out. FOMO is a negative psychological consequence when the when the user gets addicted to his phones, the user wants to be up to date and want anything to miss him. This article also talks about the rise of information and communication technologies and how it is causing changes in the daily habits of an individual, the first thing most people do when they wake up is check their cellphones, this the case 15 years ago or even 10 years ago. We see a dramatic change in the importance of the smart phone and how it is now very important to an individual. The article analyses specifically the term FOMO in depth, it states that FOMO is a mediator between personal characteristic or physiological needs. The authors of this article where from Ramon Llull University and Atonomous University both in Spain. The authors of these article are people who are certified and credible. The publisher of this is article is Elsevier Ltd, a well known publisher related to this topic Zhitomirsky-geffet, Mayyan. generational analysis of predictive factors of addictive behavior in smartphone Elsevier Ltd. November 2012. 682-693. This article talks about the affects and causes of the habitual use and addiction to the media and to the internet. This article talks about the stages in which addiction takes place, whereas it starts from the stage of occupying the mind then moves to progression where the need of social media increases. The moves to the stage of deterioration, here, the user makes repeated attempts to control the usage of a smart phone or the consumption of social media but fails. From here we move to the stage of regression syndrome this happens when social media of smartphones are not available to the user they experience anxiety and panic. Follows this stage is losing control here the user has very little control of his usage. The next stage is consequences for the environment in this stage the user faces problems with either employment, family or studies. The next stage is concealment whereas the user tries his best to hide his addiction from others. The last and final stage is escapism, in this case the addict turns to the usage of social media of smartphone as a way to neutralize his mood and run away from problems The author of this article is Zhitomirsky geffet and Mayyan. This article is credible because both authors are from the information science department from the Bar- llan university in Israel. The publisher is Elsevier a credible publisher that publishes related topics. Elhai John.D, Dvorak Robert, Levine Jason.D, Hall Brian. role of stress and motivation in problematic smartphone use among college Elsevier Science. Jan 1 2011. 251-259. This article talks about gratification that comes from the smartphone and as well the social media. It talks about perceived stress and problems in the usage of smartphones. This article also illustrates why the people get tangled up with their phones, it says that it is mostly because of entertainment and escapism. It states that social media might be a way to satisfy physiological needs of a user. It also emphasizes that smartphones is the ultimate time killer. It had a strong statement that said there is restrictions in the usage of cigarettes and alcohol but there is no restrictions in the usage of cellphones and they are both very addictive things that a person can easily get into. The publisher of this article is the computer in human behavior department from southwest university located in china. This is a very high rated university in china and it is a credible source.