Akhsambiyev 1 Askar Akhsambiyev Ms. Ashely Tisdale Composition I February 5, 2017 Pharmaceuticals Impact On People In The 21st Century For the past decade more than 150,000 people in United States died from the overdose of prescription drugs. Nowadays people are addicted to pharmaceutical pills. Not all of the medical drugs are bad, everyday all over the world people release their pain, heal affected areas of the bodies and fight with different types of diseases by consuming these drugs. The first pharmaceuticals were invested in the middle of 19th Century. Wholesale manufacture of botanical based drugs like quinine and morphine also started in about these years. After this pharmaceuticals started to use in most of the countries in the world and development and research about the new medical drugs continued from that moment. Average people, doctors, scientists, government, professors and businessmen; -everyone were interested and partially involved in this industry. Life became different for the 21st Century people- many can not imagine their lives without pharmaceuticals. There is a huge number of different type of drugs that exist for a different purposes today. Some of them are relatively cheap and could be found in any local dug store, usually plant based and weak. The other medical drugs are strong and could be sold only with the professional prescription, it is against the law to sell strong drugs without the prescription to a random person. Are strong pharmaceuticals helpful or dangerous, are the drugs made to kill one disease or introduce a new one, are these drugs made for the health of society or for money? All of ! Akhsambiyev 2 three questions above are similar, because all three are related to the overall question, are pharmacies worth applying, or is it just a business? Joo-Young Lee and Paul Hunt. Human Rights Responsibilities Of Pharmaceutical Companies In Relation To Access To  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 40.2 (2012): 220-233. Education Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article argues about wether or not to reinforce allowing access to more medicine or as it is a shared liability. This article discusses human rights and if there is a need of enhancing the access, some people have a belief that the society have all the rights to access more medicine and for the most of the situations in the article it talks about a stronger type of drugs. The article mentions different opinion of different people, few people from the government agree with this because as they say it will increase the economic level of the country. On the other side then, some of the public society disagree with this as they say that most of the buyers will use the stronger drugs not for the recreational use, but for some illegal use or to resell, basically just for the pleasure. The other people from the government and politics are on these side as the main thought is that economy will not increase, and there is a place to be for more drug addict homeless people and shoplifting after opening more access. There are 2 authors who worked on this article: Joo-Young Lee and Paul Hunt. Both of them have previously worked and made a primary search for the similar topics and also have published one more related article together in the other journal. Ethical Challenges In The Pharmaceutical  Pharmaceuticals Policy & Law 14.2-4 (2012): 123-127. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article discusses the pharmaceutical industry, advantages and disadvantages. It talks about how hard is it to run an industry like this, how risk it is. This type of industry need to co- Akhsambiyev 3 operate with the suppliers as it will need a batch of chemicals on most of the products produced there. The risk of running it is that if the business will be robbed, it could be robbed for the rare type of chemicals used there to produce medical drugs. The big advantage then that this type of industry is actually helping people compared to others, not too many competitors per city or village, again for the reason of a big risk. According to the article 80% of the population do not have or has very little access to medicine. (p.123) Developing a new drug is complicated too, industry has to run all the ethical concepts, provide involved in experiments people with safety and security. This article as well as a previous one is from a legitimate source, a tested website. This sources fits to the USF academia and are full texted and peer reviewed. One more thing is that this article fits into the years that it needs to be, correct years of the project. Tironi, Paula. Pharmaceutical Pricing: A Review Of Proposals To Improve Access And Affordability Of Prescription  Annals Of Health Law 19.(2010): 311. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. According to the article percent of the 2,487 surveyed employees at large U.S. companies either did not fill a prescription or skipped doses of prescribed medicine in (Wyatt, 319) For the statement above main reason was money, these employees thought to spend this money on something else, the other of them chose a cheaper option of drugs. There are some other few things why people choose cheaper options or not filling prescription at all, like: allergies, medicine from different companies. Main reason than was always money. On the other hand there are lots of people who survived and alive until today with the help of pharmacies. Good example for prescriptive medication would be antihypertensive medicines. This type of medicine ! Akhsambiyev 4 reduce the level of deaths and hospitalisations. Article mentions that An estimated 86,000 deaths and 833,000 hospitalisations would have occurred in the U.S. between (315) This article has legitimate sources and all the information above is brought from the Annals of Health Law. The author is Paula Tironi, except from this one she has also researched and written about  Reality: Is the Federal Physician Self-Referral Law Bad for the Health Care and Restrictions on Decision Making for Children with Life-Threatening and the Ashley Park, S. Sandra. A bang or a whimper? the impact of the health care reform law on the pharmaceutical industry: manufacturers should stay ahead of changes to stay competitive and  Journal of Health Care Compliance 2010: 51. Academic OneFile. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article talks about the additional fees for the brand drug manufactures. It has come to an extent when people have everything they could ever imagine of in the stores to buy. There is a huge amount of different pharmacy related brands. There are re-sellers, brands who make research, experiments and try to find a solution for all of the diseases. For different reasons some products for this brand could be very pricy and at the same time the only drug for a particular disease. In 2011 there was a fee introduced to all of the businesses who engaged with the manufacture or import of pre scripted drugs. To put it mildly these fees were high and increase every year. Cause for introducing the fee was to provide with the pharmacy drugs different type of federal health care programs like: Veterans Affair, TRICARE, Medicare etc. Government thinks about people who are in these programs listed above and that is very good of them. There is one problem that occurred, it was either these businesses prices for drugs went higher for the average people, or the business itself went bankrupt in some period of time. This article is a legitimate Akhsambiyev 5 source, Sandra Park is a member of FDA & Healthcare, she is a health care attorney and also have written similar type of articles on the related to medicine topics before. Barkla, Xanthe M., Paul A. McArdle, and Dorothy Newbury-Birch. Are There Any Potentially Dangerous Pharmacological Effects Of Combining ADHD Medication With Alcohol And Drugs Of Abuse? A Systematic Review Of The  BMC Psychiatry 15.(2015): 1-5. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. World wide statistics tells us that approximately 5% of young people up to 18 years old have Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). This disorder has place to be because of inattention, overactivity, syndrome of impulsiveness and more, usually leads to social and educational disadvantages. Youngsters with ADHD are more likely to evolve Substance Use Disorders compared to young people without ADHD. Co-morbid involves cannabis, stimulants, depressants, alcohol, hallucinogens and misuse. Majority of people with ADHD symptoms have prescription for medicines like: methylphenidate and dexamphetamine. There was a quite small increase in side-effects during ADHD medication of therapeutic doses taken with alcohol. Most people who are involved in medicine are aware about youngsters misusing different drugs and alcohol with ADHD symptoms. This article has legitimate sources only, main author Xanthe M. Barkla drafted the first manuscript of the article himself. X. Barkla has also worked on the other articles involving ADHD medications and pharmaceuticals overall. Dorothy Newbury-Birch, the other author of this article has carried out the quality assessment of the papers included and gave her own advice on systematic review methodology. Dorothy has also researched on similar papers before and was also involved in the articles related to pharmaceuticals. Akhsambiyev 6 Albsoul-Younes, Abla, et al. Abuse And Misuse Of Prescription And Nonprescription Drugs Sold In Community Pharmacies In  Substance Use & Misuse 45.9 (2010): 1319-1329. SPORTDiscus. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. According to this article misuse of the prescribed drugs in urban areas are significantly higher than in rural areas. The highest usage between the social classes is the middle class and as it goes up or down the class the number decreases similar in both ways. The article above mentions that people with ADHD symptoms tend to misuse more of drugs and alcohol in comparison to people without these symptoms. One of the reasons of confusion in medications in Jordan is uncontrolled consumption of medicines. Jordan is not the only country with this problem, some other Arab countries like Palestine, Kuwait and Egypt have similar or even same issues. Reasons for these issues occurring than are different and there are many of those, one of the main one is corruption which leads to poor control after the medicine. There are also medications abuse of something as regular as antibiotics, it is incorrect to mention only drugs which get people to feel differently. There are 4 authors who worked on this article: Abla Albsoul-Younes, Mayyada Al- Wazaify, Yousef Al-Motassem and Linda Tahaineh. All of them are associated Professors of Pharmacology and all of them have number of publications to their credit.