Quichocho 1 Student Dr. Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 05 March 2017 Innovation, progress, and prosperity are all words that come to mind when one thinks of the United States. Though only a little over two centuries old, America stands among the top countries with one of the largest economies, strongest military forces, and one of the most diverse populations. Although these are all noble attributes, how does the United States fare in the education realm? Contrary to popular belief, the United academic performance in global context has been on the decline over the past decade or so. This poor academic performance brings a valid concern to educators and the American government and raises the question: what factor(s) are causing this steady decline in the education? Some propose the answer to this question is testing. Debates over standardized testing remain controversial, as they are necessary, many other be harmful in large doses (Phelps 5). Whether for or against standardized testing, one thing remains: America needs an educational reform. The historical conversation over the need for educational reform in America remains the same, but the urgency of the call to action is steadily increasing. At first glance, it appears that the United States is doing exceptionally well in regards to education, but according to results from the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), other countries continue to outshine the U.S. The constant decline of academic performance on global assessments has not changed the historical conversation of American education, rather it has raised the urgency for a beneficial educational reform in U.S schools. Quichocho 2 The United educational system has undergone multiple reforms over the past few decades. These reforms can be categorized into three distinct movements: the excellence movement, the restructuring movement, and the standards movement (Hunt 122). These movements have shaped the American education system into how it functions to this school days and years, more graduation requirements, and an emphasis on standardized testing. Despite these reforms, American education has stagnant since the according to Marc Tucker the CEO of the National Center of Education and Economy (Bell 9). The author of this source, Julie Davis bell, argues that lack of educational excellence is not due to lack of effort, but rather misplaced emphasis. For example, Bell discusses that for the last decade or so, America has shifted the focus from the individual student, to the majority through the emphasis on standardized testing in schools (Bell 9). Educational leaders have recently turned their attention to what other successful countries are doing to better their school systems. One common trait among excelling countries like Finland, Japan, and China is the strong teacher force implemented into the schools (Bell 10). This source discusses the possible benefits of adapting a stronger a teacher force, and making the occupation more respectable through raising the salary and requiring more training for the profession. By viewing teachers as a vital part of societal prosperity, many people believe that higher quality teachers will yield higher quality students. Although a majority of educational leaders agree that staffing highly qualified teachers is the best solution to education crisis, some argue that physical aspects of the school system are what need to change. For example, in Recent Evolution of Public Education in the US and Finland: Can the Finnish Model Work in the US?, John W. Hunt argues that one of the main issues in American schools is the class size (Hunt 126). Hunt defends the quality of teachers Quichocho 3 already present in the United States, and states that teachers are able to focus more on the individual students when the class size is smaller. Another aspect that education leaders argue will benefit American education is the environment in which students learn. Those who argue on behalf of physical factors in education still, to some degree, agree that there are certain principles in education that need to as allowing teachers to have more free range over view structural factors as the main problems in American education (Hunt 128). Many educational leaders believe that altering the external structure of American schools will drive a positive change in the internal structure. There are many voices that exist in the debate over what steps toward reform need to be taken in order to improve the performance of American student on the Program for International Student Assessment. Some people say that the internal structure of the United school system needs alteration, while others say that the physical structure is what need to change. Despite the different sides of the argument, the unanimous point is this: the United States desperately needs an educational reform in order to keep up with other excelling nations. If steps toward a more beneficial education system are not taken soon, then the United States could risk dropping lower in global education ranks. Quichocho 4 Bell, Julie Davis. World Apart: How Are Other Countries Able to Close the Achievement Gap and Produce Such High-Achieving State Legislatures 8 (2016): 8. Academic OneFile. PDF file. 29 Jan. 2017 Hunt, John W.1. Evolution of Public Education in the US and Finland: Can the Finnish Model Work in the Journal of Philosophy & History of Education 63.1 (2013): 121-136. Education Source. Web. 3 Feb 2017. Phelps, Richard P. One: Standardized Testing Primer. N.p.: n.p., 2007. Education Source. PDF file. 21 Jan. 2017.