Mitvalsky 1 Cullen Mitvalsky Professor Carr ENC 1101 March 26, 2017 Historiographic Essay: Assisted Euthanasia After analyzing multiple articles, and reading from personal accounts on the opinions of assisted euthanasia; whether it be from ill patients or healthy, have concluded that people feel there should be a right to choose life or death in time of suffering. Between 2000 to 2017, the scholarly conversation has remained pretty stagnant for the most part. The only drift in opinion was when a group of seven healthy, senior individuals were surveyed and did not know much about the topic of assisted euthanasia. Even then, individuals felt that those suffering should have a voice. I will be further supporting these claims through the presentation of studies, interviews of individuals by the authors, as well as providing quotes directly from the patients and individuals themselves. In this 2006 qualitative study done in by Chapple et. al, their results found that after interviewing multiple people, they saw that UK law should be changed to allow assisted suicide or voluntary euthanasia was felt strongly by most  (p.706). The results of the narrative interviews also showed that, those who had seen others die were particularly convinced that this should be a  (Chapple et, al, 2006, p.706). In a Dutch hospital, it was also found that patients wanted complete control of when and how they spent their final days. A young woman, who named, had a chronic obstructive lung disease. When asked about her opinion on the subject of assisted euthanasia, she said that without a change in law she may commit suicide Mitvalsky 2  (Chapple et. al, 2006, p.707). Throughout her time being interviewed, she stressed her right to having control and choosing when she wanted to end her life. The authors Chapple et. al, prove their credibility by providing multiple narrative interviews, as well as giving visual analyses through tables that displayed backgrounds and characteristics of the 18-total people discussed within the scholarly article. In a 2010 cross-sectional study covering Dutch health care, Ezekiel J. et. al, made a selection of patients whose death was non-sudden and who were older than 16 years of age, because of our focus on whether or not requesting for  (p.597). In the study, the authors found that of patients who did not die suddenly, 7% of these patients explicitly requested for  (Ezekiel J. et. al, 2010, p.596). The majority though, roughly two- thirds of these patients were denied their requests. To put it into numbers; in previous years, out of 260 requests for euthanasia, only 80 were granted. Euthanasia requests that were granted, seemed to only be limited to those whose deaths were sudden and expected. Therefore, if you were battling serious, painful cancer, you would be denied your request because your illness would take longer to kill you. The study also concluded that four out of ten times, requests for euthanasia met because the patient died before they were granted their wish (Ezekiel et. al, p.601). How would this be fair to those who passed away without having any say in how or when they died? Ezekiel J. et. al, prove their credibility through multiple tables listing all the characteristics of patients interviewed, and showing the number of requests for euthanasia based on the characteristics of the individuals. Seven interviews were conducted in 2015 by Lamers et. al, to get the opinions and views of older citizens about assisted euthanasia. The results of the interviews found that some of the participants felt confused and  (Lamers et. al, 2015, p.1072). The participants said Mitvalsky 3 that assisted euthanasia is a family issue and that they articulated a strong sense of self-  (Lamers et. al, 2015, p.1075). No one wants any family member to pass away obviously, so they felt that they would hold onto life for as long as they could. According to Lamers et. al (2015), these discourses could have been formed through external forces though, such as a result of their developmental phase or  (p.1078). The patients also lacked a sense of knowledge on the issue of euthanasia which may have been the cause of the confusion and confliction. Death and suicide are taboo and uncomfortable subjects, so understandable as to why they may be uninformed. Although the interviewed individuals had this lack of knowledge and were conflicted, an alternative discourse of dying outside the medical gaze  (Lamers et. al, 2015, p.1072). Participants (2015) who were in favor of assisted euthanasia felt  and made it apparent that there were double standards in the debate on allowing euthanasia or not (p.1072). Participants made claims that the anticipated dependency on poor care from (professionals) others, made participants consider assisted euthanasia/suicide as ways of avoiding this stage of life and the associated loss of  (p.1072). Lamers et. al, proves their credibility through tables listing their interview questions as well as providing scripts of what the interviewers answered. Also, providing a table that lists all seven participants by name and giving relevant characteristics towards the study, such as marital status, profession, health and spiritual life. The article This Is No Way to  is a true story by Shannon Proudfoot. It follows the story of a woman named Ruth Duffin who is suffering from disease. Ruth, along with her husband Richard and daughter Shelly, fought continuously for right to choose euthanasia leading up to her death. From what Proudfoot writes in the article, there were numerous reasons as to why Ruth wanted to end her life. Ruth felt that over time her loss in Mitvalsky 4 independence and having hardly any value of life made her want to die. Due to the increasing nature of her disease, Ruth reached a point where she would much rather pass away then continue to let her disease wither her away any further. Ruth (2016) states, For many years, I was able to manage as the disease gradually whittled away at the things I held dear. I am now at the point however, where there is nothing I look forward to except an end to my suffering. I have gradually lost all of  (p.14). Ruth wanted to be able to end her suffering so badly, and have a say in her death, that even though law prohibited assisted euthanasia, she contemplated taking her life by her own hand. daughter Shelly (2016) states, we have much time, my mom is talking about how she wants to step in front of a  (p.16). Ruth desperately wanted the option of assisted euthanasia. To do this, they had to fly from Canada all the way to Switzerland where it is a legal practice. It does not devalue your life that my mom has an opportunity to be able to humanely end  (Proudfoot, 2016, p.17). daughter ends with this powerful quote showing how the rights and wishes of the ill and suffering are important, and should not be undermined because of the opinions of others. Proudfoot is proved credible because the article is a true story about Ruth Duffin and her family. Assisted euthanasia is a very taboo and off-color subject, and will continue to spark debates as long as there are people who are sick and suffering that need it. I believe that since we are living in a free country, citizens of this country should be allowed to make decisions regarding how the end of their life is going to play out. To live with the pain, or to pass peacefully should be an option that everyone suffering from illness should have. Scholars like Chapple et. al who began studies in the early showed that the majority of people in the UK feel the same way as me. Especially older citizens felt this way, which was shown by Ezekiel J. et. al in their 2010 study, when they performed multiple interviews with the sick Mitvalsky 5 showing how a clear majority of the sick and dying requested euthanasia. The most impactful article by Shannon Proudfoot offered a first hand, detailed account of what so many people in the US and around the globe go through to receive euthanasia. I found work to be the clearest when trying to argue that people feel the need for options when close to death, since it was a true story. As well as showing the hard and devastating emotional and physical effects of restricting their options. Mitvalsky 6 Sources Cited Chapple, A., et al. What People Close to Death Say about Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide: A Qualitative  Journal of Medical Ethics, vol. 32, no. 12, Dec. 2006, pp. 706-710. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1136/jme.2006.015883. Emanuel, Ezekiel J., et al. Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and  JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, vol. 316, no. 1, 05 July 2016, pp. 79-90. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1001/jama.2016.8499. Lamers, Carolien P. T.1, c.lamers@bangor.ac.uk and Rebecca R.2 Williams. Older Discourses about Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide: A Foucauldian  Gerontologist, vol. 56, no. 6, Dec. 2016, pp. 1072-1081. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1093/geront/gnv102. Proudfoot, Shannon. Is No Way to  vol. 129, no. 47, 28 Nov. 2016, pp. 14-17. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bu h&AN=119496786&site=eds-live.