[Type [Type McGorty 1 Kyle McGorty Professor Carr ENC 1011 03/5/17 The Prescription Stimulant Problem Between exams, quizzes, papers, homework assignments, and lab reports, the college student has many things on his or her plate. The combination of all these things along with the element of time and procrastination leads to stressful and desperate times. When these desperate times are reached, desperate measures are turned to for many college students. Many people turn to caffeine in the form of coffee or energy drinks to help provide energy and focus, but for some people this is not enough. These people turn to ADHD drugs in the form of prescription stimulants. Because of this prescription stimulants, are a big issue in society. They however, are not a new topic of debate, for they have been a problem since at earliest the start of the millennium. Although they have always been an issue, the commonness and severity of abuse has gone in up in recent years. Prescription stimulants are usually prescribed to children and adults with ADD or ADHD in an effort to help them focus and manage their hyperactivity. The problem comes when people without ADD or ADHD use the drugs to gain an unfair advantage in an academic or work climate. The side effects of these drugs include loss of appetite, loss of sleep, and increased heart rate as well as blood pressure. Not only are these drugs unhealthy for the not prescribed, they are also extremely illegal to sell and use when not prescribed. Adderall and Ritalin are schedule II drugs, the same schedule as OxyContin and Vicodin. Part of the problem is that people believe they are doing anything wrong because the main goal of using these drugs is a end, as most people take these drugs to enhance performance academically. The growing problem of taking not prescribed ADHD drugs to enhance performance in school is a bad thing because it is illegal drug abuse to gain an unfair advantage. [Type [Type McGorty 2 Michael Day writes an article discussing that the number of people, specifically between the ages on of 13 and 19, abusing ADHD drugs was going up. This study was done between the years of 1998 and 2005, and the drugs that Day focuses on are Adderall and Ritalin, also known as amphetamine and methylphenidate. In the eight years that the study took place, the rate of abuse rose more than 75% (Day, 2009, p.479). The numbers used to gauge this rise were the number of calls to poison centers that involved the misuse or abuse of prescription stimulants. Use of these drugs in general went up, even legally. Day also writes that the number of prescriptions given out during this period was an estimated 80% (2009, p.479). The number of calls is likely a of the when it comes to the numbers of actual abuse, for not many people call poison control centers over Adderall and Ritalin (Day, 2009, p.479). Kmietowicz claims that ADHD drugs turn children into robots. Uniformed people claim that drugs taken for ADHD, such as Adderall and Ritalin, turn kids into robot and rob them of their individuality. Kmietowicz talks about a study that was done to test the validity of the claims. 151 British children were interviewed on how they liked the drugs and how the drugs affected them. The general consensus of the children was that they felt benefitted from the drugs, and that the drugs helped them control and manage their AHDH symptoms. This study was done to children ranging from 9 to 14 years old who were taking prescribed ADHD drugs, were diagnosed with ADHD but receive drug treatment, and children who were not diagnosed with ADHD who were the controls. Kmietowicz quotes the main researcher of the study, Ilina Singh, who said, ethical presumptions about stimulant drugs were largely not supported by the prevalence of these assumptions is hurting children; the drugs are (2012, p.2). This article is recent enough to show what the prescription stimulant problem is [Type [Type McGorty 3 like today, and it also was done outside the US so it shows that the problem is not just something national but potentially more of a global problem. Mills writes about the fact that prescription stimulants are commonly abuse on college campuses around the nation. The study brought up by Mills involved the college students of an unspecified university in New England. Although only 1 out of 10 people claim to abuse, 50% of people claim to know dealers of these prescription stimulants (Mills, 2006, p.334). The specific drugs listed by Mills are Ritalin, Concerta, and Adderall. Mills brings up the point that this abuse is not for recreation, one of the most common reasons for abuse of drugs. Contrarily, these drugs are used for studying, staying awake, and losing weight. Mills tries to rationalize this high rate of abuse by stating that the reason for taking these drugs could be underlying undiagnosed ADHD (Mills, 2006, p.334). The last article on the topic of ADHD drugs is written by Arria, Caldeira, Vincent, Ciminy, Geisner, and Larimer. This article is direct results from a scientific study. While articles written by people such as Mills and Day point out the statistics for high abuse rates, they do not write about the effectiveness of these drugs on the prescribed. That is where this study comes into play. The study was done on 898 undergraduate students, none of which were diagnosed with ADHD. The subjects were broken up into 4 groups, Abstainers, Desisters, Initiators, and Persisters. The results of the study showed that the drugs resulted in no increase of GPA (Arria et al. 2017). As is now clear, prescription stimulants are not only a problem, but they are a growing problem. Although I believe that abusing ADHD drugs is a problem, I do believe there is some rationalization for the issue. An example of this is seen by the writing of Mills. Mills talks about how ADHD could be undiagnosed in a large number of cases. This would explain why many [Type [Type McGorty 4 people abuse these drugs. In the future, I believe it would be beneficial to do more research into undiagnosed ADHD or more research into the effectiveness on the undiagnosed. It is interesting to see how far this problem has come and it will be interesting to see where this issue heads toward the future. References: 1. Arria, A. M., Caldeira, K. M., Vincent, K. B., K. E., Cimini, M. D., Geisner, I. M., & ... Larimer, M. E. (2017). Do college students improve their grades by using prescription stimulants nonmedically?. Addictive Behaviors, 65245- 249. doi:10.1016/j.addbeh.2016.07.016 2. Mills, L. S. (2006). Prescription Stimulants Are Big on Campus. Science News, 169(21), 334-334. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/4019161 3. Day, M. Misuse of ADHD drugs by young people is rising, US poisons data  Bmj 339.Aug25 3 (2009): n. pag. Web. 4. Kmietowicz, Z. (2012). Children say ADHD drugs turn them into robots. BMJ: British Medical Journal, 345(7879), 2-2. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/41723998