Salem1 Dave Salem Carr Composition 1 March 26, 2017 Gun Laws over time Firearms have been around for over 1000 years. Many people would say the Chinese were the first to create this idea. They made cannons from bamboo and from there just evolved over time. And in the 18 th century when we started coming over here from England there were not enough settlers, money or time to make an army so it was up to each man of the house (or girl) to care of themselves, their family and their country in the case of an attack. Whether it was native Americans, British soldiers or even dangerous wild animals, they were all things that would lead to the creation of the second amendment. And humans being humans realized that with these deadly weapons there must be rules set in place to keep people from hurting one another. As time went on gun laws and restrictions got tougher and stricter. Now it seems like the gun laws are so strict doing more harm than good. Places like Gun Free Zones (places where guns allowed like schools, movie theatres etc.) were made to keep people safe but what people forget is that terrorist and other bad guys going to listen to rules. This essay is about how the laws of Gun Control has changed over time and how affected America as a whole. Throughout the years many scientists have published articles explaining gun laws over time but the researches I chose to help inform the reader and I are Tim, Lott, Fennell and Barone (et.al). The Framers of this country considered private firearms a necessity and essential to protecting personal liberty. Salem1 Tim. (2008, June 17). When Did Gun Control Start In America? Although gun laws sound like a new and upcoming era thing actually been around for almost a century now. It started in 1791 when the second amendment gained its final ratification. Then around 1920 is when the US first started making legitimate laws on the second amendment. In 1925 some 27 states did everything they could do to get rid of not only automatic but also semi-automatic firearms.1927 was the first restriction on gun laws and it was to ban shipping guns through the mail. Then in 1938 there was a new law that stopped anyone from selling guns to people with violent crimes in their past. The crime control act of 1990 banned manufacturing importing semiautomatic assault weapons in the US and then establishes Free In 1994 the government passed a law requiring people buying firearms to wait 5 days while local law enforcement agencies conduct proper background checks. I personally think this is a great idea and find it hard to believe it was passed in only 1994. Over time they also noticed that more democrats were leaning towards more gun control while republicans lead to the opposite. Obviously not everyone in the same party agrees but its interesting to see how over time the split parties get more defined. Salem1 Fennell, R. (2009). Concealed Carry Weapon Permits: A Second Amendment Right or a Recipe for Disaster on Our Campuses?. Journal Of American College Health, 58(2), 99- 100. doi:10.1080/07448480903340338 This article addresses the chances of a shooter somewhere on a campus throughout the United States within the last decade and states relevant statistics to the issue. Facts like, what percentage of students brings weapons to campus once in a thirty-day period and how many students bring weapons daily to campus. Fennel explains the laws for colleges that allow conceal carry and also explains laws to the few schools that do allow concealed carry. It explains the proposed ideas of having more colleges allow concealed weapon permits. Of course with allowing that also allows the greater chance of someone taking his or her anger out on an innocent person. This article also brings up new questions like many students with permits would carry weapons on campus, if they had the le- gal right to do so? How often do students with CCW permits carry their Or if someone was forced to shoot a person that is hurting people and the cops arrived and they shot the good guy instead. All of these new questions are relevant when creating new laws. Barone, E. (2016). One Nation, Up In Arms. Time, (16). This article list of the statistics within the past decade regarding gun owners, amount of firearms sold, the amount of a certain type of firearm within the US, and where the strictest and weakest gun laws are. This article informs us that the most restrictive state is California where as Arizona has the weakest gun laws. And strange enough you find that the crime rate difference is not as different as think. crime rate is Salem1 30 per 100,000 people while crime rate is 34 per 100,000 people. And then the article mentions that that within the last 30 gun sales have gone up while homicide rates have been trending down. This article is very helpful with its current statistics of the gun laws throughout the US. It also tells us more statistics like how in 2009 there were 310 million guns owned and some facts about the Brady law, which was mentioned earlier in this essay. And within the past few homicide rates have increased once again in dangerous cities like Chicago and Detroit. But as mentioned in the article, correlation is different than causality. Meaning just because the two subjects are related does not mean that one is the product of another. Emerson, E. (2016). Scientific evidence should inform politicized debates. Science News, 189(10), 2. Emersons article explains how the best known way of finding a possible solution to any problem is through scientific studying. However, since this is a subject relating to humans its very challenging since humans are relatively unpredictable. But that stop scientist from pursuing a solution to this ongoing problem. Emerson also explains that gun law information is not nearly as clear cut as think. Background checks, waiting periods and assault weapon bans almost never have correlation between a reduction in violence. There are states with a high amount of gun laws that have relatively low crime rates and there are also states with high gun laws yet still have low crime rates and also vice versa to having low gun laws. It will take years and probably even decades to make these laws better. But since humans are not perfect I do not believe these laws will ever be perfect. Even if America was to ban all firearms they would surely make their way in here just like the 1000s of guns that Salem1 come in from Mexico weekly. But we will find better solutions as time goes on and for that I thank the scientist and researchers. Bibliography: 1. Tim. (2008, June 17). When Did Gun Control Start In America? 2. Fennell, R. (2009). Concealed Carry Weapon Permits: A Second Amendment Right or a Recipe for Disaster on Our Campuses?. Journal Of American College Health, 58(2), 99-100. doi:10.1080/07448480903340338 3. Barone, E. (2016). One Nation, Up In Arms. Time, (16). 4. Emerson, E. (2016). Scientific evidence should inform politicized debates. Science News, 189(10), 2.