Running head: PSYCHOLOGY AND EMOTIONS 1 Psychology and Emotions and How They Are Used as Means of Persuasion Yernar S. Sharipbayev University of South Florida PSYCHOLOGY AND EMOTIONS 2 Abstract Research of this paper seeks to answer a question: Which and how emotions influence consumers to buy certain products, and how business companies might use them as a tool of persuasion? Four articles were explored that concerned the issue of different strategies targeting psychology and emotions in spheres of advertisements and retail management. Method of conducting surveys was used by authors in all of the articles as a base for drawing conclusions. Participants of the surveys were people who whether had experience and education in retail management, or were customers of a particular luxury shop, or were regular consumers of a particular product, or, lastly, were viewers of television advertisements. Firstly, findings suggest that emotional aspect of consumer behavior has great effectiveness as trigger of manipulation both in store atmosphere and commercials. Secondly, results report that diverse emotions may have different effect and intensity on a purchase intention and attitude towards a particular brand. Lastly, concerning the sphere of retail management there are multiple quality that may have different effect on stimulating various types of emotions. Implication of this paper is to provide information necessary for analyzing, understanding and having ability of hidden in these strategies aimed towards subconscious in order to take conscious decisions of whether following them or not. Keywords: emotions, retail, advertising PSYCHOLOGY AND EMOTIONS 3 Main goal of retail management is to provide consumer satisfaction in order to increase overall sales, which is possible trough understanding of internal Conversation in the articles of J. Kim et al. and S. Kim et al. evolved from investigating the impact of single aspect of retail management such as sales appearance on consumer behavior to observing the influence of multiple aspects of the store management on diverse set of emotions, respectively. Emotions, in my view, sometimes might be strong triggers of following deeds and that is why, I think, it is important to be conscious of the ways surrounding of our are attempting to influence us. We should be able to interpret atmosphere, in order to be considerable of what we really think is valuable thing to do/buy/consume or not. In the article, Appearance: Links to Emotions, Store Image, and Jae-Eun Kim, Hae Won Ju, and Kim K.P. Johnson (2009) state that, majority of participants described appearance as a significant factor of their good or annoyed feeling (p. 4-5). Also, most of the participants correlated appearance to the image and about 30% bought items that were worn and recommended by sales associate, which looked in the eyes of a particular participant (J. Kim et al., 2009, p. 5-6). In the article, Emotions and Their Triggers in Luxury Retail: Understanding the Effects of Customer Emotions Before and After Entering a Luxury Sooyun Kim, Geebum Park, Yeonjoo Lee, and Sunmee Choi (2016) analyzed specific emotions such as anger, pride, shame, contentment etc. and assessed their impact the perceived service quality and attitude toward the through different service quality dimensions such as physical (fancy interior), personal interaction with sales associates and others (p. 2-3). Concerning the historiography of Comiati et and Wolter et articles, their perspective has changed from examining the effects of emotional strategies used in advertisements to further researching of how firms, in the sphere of commercials, nowadays, use another strategy of a particular product, respectively. Personification of a product is a process of attributing human qualities to a particular brand of a business company. Seeing PSYCHOLOGY AND EMOTIONS 4 the hidden messages put in every advertisement can be beneficial, because usually creators of commercials are masters in distorting the reality and using stereotypes for the profit of their own. Therefore, ability of distinguishing various advertising strategies is beneficial in a sense of avoiding undesirable feelings or motives for actions, origin of which is unnaturally imposed by business firms. In the article, Consumers Attitudes Towards Different Types of Emotions Used in Raluca Comiati and Nicoleta O. Negrea (2009) claim that, advertisers are creating and strengthening a favorable attitude towards a brand or a product category, showing emotions as a clear benefit of brand but, also, they can do the opposite, if their purpose is to prevent people from consuming certain products such as tobacco, for instance (p. 1). An example of a TV commercial of Dos beer producer described by Jeremy S. Wolter, Simon Brach, J. Joseph Cronin Jr., and Mark Bonn in the article, Drivers of Identification and (2016), is great illustration of how the strategy of affects willingness to buy particular products. In this advertisement qualities of most interesting man in the were prescribed to the beer brand and, as a result of this campaign, Dos more than and brand has outpaced the growth rate of the top ten import (Wolter et al., 2016, p. 1). Both J. Kim et al. and S. Kim et al. concerned the importance of emotions in the retail management because, according to Dasu & Chase, charged episodes tend to be (as cited in S. Kim et al., 2016, p. 1). However, it can be noticed that the latter article, first of all, found connection of emotions not only with one aspect of the store management, which is sales appearance in the case of the former, but also included other quality such as interaction, physical aspect, policy, problem solving, and (S. Kim et al., 2016, p. 3). Secondly, looking at the aspect of emotion evaluation in both studies, S. Kim et al. stressed out the significance of diverse and specific emotions in relation to each aspect of quality in contrast to only PSYCHOLOGY AND EMOTIONS 5 good or annoyed feeling reported by the participants of the study conducted by J. Kim et al. (2009) (p. 5). Thus, it is seen that, with the time going, the sphere of retail management gives greater concern not only to specific emotions and their impact on consumer behavior but, also, they pay greater attention to different triggers of those emotion in their store management. As Comiati and Negrea (2009) mentioned, are trying to create more efficient advertising and that fact can be supported by Wolter et research (p. 1). Nonetheless, their approaches differ in a sense that the former authors studied the impact of the emotional aspect of commercials, while the latter considered psychological side of the advertisement strategy, which is still likely to be used along with the emotional one. Even though approaches of authors differ, it would be wrong to say that emotions and psychology are not correlated. Hence, we can infer that, nowadays, business companies are willing to invest time and money in research of subconscious and improving existing advertisement strategies based on that knowledge, as they are powerful tool of getting new and maintaining existing customers. It is undoubtable that, after more than half of a decade, looking at strategies of both retail management and advertisement, which relentlessly seeking new ways of influencing consumer behavior, one can admit the fact that human subconscious including psychology and emotions is the most vulnerable and effective trigger of manipulation. In their researches, Comiati, Negrea, and J. Kim et al. (2009) prove that back then emotional aspect of consumers was given great concern in the fields of both advertisement and store management. 7 years later, S. Kim et al., in their study of 2016, show how much more complicated and diverse investigating of emotions has become, accompanied by the new psychological strategy of described by Wolter et al., in their article. Taking this knowledge into account, it is in the interest of every business company to deepen in the understanding subconscious through trying to succeed in creating effective advertising strategies or satisfying PSYCHOLOGY AND EMOTIONS 6 their customers with shopping atmosphere. I think it is fair to assume that there are more new service quality dimensions and new advertising strategies await to be invented and implemented by business firms and investigated by scholars in the future. PSYCHOLOGY AND EMOTIONS 7 References Comiati, R., & Negrea, N. O. (2009). Romanian consumers attitudes towards different types of emotions used in advertising. the Proceedings of the International Conference, Marketing - from Information to Decision, (2), 127. Kim, J., Ju, H. W., & Johnson, K. K. (2009). Sales appearance: links to emotions, store image, and purchases. Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, (5), 407. Kim, S., Park, G., Lee, Y., & Choi, S. (2016). Customer emotions and their triggers in luxury retail: understanding the effects of customer emotions before and after entering a luxury shop. Journal of Business Research, 69(12), 5809-5818. Wolter, J. S., Brach, S., Cronin, J. J., Jr., & Bonn, M. (2016). Symbolic drivers of brand identification and disidentification. Journal of Business Research, 69(2), 785-793.