Bachkaniwala 1 Shivam Bachkaniwala Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 February 2, 2017 Climate change and the effects of global warming Climate change, also known as global warming is a phenomenon in which the surface temperatures on earth increase to dangerous levels. Most scientists believe that the main cause of this is excess consumption of fossil fuels by humans. These greenhouse gases which are emitted then trap the heat within the atmosphere which totally disrupts the balance in the ecosystem. Activities such as deforestation, mining, and water pollution also contribute to this drastic change in climate. Even the smallest of changes in the temperature be neglected because it can have devastating effects on the environment. Sea levels may rise due to the fast meltdown of polar ice caps which leads to flooding, severe storm damage and habitat loss of animal life on the poles. While unanimity in the scientific community about the fact that climate change is a real phenomenon and fossil fuels are the primary reason for the emission of greenhouse gases, there are still some who refuse to believe this even though decades of analysis and proof to back this up. But most of the countries have started taking measures to reduce pollution and preserve the environment in order to tackle this global issue. Botkin, Daniel B., et al. Forecasting the effects of global warming on  Bioscience 57.3 (2007): 227-236. This article discusses the different levels of accuracy of various forecasting methods in order to know the effects of global warming on the biodiversity. There are four main forecasting Bachkaniwala 2 methods discussed which are as follows 1) models of individuals, 2) niche-theory models, 3) general circulation models, and 4) species area curve model. The individual models mostly focus on analysing the responses of an individual (plant or animal) to the climate changes. They are used to find the effects of climate change on various endangered species and ecosystems. On the other hand, niche-theory models consider a group of species with similar characteristics and examines the effects of climate change on them. The biggest disadvantage of this models is that not accurate enough due to the fact that it acknowledge that different species might have one or two similar characteristics but they also might differ greatly in other aspects. The third and the fourth models are use species area curve to determine the complexity of climate change. This article was published in the peer reviewed academic journal Oxford Academy Bioscience. Daniel B. Botkin, the primary author, is a scientist and a biologist who studies environmental problems. Derocher, Andrew E., Nicholas J. Lunn, and Ian Stirling. Polar bears in a warming  Integrative and Comparative Biology 44.2 (2004): 163-176. This article discusses the effects of global warming on polar bears. Polar bears live on the ice-covered waters throughout the arctic. But they prefer to stay near the shore as more biological productivity. However, with the ice getting thinner and more fragile every year, hard for them to remain close to their preferred habitats. Consequently, they have to walk and swim for greater distances. Whatever ice that remains is not accessible. Since, polar bears are almost completely dependent on the ice for sustenance, any small change in the rate of meltdown can prove to be life threatening for these animals. A significant decline in polar Bachkaniwala 3 bears main prey seals is also expected with the decrease in ice caps. Polar bears are known to kill their cubs in order to mate with a female. But due to the shortage of food, they have started to show cannibalistic behaviour which can force them to kill their cubs for food which has never happened before. This article was published in the peer reviewed journal Oxford Academy. Andrew E. Derocher, the primary author is a biological sciences professor at the University of Alberta. Wentz, Frank J., et al. How much more rain will global warming  Science 317.5835 (2007): 233-235. This article discusses climate models and their observations about the regional and global effect of global warming on rain. The water holding capacity of the clouds grows by four percent every time a rise of 0.6 degree Celsius in the temperature. more rainfall in areas where the atmosphere is warm. As time passes, if global warming keeps increasing at this rate, wet places will get wetter and dry places will get dryer. Climate models indicate a rise in the total amount of water in the atmosphere for every one kelvin rise in the surface temperature. With the changes in climate, becoming more difficult to predict the amount of precipitation a region will face. But with the advancement of technology, climate change models are also expected to improve significantly in the future. For instance, the current models can only forecast 50-100 kilometres of area which limits them from analysing localised events. However, the latest climate models are able to incorporate these local features. This brings significant improvement in the predictions made by these models. Bachkaniwala 4 Costello, Anthony, et al. Managing the health effects of climate  The Lancet 373.9676 (2009): 1693-1733. This article discusses the effects of climate change on health of human beings. Climate change is expected to affect humans adversely and put lives at a risk in the next decade. surface temperature is also expected to pass the threshold of 2 degrees Celsius in this century. Although climate change will affect all human lives, the ones who will be most affected by it are the ones who are not resourceful enough i.e. the poor and the middle class people. There has been significant improvement in the health facilities over the past few years but still not enough to meet the needs of every person. Consequently, the world still faces a health crisis as 10 million children die each year, 800 million people go to bed hungry each night and 1500 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. Measures are being taken to reduce poverty worldwide in order to indirectly help counter the health crises. This article was published in the peer reviewed academic journal The Lancet. Anthony Costello, the primary author, is an internationally renowned expert on maternal, new born and child health. Piao, Shilong, et al. The impacts of climate change on water resources and agriculture in  Nature 467.7311 (2010): 43-51. China is the most populated country and hence a big consumer a fossil fuel. This makes China one of the largest emitter of greenhouse gases. A lot of research has been done about the role of China in countering global warming but less focus has been put on the Bachkaniwala 5 impact climate change will have on China. Due to the rapid economic growth in recent years, it is getting tougher every year to feed a large population like this. Not to mention, the water resources are highly polluted due to the release of harmful and poisonous chemicals which makes agriculture difficult. Moreover, changes in the precipitation levels every year and with the air being so polluted, the farmers find it hard to cope with the huge demand for crops. The wetter region in southern China are experiencing more rainfall every year in both summer and winter. Dry regions continue to get more dry and as a result droughts are occurring more frequently. This article was published in the peer reviewed academic journal Nature. Shilong Piao, the primary author, is a professor of urban and environmental sciences. Hughes, Terry P., et al. Climate change, human impacts, and the resilience of coral  science 301.5635 (2003): 929-933. Coral reefs contain the most diverse ecosystems and also help in preventing tropical storms and wave actions. Yet due to the relentless pollution by humans, they are threatened globally. It is estimated that about thirty percent of global reefs are severely damaged and the remaining sixty percent is expected to be lost by 2030. Local efforts at protecting the reefs have proven to be ineffective due to the high scale of regional declines. Projected increase in the surface and water temperature exceed the living conditions under which these reefs can survive. However, it is unlikely for the reefs to completely disappear, rather they are expected to change as there is a lot of marine life showing far greater tolerance to climate change. But still, international management strategies should be integrated and implied in order to prevent more decline. Bachkaniwala 6 This article was published in the peer reviewed academic journal Nature. T.P.Hughes, the primary author, is a professor of environmental sciences at the James Cook University.