Ridley 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 26 March 2017 The Change in Child Abuse Mental Health Research As many people know, child abuse has been around for a very long time. This has also been a heated topic for research and discussion due to the effects this awful act could have on a person. Researchers have been considering this topic since one can remember and there has not been much change, if any, in the way research is conducted and the results that are gathered. Similar results have been gathered across decades dating all the way back to before the 1970s. According to B.E study done in 2001, the mental health effects on a person who was abused as a child included 14 different variations per his research. These variations included social anxiety, mood swings, and risky sexual behavior. Rosana Norman conducted a similar research experiment in 2012 and found very comparable results to Molnar. She found that the subjects who were abused as children showed signs of social anxiety, engaging in risky behavior, and were more prone to substance abuse and depression. Both studies, done over 10 years apart, used similar methods and got matching results. This shows that, even with the constant advancements in technology, mental effects on children who were abused are still very hard to measure and the researcher must be able to look for physical signs and interpret these signs into mental health diseases. There is really no technology out there that can simply look at brain who was abused, compare that to someone who and see a difference and be able to diagnose some sort of mental health illness. Unfortunately, most of these actual illnesses are Ridley 2 physical. This means a brain scan or something of the sort really show any abnormalities. The expert would have to look at their history and notice any physical signs that could lead to the diagnosis of an illness. For example, when it comes to social anxiety the researcher would have to see how the subject does in public spaces or interpret anything the subject says such as the fact they might not like being around people. Therefore, the information people have regarding this problem is all based on the expert opinions of researchers who have conducted experiments and saw many similarities in mental health issues across the board of those who were abused. Not only are the results pretty much the same across these sources but also the method. All the researchers used the method of conducting surveys across a large group of those who were abused then interpreting their responses or physical signs into results that showed the effects. Therefore, this is such a hard statistic to measure. The experiments conducted rely on the first-hand accounts of the subjects and if even being truthful or not. Adults were also always the point of reference since he or she was trying to measure the long-term effects of being abused when the subject was a child. For example, the method Valerie Edwards used in her Results From the Adverse Childhood Experiences Study was as follows: total of 8,667 adult members of an HMO completed measures of childhood exposure to family dysfunction, which included items on physical and sexual abuse, witnessing of maternal battering, and emotional abuse in the childhood family environment. The current mental health was assessed by using the mental health scale of the Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short-Form Health This experiment was conducted in 2003 and used the method of simply comparing survey responses among those who were abused as children to reach a conclusion regarding adverse effects on mental health. Going back to the study conducted in Ridley 3 2012 by Norman, she used a very similar method. Norman looked at studies done for 124 cases of child abuse and found that there were statistical correlations between those who were abused and negative mental effects such as depression. Both studies, done nine years apart, relied on the first-hand account of those who were abused and looked at the overview of the evidence to find a correlation between abuse and negative mental effects. All four studies used this kind of method to conduct their research. This method of just interviewing or surveying the subjects seems to be the most widely used and best method when it comes to conducting research on the negative effects of child abuse on mental health. All in all, the method of research as well as the results changed in many years. Part of this reason is because to measure the effects of child abuse on mental health, those children must grow up. Many researchers have started their research years ago, back when the methods were much simpler due to lack of technology. For example, Todd Herrenkohl used data from a longitudinal study that was conducted for over 30 years. Studies done even dating this far back have all used the same method of simply using surveys and interviews to measure the mental effects of the abuse. If the researcher want to take this long, then the person conducting an experiment must rely on first hand interviews or surveys which may be misleading and not as accurate. There are also many variables when it comes to measuring mental effects which is why it seems that simply interviewing and using psychological methods to diagnose subjects seems to be the most popular and unchanging method to use. Researchers tested large amounts of subjects and either looked for similarities among the abused group or compared these results to a control group. There is just a lack of technology that could be used to give more concrete evidence in this area leading to the sort of dated form of research in this field. Ridley 4 However, it is hard to argue with the fact that so many qualified researchers are coming up with similar results and providing well documented statistics. (WC: 992) Ridley 5 Works Cited Edwards, Valerie. Relationship Between Multiple Forms of Childhood Maltreatment and Adult Mental Health in Community Respondents: Results From the Adverse Childhood Experiences  Relationship Between Multiple Forms of Childhood Maltreatment and Adult Mental Health in Community Respondents: Results From the Adverse Childhood Experiences Study American Journal of Psychiatry. N.p., 01 Aug. 2003. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Herrenkohl, Todd. Developmental Impacts of Child Abuse and Neglect Related to Adult Mental Health, Substance Use, and Physical  Journal of Family Violence 28 (2013): 191199. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Molnar, B. E. Child sexual abuse and subsequent psychopathology: results from the National Comorbidity  American Journal of Public Health. U.S. National Library of Medicine, May 2001. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Norman, Rosana. The Long-Term Health Consequences of Child Physical Abuse, Emotional Abuse, and Neglect: A Systematic Review and  The Long-Term Health Consequences of Child Physical Abuse, Emotional Abuse, and Neglect: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. PLOS Medicine, 27 Nov. 2012. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Ridley 6