Nguyen 1 Phuong-Anh Nguyen Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 13 February 2017 Languages change the way you think Language is how we communicate in our everyday life but did you know that having to think in different language can make a huge difference in your way of thinking? One way to think about language is that it is a cognitive faculty which forms the primary basis of your thinking and so there are certain thoughts that cannot be made or are totally different in some languages. The principle of linguistic relativity, popularly known as the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, holds that the structure of a language affects its world view or cognition. In other words, language shapes the thoughts about many aspects of the world. Your brain is wired differently depending on whether you think thoughts in Japanese, English, or Swahili (Floorwalker). A scientific study found that speakers of different languages put different emphasis on actions and their consequences, influencing the way they think about the world. It also found that bilinguals may get the best of both worldviews, as their thinking can be more flexible (Weiler). However, the question of whether languages shape our thoughts or not starts with the surveillance that languages are immensely different from one another. It is often told that a language reflects its culture, psyche and modes of thought (Deustcher). Is it true then that language, a fundamental mode of communication, shapes the thought of the person speaking it and how far does the influence of language extend to? Nguyen 2 Bassetti, B., Nicoladis, E., on grammatical gender and thought in early and emergent International Journal of Bilingualism, vol. 20, no. 1, SAGE journals, 21 Sep, 2015, journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1367006915576824. Accessed 19 Feb, 2017. This article reviews recent research on how speaking a language that marks gender grammatically might affect thinking, and on the relationship between grammatical gender knowledge of more than one language, and thinking, in both early and emergent bilinguals. Several themes emerge in the research on grammatical gender and thinking in bilinguals. First, knowledge of more than one language could reduce the effects of grammatical gender on thinking. Second, these effects may depend on the combination of languages being acquired. Third, researchers are starting to identify other variables that might affect when and how grammatical gender influences thinking, including proficiency and the choice of tasks. This article was first published online on September 21, 2015 in the issue of International Journal of Bilingualism which was published on February 1, 2016. The International Journal of Bilingualism (IJB) is an international, peer-reviewed, forum for the dissemination of original research on the linguistic, psychological, neurological, and social issues which emerge from language contact. While stressing interdisciplinary links, the focus of the Journal is on the language behavior of the bi- and multilingual individual. This journal is a member of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE). Nguyen 3 Casasanto, D., Boroditsky, L., Phillips, W., Greene, J., Goswami, S., Bocanegra-Thiel, S., et al. (2004). How Deep Are Effects of language on Thought? Time Estimation in Speakers of English, Indonesian, Greek and Spanish. In Kenneth Forbus, Dedre Gentner, Terry Reiger (Ed.), Proceedings of the 26th Annual Cognitive Science Society. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum. This conference paper discusses the results conducted from two non-linguistic psychophysical experiments in native speakers of English, Indonesian, Greek, and Spanish, who all use spatial metaphors to talk about time, to see whether metaphoric mappings between time and space vary across languages. Performance on a pair of psychophysical time estimation tasks differed dramatically for speakers of different languages, in ways predicted by their language- particular spatiotemporal metaphors. In this paper, it finds that experience may not teach us to map time onto space but it is language instead. The effects of distance interference and quantity interference on time estimation in speakers of English, Indonesian, Greek, and Spanish corresponded strikingly to the relative prevalence of distance metaphors and quantity metaphors found in these languages. This paper concludes that particular languages that we speak can influence not only the representations we build for the purpose of speaking, but also the non- linguistic representations we build for remembering, acting on, and perhaps even perceiving the world around us. This paper was published in the Proceedings of the 26th Annual Cognitive Science Society in 2004. Daniel Casasanto, the primary author, is an Assistant Professor of Psychology at the University of Chicago and director of the Experience and Cognition Laboratory. Nguyen 4 Deutscher, Guy. Through the Language Glass: Why the World Looks Different in Other Languages. New York: Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt and Co, 2010. Print. This book examines if language is first and foremost an artifact of culture or it is largely determined by human biology. It confronts the thorny question of how and whether culture shapes language. Can culture influence language and vice versa? Can different languages lead their speakers to different thoughts? Could our experience of the world depend on whether our language has a word for ? Challenging the consensus that the fundaments of language are hard-wired in our genes and thus universal, Deutscher argues that the answer to all these questions is yes. He demonstrates that language does in fact reflect culture in ways that are anything but trivial. Deutscher also addresses the relationship between language and thought. Do speakers of all languages think in similar ways, or do different languages give their speakers quite different pictures of the world (a view sometimes referred to as Deutscher rejects linguistic relativity in its strong form, pouring scorn on its most vehement defender, the early-20th-century linguist Benjamin Whorf, and again firmly locating his account in the cultural-historical background. This book goes through the strange interaction between language and the world that language attempts to describe. This book was published by Metropolitan Books/Henry & Holt Company in 2010. Guy Deutscher is an Israeli linguist. He is an Honorary Research Fellow at the University of Manchester and was a professor in the Department of Languages and Cultures of Ancient Mesopotamia at the University of Leiden in the Netherlands. Nguyen 5 Levinson, Stephen C., and David P. Wilkins. Grammars of Space: Explorations in Cognitive Diversity. Cambridge University Press, 2006. This book looks at the role of language in human cognition - language in both its universal, psychological aspects and its variable, cultural aspects. Studies in this book focus on the relation between semantic and conceptual categories and processes. especially as these are illuminated by cross-linguistic and cross-cultural studies. The authors of this book conclude that appear to be only three available frames [in a language may draw on only one or two of them, each of them can be constructed in quite different ways, and usage of them may be combined and constrained in restricted (Levinson 22). This book provides a detailed summary of some of the major patterns of variation exemplified in the twelve languages chosen. This book was published by Cambridge University Press in 2006. Stephen C. Levinson, the primary author, is a British social scientist, known for his studies of the relations between culture, language and cognition, currently one of the scientific directors of the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics in Nijmegen, the Netherlands. David P Wilkins is a visiting researcher at the Department of Linguistics, Stockholm University. He is an anthropological linguist who explores the relationship between language use, culture and cognitio n. His publications range across lexical semantics, pragmatics, semantic change, gesture, aphasia and augmentative & alternative communication. Nguyen 6 Perlovsky, Leonid I., language, and Sapir-Whorf Proceedings of the 2009 international joint conference on Neural Networks, IEEE Press Piscataway, NJ, 14 Jun. 2009. This paper discusses mechanisms of evolution of language from primordial undifferentiated animal cries to contemporary conceptual contents, while emotional contents are diminished. The paper suggests neural brain mechanisms involved in these processes. Experimental evidence and theoretical arguments are discussed, including mathematical approaches to cognition and language, including modeling fields theory, the knowledge instinct, and the dual model connecting language and cognition. Mathematical results are related to cognitive science, linguistics, and psychology. The paper gives an initial mathematical formulation and mean-field equations for the hierarchical dynamics. The knowledge instinct operating in the mind leads to mechanisms of differentiation and synthesis determining ontological development and cultural evolution. Emotional contents of language are related to language grammar. The conclusion is an emotional version of Sapir-Whorf hypothesis. Cultural advantages of  pragmatic cultures, in which emotionality of language is diminished and differentiation overtakes synthesis resulting in fast evolution at the price of self doubts and internal crises, are compared to those of traditional cultures where differentiation lags behind synthesis, resulting in cultural stability at the price of stagnation. Unsolved problems and future theoretical and experimental directions are discussed. This paper was published in Proceedings of the 2009 international joint conference on Neural Networks by IEEE Press Piscataway. It was sponsored by Georgia Tech Georgia Institute of Technology, ieee-cis IEEE Computational Intelligence Society, INNS International Neural Network Society. Leonid I. Perlovsky is a Visiting Scholar at Harvard Nguyen 7 University, Principal Research Physicist and Technical Advisor at the United States Air Force Research Laboratory, Hanscom Air Force Base. Weiler, Nicholas. a second language may change how you see the Science, American Association for The Advancement of Science, 17 Mar. 2015, sciencemag.org/news/2015/03/speaking-second-language-may-change-how-you-see- world. Accessed 13 Feb 2017. This science article looks at different studies and their results on how speaking a second language may change how you see the world. The first study finds that Russian speakers are faster to distinguish shades of blue than English speakers, for example. And Japanese speakers tend to group objects by material rather than shape, whereas Koreans focus on how tightly objects fit together. The second study asks if different minds exist within one and finds a particular difference in how English and German speakers treat events. According to this study, German speakers are more likely to focus on possible outcomes of actions, but English speakers pay more attention to the action itself. Bilingual speakers, meanwhile, seemed to switch between these perspectives based on the language most active in their minds. The results of this study suggest that a second language can play an important unconscious role in framing perception: having another language, you have an alternative vision of the This article was published in 2015 by the Science magazine of the American Association for the Advancement of Science aka the largest general scientific society. Nicholas Weiler is a public information officer at UC San Francisco, where he works with researchers in stem cell biology, human genetics, drug development, cancer research, and other fields. His Nguyen 8 background is in brains and biology. He is a graduate of the UC Santa Cruz Science Communication Program.