Edward Rivera Carr ENC1101 3/26/17 The Change in the Way Quantum Computing has been Viewed How does one describe the changes to a concept that is still new? When Quantum Computing was developed in the by Richard Feynman, computing itself was still a new concept to the general public. Basic computers existed, but they were usually only good for sending and receiving solely text emails. The thought of a computer that could process data at speeds millions of times faster than, then, current standards was laughable. Therein lies the beauty of conception, everything has to start from somewhere. Fast forward thirty years to the Not only is quantum computing possible, it is being used across the world to help us develop newer, faster systems, both physical and simulated. How come this concept, this impossibly fast computer that was scoffed at during creation, is now seen as the future of computing, and not just some dream? Dr. Feynman was a renowned physicist who is credited for the creation and conception of the idea of Quantum Computing. Adina Barila, author of Quantum Computing - A new Implementation of Simon Algorithm for 3-Dimensional Registers, defines it as, new field of science aiming to use quantum phenomena in order to perform operations on 1 Before the most computers used a vocabulary based algorithm to process information. Not only was this highly inefficient due to different types of characters being used around the world, there was no standard algorithm available for anyone to use, forcing software developers to create their 1 A. a. (2015). Quantum Computing - A New Implementation of Simon Algorithm for 3-Dimensional Registers. Journal Of Applied Computer Science & Mathematics, (19), 1 own algorithms. Binary, or the use of and as characters in lines of data, had existed for hundreds of years, but was not implemented into computer use until about the Numbers are not only universal, but there are an infinite amount available for us to use. Dr. Feynman took this a step further and applied the quantum concept of superposition to binary, but this could not be done with a regular bit of data,so the Qubit was created. field of quantum computation is largely concerned with the manipulation of two state quantum systems called qubits. Unlike the bits in computers which can be either 0 or 1, qubits can be placed in arbitrary superpositions + 2 He even created a formula to describe the superposition of a qubit: = + (psi is equal to 0, either on or off, plus 1, either on or off). While he was respected, work was seen as an impossibility, but the only thing that was standing in his way was the availability of technology. No one expected technology to evolve at the explosive rate it currently is. In the matter of 10 years, we went from number pad based flip phones, to full on mini computers in our pockets capable of making phone calls, browsing the web, and even playing fully 3D rendered games. The same happened to quantum computing. not a fully usable, nor a perfect, concept, yet we are mere years away from functional use. Dr. research has led to the development of D-Wave systems, which are simulation systems that use a lot of processing power, so almost a quantum computer. The only main difference between the two is practical use versus theoretical. D-Wave systems are excellent for simulations, being able to compute billions of algorithms at once. The issue is they can only run simulations based on calculations put into the system, and 2 Lee, Y. H., Khalil-Hani, M., & Marsono, M. N. (2016). An FPGA-Based Quantum Computing Emulation Framework Based on Serial-Parallel Architecture. International Journal Of Reconfigurable Computing, 2. not actual physical systems. That is why they are considered quantum computers. That does not make them any less useful. They can give us simulated results, and with the right conditions, we can carry out the same simulations and get very similar results in the real world. As a progress oriented society, similar is not enough. D-Wave systems have shown great results in systems like water or traffic light control, but the other issue with D-Wave systems is the limited usage. Small scale is all you can get from D-Wave, something like a small town or a university. Large scale operations require a LOT more processing and power consumption, all of which would be solved by the introduction of true quantum computers. first sight it might appear crazy for solid-state physicists to enter the field of quantum information processing (QIP). After all, the entities with which they deal are typically much more strongly interacting than the atomic components used in atom-trap or ion-trap approaches (see elsewhere in this issue; for example, Wineland et al. 2003; Gulde et al. 2003; Porto et al. 2003; & Cirac 2003), and this would seem to make them much less suitable for the coherent manipulation of quantum information. But this has not prevented the appearance of a number of very imaginative proposals for using the numerous excitations in condensed matter systems for 3 In terms, it just means everything we do with Quantum Computing currently is just theoretical. Imagine what could happen in the next 5? Maybe 10? why quantum computers seem so feasible. We get closer and closer to perfecting the technology with each passing day. Imagine having a computer smart enough to write an essay for you within the 3 Fisher, A. J. (2003). Quantum Computing in the Solid State: The Challenge Decoherence. Philosophical Transactions: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, (1808). 1441. exact parameters set by your professor. Not recommending how you should do your work, but possible. All we need to do is keep striving, and never forget where we came from. SOURCES: A. a. (2015). Quantum Computing - A New Implementation of Simon Algorithm for 3-Dimensional Registers. Journal Of Applied Computer Science & Mathematics, (19), 23-30 Fisher, A. J. (2003). Quantum Computing in the Solid State: The Challenge Decoherence. Philosophical Transactions: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, (1808). 1441. Lee, Y. H., Khalil-Hani, M., & Marsono, M. N. (2016). An FPGA-Based Quantum Computing Emulation Framework Based on Serial-Parallel Architecture. International Journal Of Reconfigurable Computing, 1-18. Fowler, A. G., Thompson, W. F., & Yan, Z. (2008). Long-range Coupling and Scalable Architecture for Superconducting Flux Qubits. Canadian Journal Of Physics, 86(4), 533- 540.