LI 1 Haoxuan Li Ashely Tisdale Composition l February 20, 2017 Culture Shock and Adaptation Culture shock is a barrier that every international students need to go through. Culture shock is defined as the feeling of disorientation experienced by someone who is suddenly subjected to an unfamiliar culture, way of life, or set of attitudes. For international students, they have to adjust to a whole new world. more, they have to study hard in order to get good grades, which make it harder to go through culture shock. much harder than people imagine going through culture shock. The feeling when we go through culture shock just like we got asthma but people can only tell you to relax. Culture shock is unpredictable, it may happen as soon as international students arrive in foreign countries or it may also happen after a month has passed. Staying with home-country students is the option most international students choose, but in some ways, it slows down the process of overcoming culture shock even stopping it. Some international students do not make any local friends even after one year passed. That means some students would see escape as a solution. In other words, most of the international students do something wrong while they try to overcome the culture shock, like trying to get away from other foreign students. So the question I want to discuss is: what are the negative effects of trying to conquer culture shock and how can one survive it? LI 2 Brisset, Camille, et al. Psychological And Sociocultural Adaptation Of University Students In France: The Case Of Vietnamese International  International Journal Of Intercultural Relations 34.(2010): 413-426. ScienceDirect. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. This article is based on a compare between Vietnamese international and French feeling about transiting to university, and the different processes and performance. In this article, the author used adaptation, psychological distress, trait-anxiety, adult attachment (intimacy and anxiety), and satisfaction with social as the elements of measures. more, the distinction between psychological adaption and sociocultural adaptation had been pointed out. Psychological adaption is related to personality, life change and social support. The latter one is influenced by the distance, cultural identity, language ability and culture knowledge. Students should try to get more social support in order to have some relationships to rely on. If students failed, will change into press, or we can call it negative effects. It also mentions that identification and national identification (HNI) have positive effect on adaptation. However, the author used to describe some international students, which is true but hard to accept. There were five hypotheses about the relationship between those elements and culture shock. Four figures had been given to show the difference of path of and the path of between Vietnamese international students and French students. Two tables had been given to show the result and analyses of the five hypotheses. It is interesting that gender has no influence on culture shock, which is totally different from our thought. LI 3 Glass, Chris R., Edwin and Alfredo Urzua. Recreation, Intercultural Friendship, And International Adaptation To College By Region Of  International Journal Of Intercultural Relations 42.(2014): 104-117. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. In this article, authors talked about the relationship between region and adaptation. They thought international region of origins is the key predictive factor on the culture gap. It also mentioned the importance of recreation participation. is a common issue that most international students have. There were three basic constrains: interpersonal, intrapersonal, and structural. The first two constrain are easy to understood, the third one can be construed as schedule. Lack of time, language, cultural differences, lack of friends, those are the main reasons that international students do not want to participate in leisure. That is also the reasons why international students have higher satisfaction with the academic environment than social adaptation because academic do not need too many networks. There were two questions and five hypotheses about and regions of Four tables had been given to show the results. In addition, this article had a new idea that the density of same-country students will greatly influence how international students make their friendships. In the end of this article, some suggestions were given to the teachers, student leaders and school administrators to help international students overcome the culture shock and have more co-nation networks. Newsome, Linda K., and Paul Cooper. International Cultural And Social Experiences In A British University: Such A Hard Life Is  Journal Of International Students 6.1 (2016): 195-215. ERIC. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. LI 4 This article was based on a survey about 18 international feeling and experience of being abroad. The survey used three stages to summarize the process of going through the culture shock: high expectations of the foreign country; the process of overcoming culture shock and adaptation. It not only showed the feeling but also the experience of suffering the culture shock. The survey used two questions to support its viewpoint. The first question was do international students describe their adjustment to The second question was do international students describe their social interaction with people in The surveyor gave the questions twice during six months in order to find out the change of the international students. The article used a lot of samples to show international experience about the culture shock. Those samples and some theories combined together help people to understand culture shock and made the article credible. It had mentioned something that I also want to talk about, for example, some students have any local friends and want to have friendships with other students except home-country students. Although this survey was done by the British, but the circumstance of international students is similar. Zhou, Yuefang, et al. Theoretical Models Of Culture Shock And Adaptation In International Students In Higher  Studies In Higher Education 33.1 (2008): 63-75. ERIC. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. This article talked about culture shock theoretically. The first article which gave a lot of samples, along with this one can help readers to understand culture shock and the methods to adjust to the new environment. In this article, the author used three words to describe international feeling: and It is quite different from the first article because these three are not in order, each one of them may happen LI 5 at first place. Separation means culture shock, assimilation means reverse culture shock and the marginalization means a balance between home-culture and host-culture. It also used dimensional, bi-dimensional and to describe acculturation. Two figures were used to make the theory easy to understand. Figure 1 was describe the process of acculturation, out contain and It is more specific than the first article and shows more details about the whole process of overcoming culture shock. A model based on affective, behavioral and cognitive (ABC) was mentioned in this article. Authors used this model to analysis the data and result. The article also talked about both sides of effects of home-culture relationships and host- culture relationships. The two figures and the models are so helpful to my article. It shows the culture shock in a visible way. Chirkov, V.I., et al. Further Examining The Role Motivation To Study Abroad Plays In The Adaptation Of International Students In  International Journal Of Intercultural Relations 32.(2008): 427-440. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. In general, motivation always decides the outcome in some ways. In this article, authors discussed how motivations for studying abroad correlates with adaptation. Students have high level of autonomous motivations are easily go through culture shock. It is easy to understand, if a student makes up his mind to study abroad rather than being forced, he is likely to go through culture shock with less difficulties. It also drew a successful international portrait with high level of autonomous motivation. The student has clear and reasonable goals and positive emotional mood, and he is ready for the challenging new life, he has co-nation friendships to rely on. I suppose this portrait is every international goal. LI 6 The article also talked about the importance of the self-development goals. Goals may have negative effect on reducing social difficulties that means higher goals may make students feel upset or depressed. For example, if a student plans to overcome the culture shock within one week but he fails to do it, he may feel depressed and unconfident, bad emotions make it harder for students to adapt the new environment. The research found out that East Asians students always have a high level of self-development goals, like being successful, while the Westerns consider study abroad is more interesting. That might be a reason why western international students can adjust to new culture environment easier than Asian students. Tomich, Peter C., J. Jeffries McWhirter, and Maria U. A. Darcy. Personality And International Adaptation  International Education 33.1 (2003): 22-39. Education Source. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 In this article, authors discussed the correlation between personality and adaptation. personalities include traits like open-mindedness, extroversion, tolerance for ambiguity, positive-orientation, and empathy. Openness and resilience are most relevant to adaptation. Openness refers to an ability to accept new information, new ways of doing things, and minimal resistance to change. Resilience refers to an ability to ensure success in the face of novel and difficult situations. This concept incorporates such traits as internal locus of control, persistence, and resourcefulness. (Kim, Y.Y. Besides personalities, the distance between two cultures is another important factor which will influence the adaptation. Culture shock is precipitated by the anxiety that results from losing all our familiar signs and symbols of social intercourse (Oberg, K home-culture and host-culture have too many differences, students are likely suffering more from the culture LI 7 shock. That is also one of the reasons why Asian students have lower satisfactions than Western students. The article also mention about other factors, like skills and attitude. Skill contains both academic and recreation. The more skills students have, the easier for students being accepted by host-country students. When authors talked about attitude, they not only discussed attitude, but also the host-culture environment, like racism. Africans, Asians, and South Americans (in that order) perceived prejudice significantly more and acculturated significantly less into the United States than their European counterparts (Sodowsky & Plake, 1992).