Thorpe 1 Geno Thorpe Professor Paquette ENC.1101.Composition 3/22/17 A College Opportunity In the United States, free tuition for community college has been a huge matter for a numerous amount of years. Although we have made strides to give students the opportunities of free tuition, should community college have free tuition is still an unanswered question to people of our generation. Within my most recent sources between the year 2000 and 2010, there is evidence that we are moving closer to obtaining free tuition for community colleges. The points that were being made over seven years ago still remain similar to the facts today about the tuition expense. Not only could these benefit students by giving them an opportunity of further education but could also help the economy as well. Another concern that was found in the past years was the cost of college tuitions rising every year to a substantial amount of money. These universities went making tuition almost unaffordable for even middle class families. As years continue to go by the creation of financial aid and academic scholarships have created a pathway for more students to receive a higher education. Having a free scholarship to a university is not easy to obtain or come by, but my research is proof that free tuition for community college can be available. the financial hardship of the country, simply astonishing that colleges and universities would have this kind of Mr. Thorpe 2 Callan said. tells you that higher education is still a market. The level of debt asking people to undertake is unsustainable. A lot of people think we can solve the problem with more financial aid, but I think we have to have some cost containment. For all the talk about reinventing higher education, I see any (Tamar). It seems possible that free tuition of community college can become a tool for more students to further their education, but still, community college tuition is a controversial problem. Dealing with tuition in our society today still remains a similar back and forth squabble. Never, was there a clear empathetic of free tuition or even scholarships for community college. Until, our current president shares a great concern for this issue and decides to comfort tuition dilemma. For my sources that were more recent between 2011- 2016, it shows that we are moving closer to having free tuition for community college. Although the information is not the exact same, the argument is still giving pros and cons of free tuition for community college. In the first source written by Professor Goldrick, there are a similar amount of reasons and concerns of free tuition. The second journal article by Marie Gould gave a viewpoint of free tuition from the year 2015 aspect. Some of the facts that were given in these articles are very informing but presented in different ways. In the first article listed it was more relevant to what our economy is going through currently with college tuition of the education system. Sara Goldrick enforced the start of President plan to up bring concern about tuition for community college. Professor Glodrick helped with the by keeping track of all the funds for free tuition for students who have received this reward. proposal for tuition-free community college, issued earlier this year, seems to have laid down a marker for the Democratic Party. Vermont senator Bernie Sanders is touting his plan for Thorpe 3 free four-year public college on the primary trail; Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren called for in a high-profile speech; and former senator and U.S. secretary of state Hillary Clinton has proposed her own plans for tuition-free community college and tuition at four-year public (Glodrick). The message that was perceived is free tuition can give students that opportunity, but they could not guarantee the college or success of the student. Even though we will never know the percentage of students who do not have college the opportunity of free scholarships to further educate students can help our country. Giving out hope too students who finish their high school education could easily motivate self to keep working hard on their studies. For our political government to intervene in this dispute sends a message to the people fighting for this cause. With the second journal article that was published a few years ago, has information on older adult students and universities who have established policies for their free tuition. It was more of information of our society and the credit situation of our community education. Toward the end of the journal page it gave summaries of free tuition being attractive and older students have the option of getting reduced tuition by the early 1970. It also gave a list of concepts that have been trying to fight for the attraction of free tuition to benefit students. All of these journal articles demonstrated the difference of information between the sources but the concept of the main subject has not changed after generations. There are many reasons why having free tuition can be beneficial and can give more young people opportunities. College has become a system of higher education only for people who are able to afford tuition, the other half are fighting for loans or play a sport that is able to cover their scholarship. Not that every person in this world should go to college, Thorpe 4 but for the students who feel they want to thrive and set goals of receiving a degree. People today are still fighting for free community college but after doing research on articles in the past, my topic has not changed over the period of time. Thorpe 5 Work Cited Goldrick-Rab, Sara, and Andrew P Kelly. community college be free? Education next talks with Sara Goldrick-Rab and Andrew Forum. Education Next, 14 Oct. 2015. Web. 22 Jan. 2016. Gould, Marie. Tuition-Free  Research Starters: Education (Online Edition), 2015. EBSCOhost. Sawhill, Isabel V, and Stephanie Owen. Should everyone go to college? Brookings, 29 July 2016. Web. 22 Jan. 2013. Lewin, Tamar. College May Become Unaffordable for Most in  The New York Times. The New York Times, 02 Dec. 2008. Lewin, Tamar. College Costs Keep Rising, Report  The New York Times. The New York Times, 20 Oct. 2009.