Wilson 1 Mary Wilson Instructor Alison Missler ENC 1102 16 March 2017 The Drinking Age Debate Using Rhetorical Appeals The National Youth Rights Association (NYRA) is an organization that focuses on the civil and human rights of young people in the United (NYRA). Because they are so driven to protect rights, two of the images provided on their website promote their goal in lowering the drinking age to eighteen. The first image is of a soldier with the catch phrase enough to go to war? Old enough to go to the along with another phrase on the bottom that says the drinking age The second image is the logo for NYRA, it has a fire symbol with a blue bird going through it. While these images are very different, through the use of rhetorical appeals, the organization is asking the viewer to understand their point of view in the drinking age debate. In the first image, ethos is used by showing a picture of a soldier. In the United States, most citizens have a known respect for the soldiers that fight for the country, due to this general respect, soldiers can be considered credible. Because of their reputation, the artist can use the image of the soldier to convince people to listen and trust what the soldier says. In the second image, the picture in its entirety is ethos itself. Image two is the logo for NYRA, therefore the logo represents what the company is about. NYRA is about making sure that youth have appropriate rights, because of this, the logo with its bird flying through fire is the ethos in this image. The company aims to protect rights and has been nationally recognized for this, of course Wilson 2 being recognized by this symbol. Overall, both images use ethos in a big way to promote lowering the drinking age. Image one uses the rhetorical appeal logos to almost force logic onto those who view this image. The text saying enough to go to war? Old enough to go to the is appealing to the sense of logic that if one is a legal adult, they should be able to legally drink. In Richard article, Debate continues 25 years after drinking age increase, Webster goes on to quote a local bar owner named Earl Bernhardt by saying a shame. You got a guy coming back who fought over in Afghanistan and . . . we sell him a beer. In Louisiana at 18 you can vote, get married, enter into legal contract. You can do anything but get a (Webster 1). This argument is the most popular among those who argue for the drinking age to be lowered because it makes the most sense. Using this logic in the image, image one aims to have the drinking age lowered to eighteen. On the other hand, image two does not use logos at all. Therefore, logos is the most important appeal in image one, whereas image two has no real use of it. Pathos is another appeal that is used greatly in image one. The image uses the soldier and the city behind him with smoke as a way to touch the heart. War can sometimes be a touchy subject, therefore, the image uses pathos to help the viewer sympathize with the soldier that can sign up to fight and possibly die for the country but cannot drink legally. After a time of war, some soldiers make irresponsible decisions with their pass time. While underage, the soldier may result to illegal actions and may even binge drink. According to Henry article, Will Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering the Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking and Related Consequences Among Youths?, Wechsler argues of the dangers of binge drinking saying in binge drinking have been observed among young adults aged 21- Wilson 3 24 years in the past decade, but drinking among those aged 18-20 years has remained stable during the time (Wechsler 2). These dangers can be avoided with proper education on the subject of alcohol consumption and for the drinking age to be lowered. Because of the emotional connection the image has, as well as the facts supporting it, image one is showing pathos in a big way by connecting the military to the drinking age debate. As for image two, the blue bird flying through the fire represents the freedom felt by young people when given the opportunity. The bird is a representation of freedom in comparison to the American bald eagle that represents freedom in this country, similarly to other types of birds being seen as a symbol of freedom. That feeling of freedom can personally impact people making this an appeal to pathos. Both images take pathos to fight for the freedom and responsibility necessary to achieve the drinking age to be lowered to eighteen. Kairos, the call to action, is very important for image one because it explicitly says in the image the drinking age Besides the clear written text, the image is also set in a time of war making the timeliness very important. The image clearly and openly states to lower the drinking age, making the call to action immediate. For image two, the appeal to kairos is not as evident. However, this logo represents a goal that the National Youth Rights Association is trying to achieve. Therefore, this logo should send a message to anyone who sees it to try and help the cause of freedom and rights for all youth. The image itself uses kairos to bring about a call to action to do something for the causes they support such as lowering the drinking age to eighteen. Because of this, both images use kairos to get the point across that lowering the drinking age to eighteen is a good idea. For these two images, the National Youth Rights Association (NYRA) has done so much to promote lowering the drinking age to eighteen. Between the logic that legal age should mean Wilson 4 alcohol legal age, to the emotions surrounding the idea of war, to even the credibility of a logo. These ideas support one common goal to lower the drinking age to eighteen to give the youth more rights and responsibilities that they deserve. Image blunt call to action is the perfect example of what this country needs to get freedoms back for the youth of America. Image two uses ethos to become a worldwide recognized brand in hopes to promote freedom. With these two images, NYRA is on a good path to a strong and free future in America. Wilson 5 Work Cited National Youth Rights Association. the drinking NYRA, http://www.youthrights.org/issues/drinking-age/. Web. 24 Jan 2017. Webster, Richard. Debate continues 25 years after drinking age  New Orleans CityBusiness 2009: General OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Wechsler, Henry, and Toben F. Nelson. Will Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering The Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking And Related Consequences Among  American Journal Of Public Health 100.6 (2010): 986-992. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.