Student 1 Student 1 Jenifer Paquette ENC1101 05 March 2017 Intermediate Draft Historiography Cordry, Sheila and Janell D. Wilson (2004) stated that parental involvement is critical to student success. Therefore, inadequate parental involvement can be attributed to the challenges faced by teacher as they try to navigate the changing culture and increasing diversity that impacts learning in the classroom. How can students today lead our country into a better tomorrow? Students, will need guidance and an education to complete this task. Teachers and parents working together will provide them with the opportunity to reach any educational goals. Parental involvement is critical in helping students stay focused and thereby create a classroom environment responsive to teaching and learning. Malone (2015) states that currently, teachers have a more difficult challenge because of cultural changes and diversity. Teachers need help fostering a welcoming atmosphere for parents and students of diverse backgrounds. Teachers must place emphasis on inviting parents to invest in their education, and explain how important the collaboration between parent and teachers are to student academic success. Whose responsibility is it to make sure that a student comes to school prepared to be a productive student? Parents or Teachers? Parents play a significant role in a academic Student 2 success. If students are going to be great leaders, then it is essential for parents to start the process at home. Parents are the first teacher a child has interactions with, they must teach by example. Parent must show their student how to be productive, have good character and display integrity as they interact with others. In this article as teachers (2004). A study done by the Parenting Resource (1999) and the Child Trends Databank (1999), confirms that parents who are strongly involved in the education, produce students who do well academically and are less likely to dropout, get involved with drugs, violence, and teen sex. (p.57). A different survey done by Annual Surveys (2003) reveled that most teachers believe that parents who spent less time with their children, were less involved in their academic growth, and were just plain self-centered (p.58). Then the student enters school with no respect for authority, moral issues, and have bad character. The Law Child Left act was instituted by President George Bush back in 2001 and signed into law Jan 8, 2002, to help get parents more involved in their education. The President felt that parental involvement in education is vital. Therefore, I used this source as evidence to support the topic of parental involvement and its impact on a education. This premise is supported by Richard W. Riley, U.S. Secretary of Education, who stated American family is the rock on which solid education can be built. If we as families teach the love of learning in the home it can make all the (p.56). Parents have about 43,800 hours before a student enters school to instill qualities in the student that would either support or hinder them academically. In a survey published by Psychological Self-Help (2003), said that 20% of people surveyed in 1965 believed it is okay to cheat on tests, that same survey revealed that number was up in 1990 to 37% of those who believed it was okay to cheat on a test and 67% in 2003; it also revealed that parent would abandon their family for enough money (p. 58). Parent must make critical decisions that Student 3 enables them to take responsibility for their own lives, while being actively involved in their education. Active parental involvement helps students become successful in school, ultimately resulting in developing great leaders. In this article Parental Involvement and Culture in (2015), we find that increased diversity has taken place in the last eleven years in schools. In 2000, racial and ethnic minorities made up approximately 28% of the United States population. A decade later, U.S. Census states that 36.3% of the population belonged to a racial or ethnic minority group (p.14). The education system is dismayed by the low rate of parental involvement, but at the same time it is confronted by how difficult it is to foster an environment that is conducive for parental involvement. Lack of parental involvement at any level of a educational experience, will result in a negative impact on the academic success (p.14). Culture could be a big reason for the decline of parental involvement. We have seen an increase in the number of nationalities of that makeup student populations than we did eleven years ago. If the parent feels that the teacher cannot connect with their student who is of another culture, then the parent will certainly not feel welcomed in the classroom which will result in decreased parental involvement. Educators must remove the obstacles, improve communication, and promote a welcoming atmosphere for these parents. The author offers many studies to support her argument. (Hill & Craft, 2003; Jasso, 2007), (Ryan, Kelly-Vance, Ryallas, & Nero, 2010), (Epstein, 2010). In contrast, what I discovered is that in 2004 parental involvement was needed at early stages of a student life so they would have a successful education throughout school. In 2015 Culture and diversity seem to be an issue which has negatively impacted parental involvement. In addition, teachers who are not being welcoming or are unable to understand the culture and the needs also negatively impacts parental involvement. Student 4 In conclusion, (Cordry & Wislon) stated that the main points were, parents should start modeling respect, and character at home very early before the student enters school; they should also get involved in their education which will enable the student to be successful. (Malone) main point is that if educators foster a more inviting atmosphere for students of different cultures, parental involvement will increase, and the community, the school system and the student will all wins. In comparisons, the authors believed that parental involvement is good and much more is needed from all cultures even though eleven years has passed between both articles. (Word Count: 994). Citations Cordry, Sheila and Janell D. Wilson. Parents as First  Education, vol. 125, no. 1, Fall2004, pp. 56-62. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=eft&AN=507940146&site=eds-live Malone, Debra. Culture: A Potential Challenge for Parental Involvement in  Delta Kappa Gamma Bulletin, vol. 82, no. 1, Sept. 2015, pp. 14-18. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=a2h&AN=110364691&site=eds-live.