Running head: TRACING CONVERSATION OVER TIME 1 Tracing Conversation over Time: A Journey Of Joinville Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles University Of South Florida Instructor Carr TRACING CONVERSATION OVER TIME 2 Abstract This paper goes on to explain how six academic scholars viewed juvenile solitary confinement. The scholars vary on the opinions that they have when it comes to this topic. There is Franklin (2013) who focuses on the past and what contributes to the solitary confinement issues going on. Scholars Teigen and Brown (2016) look to the future as they point out in their article what is being done to stop solitary confinement of the youth. Scholar Castillo (2015) goes on to speak about the effects and dangers of isolation. And last but not least, scholars Owen and Goldhagen (2016) lets their audience know that there are still many things about the topic that is not being told to the public. This paper examines what all six authors determined to be the key factors on the topic of solitary confinement and what I deemed to have been the key point. Keywords Solitary Confinement: Being placed in an isolated environment with no type of human contact, no sense of time, and no type of stimulation. TRACING CONVERSATION OVER TIME 3 Tracing Conversations over Time: Juveniles is Solitary Confinement There have been many forms of punishment to hold people accountable for their crimes. In the past, solitary confinement was a way to punish crime doers by keeping them as far away from people as possible. Solitary confinement has been known for keeping the worst of the worst away such as terrorists or serial killers. For the last few years, the academic conversation regarding juveniles in solitary confinement has grown and gotten more scholars are investigating why young people are being treated the same as serial killers. I did some research to find out what scholars are saying about juveniles in solitary confinement and found that the general feeling for it is the same. seen that the scholars had different ways of pointing out the issues with the practice of solitary confinement. It is my goal to trace the conversation from what like today and what we still have yet to discover and how the conversation is contributing to any changes being made. Solitary confinement is the act of being placed in isolation as a punishment for a crime. However, according to scholar Castillo (2015), there are four different types of solitary confinements. He states that solitary confinement can be used not only as a punishment but also as a form of protection, administratively, and for medical reasons. When I was first reading this there was agreement that there could be many reasons to place a child in solitary confinement. This viewpoint is also back up by the two academic scholars Owen and Goldhagen (2016) whom say, generally justify such confinement for disciplinary action, protective isolation, administrative isolation or medical (p.2). Though it seemed like a good point that these scholars were TRACING CONVERSATION OVER TIME 4 making, I felt this explanation has become a sort of excuse made by the facilities to give reasoning on why a child would be placed in solitary confinement for any period of time. On the other hand, with this knowledge of what solitary confinement was seen as to some, another author describes the causes for the continuation of the practice to be for another reason. The academic scholar V.P Franklin (2013) tells of the beginnings of solitary confinement for the young black men in the United States. Franklin claims that in the 1980s with the expansion of privatization of state facilities and African American freedoms, there began a sort of witch-hunt for them to be placed in these facilities so that the private owners would make money off of them. My first thought on this viewpoint was that this made sense. In the time period that African Americans were considered they would be placed in a box that took away that freedom. Franklin stated, imprisoned child or adult, award of the target and unfairness, made a move to resist this only increased the likelihood of ending up in solitary (p. 198). Back then, there was no awareness of the effects that solitary confinement had on the mind of adults let alone the youth. There was no care by the states or the courtroom judges who, Franklin said, were being paid off to put these people in jails parallel to solitary confinement. Franklin referenced a report done by Human Rights Watch and the American Civil Liberties Union who called attention to the damage to juveniles spending long periods in solitary (p. 198) by saying It causes serious psychological and physical harm to young people, including heightened risk of (p. 198). I believe that is statement gives a sense no one was correlating long periods of isolation to the deterioration of mental and physical health within the youth. TRACING CONVERSATION OVER TIME 5 As Franklin had pointed out, adults and the youth were being placed in jails together at a point in time. Because of this solitary confinement just used as a form of punishment. It was used as the only way of keeping the children safe from attacks by the adults. This form of I believe did more to harm an aid the children. Castillo (2015) claims, repercussions of solitary confinement include mental illness or worsened mental illness, anxiety, rage, insomnia, self-mutilation, suicidal ideation, and (p.1274). This meant that the children were physical, mentally and emotionally getting ill from the lack of human contact. Castillo (2015) research found that, Roper, Graham, and Miller the Supreme Court established the precedent of sentencing juveniles as a separate and distinct category from adults and also emphasized that rehabilitation should be the primary purpose of juvenile (p.1273). This decision was made under the eighth amendment because it was seen as curly and unusual punishment to place children in solitary confinement because of abuse and injuries they could have gotten by boarding with adults. According to Castillo (2015), because of the risk to juvenile future health and the negative impact to future public safety, juvenile solitary confinement is a cruel and unusual punishment, violating the Eighth (.p1275). I think that the Supreme Courts rulings on the three cases were steps towards eliminating some solitary confinement of juveniles because it shows courts stepping in and defining what should be done in juvenile centers. Although these steps are being made, according to Owen and Goldhagen (2016) solitary confinement and isolation practices are left to the discretion of juvenile housing facilities that vary in type (detention, group, residential, treatment centers) and staff/resident ratios. These facilities, whether public or private, generally operate outside TRACING CONVERSATION OVER TIME 6 the purview of public (p.1). To me, this meant that though the courts were trying to do the right thing they there inside the facilities to make sure the right thing is being done. Owen and Goldhagen (2016) touch on this when stating that these facilities were not required by law to report the amount of times children placed in solitary confinement, the length of time, or the reason why they were there the extent to which solitary confinement and isolation is used known. In my opinion, if there is no way to make sure that the workers are following the ruling of the judges than the children will suffer. However, there has begun to be more chances in regards to the youth in solitary confinement throughout the country. All states have begun to become more accountable when it comes the children in their care. The scholars, Teigen and Brown (2016), gave a list of states that have stepped in on the matter of juvenile isolation. They state, Alaska, Connecticut, Maine, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Oklahoma, West Virginia and Texas have passed laws, and measures have been introduced in California, Florida, and Montana in the past two (p.6). I believe that by passing these laws they are getting closer to having to facilities log and explain why a child was placed in isolation. Teigen and Brown voice in the conversation about solitary confinement stemmed more toward the things at can be done to stop it from continuing. I agree with the hands-on approach that the states are being to take when it comes to juvenile centers both public and private because, like I, they believe that these centers showed be used as a form of rehabilitation. Although solitary confinement is still being used and hindering the growth of the youth, we can see how things have been changing. Scholar Franklin (2013) has added to the academic conversation by stating reasons why African Americans were being placed TRACING CONVERSATION OVER TIME 7 in solitary confinement. Current scholars, Teigen and Brown (2016), give hope to the youth banishment on the practice of the youth. Although both articles spoke on the same topic you could see the difference with Teigen and Brown sounding hopeful about and look towards the future and Franklin acting as a reminder of the past and damaging effects of solitary confinement on the youth. Castillo (2015) spoke of what was becoming known about the effects of solitary confinement and the steps being taking to prevent. While Owen and Goldhagen (2016) spoke of what was still in the dark to the public. These sources showed that throughout the time the academic conversation of solitary confinement has shifted. From speaking of the past to giving notes on what is currently happening and giving a hopeful voice for the future and the youth who hopefully have to be placed in solitary confinement. I agree wholeheartedly with Teigen and Brown. Forcing on how to banish solitary confinement of the youth is what should be the made objective because the only way to stop the youth from suffering from the physical, mental and emotional pains of being confined. TRACING CONVERSATION OVER TIME 8 References: Castillo, L. C. (2015). No Child Left Alone: Why Iowa Should Ban Juvenile Solitary Confinement. Iowa Law Review, 1001259. Franklin, V. P. (2013). Commentary- Solitary Confinement: I Feel Like... No One Cares About . Journal Of African American History, 98(2), 197-199 Owen, M., & Goldhagen, J. (2016). Children and Solitary Confinement: A Call to Action. Pediatrics, 137(5), 1-3. doi:10.1542/peds.2015-4180 Teigen, A., & Brown, S. (2016). Closing the door on solitary confinement. Legislatures, (4), 6.