Caleb Scott Enc1101 3/25/2017 Throughout history the conversation over whether or not Americans should get rid of the penny has changed very little. Throughout the years the proposition to abolish the penny has floated around ,but everytime it gets shot down. Many different people have analyzed the pros and cons of abolishing the penny. One of the most notable people to talk against the abolition of the penny was Raymond E Lombra. Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny is an organization that opposes views. Every American has their own opinions and theories on the penny but there is too much risk associated with the abolition of the penny to go through with its elimination. Americans even think of eliminating the penny because the economic repercussions could be devastating to lower income families. In the late There was a strong call for the elimination of the penny and Raymond E lombra was called in front of the U.S. senate to speak on behalf of the Americans For Common Cents organization. amazing speech was able to win over members of the senate and keep the penny in circulation. main arguments was the idea of a that would develop. According to statements this could spell disaster for the low income population in the states. would take advantage by pricing goods so that prices always rounded up to maximize He also points out that although it costs roughly 1.7 cents to make a penny, since you get multiple uses out of each penny minting pennies is not a loss for the U.S. government. Lastly, in most surveys conducted by the Americans For Common Cents Americans favor keeping the penny in circulation for one reason or another. After reading up on Lombras argument it should be clear that abolishing the penny would be a dangerous plan that could ruin the lower income population. Even after the Senate decided to keep the penny in the early some pesky individuals continued to call for the abolition of the penny. In 1994 New Republic published an article reiterating concerns. The general public was calling for new bills that be counterfeited as easily and along with that they wanted to eliminate the penny and bring a dollar coin into circulation. New Republics article also aims to inform the American public that these the idea to create more secure currency and abolish the penny are two separate propositions and should be handled at different times. More recently in 2013 Amy Livingston wrote a great article that summarizes both sides of the argument that and presents a fair article. She acknowledges that pennies keep prices low and help avoid the rounding tax that Lombra spoke of in the She also presents new arguments not made in Lombras speech. For example Livingston states that Charities rely on the penny. Think about how often you see commercials saying For just a few pennies a day you can change the Ads like these cause Americans to get emotionally attached to pennies because they can help people who are in a worse position than them. In the second part of Livingstons article she talks about reasons to abolish the penny. She starts off stating that you buy anything with just a penny. Livingston continues, machines accept them, and neither do most parking meters, even automatic toll booths take Livingston quotes Citizens to Retire the U.S. penny pennies adds an average of two seconds to each cash A cashier might handle hundreds or even thousands of dollars a day so the losing of a few seconds per transaction could be massive. Lastly Livingston claims bad for the Environment. Pennies are made from a variety of minerals that can contaminate water soil and plants in the ecosystem around the mines. On top of that it takes a lot of energy to mint the pennies, they have to extract the zinc roll it out and then stamp in into coins. Livingston continues process transporting pennies to banks puts 1.5 million metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) into the atmosphere each Both sides make great arguments but ultimately Americans still have the penny in circulation today so those against the abolition of the penny are the winners of today. While those who argue for the abolition of the penny make good points about why the penny needs to be taken out of circulation, it would be too risky to follow through with this idea. The possibility of wiping out the entire lower class is too great a risk for the small benefits of saving a few seconds at the register . Americans need to take all of the information in and make a unified decision on the topic so that this problem can be put to rest. Word Count: 819 Works Cited 1)Amy Livingston , Should We get rid of the penny, Moneycrashers,2013 2) U.S. Department of treasury,History of the lincoln cent, Treasury.gov ,January 4 2011 3) New Republic, NonCents, ebscohost.com, August ,8,1994 4)Raymond E Lombra, Testimony Before the Senate Banking Committee , Americans for Common Cents, June 20 1990 (Given)2009(published on Americans for Common Cents),