Pina 1 Marcel Pina Ms. Ashley Tisdale Composition I 2 February 2017 Euthanasia: A Controversial Topic All Over The World My project will question whether or not euthanasia should be legal in the U.S. Euthanasia is the practice undertaken by a physician which intentionally ends the life of a person at his/her explicit request. The problem with this practice, is that society still believes that it is a taboo subject to choose if someone can decide of they may end their life or not. There are a lot of countries that do not allow it and there are other countries that support it. Also, inside the U.S there are some states that permit it like: California, Colorado, Maine, Montana, New Jersey, Oregon, Texas, Washington and Vermont; but there are other states that do not allow it mainly because of religious reasons. Cohen-Almagor, Raphael. do no harm: pressing concerns regarding euthanasia in International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, 36, 2013, pp. 515-521, 29 January 2017. This article do no harm: pressing concerns regarding euthanasia in explains the definition of euthanasia, a way that it will not be necessary for euthanasia if there is a better treatment to the patients; the article also talk about the difference between euthanasia and assisted suicide because the last act in euthanasia is performed by the doctor and in the assisted Pina 2 suicide is performed by the patient, they talk about the increase of the death rate in Belgium by euthanasia from 0.23% in 2002 to 0.49% in 2007. This source is credible because Prof. Raphael Cohen-Almagor has a D. Phil. In political theory from Oxfrod University in 1991, and a B.A and M.A from Tel Aviv University, he is a strong critic of euthanasia, he argues that: people should have the ability to control the time and place of their death. Raphael http://www2.hull.ac.uk/fass/politics-and- international-stu/staff/prof-raphael-cohen-almagor.aspx Monika. and the Needs of the Terminally Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences, 217, 2016, pp. 657-668, 29 January 2017. This article and the Needs of the Terminally talks about the issues of euthanasia and why the people do it, and sometimes is no necessary, it talks about the exact meaning of the word euthanasia: and the reason to make it legal and the reason why is not legal. This is a reliable source because Prof. Monika has a doctoral program at the Faculty of Education UP Olomuc, she was lecturer in the United States, New York, Clara Barton High School for Health Professions and now she is the coordinator of psychotherapeutic and spiritual counseling at the University of Hradec Kralove. Monika http://www.psychoterapeut-ulrichova.cz/?site=practice. Bamgbose, Oluyemisi. Another Face of International Journal of Offender Therapy and Comparative Criminology, 48, no 1, 2004, pp. 111-121, 12 February 2017. Pina 3 This article Another Face of states that the word euthanasia has many meanings, medical, legal, moral and religious, and because of that it tends to create confusion of ideas and misinterpretations, which leads to a controversial phenomenon. They indicate the connection between murder and euthanasia, in this article they consider euthanasia in a perspective of medical, legal and global perspective and they conclude that the most important thing for every country is, to find their own solution for this topic and stop trying to take solutions from other countries. This article is relevant to the topic because it touches over the points of misinterpretations and the controversial phenomenon. This article mainly focused in comparing euthanasia and murder. The credibility of this source is sound, because it was found trough the University of South Florida library and it was published by the International Journal of Offender Therapy and Comparative Criminology and this is a really famous and trustful journal. Schafer, Arthur. assisted suicide: The great Canadian euthanasia International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, 36, 2013, pp. 522-531, 12 February 2017. This article assisted suicide: The great Canadian euthanasia it states a case of a women that was suffering ALS and she was looking for assisted suicide, but the government prohibited her, they also state that the majority of the Canadians favors a change to the Criminal Code, to make physician assisted suicide and voluntary active euthanasia. The discussion focuses the arguments for and against this legalization. This article is relevant to the topic because they state the difference between physician assisted suicide and euthanasia, it helps to specify what euthanasia is, and this article is slightly similar to other articles because it talks about the for and against of euthanasia, but it helps to Pina 4 bring a broad for and against opinions to the project. The credibility of this source is good, because this article was take found in the library of the University of South Florida, and also was published by the International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, and this journal is known all around the world. Keown, John. Ethics and Public Policy: An Argument Against The Journal of Legal Medicine, 24, 2003, pp. 395-405, 19 February 2017. This article talks about a British book that talks about euthanasia. In the article they talk about the history about euthanasia and all the positions, pros and cons. This article also talks about the two positions but the author of the book clearly shows where he stands, they talk about the ethical issue and once again about the difference between euthanasia and assisted suicide. The article is relevant to the topic because we can see all the position through the time. The pros and cons, ethical issues that can explain why the people is so afraid of this practice, this also helps the topic by giving a new point of view of this practice. The credibility of this source is really good because this article was found in the library of the University of South Florida, and also was published by the Journal of Legal Medicine, and this journal is very famous in the medicine society and also the writer is from the University of Cambridge. Mishara, Brian, Weisstub, David. and evidence in the rhetoric of assisted and International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, 36, 2013, pp. 427-435, 19 February 2017. This article is about the debate over the legalization of euthanasia and assisted suicide, this article is in favor of the legalization of the euthanasia. The aspects they touch in this article are that the euthanasia is the balance between freedom of choice and the obligations of the state to protect citizens against their potentially distorted or unrealistic beliefs, they also talk about an Pina 5 ideal universe, the right of a person to do whatever they want with their life, the ethical and practical distinctions of euthanasia and assisted suicide, human dignity and the constitutional guarantees that are a double-edged sword because they say some things about the people rights but they allow the people to take their own choices. This article is relevant to the topic because they talk about the constitutional topic that no other source has talked about, this article also is in favor of euthanasia and give a positive idea about the practice of euthanasia, this article is credible because it was found in the library of the University of South Florida and it was published by the International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, and this journal is known all around the world and certified by this University.