Sarah Piddington Instructor Carr ENC 1101-005 February 28, 2017 Conversations over Time on Chemotherapy Side Effects Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in the world so it surprising that which such a costly disease comes a high interest in a cure. Chemotherapy has been used to fight this disease since the but some people have worries with the treatment. Chemotherapy is known to have many very serious side effects. The affects include anxiety, post chemotherapy (Palekar, 1995), depression, hair-loss, and a weakened immune system. These side effects can often be detrimental to the mental health, which is equally as important as their physical health. With these affects being known and so controversial, doctors and scientists are working towards finding a treatment plan that is easier on patients in the long run. However, that stop the conversations throughout time that ask if chemotherapy is ethically sound. It majorly effects a morale, personality, and physical features. Patients who suffer from various types of cancer are often hit hard during their chemotherapy treatments with personality changes. Some patients become completely altered in personality due to the emotional toll. Patients go from being happy, bubbly, and optimistic people to, in most cases, depressed and sad. One method of solving this detrimental side-effect is a monitoring system that helps patients manage their effects. One study found that included reassurance, empowerment, increased health-awareness/adherence to self-care, promotion of timely clinical intervention and improved recall of side-effects and communication with (Breen, 2016). This management system proved to help patients keep their personality traits by maintaining and open relationship with their doctors and peers. This method could potentially lessen overall effects of chemotherapy. One of the more noticeable effects of chemotherapy is the physical changes. Patients see rapid hair loss, weakened immune systems, causing them to be prone to other illnesses. In cancer patients, performance and fatigue predict quality of life changes during (Shallwani, et al., 2016) which can affect the rate of survival. Doctors are suggesting that management of these factors may support quality of life (Shallwani, et al., 2016). Using alternative methods of chemotherapy and treatment could change the physical abilities of patients. Patients with more physical abilities have a higher willingness to fight the disease because they feel so beat down and like already lost the battle. Another major side effect of chemotherapy is the change in a morale. Some patients notice that there is a change in their willingness to continue fighting the disease. They go through so much emotional trauma that they find themselves asking it really worth Scientists have found that power of the mind is apparent from the fact that tumors frequently become evident about a year after an emotional (Last, 1998). This fact alone shows that the mind can potentially make or break how a treatment goes. A positive mindset plays a huge psychological role in both cancer development and cancer treatment. Giving patients a positive rehabilitation environment is a majorly effective method to increasing survival rates and lessening side effects. Alternatives to chemotherapy are a potentially ideal solution to the harmful effects of chemotherapy. Boosting immune systems, morale, and personalities will, in the long run, have a positive impact on the survival rate of most cancers. Patients mindset have a major role on their survival rates, therefore, implementing support groups with empowering leaders can help create a more positive overall morale to fight the disease. The physical effects of chemotherapy can be improved by new techniques such as Insulin Potentiation Therapy, which administers the chemo radiation after a dose of insulin, thus localizing the harmful radiation effects to just the tumor regions. Maintaining the personalities of patients is another way to keep the survival rates high and lessen the side effects. Doctors and Scientists everywhere are recognizing the harmfulness of chemotherapy and discussing possibilities for a less threatening approach that would result in a higher survival success rating and less costly side effects. WORKS CITED Palekar, Indira S. Effect of Autogenic Relaxation with Imagery on Chemotherapy Side Effects, as Predicted by Personality  Dissertation Abstracts International Section A: Humanities and Social Sciences, vol. 56, no. 1-A, July 1995, p. 0096. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=psyh&AN=1995-95014-153&site=eds-live. Breen, Sibilah, et al. Remote Real-Time Monitoring for Chemotherapy Side-Effects in Patients with Blood  Collegian, 26 Oct. 2016. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.colegn.2016.10.009. Shallwani, Shirin M., et al. Quality of Life, Symptom Status and Physical Performance in Patients with Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Undergoing Chemotherapy: An Exploratory Analysis of Secondary  Lung Cancer, vol. 99, 01 Sept. 2016, pp. 69-75. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.06.018. Last, Walter. The Diversity and Effectiveness of Natural Cancer  Ecologist, vol. 28, no. 2, March/April 1998, pp. 117-121. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=gft&AN=508732860&site=eds-live.