Mirakhmedova 1 Komila Mirakhmedova Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 5 February 2017 The Effects of Divorce on Adults and Children Divorce has a lot of consequences for adults as well as for children, which include psychological well-being, attitude towards future romantic and social relationships and behavioral problems. All of the negative outcomes are almost fully due to the stress associated with marital disruption. The survey regarding the gender has been carried out by Amato and Previti in 2003, showing that men are less likely to initiate a divorce than women. However according to evolutionary psychology, women would better stay in secure family position with reflection to children mental health protection. Moreover, and adjustment to marital disruption vary and mostly depend on themselves and society around. The rate of marital disruption in United States has increased significantly over the last 50 years, showing that people who get married in the ages over 30 years have a lower risk of divorce. Moreover the rate of young-aged marriages is decreasing slightly, people are more intended to put education and career on the first place rather than family building. All of these factors combine to create a research question, what is the impact of divorce on children, parents and their lives in future? Amato, Paul R. consequences of divorce for adults and children: An Druvstvena istrazivanja 1 23 (2014): 5-20. Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Mirakhmedova 2 This article provides information that is related to my topic considering consequences of divorce for both children and adult and causes of marital disruption. Comparing outcomes of different situations between children with divorced parents and the ones with a family, results of many psychological studies on marital disruption and attitude towards that from both parents and children side, how they are handling with it in the future and what are the common problems after divorce in the family. Moreover it is considering the connection with a child of each parent separately and with which parent children are mostly like to stay with. The author of the article is Paul R. Amato is professor at Pennsylvania State University in the Department of Sociology and Criminology. After graduating James Cook University in Australia, 1983 with the Behavioral Science major he started his teaching career concentrating on causes and consequences of separation and divorce, psychological distress and well-being over the life course, parent-child relationships. He has more than fifteen awards and achievements in the sphere of sociology and psychology, and around twenty publications regarding all aspects of marriage and psychological well-being. Collardeau, Fanie, and Marion Endrenberg. Divorce and Attitudes and Feelings toward Marriage and Divorce in Emerging Adulthood: New Insights from a Multiway-Frequency Journal of European Psychology Students 7.1 (2016): 24-33. Web. This article is related to my topic because it provides information on long-term consequences for lives with more concentration on attitudes toward marriage and divorce rather than There are three charts in the article that are Mirakhmedova 3 made upon the survey on attitudes towards marriage and divorce by making an interviews with random people and asking two opened questions: is your opinion about and is your opinion toward grounded theory qualitative methods have been used to encompass all responses. The article also provides some historical ground of marriage and divorce, including some statistics on that. First author is Fanie Collardeau, graduate of the University of Victoria, having research interests in family dynamics and transitions, as well as trauma related disorders. She is mainly exploring how parental divorce and the behaviors affect expectations towards their future romantic relationships. Second author is Marion Ehrenberg, being a graduate of the University of Victoria, she is a clinical psychologist with specific focus on child and family adjustments, shared parenting after divorce. Physical Custody: Does it Benefit Most Children Journal of the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers 28.1 (02015): 79-138. Web. This article is more concentrated on shared parenting, benefits and effect of shared parenting on children. After marriage disruption parents are becoming more heavily involved in work, especially women, which makes shared parenting convenient for both. The article includes the results of the survey about how children benefit from a shared parenting plan. Children who are raised in a shared parenting have better outcomes and are more happy than the children with the one parent only, even when there are conflicts between parents or one of the parents has been forced to share. There are two types of parenting mentioned in the article, the first one is co-parenting and the Mirakhmedova 4 second one is called parallel parenting. The point of co-parenting is that parents are in friendly relationships, solving problems together, trying to show the child that he is still getting love and attention from both parents. The point of parallel parenting is distant, business relationships where they run households and parent the children as each sees fit, minimizing communication between each other. Recent studies show that the most divorced parents are more likely to have this parallel relationships rather than co- parenting ones even after three years of divorce. There are two kinds of conflicts after divorce, the first kind is attitudinal conflict, which meant feeling angry and disliking one parenting style, but not acting that conflict out in front of the child. The second one is interpersonal conflict means that parents are acting on an angry feelings and exposed their children to their arguments. The author of the article is Linda Neilson, a nationally recognized expert on father-daughter relationships. Her research on father-daughter relationships has been published in many newspapers, magazines and radio shows nationwide. Her work has been featured on many national websites, including The Center for Successful Fathering and The National Center of Fathering. Gustavsen, Geir Wahler. Effects of Parental Divorce on Teenage Risk Behaviors: Incidence and  Journal of Family and Economic Issues 37.3 (2016):474-487. Web. This article is related to my topic because it provides information about the consequences of divorce on teenage risk behaviors. The results of the Mirakhmedova 5 survey which are included in this article suggest that family disruption has significantly increased the probability of risk behaviors in children. This suggestion has been proven in later researches, especially among girls. Different age groups are affected in different level, some have mental health problems, such us scariness of society, relationships and become fully introverted, some have risk behavioral problems. Teenagers, starting from twelve to eighteen years old are usually experiencing the second case, they are more frequently involved in alcohol consumption, tobacco and hard drugs use. Moreover there are different kinds of indicators of well-being, including academic achievements in school, conduct, has psychological adjustment, relations with society, quality of relationships with parents. However, an opinion that divorce has only negative outcomes for child is partly wrong. Sometimes consequences are providing even better life than it has been before. Some studies that are mentioned in this article found evidence that in some families with sever parental conflicts and abuse, divorce actually improved behavior. In some cases divorce is motivating children to work on themselves, be a better person than one of his parents has been. The article is credible and is published in Journal of Family and Economic Issues. The author of the article is Geir Gustaven, he is a Research Scientist in a Norwegian Institute of Bio-economy Research, with an education in economics and society. He has research works on the society, marriage, mental well-being, and also in biology. Mirakhmedova 6 Astrup, Aske, and B. Pedersen, Carsten. Risk Between Adolescence and Midlife in People Who Experienced Separation From One or Both Parents During Journal of Affective Disorders 208 (2017): 582-589. Web. Experience of the separation between parent and child predicts adverse outcomes in the future. This article provides results of the survey carried out to examine indicated raise of self-harm risk. The study has been examining children in the age group from the day of birth till 15 th birthday. All exposure models examined have shown an increase of self-harm risk at the age of 11 and older. Usually children are experiencing approximately five changes in child-parent relationships after family disruption. There has not been occurred any significant evidence for varying strength of association according to gender. These discoveries suggest that self-harm prevention initiatives should be strictly used toward exposed people who remain mentally distressed into adulthood. These high-risk groups include individuals with small experience of familial cohesion during their upbringing. The American Psychological Association has been highlighted that more than nine out of ten people in the United States marry by the age 50 years and that healthy marriages protect children from mental health, educational and psychosocial problems. The majority of children whose parents separate grow-up being well-functioning adults. However, some studies still show an increasing risk of suicide death of children in the age group from 11 to 15 years old. The article has been published in the Journal of Affective Disorders on 15 January 2017. Aske Astrup and Carsten B. Pedersen has been working together for a long time, Mirakhmedova 7 carrying out researches regarding family disruption and well-being after separation. J. Mandemakers, Jornt, and Kalmijn, Matthijs. and education condition the impact of parental divorce on child Elsevier 44 (2014): 187-199. Web. Besides well-being, behavioral problems, mental health issues there are negative outcomes for children such as school grades and educational attainment. This article is providing results of the study examining whether the impact of parental divorce on child well-being depends on the educational level of mother or father. Research have since long recognized that parental resources, both social and economic play a big role in understanding the effect of marriage disruption on child well-being. Most of these studies assume that parental divorce causes decline in child well-being because a separation leads to a decline in parental resources available to the child. However the loss of resources sometimes depends on the level of resources. Parents with more resources available may be better able to provide a safe and stable lifestyle for child after parental separation. As a result of this, the negative effects might partly be reduced, so they can keep the house they were living in before, can stay at the same school and play with neighborhood friends. This Social Science Research is credible and has been received by journal in 2011, but available only in 2013. Jornt J. Mandemakers is a graduate student in the Department of Sociology in the University of Groningen, The Netherlands. Mirakhmedova 8 Matthijs Kalmijm is also a graduate student in the Department of Sociology in the University of Amsterdam.