Griman 1 Christopher Griman Mrs. Tisdale ENC 1101 19 February 2017 Police Accountability in U.S. Society law enforcers have often relied on rough justice and lethal force to establish their authority and to maintain law and (Adler 233). This quote by Adler represents police brutality in the 1990s but reflects the violence inflicted by officers today. By definition, police brutality is the targeting of individuals, usually of African American descent, with unnecessary force by law enforcement officials. However, in the majority of cases, officers are not convicted for their crimes of violence against innocent civilians. Accountability is the idea that every police officer should be charged for abusing their authority. Statistically only forty-one officers have been charged for their crimes of police brutality in the past seven years (Elinson n.p.). This begs the question: why are police officers not held accountable for their crimes against humanity? Lersch, Kim Michelle, and Tom Mieczkowski. Violent Police Behavior: Past, Present, And Future Research  Aggression And Violent Behavior 10. (2005): 552-568. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. For the last one hundred and fifty years, police institutions have been protecting citizens in the United States. However, truthfully police have largely contributed to the death toll especially in cases when the individuals involved are unarmed. But when accused of violent behavior many will argue the rotten-apple theory. The rotten-apple theory is: psychological explanation which places the blame for incidents of Griman 2 misconduct on a few misguided (Lersch n.p.) Although law enforcement officials are aware that there are many officers involved in incidents of misconduct, those in charge do not act appropriately in these situations. This is due to the tight relationship between police officers and government officials, who overlook such incidents like excessive force or improper tactics. Science Direct published this source, written by authors Lersch, a professor at the University of South Florida Department of Criminology, and Mieczowski a professor at the University of South Florida Department of Criminology, in 2005. The purpose of this source is to display how police departments are conscious of their situations, when it comes to officer aggression, and are irresponsible. This academic journal is a secondary source. Jeffries, Judson L. Police Brutality Of Black Men And The Destruction Of The African- American  Negro Educational Review 52.4 (2001): 115-130. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Brutality against African Americans has been present in US society since the Civil War, yet number of incidents of white police use of excessive force against black men have seemingly shown little sign of (Jeffries n.p.) In the 1970s a study showed that white police officers were seven times more likely to kill African Americans than whites, this increased to nine times by the 1980s. James Fyfe uses his trigger theory to question whether white police officers have trigger one for African Americans, where they are more likely to shoot on sight, and one for whites, where they would not shoot without plausible evidence. Griman 3 This source, published by Education Full Text 2001, was written by Judson L. Jeffries, Assistant Professor at Purdue University in the Department of Political Science. Its purpose is to provide detailed case studies and statistical evidence for police brutality in the United States. Considering Police Body  Harvard Law Review 128.6 (2015): 1794-1817. Business Source Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. The Black Lives Matter movement has become a popular ideological and political intervention against those that oppress the African American community. The movement has led numerous protests, and marches, alongside other worried communities such as women and homosexuals. This movement has led to solidarity between those targeted by white people, primarily those in law enforcement. This movement against the numerous police shootings has forced officers to question how they can prove themselves innocent if an incident ever occurred, where they believed they were innocent. Thus, both judges and protestors of the Black Lives Matter movement have called for police departments to require cops to wear body cameras. The footage these cameras will capture can be used as evidence in court cases either to prove the officer innocent or guilty if a situation of suspected misconduct arises. In 2014, former President Obama gave million in federal funding to law enforcement agencies purchase body-worn cameras and improve (Harvard n.p.). This academic journal, published by Harvard Law Review in 2015, includes many primary sources, such as direct quotes from former President Obama. It also provides statistical evidence of certain police misconduct cases, including Eric Garners, where the officer was proven innocent although there was video evidence proving otherwise. Griman 4 Simmons, Kami Chavis. Cooperative Federalism And Police Reform: Using Congressional Spending Power To Promote Police  Alabama Law Review 62.2 (2011): 351-403. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Police brutality has been present in society since the 20 th century, and demonstrates how humans can easily manipulate power to their advantage. This misconduct has become institutionalized within law enforcement, where in the majority of cases the offending officer is deemed innocent for murder. Fortunately, this corruption has not gone unnoticed, as congress have granted the US Department of Justice the authority to undergo reform within the law enforcement agency. The corruption has become a federal concern as it poses a risk to US security and law. However, federal intervention is appropriate to address persistent patterns of misconduct, states and local entities must play a more active role in implementing institutional reform of these agencies, and they must have the flexibility to develop locally tailored police accountability (Simmons n.p.) This quote explains that there needs to be stricter rules and regulations for law enforcement officers to follow in order to prevent an incident, and if an incident occurs, the officer must be held responsible. Alabama Law Review published this periodical, written by Kami Chavis Simmons. Simmons is a Professor of Law and the Director of the Criminal Justice Program at Wake Forest University School of Law. This article emphasizes police accountability within todays corrupt agency. Griman 5 Clarke, Stephen, student author. Oversight: A Comparative Analysis And Case Study Of How Civilian Oversight Of The Police Should Function And How It Columbia Journal Of Law & Social Problems 43.1 (2009): 1-49. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text ( H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The term refers to individuals who empower regular citizens to influence police department policies. These individuals cannot be sworn police officers, as their duty consists of complaining on issues that need to be addressed within the department. However, civilian oversight programs are only operational in eighty percent of the large cities within the US, totaling one hundred different civilian oversight bodies. This civilian oversight has become necessary in US society due to the government doing little to punish acts of police violence or misconduct. However, governments tend to ignore civilian oversight bodies, as once a crisis passes, they are considered useless, so they lose their support and become dissolved. Columbia Journal of Law and Social Problems published this article written by student author, Stephen Clarke. This source discusses positive and negative effects of civilian oversight in US police departments, specifically cases within New York City. Grabiner, Gene. Polices The Social Justice 43.2 (2016): 58-79. Social Sciences Full Text (HW. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017 It is common knowledge that reform needs to occur in law enforcement agencies, specifically within the United States Police Departments. However, this article discusses that real reform cannot happen until basic issues such as poverty, living wages, and Griman 6 public education is dealt with. Nevertheless, this article provides a comprehensive list of reforms and practices that could help reduce, and possibly eliminate, police misconduct in the United States departments. The list includes decriminalization of minor offences, such as the possession of Marijuana, police retraining, increase minority and female police hiring, the demilitarization of the police, and the mandatory implementation of civilian oversight and police and grand jury testimony. This academic journal, written by Gene Grabiner, provides a detailed history of the formation of law enforcement institutions, discussion of military culture, statistics of police deaths and police brutality, and a comprehensive list of recommendations for improved police practice. Griman 7 Works Cited Adler, Jeffrey S. Shoot To Kill: The Use Of Deadly Force By The Chicago Police,  Journal Of Interdisciplinary History 2 (2007): 233. Project MUSE. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Clarke, Stephen, student author. Oversight: A Comparative Analysis And Case Study Of How Civilian Oversight Of The Police Should Function And How It Columbia Journal Of Law & Social Problems 43.1 (2009): 1-49. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text ( H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Considering Police Body  Harvard Law Review 128.6 (2015): 1794-1817. Business Source Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Elinson, Zusha, and Joe Palazzolo. Police Rarely Criminally Charged for On-Duty  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 24 Nov. 2014. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Grabiner, Gene. Polices The Social Justice 43.2 (2016): 58-79. Social Sciences Full Text (HW. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017 Jeffries, Judson L. Police Brutality Of Black Men And The Destruction Of The African- American  Negro Educational Review 52.4 (2001): 115-130. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Lersch, Kim Michelle, and Tom Mieczkowski. Violent Police Behavior: Past, Present, And Future Research  Aggression And Violent Behavior 10.(2005): 552-568. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Simmons, Kami Chavis. Cooperative Federalism And Police Reform: Using Griman 8 Congressional Spending Power To Promote Police  Alabama Law Review 62.2 (2011): 351-403. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 12 Feb. 2017.