Buck 1 Alicia Buck Professor Campbell ENC 1102 February 22, 2017 The National School Lunch Program: Visual Rhetoric The USDA firmly believes nutritious school lunches lead to lower childhood obesity, increased focus in school, and overall a greater understanding of health and wellness. In order to achieve this, the USDA formed the National School Lunch Program, a federally funded lunch service aimed at providing healthy lunches to over 100,000 schools around the country (Gurley 390). The commitment to provide food assistance and nutritional education dates back to early to mid-nineteen hundred. During this time in history, America was experiencing widespread unemployment due to The Great Depression. According to the USDA this left of school children to pay for their school lunches, and limited family resources to provide meals at Therefore, in 1935, the USDA composed a deal with farmers to buy their surplus crops at a cheaper price and in return distribute them to schools to feed malnourished students. It was not until 1946 that a widespread, organized, and better funded system was devised under The National School Lunch Act. The mission as defined by the USDA was safeguard the health and well-being of the This message still holds true today as the USDA fights to increase funding and improve the nutritional standards in school systems. In order to raise awareness and support for their fight, the USDA relies heavily on visual aids. Among these visual aids, I have selected two images the USDA has produced in regards to school wellness. Both of the images directly address the goals of increasing Buck 2 the nutritious quality of school lunches, improving students understanding of health and wellness, and increasing students focus in school. To begin with, in order to effectively understand each piece of visual rhetoric I will examine the audience, context, and tone for each image. Starting with the first image, the target audience is clearly school personnel, families, and students. This is because the colorful cartoon features are likely to appeal to those involved in education. Likewise, the text in the visual which states a school wellness is persuasive and largely appeals to teachers, families, and students that would directly benefit from a school wellness program becoming implemented in schools. To compare, the second image produced by the USDA targets the same audience. The text in the image targets teachers and parents as it states Health= Better This appeals to teachers and parents because each is invested in academic success. Moving forward, the context for each image aligns with the current campaign to improve upon the previous standards established for school lunches under the Healthy Hunger Free Kid Act (HHFKA) in 2012 (USDA). To expand, this is important in understanding the purpose of each image as the context establishes a sense of urgency and a call to action. Finally, in both images the USDA creates a happy and motivational tone. This USDA indicates a happy tone through the bright colors, cartoon illustrations and smiling facial express of students depicted. In a similar way, through the text the USDA employs a motivational tone as the diction invokes a sense of action. Moving forward, the first image effectively persuades the audience to support healthier school lunches through the use of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Starting with ethos, adults are pictured in the image encouraging healthy behaviors. To elaborate, a lunch lady smiles as she works a fresh fruit stand in a cafeteria, and serves a student a banana with their lunch. The use of Buck 3 an adult supporting healthier lunches vindicates the NSLP as being essential in schools as an adult is viewed to as a credible authority figure and as a role model to students. Also, the USDA appeals to the joyful emotions of the audience. In order to achieve this, the USDA engages the audience through the use of bright cheerful colors, cartoon style illustrations, and emphasizing positive feelings through smiling facial expressions depicted in students and staff. Overall, these examples cause the audience to feel happy emotions and associate these emotions with healthier school lunches. Furthermore, the text in the image demonstrates the rhetorical appeal of logos. In the visual, the texts reads A School Wellness The use of the word portrays school wellness as being a logical and respectable choice. Who want to be a champion? In a comparable way the visual applies karios with the text The syntax of the sentence is short and straightforward for emphasis. Likewise, the capitalization, grabs the attention and urges them to take action now and order the toolkit. Furthermore, the second visual successfully informs the audience healthier school lunches led to increased academic success through the use of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. To begin, the USDA applies ethos as a teacher is pictures in the front of the classroom educating the class on the system of balanced lunches. The teacher is wearing glasses and holding books suggesting he is knowledgeable and can be trusted in this topic. Next, written on the board underneath the logo is the website Both the logo and the website are examples of ethos as they combine to back up the information to a trusted source. Moving on, the rhetoric appeal of pathos is used as the audience is filled with satisfied emotions as one is impressed with the classroom habits. In the visual the children appear to be studious as they are very focused on the teacher and the front of the classroom. Overall, the Buck 4 emotions persuades them to support healthier lunches as they are linked with enhanced school performance. Similar to the fist visual the text in the second visual also established logos. To expand, the words Health=Better appears at the top of the visual forming a reasonable cause and effect relationship between health and school performance. To support this claim, researchers from the University of Alberta found a direct relationship between a nutritious diet and academic performance. In the research study, who ate an adequate amount of fruit, vegetables, protein and fiber, with less calorie intake from fat, did better on their literacy tests than those eating foods high in salt and saturated (Capano). Finally, the visual urges the audience to support healthier school lunches and take action. In the visual the hashtag implies school wellness is trending and one should get behind it too. Also, the link to calls one to visit the cite and learn more about healthier schools lunches. While both visuals prove effective in persuasion, certain aspects of each must be modified to removed logical fallacies. Among these aspects is the text in the first visual stating A School Wellness According to Purdue Owl contributor, Ryan Webber this would qualify as begging the claim. This is because, conclusion that the writer should prove is validated within the (Webber). Relating back to the first visual, the USDA not prove why school wellness should be utilized, but instead claims if one were to utilize school wellness they would be a Thus validating their claim with no evidence. Another logical fallacy is present in the second visual. In this visual, a skewed logic is presented as the USDA comes to a rushed conclusion in the declaration Health=Better This is an example of Post hoc ergo propter hoc as the assumes that if occurred after then must have caused (Webber). While it is very likely improved Buck 5 health will yield improved performance in school there are a variety of social and environmental factors that will also influence performance in school. To conclude the mission is to increase the nutritious content in school lunches, urge an overall a greater understanding of health and wellness, and increase academic performance. Through the use of visual rhetoric, the USDA effectively persuades and educates teachers, parents and students to avidly support their NSLP campaign. Buck 6 Visual 1. Visual 2. Buck 7 Works Cited Buck 8 Capano, Joanne. Meals Make Better Chicago Tribune. http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/sns-health-nutrition-better-grades-story.html. Accessed 20 Feb. 2017. Gurley, Kristie. For The Health Of It: How The Quantified Health Benefits Of The USDA Nutrition Standards Justify Reauthorization And Increased Funding For School Meal  Harvard Journal On Legislation 53.1 (2016): 387-415. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Acessed 24 Jan. 2017. National School Lunch Program  National School Lunch Program (NSLP) Food and Nutrition https://www.fns.usda.gov/nslp/national-school-lunch-program-nslp. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Webber, Ryan. Purdue Owl. https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/659/03/. Accessed 21 Feb.2017.