Student 1 Student Enc1101 Prof. Paquette 26 March 2016 OBESITY: CONTROL YOUR WEIGHT, CONTROL YOUR HEALTH The history of mankind has been faced by issues such as chronic food shortage and malnutrition. Obesity can be considered to be a few decades old in the world since its presence is highly blamed on technological advancements during the eighteenth century. In the current century, obesity is often associated with unhealthy living which is a belief acquired from the history of obesity. However, the fundamental cause for obesity in humans is the energy imbalance which occurs between calories which are consumed and the calories which are expended from the body. Obesity and overweight are the fifth highest risk for deaths globally. Statistics show that around 2.8 million adults are likely to die as a result of overweight or obesity. It is thus important for every person to control their weight in order to control their health and have a healthy life. During the century, people associated being fat to having a good life due to the fact that there was little food to be consumed and many people thus suffered from food scarcity. During this period, people were unable to access food and as a result many suffered from malnutrition. However, the changes in technology led to creation of more food which people wanted and as a result, there was a larger supply of food. People ate in order to become fat and Student 2 later realized that there was no aesthetic appeal on fat people. Currently, people look at ways in which they can reduce the effect of obesity as a disease from the world and improve on healthy living. In the present time, people consider obesity as a disease due to the effects it brings to the human health. The article by the International Journal of Obesity and Related Metabolic Disorders looks at obesity as a chronic, relapsing neurochemical disease. From the clinical perspective, obesity has met the criteria of being called a disease. Evidence shows that obesity can lead to conditions such as hypertension, sleep apnea, heart disease, metabolic diseases and also some types of The fact that obesity can lead to these issues clearly means that it can be categorized as a disease. Research from World Health Organization, (WHO), shows that obesity has serious health effects on individuals in the society. According to the article, obesity leaves the body at a risk of non-communicable diseases. Obesity can be considered as a risk factor to non-communicable diseases just like smoking. Obesity is a leading cause for complications such as high blood pressure, premature deaths, heart disease, diabetes, cancer, arthritis, breathing problems, and reproductive issues (SurgeonGeneral.com). This means that, individuals who suffer from obesity have an increased risk to mortality. One is likely to die due to an obesity complication. Additionally, the prevention of the condition will also help fight other consequences such as low self esteem and stress. As an adult, obesity decreases mobility and physical endurance which leads to discrimination in job, academics and social. All the effects of obesity as discussed lead to a Student 3 stressful lifestyle by individuals. However, one can learn on how to control their overall weight gain in order to avoid obesity and its consequences. Prevention of the condition is one of the most important factors when it comes to understanding on how to have a healthy living without stressing on diet and exercising excessively. According to WHO, all the health complications brought about by overweight can be reduced in case an individual takes the necessary precautions against increasing weight gain. A good example is a case where there is an obese individual who suffers from excessive abdominal fats due to overweight. Such fats elevate the blood pressure which increases the risk of heart disease. In the cases where there is prevention of excessive weight gain, an individual can prevent numerous issues that would have otherwise arisen as a consequence. One of the ways in which the global epidemic of obesity can be managed is through making health easier. Making health easier involves using the simple strategies to ensure that children are brought up without facing obesity conditions. The policy makers need to work together with local and state organizations, healthcare professionals, community leaders, schools, childcare, business leaders and individuals to create an environment that would support healthy According to the center for disease control and prevention, this will be one of the effective ways in which obesity can be prevented in the society. The sources have created an understanding on the history of obesity in the world and the perception that people had when they thought of becoming fat. The articles have helped argue obesity as a disease which is backed by all other readings used in this paper. Explaining obesity Student 4 as a disease helps in understanding the real situation facing adults and children who have the condition at hand. The articles thus merge to give accurate information with regards to cause, effects and prevention of obesity in the society. The sources have however failed to elaborate the history of obesity in the society. Understanding the history of obesity and overweight is important in determining the preventive measures since it will be important to come up with the right solutions to the issue at hand to save the world from the global epidemic. Student 5 Work Cited Obesity: Halting the Epidemic by Making Health Easier, At a Glance  www.cdc.gov, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, May 2011. Web. 29 January 2017. Obesity: Preventing and Managing the Global  www.who.int, World Health Organization 2000. Overweight and Obesity: Health  Surgeon General, Nov. 19, 2013 Web. 02 February 2017. G.A. Obesity Is a Chronic, Relapsing Neurochemical  International Journal of 2004 Print.