Nyanzu 1 Alfred Nyanzu Instructor Alison Missler English Composition 1102 16 March 2017 Birds Conservation The skirmishes and controversy about millions of birds slaughtered for millinery trade has become an argument all over the world. Bird conservation is very challenging task, Audubon is the stakeholder organization that will be looked at in this project. Audubon is an NGO that work to conserve birds and restore natural ecosystem, other wildlife and their habitat for the benefit of humanity. Audubon was established in 1896 due to an outrage slaughter of millions of water birds. Protecting water bird population was one of the sole reasons why Harriet Hemenway and Mina hall founded Audubon in Massachusetts. By 1900, Audubon has spread to other states in the United States (National Audubon Society). According to Audubon, represents and reflect on human diversity in it communities so as to achieve their conservation (National Audubon Society). According to Audubon, for more than a century has protected birds and their habitat for the benefit of humanity as well as the .Their legacy is built on science, education, advocacy, and on-the-ground conservation through unparalleled (National Audubon Society). This combination of expertise and on-the-ground engagement makes Audubon a truly unique and trusted force for (National Audubon Society). To create awareness, Audubon publishes variety of bird conservation magazines and advertisement that involves rhetorical appeal such as Logos, ethos, Nyanzu 2 Kairos and pathos. Audubon has used both images as rhetorical strategies to appeal to audience and as message of purpose in relation to their goal and other significant issues. For instance, in image one, the symbol of image in the office signifies the mission of the organization. The bigger symbol of bird on the table in the office represents the and the numerous birds on top of the cabinet in the photo of the office represent the branches of Audubon in the world working to attain the same goal. It has proven that Audubon has branches in most part of the world (National Audubon Society). In the second image, the healthy bird in its nest on the water representing how Audubon birds are conserving for humanity. Both images use ethos effectively because of the credibility that Audubon holds as an organization, fighting to conserve healthy birds in our environment. The man in front of the table in the first photo represents the quality of workers (staff) that help through researches and other related ways to conserve healthy birds. They do this through preservation, bird feeds and many more. It has proven that the man behind the scene in the image is the world leading criminal forensic ornithologist performing his task (www.Audubon.org). In addition, in the second image shows the ecosystem (water and trees) provides valuable and lovely home for many species. It is an opportunity for birdwatchers to enjoy the process of breeding. The green color in the second photo may represent the natural ecosystem that Audubon is trying to restore for the benefit of humanity. In color psychology, they stated green color represent lively color and it symbolizes renewal and growth (Green Color Psychology).Both descriptions appeals to the logos of the organization. Nyanzu 3 The numerous books in the office cabinet in image one also indicate how the organization conducted research in timely manner in relations to bird conservation since through science and education their legacy is built(National Audubon Society). In the second image, the ecosystem (water and trees) and the nest, provides valuable homes for many species of birds at all time. According to Audubon, some birds are conserving in the forest or water (ecosystem) in a timely manner (Audubon.org). Both images appeal to kairos because it shows how birds are conserved and researched conducted in a timely manner. The magazines on top of the table in the first photo represent how Audubon convey or advertise it information relating to their goals to the world. The other three smaller symbols of birds on the table in the photo may represent unhealthy birds that Audubon sometimes has to try to treat for the society to have healthy birds for domestic use as pets (National Audubon Society). The telephone in the office may signify how Audubon liaise or communicate with stakeholders and the world at large in matters relating to their course. The designed map photo in the office may represent the geographical boundaries or areas that Audubon is working to conserve healthy birds for humanity. Again, it has proven that, Audubon has many branches in the world (National Audubon Society). In the second image the background of the bird in the nest, how the water is calm, trees and the color of the cloud allows the audience to develop their own emotional response and offer ways to connect. The background or photo of both images appeals to pathos. Nyanzu 4 In conclusion, the rhetorical appeals used in both images effectively and efficiently allows stakeholders to come into conclusion that, Audubon is credible organization which conduct its activities through advertisement in a timely manner. Appeals to the audience or stakeholders to have the feel or sense of humor as to how conservation is done for the society to live with healthy birds. Lastly, Audubon has proven it claims, through evidence and reasoning that their bird conservation helps the society to have healthy birds as pet. The first image advertisement indicates the overall activities of Audubon whiles the second image on the other hand relates to how birds are conserve in the ecosystem. To conclude, one would say that, both images are conveying strong messages to all stakeholders, regarding the activities of Audubon and its mission (conservation of healthy birds for humanity). Both images are helping the organization to achieve its goal through emotional appeal, credibility, and logic within a timeframe. Nyanzu 5 Image 1 Medical staff in Audubon office (www.audubon.org) Nyanzu 6 Website: www.audubon.org Nyanzu 7 Work Cited Green Color  Color Psychology. Color Psychology, n.d. Web. 14 Mar. 2017.  Audubon. Audubon, n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Mass  Mass Audubon. Mass Audubon, n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017.