Running head: PLANNED PARENTHOOD/FAMILY PLANNING 1 The Conversation Of Planned Parenthood/Family Planning Over Time Mary Warwick University of South Florida PLANNED PARENTHOOD/FAMILY PLANNING 2 The conversation on Planned Parenthood and Family Planning has not changed or evolved over the years. Scholars are still arguing the same things on the topic. Those who are against Planned Parenthood/Family Planning are really just opposed to abortion and some other forms of contraceptives. They have argued that it is a form of murder. Those who are for Planned Parenthood/Family Planning argue that people deserve that right to chose whether abortions and other forms of contraceptives are for them or not. They have also argued that the clinics go beyond contraceptives, they offer services that people rely on for survival and that Planned work goes beyond the United States, they have had an effect internationally. In of Contraceptive and Related Services By Publicly Funded Family Planning Laura Duberstein Lindberg, Jennifer J. Frost, Caroline Sten, and Cynthia Dailard (2006) address the availability of contraceptives and other reproductive health services (cervical cancer screenings, chlamydia screenings and treatment options, HIV testing practices and protocols, etc.) at family planning clinics. Their conclusion was that it is crucial these clinics receive more public funding to up with the demands of new technologies and a diverse client (Dailard et. al, 2006, p.139). In of and preferences for federally funded family planning Willie H. Oglesby, (2014) he also lists the many helpful services provided by these clinics. He states planning is comprised of a wide array of sexual and reproductive health services including contraceptive education and counseling; pregnancy testing and counseling; breast and cervical cancer screening; HIV testing; screening and treatment for STDs; and other patient education and (p.1). In the scholarly conversations on Planned Parenthood or Family Planning the person in favor of them will still bring up the same point of PLANNED PARENTHOOD/FAMILY PLANNING 3 all the other services these clinics provide to show how there are more people reliant on them for many of these critical things. In and angry- the creation and development of the International Planned Parenthood Federation Vicky Claeys, (2010) Claeys talks about how the International Planned Parenthood Federation was created and examines why it was important then and now. She examines the effect they have had internationally by talking about how they worked with other countries to bring various forms of contraceptives there. whole point is that their work was important back at the very beginning of the organization and is still important today because they provide people with affordable health services and information a world where the right to safe and legal abortion is still questioned, where the sexuality of young people is still contested, and where sexual rights are still (Claeys, 2010, p.75-76). In this article Effects of Contraception on Female Stephanie P. Browne and Sara LaLumia, (2014) are examining the correlation between the female poverty rate and the takeaway of contraceptives. They provide you with statistics showing that a lack of access to contraceptives has a negative effects the female poverty rate. They concluded that with access to birth control the probability that a woman would be in poverty reduced by 0.5 percentage points which, considering the high poverty rates experienced by single-female headed households, is actually a fair amount (p.620). Browne et. al, finish by saying forward, when policymakers are weighing the costs and benefits of increasing or decreasing the accessibility of birth control, they should take into account its effects on the female poverty (p.620). Scholarly conversation regarding planned parenthood/family planning have brought up this point PLANNED PARENTHOOD/FAMILY PLANNING 4 a good amount, saying that clinics provide easy affordable access to different forms of contraceptives which also prevents women from being impoverished. This article provided the specific statistics on the matter. Oglesby (2014) talks about the importance of publicly funded family clinics and describes the specific services they provide. In his article he states that in the United States people rely on public providers of sexual and reproductive health services and that access to family planning services is regarded as one of the ten greatest public health achievements in the 20th (Oglesby, 2014, p.1) Over time the scholarly conversation over planned Parenthood/family planning has not really evolved. Scholars still argue that many people rely on services provided by the clinics for survival because they offer many different services. Scholars like Stephanie P. Browne and Sara LaLumia providing statistics to prove that access to affordable contraceptives really does have a positive effect on women. And Oglesby providing examples of the different services these clinics provide. I agree with what is being said in most of the articles because these services are so important for people to have easy access to. Hopefully even more people grow to accept and support planned parenthood/family planning. I think the conversation will pretty much stay the same in the future even with people providing hard evidence on how something could be beneficial. PLANNED PARENTHOOD/FAMILY PLANNING 5 References Lindberg, L. D., Frost, J. J., Sten, C., & Dailard, C. (2006). Provision of Contraceptive and Related Services By Publicly Funded Family Planning Clinics, 2003. on Sexual and Reproductive 139-147.doi:10.1111/j.1931-2393.2006.tb00262.x Claeys, V. (2010). Brave and angry The creation and development of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF). European Journal of Contraception & Reproductive Health Care, S67-S76. doi:10.3109/13625187.2010.526726 Browne, S. P., & Lalumia, S. (2014). The Effects of Contraception on Female Poverty. of Policy Analysis and Management, 602-622. doi:10.1002/pam.21761 Oglesby, W. H. (2014). Perceptions of and preferences for federally-funded family planning clinics. Health, 1-16. doi:10.1186/1742-4755-11-50