1 Shannon Trehy Instructor Carr Comp 1 February 26, 2017 Depersonalizing Serial Killers The topic of serial killers is a topic that is brought up frequently over time. As long as there will be serial killers, they will remain an interest to people. That will not change. However, what has changed is our outlook on them. Serial killers have always been viewed from a lens, giving them an element of entertainment, viewed with a curiosity of how one could be so cold. While once justifiably viewing them as unfeeling monsters, scholars have taken a step back from the emotional aspects of viewing and analyzing serial killers and have gone with a more objective and scientific way of writing about them. In Peter Serial Killers: The Method and Madness of Monsters, published in 2005, he tells very personal and involved stories about encountering two different serial killers. It is very difficult to recount an event that happened to you and not have it be an objective telling of the event. Vronsky was viewing the encounters from his point of view, not from an outside perspective. What he could tell about the situation could be affected by bias or how he decides to make the reader see the other person in the story. almost walked over me like some kind of glassy-eyed (Vronsky XI), Vronsky uses language that could be considered biased and is very personal. The bias continues in a 2010 book Serial Killers: Murders without Mercy by Nigel Blundell. work entails the stories of many serial killers, from famous ones such as The Zodiac killer to the more locally known such as Heinrich Pommerenckle. Blundell uses very 2 opinionated words in his work, his opinions of the events bleeding through with every sentence, using words such as and stating that his book is the most perverse perpetrators of those (Blundell 7). While it is true that all of the wordage he uses is correct, it is also unnecessary and sensationalizes his text, making it more exciting for the reader to consume. While the aforementioned works are both excellent sources of information on serial killers, they also cast a very noticeably negative light on them. This would be beneficial to one making a claim about the evil deeds of serial killers, but to one who is writing on serial killers for a less specific reason or for reasons other than to villainize them, these sources may not be what they are after. The shift from biased works to unbiased works only takes two years from Nigel 2010 work, to Francesca 2012 work. Serial Killers: Criminology, Psychiatry, Responsibility, by Francesca Biagi-Chai is a work that details the account of Landru, a french serial killer. Biagi-Chai uses case specifically to help readers better understand the language of psychiatry and how it applies to Landru. Biagi-Chai is a senior psychiatrist who uses her expertise on the subject to help explain the actions of serial killers, leaving little room for bias to creep in on her professional analysis of Landru. is still considerable controversy regarding the extent to which the construct provides an adequate theoretical model of the relationship between personality and the criminal behaviour of the (Biagi-Chai 1). Biagi-Chai comes at the issue of the psychology of a killer relating to their personality and their actions as killers with an open point of view, not immediately assuming that they are linked and correspond with one another. 3 A newer source that exemplifies the shift in bias to objective work is William 2014 work, entitled Serial Killers. In this text, Harmening breaks down the classifications of serial killers so that they are easier to understand. His book is intended for law enforcement officials, policymakers, psychiatrists, and anyone who wants to better understand serial killers from a professional source. Harmening addresses many misconceptions about serial killers that have been spread by Hollywood and other sensationalized media. One misconception he addresses is that all serial killers are psychopaths. Harmening explains that by definition, suffer a disconnect from reality and a complete lack of moral (Harmening 6). Harmening acknowledges some serial killers possess that, but that there are many serial killers who are fully aware of the reality they are in. Having material on a topic that is unbiased is important not only for the sake of keeping the information unskewed and correct, but also so that others can acquire the information without having to sift through the bias on the topic. Reading a work with language that is negative on the subject can largely affect the opinion and can prevent different perspectives to be taken later on. Clear information without opinion is necessary for the furtherment of the spreading of information and the breeding of new ideas and concepts. The differences in the 2000-2010 and 2011-2015 works are only subtle differences in terms of the words used, but the bias is evident nonetheless. The earlier crafts, Vronsky and Blundell, show a distinct opinion and stance on the issue they are addressing, serial killers, whereas the newer, Biagi-Chai and Harmening, are more objective about the information they display. The shift in bias, opinionated texts to more scientific ones is an interesting phenomenon. Maybe now credible work is more sought after than work for entertainment purposes. 4 Regardless, all of the sources contain useful knowledge about the topic of serial killers, some just do it with a bit of the own personal flavor. References Harmening, William M. (2014). Serial Killers. (6-10) Biagi-Chai, Francesca (2012). Serial Killers: Criminology, psychiatry, responsibility. (1-5) 5 Vronsky, Peter (2005). Serial Killers: The Method Madness of Monsters (XI) Blundell, Nigel (2010). Serial Killers: Murder Without Mercy (7-10)