Daniela Quiroga ENC 1102 Ms. Harley Campbell 28 February 2017 Intermediate Project 2 PETA (people for the non-ethical treatment of animals) is largest animal rights organization in the focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in the laboratories, and in the entertainment (PETA) My main focus is their role in defending animal rights in the fashion industry and the way this non-profit organization uses methods of persuasion on the public. The two images presented use means of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos to convince the audience that wearing fur is unethical and it should not be supported. PETA has been finding ways to save animals in numerous ways and one of the most significant and memorable campaigns they have developed is the rather go naked than wear campaign. They have used many public figures in their visual ads to persuade the public that eliminating fur is the right thing to do. The first image shows a naked Wendy Williams with the words rather go naked than wear This image targets mostly women and uses female sexuality to influence them. It shows that it is sexier and more attractive to not wear fur and to embrace the human body the way it is. A physical image has always been a way to influence all types of audiences in our society because it promotes an image. Everyone wants to look as good as Wendy Williams does in her photograph. Wendy Williams is also a very successful woman with her own television show and a talented actress, this concept of a successful woman is attractive and makes the audience want to act the same way she does due to that fact and it makes her a more credible source as opposed to if they put a random person on this ad. In addition to credibility, after the slogan we can see the notorious PETA logo that builds even more to the credibility of the ad which contributes to the appeals of ethos. Also, something very noticeable in her naked picture is her enormous wedding ring. On her left hand, Wendy carries a huge diamond rock which easily catches the attention since it is the only item she is wearing in the picture. For many people love is considered a success because we are all in search of it. This one element also shows a woman with love in her life and builds an even stronger image of a desirable person which we could all be some day by taking action according to PETA. In these ways, we can see how these appeals are being put into use. The emotional appeal brought by Wendy as well as logical, and ethos. Those are the ways this organization uses rhetorical appeals to convince their audience that fur is not meant to be worn. Over the years, PETA has built an organization that targets not only women, but multiple audiences. The second image shows Jona Weinhofen holding an abused, dead lamb with blood drooping all over it and the words read the rest of your wool At an instant it is clear that pathos is the main appeal in this image. This visual ad attempts to reflect the cruelty of humans; an animal as innocent and defenseless as a lamb has been violently tortured to the point of death in order to get its skin for the creation of wool coats and clothing. PETA definitely plucks at the heart strings with this one. Jona Weinhofen is the lead guitarist from I Killed the Prom Queen. He gives off a bad boy look who can still have a good heart. This image can target audiences in the music industry as well as people who admire this bad boy look and the logic to this can be that it is cool to not be careless with animals. Danger is thrilling and exciting and his look gives off that dangerous feeling we all crave and shows that being caring is something that can make you this type of person. The PETA logo is shown on the image as well to show the credibility of this source just how it does the same on the Wendy Williams ad. PETA has a mission to eliminate the use of these animal furs to make clothing because it is a direct violation of animal rights and these two images help achieve that goal in similar ways. Both images have the PETA logo on them which is a significant element to the whole point of persuading the audience; PETA is widely known and the public see it as an organization that can be trusted. Another element that these images share is the fact that they both have a famous, well known figure representing the main cause. Wendy Williams with her history of success through her shows and artistic talents, and Jona Weinhofen as a famous Rockstar as well as being a vegan, animal lover. Their images attract different audiences of course, but that is the objective, to attract as many people as possible. Wendy attracts a feminine audience with her inspiring achievements and her sexuality while Jona attracts a musical audience and a wide range of people with his bad boy, because in our society who love a bad boy? PETA has made incredible changes in the animal world throughout the years and the way they do this is by reaching out to people and showing them the value of their objectives. Through their ads PETA has managed to show the world they are an organization with integrity that can be trusted and it is their primary use of ethos. They have also managed to touch the hearts of millions by showing the unjust treatments of animals and using logical appeals to open the audiences eyes to the reality of the role of animals in our society. Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. Image 1 IMAGE 2