Watts 1 Aaron Watts Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 30 March 2017 The Aged Evidence of Assisted Suicide vs. The New Dr. Jack Kevorkian was considered to be the Bill Gates of assisted suicide throughout his time, promoting and being a main reason for why the subject became a popular topic of conversation in the U.S. It was especially popular in 1998 when he was jailed for continuing to provide his service to patients when it was unlawful to do what he was doing. Since 1997 and Dr. influence, assisted suicide has been a growing topic that has attained many arguments for and against it. Assisted suicide is formal aid from a legal doctor/physician to end your life, but is only legal in a handful of states. Oregon, being the first state to legalize assisted suicide in 1997, received heavy criticism for doing so. After a while, the tide eventually turned toward assisted suicide with legalization of it in a second state, Washington in 2008. With addition of three other states such as California, Colorado, and Vermont that have legalized assisted suicide since then have all used Oregon as a when setting up their own laws and rules. They use a combination of some from other states or use similar ones and tweak them to what seems best for their own state. A major concept of assisted suicide is the wide range of quantitative opinions where the pros (people should be able to control and do as they please with their life/body) and cons (it goes against many beliefs) can sway the population for or against the issue. Being a national and historical issue means it is a hypothetical topic, having more than enough support on both sides, that both sides can be considered right or wrong. The way people have supported themselves in their argument against/for assisted suicide has changed with different evidence and old evidence for support, but the overall argument of whether assisted suicide should continue to be legalized has not progressed. One major observation found when researching the ins and outs of assisted suicide is the fact that most evidence that has been found or released through recent years deals with why assisted suicide should not be legal. They do make compelling arguments and have quantitative detailed evidence, but only some have really strong influences. For example, Marilyn Golden who is a policy analyst at the Disability Rights Education and Defense states anyone with a chronic but nonterminal illness is not eligible for assisted suicide in either Oregon or Watts 2 Washington (17). Furthermore, professor Steven King who private practices in pain medicine and is a professor of Psychiatry at the University School of Medicine in New York found that, study from Oregon found that of those who died under its RTD [ Rights To law in 2014, fewer than 3% were referred for a mental health (38). People such as Golden and King throughout the years have seen how others have been misusing the law in the few states it has been legalized in. A major case when this comes into play, is the state of mental illnesses of the patients where many do not believe assisted suicide should be allowed or even thought of when there are many medications out there that can benefit the individual. These sources show the importance of why doctors should thoroughly go through their medical history and how this law can be easily manipulated and not be used for its intended purpose, however, only some states recognize that. Even though people from time have been able to gain strong evidence for why assisted suicide should not be legal, the fundamentals from the past for why it should be legal has strength of its own. On the other side, the surprising observation was that for people who did support assisted suicide, their evidence would restate or hang around the ideas first presented or given when the issue first arrived a while back. They would not necessarily use new evidence, but instead restate already given/shown evidence in different ways, being that most hovered around the same fundamentals/main ideas. For example, a typical argument given by Ezekiel Emanuel who is the Chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania would be, individual autonomy, reducing needless pain and suffering, and providing psychological reassurance to dying (630). People such as Emmanuel back then tended to stay around moral/ethical rights that everyone should or already has. Similar to Emmanuel, others would express their opinion in why people should never suffer through unnecessary pain, pay for it, or put themselves and their family, loved ones, and friends into psychological harm. They would also support their side with a common belief of human rights, being that people should do whatever they please with their body because everyone has the freedom to do what they want and has individual control of it. They would support their sides and say that assisted suicide should be left up to the person in pain, because yet again they are the ones that are actually going through it. Even though most supporting arguments for legalization of assisted suicide are dated, their efforts sometimes paid off, but never got the argument to fully sway to their side either. Watts 3 Even though both sides create strong reasonable arguments into why their side should be considered the right choice, to this day there is no specific right or wrong side. Through research, it is easy to believe that the answer people pull from this issue is opinionated rather than factual. A great example of this is given by John Frank who is a news editor for modern healthcare and editor/director for other multiple journals and says, in every state where it has been legalized, the state medical association has taken a neutral stance. Whenever that happens, it (37). John Frank shows that with an issue regarding assisted suicide, every medical association does not deicide on the legalization of assisted suicide because it is truly/certainly right or wrong, but rather if they agree that they themselves believe it is right or wrong. Again, this shows that people do not decide on the legalization of assisted suicide because it is 100% right or wrong, but on the base of opinion and feelings toward it, showing no improvement on the topic of assisted suicide. Throughout the history of assisted suicide, the evidence has helped people decide which side they see as the right or wrong side, but not everyone had the same opinion. Even with the addition of California, Colorado, Oregon, Vermont, and Washington legalizing assisted suicide, there is still no actual correct answer in the question, assisted suicide right or Even though the way in which people have supported themselves in their argument against/for assisted suicide has changed with evidence of different types and ages becoming available for support, the overall argument of whether assisted suicide should be legalized has not progressed. In fact, the only thing that has changed is the evidence, arguments, beliefs, and people for it or against it. With the true topic of assisted suicide and how it has not changed over time, it is hard to see how the main question will be answered of off opinions, beliefs, and preferences. However, all it can take is one piece of evidence to sway the mind one way, and have a factual answer. Watts 4 Works Cited Emanuel, Ezekiel J. What Is the Great Benefit of Legalizing Euthanasia or  Ethics 1999: 629. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Frank, John N. Physician-Assisted Suicide Up For Debate In States: What Role Should Physicians Have In States Where Assisted Suicide Is  Medical Economics 9 (2016): 36. Academic OneFile. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Golden, Marilyn, and Tyler Zoanni. Killing Us Softly: The Dangers Of Legalizing Assisted  Disability And Health Journal 3.A Disability Perspective on the Issue of Physician Assisted Suicide (2010): 16-30. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. King, Steven A. PAIN MANAGEMENT. Physician-Assisted Suicide: More Than Meets The  Psychiatric Times 33.1 (2016): 38. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 18 Feb. 2017.