Almeida 1 Felipe Ganem Cadar de Almeida Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 02 February 2017 Playing With The Future The world today is not the same as it used to be. When I was a kid, I used to play sports, play with toys and invite friends to come to our house to play puzzle games. But that time had been gone since the new generation of children came, discovering a new world, the technology world. Children nowadays seem to be born with an iPhone in their hands. While we, the generation Y were amazingly happy to get a ball from our parents as a Christmas present, the new generation mostly has smartphones on their minds, always wanting more and more technology, new releases, new features, and new games. In fact, games are the main cause for children sticking their eyes on smartphones for hours a day. This leads to a question, does playing videogames while a child can cause some sort of behavior when older? Toppo, Greg. Do Video Games Inspire Violent  Scientific American. N.p., 29 May 2015. Web. 05 Feb. 2016. The article tells a story about a teenager who killed 26 people while heading to his school. From the information, they got about the history, he used to play violent games, as well as dancing games. The researchers found out that games do cause behavioral changes in people, but not necessarily the changes they think will be made. Almeida 2 Also, the article mentions many different experiments led by researchers, to find out if watching violence in the media, could cause violent behavior in real life. Each of them, took different conclusions from it, but they came up with an interesting conclusion: we practice repeatedly affects the brain. If we practice aggressive ways of thinking, feeling and reacting, then we will get better at People are very influenced by the media in a lot of different aspects, such as health, lifestyle, religion and also behaviors. From what I have learned reading this article, the biggest concern about children playing videogames nowadays, is that our brain learns what we practice. The author is the educational reporter for He analyzes the question about videogames and children behavior without giving his opinion about the subject. Although, he says that we, adults are the ones turning fantasy to reality, when we say that violent videogames could led children to violent behavior in real life. Miller, Michael Craig, MD. Violent Videogames and Young  Violent video games and young people. Harvard Medical School, 1 Oct. 2010. Web. 6 Feb. 2016. In 2008 it was reported that 97% of youth ages 12 to 17 played some type of videogame. Another analysis made, found out that more than half the videogames considered appropriate for children over 10 years old, contain violence. The American Academy of Pediatrics believe that videogames can be harmful for a youth behavior because many of those games are in first person, so the player has to control what the character of the game is going to do, and taking decisions that can be violent. Otherwise, another research led by Texas A&M International University said that in 1996, even with an increase in videogame sales, the amount of violent crimes among youth had Almeida 3 decreased. Also, the Center for Mental Health and Media at Massachusetts General Hospital brought an interesting point of view when it comes to factors that influence people to have bad behaviors. It all depends on: personality, situation, and motivation. Talking about personality, the researchers found out that people with disagreeableness, high neuroticism and low levels of conscientiousness are more likely to be influenced negatively by violent videogames. When it comes to situation, it matters where and with who the child is playing the videogame. Playing with and older sibling is better because they tend to play more mature games instead of violent. Talking about motivation, many teenagers do not play because of the violence, they do it for competing with friends and for fun. It is still unsure if videogames can be harmful of not, but what we can conclude about all the researches that came up with information about it until now, is that each person acts in different ways while facing different situations. Some people play videogames for fun and competing, but as we know if some of them are not playing because they have bad intentions on their minds, it is better for us to try to keep children out of the and by monitoring what kind of videogames they could play and if it is appropriate for their age, that way we can reduce the risk of them displaying a bad behavior in the future. APA Review Confirms Link Between Playing Violent Video Games and  Pardon Our Interruption. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. What the article says about violence and gaming, is that it is true that playing violent games is liked to increased aggression in players, but it is not a fact yet that it could cause criminal violence or violent behaviors. Also, what the research concluded was that not only that happens, Almeida 4 but also people get a decreased prosocial behavior and empathy. Another important point is that not only one risk factor leads a person to violent behavior, and playing violent games is only one. With that, what researchers are doing today, is that they are trying to find relations with playing violent videogames and external factors, such as do depression interacts with violent so they can combine all the risk factors and come up with a conclusion. This article is credible because it was written by the APA (American Psychological Association) which is the largest scientific and professional organization representing psychology in the USA. It helped me with my research because what I learned from it, is that instead of examining just one risk factor, such as playing violent games, we have to examine each person and their other personal factors that could lead to a violent behavior and so the games could be intensifying that behavior, but not creating it. The APA has a lot of researchers putting effort on this study but it clearly cannot yet say for sure if games lead kids to a violent behavior. Dotinga, Randy. Violent Video Games Influence Behavior:  Consumer HealthDay. N.p., 03 Apr. 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. The article says that people who plays videogames tend to be more hyperactive and may get more aggressive depending on what kind of game they play and for how long. For example, kids who played less than one hour a day tend to be less aggressive and rated as better-behaved by their teachers. A research was made with 207 children, and what researchers found out, is that videogames if played in small doses, can be good for behavior. Kids who played for less than one hour a day, were less likely to have a violent behavior such as bullying, than people who did not play videogames. Almeida 5 This study was published recently in the journal Psychology of Popular Media Culture and I like it for my research because it says one point that could be contradictory over all research I did till now, when it assumes that videogames cannot be only harmful sometimes but also healthy if played in a certain amount of time, and if it is a controlled activity. This study was made by a group of researchers from many universities, such as Oxford, Harvard, and Iowa, and what people could conclude about it is that they need to research more, to know if videogames and behavior could be related, and that it is often difficult to differentiate good science to overstated panic, so it is really hard from the studies we have nowadays to reach a certain conclusion about the subject. Bingham, John. Study finds no evidence violent video games make children  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 12 Mar. 2016. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Researchers found out that it matter the content of the game children are playing, but length of time they play. A study, published in the journal Psychology of Popular Media Culture, came with the conclusion that children who played videogames with friends and other players were less likely to have problems with other children than the ones who used to play by themselves. Although, the researchers also found out, that children who played mostly by themselves performed better academically and were less likely to display aggressive behaviors. There was an interview made with 200 children in a school, and 1 in 10 played videogames for more than three hours a day. Those students, were less academically engaged and displayed higher level of aggression. The author of the article gives his opinion about the subject, saying that even though the researchers found out there is no such concrete evidence that violent games do cause violent Almeida 6 behavior on children, it be considered as an answered question because academics are divided in different opinions and he thinks there is still the possibility of violent games causing violent behavior. The author is a leader in Oxford Oxford Internet Institute, and what he also adds is games are just one more type of media, so why caring so much about that, and forgetting about television, journals, websites? Games might have something more than just violence for children to like playing it for long times. Casey, Michael. Do violent video games lead to criminal  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 17 Aug. 2015. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. The article says something interesting about the subject I am working on. It says that whenever there is a mass shooting in the United States, people always come with the idea that the person was an active player of violent games. The American Psychological Association (APA)found out that there are evidences proving that playing violent games could cause some aggressive behavior in people, but it is not sufficient to lead people to commit crimes. After decades of studies, researchers also found that there is a consistent relationship between games and decrease in empathy, prosocial behavior, and sensitivity to aggression. Although, games can not explain 100% of those behaviors, and it is better explained as an accumulation of risk factors, such as depression, antisocial behavior, trouble at home, or delinquency. Ohio State Brad J. Bushman, disagreed with the APA conclusion saying that it is difficult to prove what they were stating and that there was no link between violent games and behavior on children. The author, instead of saying his opinion about the subject, shows many researches done by people who are working on the theme for many years letting us reach our conclusions about it, Almeida 7 and he works for CBSNews, covering the environment, science and technology areas. This article is helping me on my research about violent games and children behavior, because it shows what researchers who were working on the subject for years found out about it. Also, is it a trustable source because the researches were made by important organizations such as APA, Oxford University and the Entertainment Software Association.