Alammar Abdalaziz Alammar. Ashley Tisdale Composition I February 5 th , 2017. Peace, Hope and Love: Race Relations and Discrimination in America Islamophobia has been an ongoing problem in America even way before September 9/11 and it has been getting abhorrent in recent years. A phobia, according to the Merriam-Webster dictionary, is exaggerated, usually inexplicable and illogical fear of a particular object, class of objects, or The hate-crime report suggests that 56.58% of all hate crimes are motivated by race and ethnicity differences, what amazes me is that scientists have concluded that genetically were all mixed and race in the human species does not exist and that it was invented in 1400 to separate people and it has worked perfectly ever since. August 2016, an imam in Queens and his assistant were shot and killed on the sidewalk. The police charged a 35- year-old white man, what surprised me that day was that on the news it said shoots 2 while if a Muslim was to do the same the news would label him a terrorist and attack the religion for the actions of one man. While authorities have not determined a motive for the actions easy to realize that it was a crime of hate. Change is slow, always has been and it always will be, but stopping us from working together for a better world? 6 Fast Facts About the New Hate-Crime  Reason.com. N.p., 15 Nov. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017 Alammar The article linked above mentions statistics from the hate-crime report that occurred in 2015. The facts state that most (56.58%) hate crimes are race and ethnic based, while religious hate crimes come in second at 21.26%. Although the results have shown improvement within the years proving that hate crimes have in fact decreased from the years 2013 and 2014. This article appears on a news blog website which is a very respectable and credible news source, reason.com. The article was written by the associate editor of reason.com Elizabeth Nolan Brown. Elizabeth brown has written many articles about discrimination and racism which seems to be her specialty. Elizabeth studied strategic communication at American University in Washington DC, which is a very respectful institution. AG Lynch: 67% Increase in Hate Crimes Against Muslim Americans in  CNS News. N.p., 15 Dec. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <http://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/melanie-hunter/ag-lynch-fbi-statistics-show-67- percent-increase-hate-crimes-against> This article takes about hate crimes against people of a different religion, specifically speaking about Muslims. The article takes about the increase in hate crimes against Muslims by 6% in 2015 from 2014. The article states facts from an FBI report about hate-crimes against Muslims. Per the report in 2015, there were 257 incidents, 301 such offenses, 307 victims of anti-Muslim hate crimes. The report indicates in the first six years after 9/11, the FBI investigated more than 800 incidents involving violence, threats and vandalism against persons perceived to be Muslim or of Arab, Middle Eastern, or South Asian origin. The article was published on cnsnews.com which is one of the most viewed news websites on Alammar the internet. The article was written by Melanie Arter, Melanie has been with CNSNews.com since November 2000 as an evening editor responsible for writing, editing and posting stories to the website. She was promoted to deputy managing editor in 2002. Sledge, Matt. Muslim Americans Widely Seen as Victims of  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, Web. 13 Feb. 2017. The article cited above talks about polls and surveys taken by the American people about discrimination of Muslims. For instance, the article says that 73% of Americans believe that Muslims face great deal of discrimination however, 52% of Americans believe Islam is more likely to encourage violence than other religions. If anyone killed a person not in retaliation of murder, or for the spreading mischief in the land - it would be as if he killed all mankind, and if anyone saved a life, it would be as if he saved the life of all  - 5:32. How does a religion that promotes peace, inspire people to take away innocent The article was written by Matt Sledge, who works for the very respectable news page Huffington Hate Crimes Against American Muslims Most Since Post-9/11 Era - The New York  The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia. Web. <http://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/18/us/politics/hate-crimes-american-muslims- rise.html>. Alammar The article linked above talks about how hate crimes against Muslims have rapidly increased since 9/11. Research data from CSU-San Bernardino found that hate crimes against American- Muslims were up 78% over the course of 2015. Also, the article talks about the many horrific attacks that targeted Muslims in America, such as in St. Louis, a man was arrested in February after the police said he pointed a gun at a Muslim family that was shopping on his block and told them they should all die. The article was written by Eric Lichtblau who has been a reporter in the Washington bureau since 2002 and currently covers the Justice Department. The article was published by the NY times which is one of the best news coverage websites in America. Bhatia, Sunil. Muslims Is Illegal and Psychology today. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. The article linked above talks about the executive order president Donald Trump signed banning immigrants from entering the U.S. from the seven predominantly Muslim countries of Iran, Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Sudan, Libya and Somalia. The move to ban Muslim immigrants is illegal based on the 1965 law Congress enacted forbidding the exclusion of immigrants based on national origin. Although my intuition is telling me there will be better days, I always find myself asking when? While the US is banning refugees, innocent children are being murdered in Syria every day and what terrifies me if that the world choses to remain silent on the issue. How about the young Muslim American youth who have grown up in the U.S and are now facing scrutiny because of a religion they choose to follow? Alammar This article was written by Sunil Bhatia, Ph.D., is a cultural psychologist. He is a professor of human development at Connecticut College. His articles have appeared in journals such as American Psychology, Early Education and Development, Human Development, Theory and Psychology, History of Psychology, Culture and Psychology, Journal of Moral Education, Mind, Culture, and Activity and Narrative Inquiry. Professor Bhatia received the 2006 Sigmund Koch Award for Early Career Contribution to Psychology, which is presented to a psychologist each year who is within 10 years of having earned a doctorate degree and has made promising contributions to theoretical or philosophical psychology. Islam in America Post  The Pluralism Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. This article talks about how after the 9/11 attack that many Muslims faced scrutiny and hatred from other Americans even after the president George W. Bush visited a mosque in the capital just few days after the attack where he preached on how Islam was a religion of peace saying acts of violence against innocents violate the fundamental tenets of the Islamic faith, and its important for my fellow Americans to understand The article also talks about how politicians added to the of anti-Islam sentiments, such as when Newt Gingrich described the Shariah as moral threat to the survival of freedom in the united which in my opinion is over exaggerating. Pluralism.org is a Harvard University based website, it was first launched in 1996 in 1997, the Pluralism project began tracking news stories related to religion in multi-religious America, and has been working on stories related to religion ever since, they also help out minorities such as Alammar Muslims when they faced discrimination after 9/11. They helped minorities by educating others on the matter.