Allhim1 Fahad Allhim Ins. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1011 5 February 2017 The Impact of International Students in the U.S. Nowadays, a country that has a significant number of international students is indicated a developed country. Indeed, the United States is evaluated as the largest education provider to international students. In the past few decades, the populace of international students in the U.S. has noticeably grown by 40% (Obst and Forster.2005). In 2013, there were 819,644 international students in the United States from all over the global. In fact, the huge number of international students have played an undoubted role in supplying an entirety of more than 24 billion dollars, which has considerably increased the economy of U.S. (Egnatios, Mielke, et al.2014). The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) defines the term of international students as students who have left their countries and have gone to another one for educational purposes (2003). Some believe that the international students are super impactful in a positive way on domestic students. Because international students try their best to demonstrate the cultural differences that make them different, besides they show them the universal values, which make them affiliated (Egnatios, Mielke, et al.2014). In addition, they play a principal part in the United States Higher Education because academic programs are dependent on them to boost their researches and educational aids in sciences and technology fields. By having the international students in Western classrooms, they can simply and quickly influence the quality of teaching, understanding, and discussion due to the vast differences in their points of view (Obst and Forster.2005). Therefore, the US has undergone several significant alterations on three Allhim2 different issues which are economic, cultural and educational. All of these factors lead to the understanding that international students are a serious power which strengthens the U.S. economically, culturally and educationally. It begs the question: what would happen to the U.S. if the international students stopped coming? Obst, Daniel, and Joanne Forster. Perceptions of European Higher Education in Third Countries Outcomes of a Study by the Academic Cooperation Association (ACA) . Rep. the Institute of International Education (IIE), 2005. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. The research in the article discussed the economic outcomes and estimated revenue of having international students in the United States. It is important to realize, the United States had over 4,200 colleges and universities in 2001 which were slightly occupied by foreign students according to the U.S. Department of Education (2). More accurately, in 2001 there were 16 million students, and the majority were undergraduate, and 40% of them were registered in community colleges (2). However, the author thinks that the public has not realized the significance of international students. Therefore, there is not any policy or plan to keep their market share of international students. Consequently, the enormous number of education enrollments that occurred by the foreign students led to adding roughly $13 billion to U.S. funds annually. Thus, international education was classified as the 5th largest source of the U.S. financing budget according to the U.S. Department of Commerce (3). The research was published by the Institute of International Education (IIE) who is considered to be one of the leading companies of exchanging ideas and people. This organization is a massive system contains virtually 900 university and college members, and more than 5,000 Allhim3 contributors. More importantly, nearly 200 programs of study and training are created and performed by students, instructors, and trainees from the public and private sources. Daniel Obst, the primary author, was the Vice President of International Partnerships at the Institute of International Education and he has edited several publications such as Strategic International Moloney-Egnatios, Lauren, Gretchen Mielke, Julie Trinh, and Monika Young. The International Student Journey in the United States and the Netherlands: A Comparative  Rep. School of International Service, 5 May 2014. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. This article helps to demonstrate the cultural values that international students can convey directly and indirectly to domestic students and citizens in general. Nevertheless, the researchers were concentrating on domestic students because they are the most likely to have actual relationships and friendships, through which the local students can learn new cultures and experiences. In another the words, the local students have free opportunities to be more knowledgeable and educated only by communicating with individuals from dissimilar nationalities. Similarly, the international students have to have involvements with Americans which would influence them culturally and socially. IIE President Dr. Allan Goodman declared that domestic student had been accommodated by international students the cultural differences and historical experiences that divide us, as well as the shared values and humanity that unite (Egnatios, Mielke, et al.2014. p. 8) As a result, both of domestic and international students will develop a robust communication system which causes to have a better understanding of other perspectives and stop prejudging unreasonably. Allhim4 This article was published in May of 2014 in foreign the peer-reviewed policy and security. The author, Lauren Moloney-Ignatius, is considered to be a specialist in the field of international education and exchange and intercultural training, which is mostly evaluated to be the core of the report. Moloney-Ignatius is not only has taught English and culture to international students, but also she collaborated with International Office developing the web and print career resources for international students. Jourdini, My Mustapha. The Impact of International Students on American Students and Faculty at an Appalachian  2012. The research studied the effects of international students on the education system and faculty in the United States. This research included various studies that declared international students had done a great job with sharpening and improving fieldwork and faculty. Indeed, Sheila Biddle (2002) in her critical report she was trying to prove that must internationalize in order to educate their students for global citizenship, to keep pace with other peers, to better serve the national and international community, and to remain great (7). Thus, the universities are forced to keep developing and enhancing their academic level in favor of sustaining their market share of international students. Additionally, a high percentage of international medical graduates have been participating in refining the U.S. healthcare system. Undoubtedly, it is clear that international students have an enormous impact on upgrading the level of higher education in the United States. This research was conducted by My Mustapha Jourdini who graduated from Eastern Kentucky University. He received his and of Arts in English with emphases Allhim5 in American Literature and ESL. More importantly, he was a magnetic member of multiple organizations, such as American Association of Arabic Teachers (AAAT), National Association of Foreign Student Advisors (NAFSA) and National Collegiate Honors Council (NCHC). In addition, My Mustapha was the President of the International Student Association. Moreover, there were a several research papers that were introduced by him in advance conferences, for instance, Recruitment and Honors at the 41 NCHC conference in Phoenix, Arizona on Oct. 19-23, 2011. Akanwa, Emmanuel E. International Students in Western Developed Countries: History, Challenges, and  Journal of International Students, vol.3 2015: 271-300. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. The article explains how cultural differences can be impactful on international attitude and academic experience. Based on the recent study made by Rienties, Nanclares, Jindal- Snape, and Alcott (2013) showed that international students rather interact and connect with each other than getting engaged with domestic students that happens due to cultural barriers. Also, their analysis disclosed that even though international students can get along and work with domestic students. Nevertheless, international students work more efficiently and dynamically with who shares the same cultural values. So, it is important to realize that cultural values have an outstanding ability to control learning and engaging with educational content which makes secure fences. The instructors came up with an idea of compelling international and domestic students to work together in groups to reinforce international relationship with domestic students. Allhim6 This article was issued and peer-reviewed by a premier source that is called Academic OneFile. It offers full access to Peer-reviewed, full-text articles from guiding journals and reference sources involving the technology, physical sciences, and other subjects. The author, Emmanuel E. Akanwa, is a Doctoral Student and Graduate Research Assistant in the Department of Educational Leadership at Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant, Michigan, USA. Schoch, Lynn, and Jason Baumgartner. The Economic Benefits of International Education to the United . Rep. NAFSA: Association of International Educators, 2004. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. This report shows how international student are undoubtedly playing a crucial role in increasing the U.S. economy. Accordingly, this report interprets economic as the amount of money that foreign students collectively bring into the United States to pay for their education and to support themselves while they (and in some cases, their families) are (4). Surprisingly, report reveals that the living expense of international students and their families can provide bigger contribution than international tuition to U.S. economy. All things considered, U.S. should keep boosting the life goods that provide to international students as well as they continue to develop the data and methodology. The report was produced by Association of International Educators which is evaluated to be as a non-profit company that affords several services in international education field. This organization was created in 1948 to contribute in helping and counseling more than 25000 international students who come to study in American colleges and universities in the United States. The primary author, Lynn Schoch, is Director of Information Resources in Allhim7 Office of the Vice President for International Affairs, and since 1985 he has been working in international students services. Pandit, Kavita. The Importance of International Students on Our  Yearbook of the Association of Pacific Coast Geographers, Vol.69. (2007): 156-159. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The article demonstrates the significance of having international students in campuses and how they would be noticeably active in high education. Indeed, the governments and institution of high educations did not realize the importance of international students until they perceived that the number of international students has enormously raised. As a result, there were universally several policies and programs created by institution of higher education to draw foreign students. For example, in the US, the Institute of International Educators have established a system for international students to ensure the imaginations rule working correctly; which is called U.S. Competitiveness for International Students and Moreover, the author believes that the core reason for increasing the interest of institution of high educations in international students is their great effectiveness in proceeding research in different fields. Thus, we can tell that initiations of high educations need to have international students to enhance the quality of their studies and surveys due to the various perspectives that contain. This article was issued and peer-reviewed by Yearbook of the Association of Pacific Coast Geographers. It is considered to be a peer-reviewed annual academic journal that transfers education and research in geography, and it was established in 1935. Also, its history is full of achievements and promotions for much geographical education and research. The author is Allhim8 Kavita Pandit who was AAG President in 2006, but she currently helps as associate provost for international education. More importantly, she is well-known for her remarkable publications, and she has received her doctorate degrees in geography from The Ohio State University.