Amber Perez ENC 1102 Professor TJ 15 March 2017 Cover Letter While writing, this paper, I decided to use all the rhetorical appeals. I used logos because majority of this argument is based off logic. You can find logos in the first part of my essay where I write that students are very tired when their alarm goes off at six in the morning and that students fall asleep in class because exhausted. Next, I used pathos so that the audience can relate to the subject. Pathos is incorporated into the picture of the boy sleeping on the desk. You can tell the boy is very tired by the way the drool is sliding down his mouth. In addition, I used ethos in the paper because it is important to back up your argument with credible resources so that it will persuade others to believe what saying. In each body paragraph, I included information from scholarly journals. Lastly, I used kairos because this assignment is targeting a specific organization to take action as soon as possible. In this case, I called action upon the head of the counties. Perez 1 Amber Perez ENC 1102 Professor TJ 15 March 2017 A Later Start Time for High Schools Who remembers those terrible mornings waking up at the crack of dawn in high school? I propose that every county should start school at 9:00 am rather than 7:30 am because more students would have better grades and be stressed out all the time from the lack of sleep. ALARM 6:00am Perez 2 To begin with, high schools starting at 7:30am is a bad idea because grades seem to suffer. Early start times causes students to fall asleep in class and miss important learning information; some students even make it to school. In the article Delayed high school start times later than 8:30 am and impact on graduation rates and attendance rates, a study was done across the United States and they found that attendance improved by 4% when schools started later than 8:30am (McKeever 7). A later start time, would only help the attendance rates. Z Z Z Report Card English: C Math: F Science: D Social Studies: B Report Card English: B Math: C Science: B Social Studies: A Perez 3 Starting school at a later start time would result in better report cards because students will be getting the rest they need to perform well academically. A study was done by the North Carolina Education Research Data Center and they found that when school is started just an hour later, grades increased by a 2.2 percentile in math and a 1.5 percentile in reading (Edwards 55). Report cards would greatly be improved if students got more sleep. In addition to grades suffering, they also tend to be quite stressed because school starts too early. These stress levels also lead to other problems. In Sleep Behaviors and Perceptions of sleep, Noland writes that students who are sleep deprived, are Stress Thermometer Perez 4 stressed. She continues to talk about how stress leads to obesity (25). Lack of sleep causes students to stress, so start times should be pushed back. Overall, having a later start time in high school would benefit the students. The head of the counties needs to push start times back to 9:00 am immediately. If they do this, then attendance rates will improve, along with report cards, and stress levels will drop. Perez 5 Works Cited Edwards, Finely. Do schools begin too early? The effect of start times on student  Education Next (2012): 53-57. McKeever, Pamela Malaspina. Delayed high school start times later than 8:30 am and impact on graduation rates and attendance  Sleep Health (2017): 1-9. Noland, Heather. Sleep Behaviors and Perceptions of  Journal of School Health (2009): 224-230.