Elhamdadi 1 Hamza Elhamdadi Professor ENC 1102.003 26 February, 2017 Undocumented immigration policies The undocumented immigration question is one that must be addressed economically and with regards to human rights. Most United States immigrants are pursuing a better life for themselves and their children. The difficulties these immigrants face are not easy. While they might simply be better off themselves should they simply return home, their children would likely suffer the same lack of opportunity and squalor they faced. An daughter recounts her worries after having been pulled over for not wearing a seat belt: anyone else just a ticket. For a single mother that is illegal have to go to court; I have to show They will find out I am I will be I have to call my Who will take care of my My Immigration Story, myimmigrationstory.com) When facing the extra strain on the American economy and resources as well as the human question of providing those in need opportunity and safety, the American government may have some difficulty compromising both needs. Nonetheless, they must do so both carefully and deliberately. The Immigration Legal Resource Center(ILRC) is an organization that advocates immigrant rights as well as teaches immigrants what constitutional and states rights they have, allowing them to live the so-called American dream and provide their families a better life. It also in advocacy with government agencies and elected officials at the federal, state, Elhamdadi 2 and local levels, on policies that directly impact doing its best to provide as much support to the immigrants as possible. Unfortunately, many Americans are not privy to the human aspect of undocumented and illegal immigration. The ILRC hopes to change that and bring awareness and an acceptance and love for and the rights of all http://toprightnews.com/black-protesters-murrieta-confront-pro-illegal-alien-supporters-video/ Although the question of human rights may be an issue that can be dealt with using tact, sometimes a slightly more aggressive stance is needed. The image above shows an aggressively opinionated rally. The people present adds to ethos; as their numbers increase, they represent more Americans and, thus, have more say in immigration policy. Regarding pathos, the discontent towards the current immigration policy and views that these individuals have is quite apparent. The bottom left corner shows a woman who is clearly upset regarding anti-immigrant rhetoric. The red capital word conveys that American citizens who are anti-immigrants have no right to be as America is not originally their land. Just as well, the blue-scripted and offset the other words, showing that the current immigrants are Native American and Mexican descendant. Thus, the logos argues that immigrants are rightful American denizens just like their ancestors. Elhamdadi 3 NumbersUSA provides a more numerically-geared viewpoint, supporting diversity and legal immigration into American society, while still arguing that the current influx of immigrants to the United States is unsustainable from a strictly resource-related and economical perspective. NumbersUSA states clearly that it nativism in the law and private actions [and believes Americans should be treated equally regardless of where they were However, it promotes limiting the number of family visa lottery immigrants, and working immigrants who do not provide any extraordinary skills. They argue that this approach will improve all American lives, natural-born or otherwise. http://q.likesuccess.com/98/4870475-illegal-immigration-political-cartoons-obama.jpg This second image provides an economical argument regarding immigration. The image juxtaposes President ethos with an unsustainable immigration policy. Similarly, the pathos shows myriad people subverting the American border. One viewing this image Elhamdadi 4 from an economical perspective may feel overwhelmed. Thus, the logos asks whether America can sustain the numerous people entering the country sans documentation. The illustrator advocates change regarding current immigration policy. Given both ideologically antithetical illegal immigration arguments, the American government must compromise fairly and while respecting both parties Since 1990, the unauthorized immigrant population has risen approximately 7.6 million, implying future resource strain(Passel, Jeffrey. Unauthorized Immigrant Population: National and State Trends, 2010, Pew Research Center). Nonetheless, all 11.1 million immigrants are individuals and must be remembered when creating new policy. Elhamdadi 5 Works Cited 1. My Immigration Story Wordpress Site. The Story of U.S. Immigrants in their own words, 2010, myimmigrationstory.com. Accessed 12 Mar. 2017. 2. Cassini, Gina. Hoft @ Gateway Top Right News, Top Right News Publication, 10 July 2014. http://toprightnews.com/black-protesters-murrieta-confront- pro-illegal-alien-supporters-video/. 3. Ordonez, Franco. Miami McClatchy Newspapers. McClatchy Publications, 27 Mar. 2013. 4. Passel, Jeffrey S. Immigrant Population: National and State Pew Research Trend, 2011, http://www.pewhispanic.org/2011/02/01/unauthorized-immigrant- population-brnational-and-state-trends-2010/. Accessed 12 Mar. 2017.