Ahmad Student Dr. Thorton ENC 1102 10 February 2017 This paper was written with the intent of presenting an argument on the long-standing controversy of nature versus industry, while focusing upon the nature aspect of the argument for the sake of presenting a single side at a time to prevent the mixture of opinions and the end resulting equating to childish bickering. This argument makes use of some unconventional/unverified sources (i.e. websites ending in .com) to be able to present evidence from the people, rather than the opinion of the scientific community and of the government. The paper uses minimal text to better present the images used by providing less for the eyes to wander to. Ahmad 1 Ahmad Student Dr. Thorton ENC 1102 10 February 2017 Nature is a great resource for humanity and should be treasured, but nature is being overshadowed and consumed by industrialization. The United States Governments should work on the state level to ensure the preservation of nature on a widespread basis rather than through national parks only such as preventing the industrialization of certain forested areas. Oh look, some tasteful shrubbery. Oh wait, never mind just some water pipes. Ahmad 2 The above images are a representation of nature in society, a false used for and nothing else. The first two images are a representation of perspective, and how one point of Oh look, some tasteful shrubbery. Oh wait, never mind it just more water pipes. I thought it was the perfect place to take a nap. Then I saw the sign. Ahmad 3 view (POV) may show a set of shrubbery and another POV may show a set of water pipes covered up by some shrubbery. The above image is a showing of the chaos and disaster from continued expansion and search for the most limited of all resources, land. Ahmad 4 Ahmad 5 Shown above are a set of images depicting the area of land in the United States of America and in Great Britain that is taken up by national parks. Both images may be used as a representation of future nature areas, or of a rough estimate of the remaining natural space available in the future after the continued industrialization of society. There are already signs of Ahmad 6 such occurrences in society, one of the more recent incidents being the Dakota access pipeline protests (Dakota Access Pipeline Facts). The issue of nature versus industry is a long-standing argument that will never truly see an end due to the greed of humanity and the will to expand when compared to the moral beliefs of others. Ahmad 7 Works Cited Dakota Access Pipeline  Dakota Access Pipeline Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Mills, Blakelee. 100 Years of National Park  N.p., 28 Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Nevado, Mario Sanchez. Betrayal. 2012. Empathy, n.p. UK, National Parks.  National Parks UK. N.p., 2016. Web. 15 Mar. 2017.