Al Balushi 1 Abdullah Al Balushi Theodore Murray ENC1102 18 th , Mar 2017 Cover latter. In this project I used all of pathos, ethos, and logos. Pathos, I shows the emotion, which is the way of convincing an reader of my argument by creating an emotional response that people who use technology in school is good; because it make the students cooperate and share information . Logos is an appeal to logic, and is a way of persuading an audience by reason. Ethos, in this project I use two ethoses that means of convincing someone of the character or credibility of the persuader. In the first picture it shows that this student can look up for some information from the Internet, second image shows student bored and cannot help him-self. Logos, I used a logical arguments and supportive my evidence in order to persuade the readers. In addition, my logos in this project is that technology in classroom are useful and it effect the students positively via share their opinions and look up for the answer from the internet; so that make them smarter and find the solutions faster. Al Balushi 2 Using Technology in Schools Nowadays, as globalization increases technology that impacts our world, technology has become an essential source in a lifetime. Technology does not only allow you to call and receive messages, but it allows the users and pursues them to use it in too many ways. Such as making a living via selling items, using dating sites, and the most important advantage that is the new generation can cooperate and communicate with each other much more while are using touch- based technologies in school. According to the Future World Review [The past have watched TV for 24 hours a week and that creates a certain kind of brain. And these kids [The new have spent that amount of time interacting, collaborating, composing their thoughts... having to remember things they actually have different (63). This quote declared that the new generation should be taught in different way that the previous generations taught, and it resulted that the new generation nowadays have completely different way of thinking because of the Touch-based technologies which make it much easier for them. In addition, the Touch-based technologies are very fixable to carry anywhere and everywhere; it also have too many function that could compared with the computers, and it enhance the capacity of the learning with the people because it allows them to cooperate with each other within classroom. the fact the touch-based technologies are highly costly, touch-based technologies should be involved in school Al Balushi 3 classes to make the learning process easier, make people more collaborative and urged to learn, and also help parents understand their kids as The new generation should not be taught as the pervious generation. They have to take in the same way that they are urge and make them interested to attend schools. However, the new generations are willing to use the touch-based technologies more then previous generations, because they were born with strong connection among the new generation and technology, so they already knows how to function with these touch- based technologies. iPads are assisted to consists many things, because it connected with World Wide Web that allows students access to many academic books. Moreover, there are many advantages of using touch-based technologies in schools that the education Al Balushi 4 system should use it necessarily, so it could increase the enthusiastic of the students. According to Don Tapscott in The Future of Education lecture that an Anybody knows? Nobody knows, they are seven-year-olds... So the kids are handling mines under Google, another is on Wikipedia... a little discussion over here with these kids but a hand saying: we know we figured it out and they start explaining it for the Future of Education). The quotes stated that students become more willing and interested to attend schools, while are they using the touch- based technologies looking out for something that they do not know it. Since these method increases the capacity of learning with students, and enhance the students to attend schools theses method needed to involve in the education system. As a result, using touch-based technologies in schools increase the cooperation among the students, so it is not only enchases the student to study. There was an experimented classes that done by Dr Garry Fallon, which contain students from different ages 7 to 15 year old in order to find out about the I pad function and how the application that made in these technology could enhance and affects on the students ability and to work as a team. According to Dr Garry Fallon in Learning Collaboratively Using Ipads in Conventional Classrooms looking beyond its physical design affordances when embedded in thinking classrooms as an everyday learning tool, results indicate iPads may be a powerful resource for supporting collaborative (Fallon 8). This quote declared that touch-based technology could count as main reason that make students work as team within class, which is increasing the cooperation between them. In order to improve the interaction and communication between students and make their thoughts and ideas well-shared touch-based technologies should be added. Al Balushi 5 Moreover, another way of based technology that was used is a recorded class session that was posted in blog to let the parents monitor and view their behavior and academic progress. According to the Will Parnell that home, parents ask their children about their day at school while viewing the classroom blog. Because of the blog documentation, parents can ask specific questions about the (Parnell, p50). This quote shows that touch based technologies could also be useful for parents and get them involved into the education system. In this way parents would know their attitude more and the students would feel that their parents could see how they act in school; it is obvious that students act differently in school compared to there actions at home. As a result, parents could discipline their children in the right way and would know more of their behavior in school. It is true that many people support the idea of adding touch based technology to Al Balushi 6 schools, however, on the other hand, there are many others who think it is not a positive step to add touch based technology to schools because in their opinion it would affect the students negatively. In addition, Donald Secreast made an article that is against touch- based technology as a response to Don Tapsscot lecture The Future of which is with the idea of adding touch-based technology. Donald Secreast mentions, they will plunge right into a new application just downloaded on their phones, they are remarkably timid when asked to delve into their own minds. Except in regard to games and entertainment, they seem curious about much not even about each other, outside what can be expressed in (Secreast, p31). In this quote, the authors point of view is that touch based technology would weaken the face-to-face interaction of the students and would make them depend on the communication through social media. The point of view could be correct only and only if touch based technology was used in schools in a wrong way. According to the Bonds, which is a psychologist the usage of technology would increase the chance to make more friends and more interaction with others (235). This declared that there opposite point of views regarding the addition of touch-based technology to schools. In conclusion, Touch-based technology is a perfect solution to improve the educational capacity. Not all schools could have the income to add touch based technology, however, these schools could reduce the money spent in books and start adding technology equipment to the education system. In addition, parents could easily supervise their children behavior and progress using Touch-based technology. Visualize, if touch-based technology was added to schools will the number of students who feel that they are forced going to school will decrease? (1155 Words) Al Balushi 7 Works Cited Secreast, Donald. Three Problems That Make LiteracyEducation So Difficult: Using Grown Up Digital to Discuss Attitudes Toward Reading and  Virginia English Journal 63.2 (2013): 18-33. Supplemental Index. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Tapscott, The Future of  TED. 2009 Lecture. 9. Oct. 2016 Will Parnell, and Jackie Bartlett. iDocument: How Smartphones and Tablets Are Falloon, The Difference? Learning Collaboratively Using Ipads In Conventional  Computers & Education (2015): 62. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. The Global Internet Generation Comes of  World Future Review (World Future Society) 1.1 (2009): 60-63. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Bonds-Raacke, Jennifer M., and John D. Raacke. Using Tablet Pcs in the Classroom: An Investigation of Expectations and  Journal of Instructional Psychology 35.3 (2008): 235- 39. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Feb. 2017