Kirkus 1 University of South Florida Horrors of Tobacco A graphic novel about the dangers of tobacco, and how two heroes bring it to an end. David Kirkus Composition II Theodore Murray 19 March 2017 Kirkus 2 My choices in Creating the Comic: I decided to write an actual comic for this project for a few reasons. Primarily, since we must analyze at least two images I felt that a decent way of doing that, and with the use of more than two images, would be to write a comic book instead of a traditional essay. I also felt like this would be a fun and intellectually stimulating way of writing about an argument that has already been made countless times. I believe that this medium of literature is a good one in order to get across a point that the tobacco industry should be shut down. Rhetorical Appeals: Ethos: There is a lot of Ethos in this comic. Probably more so than any other rhetorical appeal. Actually, the entire comic is an appeal to Ethos. Goku and Rick Grimes both stand for the abolition of the tobacco industry, and they state reasons as to why it should be done that appeal to ethics. Pathos: There is a decent amount if Pathos as well. Goku uses an appeal to emotion when he says must put an end to the tobacco industry in order to stop people from putting toxic chemicals in their bodies, and in order to prevent unnecessary harm or Logos: The appeals to logic within this paper all come from the evidence used. All of the sources cited, and all of the information and statistical data used both by Goku and Rick Grimes in the paper act as appeals to Logos. Kairos: The setting is a bit vague in the comic, and there is not much of an appeal to Kairos. During the first draft, I think about how I could use an appeal to Kairos, but as I continued writing the comic I realized that it would almost take away from the moral and plot of the comic and the other rhetorical appeals if I had added a strong appeal to Kairos. There is some sense of timelessness when we start to wonder where the characters are, and what time period all of this is taking place within. Kirkus 3 Kirkus 4 Kirkus 5 Kirkus 6 Kirkus 7 Kirkus 8 Kirkus 9 Kirkus 10 Kirkus 11 Works Cited Boyle, P. Tobacco. [Electronic : Science, Policy and Public Health. Oxford : Oxford University Press, 2010., 2010. EBSCOhost, Preventing Tobacco Use. [Electronic [Atlanta, : CDC, [National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, 2005. EBSCOhost, Dar-Odeh et al. Waterpipe Tobacco Smoking Among Dental Practitioners: Prevalence and Health Perceptions. Tobacco Use Insights 2016:929-33 Tobacco Use Insights. [Electronic Thousand Oaks, CA : SAGE Publications, 2008. EBSCOhost, The Real  What Is The Real Cost? Smoking and Tobacco Facts. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. (All photographs edited by David Kirkus). Images of Bob Saget: https://alchetron.com/Bob-Saget-383863-W http://degrassi.wikia.com/wiki/File:Full-house-bob-saget-1.jpg https://alchetron.com/Bob-Saget-383863-W#demo Images of Rick Grimes: Images of Goku: http://fictional-battle-omniverse.wikia.com/wiki/Goku http://joke-battles.wikia.com/wiki/Category:Goku http://www.pngmart.com/image/10909