Fleming 1 Brendan Fleming Instructor James Josue English Composition II 5 March 2017 Monsanto Visual Analysis The use of Genetically Modified Organisms or for short is a heated debate with stakeholders on both sides of the argument pleading their case. The pro-GMO side is primarily being led by the Monsanto Corporation, who have the use of as being one of their corporate interests. main goal in the industry to generate as much profit as possible while using the fewest amount of resources to grow their crops, giving them a level of financial efficiency (Monsanto at a Glance 2016). Additionally, the company profile details in its outline as being a agricultural company, engaged in providing agricultural products for farmers, along with its (Monsanto Company). This shows they do place an emphasis on being environmentally friendly which they will display in their images. To achieve the level of financial efficiency required and maintain their status as being a major powerhouse in the agricultural market, Monsanto must ensure they are kept in a positive light amongst both the public and farmers. If they meet this requirement their job will be much easy as people will be much better familiarized with their work and view them in a positive light. The easiest way for Monsanto to ensure they can maintain this level of power in the global market is reach out to the public via visual images that rely on both visual and rhetorical appeals. The use of visual media will help reach audiences all around the globe and help push their agenda in places that may seem unimaginable otherwise. The two images featured at the bottom of the page help Fleming 2 Monsanto develop credibility, evoke emotion, and even create a sense of urgency with the use of the rhetorical appeals logos, pathos, and kairos. The first image featured is a logo for the Monsanto Corporation which does indeed use a variety of different elements to help better the image. The main draw from using a credible looking logo is to build creditability and professionalism with the audience through the rhetorical appeal logos. Logos in the image is present throughout including printed font, use of image structure with how the image is formatted, and finally the color scheme which gives off a professional feel as well. Logos will be a main focus for a company like Monsanto as they are in need of developing credibility if they want to flourish in the global market as controversy over GMOs arises. In addition to logos, there are some elements of ethos in the image specifically with how the image portrays an environmentally friendly image. The use of green font and the addition of a sprouting plant make the audience think of life and a clean environment which helps Monsanto present themselves as being environmentally friendly for those just getting a first glimpse at the company. The company therefore can use the appeal of being environmentally friendly to connect with the audience, while they may be faltering in support. Finally, there is a slight appeal to kairos as the text at the bottom of the image includes the word which may trigger a sense of urgency to those viewing this image. While seemingly insignificant, it still can poise to be a rather important rhetorical appeal for the company and certainly one that would help better the image of Monsanto. The appeals and design elements of the first image serve the purpose in ensuring the public is getting a good first impression as it serves as a logo and may be the first image that comes up when the company is searched. Fleming 3 The second image is much more sophisticated and thus offers more complex levels of visual design and includes more rhetorical appeals. To start the image is composed of 5 separate images that all serve the purpose of connecting back to the larger image. The purpose of this image seems to place a heavy emphasis on being family friendly Monsanto would have created an add like this to hint at the company caring about the wellbeing of kids and the community alike. The appeal to emotion is heavily present in image two, as Monsanto relies on making it known they are on the good side by showing positive images. Images like the family image at the bottom highlight good family values to draw on this emotion. The slogan you take your career to Monsanto you will make a difference and you can help change the (Monsanto Image 2) uses a strong emotional draw in an attempt to recruit new workers for the company. This company empowerment helps to strength the ties potential workers may have with the company as they feel like they are doing the right thing. Additionally, the use of kids as a potential selling point of the ad is an appeal to emotions of those who may have kids or strongly care about the wellbeing of kids. Furthermore, the appeal to logic is still there as the image 2 calls out to those who want to switch jobs and help the community at the same time. This argument serves as the basis for the rest of the images within the image to flow into and adds meaning for the second image. Emotional rhetorical appeals when used correctly can strongly influence the audience, which in this case is potential workers at Monsanto. By suggesting they will be helping others will working for Monsanto, the appeal to logic is present. Ethos as easy to come by in this picture but the one thing that does stand out in the second image is the use of the pictures to visually justifying the slogan as if to show it is being approved by the company. Finally, there is slight semblance of kairos present as the images and the quote you take your career to Fleming 4 Monsanto you will make a difference and you can help change the (Monsanto Image 2) seemed to imply that time is running up in applying. Considering the audience, the image makes sense to suggest the images claims that joining of Monsanto will be a positive experience for whoever wishes to switch occupations. To conclude, both the images featured in the paper, work for Monsanto in bettering their image and helping to paint the company in a positive light. Both images feature design elements in addition to rhetorical appeals to help Monsanto develop credibility, evoke emotion, and even create a sense of urgency for the audience viewing the advertisements. By using visual ads, the company works on altering their image beyond and try to show the company as more than this as apparent with the second image. Both images do strengthen the image of Monsanto using different elements and appeals throughout. The strength in the images lies not only with the rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, but also with the structure of the images and the fine details such as font color or style. Fleming 5 + Image 1- http://www.foodandpower.net/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/monsanto-logo.jpg Fleming 6 Image 2- http://www.monsanto.com/imagerotators/careers/1-careers-hero.jpg Works Cited Food and Power, .jpg, 2015. http://www.foodandpower.net/wp- content/uploads/2015/03/monsanto-logo.jpg , Accessed 5 March 2017 Monsanto, . jpg, http://www.monsanto.com/imagerotators/careers/1-careers- hero.jpg , Accessed 5 March 2017 Monsanto, Monsanto Company MarketLine Company Profile., 9/8/2016, p1-39. 39p Monsanto, We 2014. http://www.monsanto.ca/whoweare/Pages/default.aspx. Accessed 29 January 2017