Carver 1 Matt Carver James Josue ENC1102 19 March 2017 Repeal the Death Penalty The National Coalition Against the Death Penalty, or NCADP, is an organization whose main goal is to repeal the death penalty in the United States of America. The organization uses images like comics to convey their message and inform their targeted audience on why the U.S. should abolish capital punishment. Comic strips are easily accessible, simple to comprehend and because of the satirical humor often used in the pictures, they appeal to a very large and broad audience. Therefore, this style of imagery assists NCADP to better reach out and receive more widespread support. Image A primarily utilizes logos in a comic to explain the reasons why the U.S. should repeal the death penalty. On the other hand, image B is more pathos based in its visual rhetoric in order to make the audience feel stronger on the topic, thus hoping to provoke a response. Both images use separate means of appeals, yet still represent the stakeholder by appealing to a common audience through the use of ethos, pathos and logos in order to reach a common goal of ending capital punishment in the USA. NCADP utilizes visual and rhetorical appeals to illustrate their main goal of abolishing the death penalty and call the audience to action. NCADP pushes for the abolition of the death penalty due to expensive financial demands, immorality, the application of racial bias and most importantly to prevent innocent victims from Carver 2 being executed. The organization believes that killing people for any reason is immoral and even the worst criminals and murderers should not be put to death as a consequence for their wrongdoings. It is also stated that the crime deterrence of a life sentence with no parole is at least just as effective if not better than the death penalty, which is often viewed as an easy way out for some criminals (Gallup 2017). A life sentence with no parole forces an inmate to live out the rest of their life behind bars with no parole or chance of repeatedly appealing and leaving jail. Racial bias in the death penalty is observed from a study showing murderers who killed a white man were given the death sentence 2.5 times more than murderers who killed a black man. This gap broadens even more so when a white female is the victim; those murderers are given death sentences up to 5 times more often (NCADP 2016). Black people make up a significantly smaller portion of the population than whites, yet they receive the death penalty at a much greater rate. Image A uses visual and rhetorical elements to reach the goals set by NCADP, primarily by stating that the death row pricing is too expensive and the number of innocent victims on death row is too high to continue using the death penalty. Specifically, ethos is represented by providing contact information as well as the names of the publisher and author of the image. This gives the picture credibility because it is from an official and verified source. Conversely, the image supplies several logos, by the means of statistics and facts all illustrating why capital punishment is not worth the true moral and actual cost. Image A explicitly explains why the U.S.A. should repeal the death penalty, in a way which corresponds to motives and purpose. One reason NCADP and Image A give to repeal the death penalty is the significant gap in costs as seen in prisons such as the California state prison system. The housing costs are estimated at costing 137 million dollars for death row inmates opposed to approximately just 11.5 million dollars for life imprisonment inmates. Additionally, since 1973, 157 people have Carver 3 been released from death row (Death Penalty Information Center 2017). This results in an average of 3-4 people every year being falsely charged and released. To appeal to a broader audience, the image uses a combination of pathos and logos. Furthermore, this was used to explain that a few of the inmates from death row have been cleared by college students working on class projects, thus inferring that the faults in the system are all too often and even obvious at times. The claims about the death penalty favoring rich and lighter skinned people is reinforced through the image showing a man exclaiming everything tends to favor the wealthy whites. Similarly, pathos is conveyed through the characters in the image and since it is a comic strip the captions are comical, yet still focus on explaining why the death penalty work. For example, the price tags around the necks of prisoners show the true cost that taxpayers are burdened with due to the inflated death row pricing. The sad faces of the crowd of people below represent the 138 prisoners that were incarcerated on death row, but eventually exonerated due to their innocence. A caption utilized to comically demonstrate how crime deterrence work is do it!! You might get the death The caption is from a man confidently standing up to a masked killer, and the purpose of this is to comically convey how the death penalty does not effectively stop crime as proclaimed by its supporters. As previously stated, more people prefer a quicker and mostly painless death sentence, opposed to being locked in prison for life. Lastly, below the claim that capital punishment favors the rich and lighter skinned is a man saying This is used to appeal to all minorities and create something that most people can relate to and sympathize with. The reason for creating an image utilizing ethos, pathos and logos that work together in the image is to not only inform, but persuade and call readers to act on what they learn to make a change in the world. Carver 4 Image B conveys a strong message that racism was and still is present in the death penalty. The ethos present in the image is illustrated at the top of the picture stating that this is based on study in black and measuring the racial application present in the death penalty. This study ironically corresponds to the picture, because it only uses the colors black and white and shows a visible division between the two. However, pathos utilizes trigger phrases like for which is written on the image, to show the irony and failure of the justice system. The image is split in half and on the left side is a blind folded angel that gives life sentences to white people. On the other hand, the right side has the grim reaper giving death sentences to colored people. The scythe held by the grim reaper in order to bring death to colored people brings out tremendous fear. On the life sentencing side the background is completely white to symbolize innocence and purity. The white blind fold shows that the justice system is blind with racial bias, thus giving whites the privilege of life. Meanwhile, the death sentencing side has a darker background to represent a menacing look to symbolize guilt and evil. On the other hand, a brief presence of logos in the image is expressed through the image because it is based on a study. This gives it a strong logical appeal as well as shows that the suggested racial bias information is accurate and very real in the U.S.A. today. of color have accounted for a disproportionate 43 % of total executions since 1976 and 55 % of those currently awaiting execution. A moratorium of the death penalty is necessary to address the blatant prejudice in our application of the death (ACLU 2017). NCADP tries to persuade their audience that a revision needs to be made to the justice system to create a more balanced and equal punishment for all people across the nation. Both images use ethos, pathos and logos to reinforce the main purpose of the NCADP organization. The images show their legitimacy through the ethos appeal to credibility, pathos Carver 5 emotional call to action, and stating the facts of the argument through logos. Both images support and state many of the same facts as NCADP as well as show their own credibility, but what the images manage to do better is evoke emotion and call the audience to action through the illustrations. This helps accomplish what the sheer facts that NCADP provides fails to do. Combining the size and legitimacy of the organization with the images creates a stronger push in the battle to repeal the death penalty from the United States of America. Carver 6 Works Cited Abolish the Death  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Justice For Constitution center, https://constitutioncenter.org/interactive- constitution/amendments/amendment-viii. Capital  American Civil Liberties Union. Web. 08 Mar. 2017. Gallup, Inc. Support for Death Penalty  Gallup.com. 23 Oct. 2014. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Innocence: List of Those Freed From Death  Innocence: List of Those Freed From Death Row. Death Penalty Information Center. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Knight, Keith. the U.S. should repeal the death Death Penalty Info, http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/documents/FactSheet.pdf. Race and the Death  American Civil Liberties Union. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Carver 7 Image A Image B