Ferguson 1 Nathaniel Ferguson Professor Lay ENC 1102 March 12, 2017 The Use of Rhetorical Appeal on Football Helmet Safety Football players believe that football is a traditional sport and that football as dangerous as it seems. The NFL supports this belief by continuing to develop better football helmets to make the game safer. Additionally, rules are being changed every year to make the game safe. On the other hand, doctors believe that football is a dangerous sport because of the injuries and long-term health risk associated with the sport. Both stakeholders, the NFL and doctors, use the rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos through different types of multimedia to demonstrate their argument. The purpose of the image represents the view on the safety of football. This image displays football as a dangerous sport, and how injuries are so serious that some players even walk off the field on their own. The NFL uses the video as a representation of the new technology that is being developed to insure safety to the head. They believe that new football technology is being made up based on the knowledge of specific points of impact, helping to make the game safer. The use of rhetorical Ferguson 2 devices by both of the stakeholders in the video and the picture help to strengthen their arguments. The image, seen throughout different locker rooms in the NFL, shows emotion through the pain that the athlete is having. This image tries to help their viewers realize that football is a dangerous sport and how injuries, as seen in this image, are common. You can also see that the emotions are conveyed through their facial expressions on these football players. They also use pictures of players on the ground holding their head like they have a major headache. The poster haves multiple pictures of players laying on the ground, showing that they are hurt and can not even walk off the field on their own. The video shows emotion by talking about how hard doctors and specialist have worked to build up the safety of football helmets and players health. They have helped by putting so many hours into creating a safer helmet, and they have become emotionally invested. The doctor from Virginia Tech, who has been doing research and looking up new technology to make the game safer, feel like people are trying to take away what they worked so hard for. They also feel like helmets are safer than others think and the human body is tough and resilient. Combined with good equipment, good strong bodies, good coaching, safer rules, and good officiating, football can be a lot safer. Ferguson 3 The picture shows how ethical to help carry the injured player off the field, if he or she do it themselves. If the player is hurt to the point where he or she cant walk off the field on their own, he is carried off the field in a cart. This information is accurate because these pictures were taken right on the field shortly after the players hurt themselves. The National Football League (NFL), making the image a creditable source, published this. The video presents an ethical appeal by making better and safer helmets as the years go on. The video a college football doctor, who has multiple years of experience. He explains how they are putting sensors in the helmets, which allows them to track concussions and other traumas that a player might experience during the game. If a player is hit too hard, the helmet sensors pick up on this and the doctor can automatically check on him. This can help reduce the risk of future injuries, and prevent untreated injuries from causing any long-term injuries in the future. The doctors use this image to convey that football is dangerous, and therefore, it is not logical to play the sport. This image specifically shows the consequence of the dangerous sport, creating logos, a logical appeal against playing football by putting pictures of people holding there head crouched on the ground. They also use the slogan use your lead with Through this quote, they are basically saying that players use their head a lot to hit in football, which also creates a dangerous image in your head. In this video, a Ferguson 4 matter of common sense that if you continue to put sensors in the helmets and have safer rules, the game will become safer overall. This video specifically shows how the sensors are making it much easier for doctors to detect serious head trauma. Once a player has serious head contact, the sensors will alert the team doctor and then they will be able to decide if he can come back in the game, instead of the player trying to hide it. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness. The image displays words that urge the player to treat every head trauma seriously, and have it treated right away, instead of putting it off and continuing to play. In the video, the NFL shows how they have been developing helmets and the increasing the safety of them. This is perfect timing because the discussion about football helmet safety is becoming more of a concern. A lot of people feel like the issue needs to be addressed and the video proves that it is. The video shows that the sensors are used to help engineer a safer helmet. Since 2003, doctors have been monitoring the safety of football. The NFL believes that is an urgent issue, and they stress it in the video. The purpose of the image represents the view on the safety of football and how they feel about the sport. The video on the other hand shows how the NFL supports football beliefs by continuing to develop better football helmets and new technology to make the game safer but still entertaining. Both the NFL and doctors use the rhetorical appeals ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos through Ferguson 5 different types of multimedia to show their side of the argument and where they stand on football and the safety of the game. Ferguson 6 Work Cited Bancroft Follow. Bancroft Sports  LinkedIn SlideShare. NFL, 26 Sept. 2012. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https://www.slideshare.net/cseabo/bancroft-sports-concussions>.  NFL. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.nfl.com/videos/nfl- videos/0ap2000000095202/Health-of-the-game-Helmet-technology>. Ferguson 7