Han 1 ENC 1102 Intermediate draft Kyu Yeon Han 2/26/2017 Cover letter In this project2, I wanted to emphasize the negative effects of using anabolic steroids and the negative justice problems of using anabolic steroids. Before selecting the topic, I thought lots of topic lists and this topic was strongly related my hobby. I was a personal trainer in private training center for 3years. In that time, I saw many bodybuilders who used anabolic steroids. When I first saw that people, they look muscular and strong. However, they always got medical problems and psychological problems. One of my bodybuilder co-worker advised me, if you were not prepared bodybuilding contest, please do not use anabolic steroids. He said steroids could destroy entire life. A few years later, when I first came to the United States, I saw lots of people who used anabolic steroids in the gym. They also looked huge and strong, but I saw lots of negative skin problems related to them. So in this paper, I wanted to inform the negative effects of anabolic steroids to recommend people will not use anabolic steroids for their entire life. Also, I wanted to show the negative justice problems in sports competition when people used anabolic steroids. However, the topic is hard and complicated, so I was hard to compose my paper. Also, the essay forms are quite different when I was in my country, so I need to invest lots of time to come up with the paper. However, the peer review was helpful to fix for my final draft. Han 2 Negative effect of steroid Nowadays we can see lots of people who work out in the gym. They have several purposes for the workout. Some people want to get a beautiful body or to maintain their health for the future. However, some people who want to be pro bodybuilder used lots of supplement to gain muscle fast. In this process, they used an anabolic steroid which a group of organic compounds that are distinguished by a unique molecular arrangement of seventeen carbon atoms situated in four adjacent rings(stark 1). Anabolic Steroids boosted up the muscle recovery and gaining, so when the people used this substance, they will get incredible muscle growth for the future. For instance, when people used steroids, the recovery timetable is only 24 hours. However, the people who do not use steroids, the recovery timetable is 48hours. In this implied that if people used steroids can get more muscle when they get the same timetable. Also, steroids boosted up the human strength tremendously. For instance, if people who weighed 200pounds bench press dramatically get powered which weighed 300pounds bench press when they use anabolic steroids. However, this substance occurred lots of problems for the human body. Furthermore, steroids can destroy the justice of sports competition. In this paper, researcher discusses the negative health effect of anabolic steroids and the negative justice of sports competition. Anabolic steroids boost the muscle growth for all body parts. However, steroids also make the organism bigger than standard plant size, so when people used an anabolic steroid increase the heart size(Rob 23). This irregular big heart size makes serious problems for the future because when the heart size is getting bigger, the pump systems work well. Heart-pump systems are the most important part of the human body. Han 3 In 2013, the pro- bodybuilder nasser el sonbaty died in his house, the reasons of death was a severe heart attack, and the reason for heart attack was using lots of anabolic steroids to win the bodybuilding competition. His doctor interviewed on CNN after his funeral. The doctor had said before he came to the hospital, and when they checked the heart conditions, they found that his heart bump rhythm was so irregular compared to normal people. However, he still used anabolic steroids for the competition. Finally, he died. However, bodybuilder never thinks about this serious effect because they only focus on the result of competition. Moreover, the fan of bodybuilding always wanted bigger body and well- designed body, this means that if bodybuilders do not use steroids, they earn money. In this reason, many bodybuilders stop using anabolic steroids, and the results make bodybuilder died even if their age was young. Han 4 Steroids make serious justice problems in sports competition. Many athletics players are training hard to win the competitions. They use their entire time to increase their skills to win the competition. However, some players use anabolic steroids to beat the other players easily. For instance, Berry Bonds who was the baseball player in Major League baseball used lots of steroids to upgrade his individual records. However, many pitchers lost their positions because Berry Bonds broke their records. In addition to, many people love to watch the sports competition game with their family or friends. However, they lost interest in sports competition, because they heard lots of stories who used an anabolic steroid to win the competition. However, some people said that using steroids are not bad, because most of the players used secretly. However, if sports association do not ban the using anabolic steroids can occur serious justice problems because some players use anabolic steroids and Han 5 some players use anabolic steroids. The results are easy to prospect. The players who used anabolic steroids can easily win the competition, this cheating makes the sports games not reasonably and not enjoyable. All the fans of sports leave to watch the game, and the sports market will get serious financial problems for their future. The experts said that if doping association work well, the sports market lose 40percent of fans in the future(James 11). For the entire sports market, the doping association supposed to maintain their status. To sum up, anabolic steroids can make serious health problems for the human body. Many bodybuilders suffered serious heart problems and the other problems. However, they stop using anabolic steroids, because if they stop using anabolic steroid, they will lose their jobs. So in the future, bodybuilding industry need to change the paradigm for the healthy. Even if pro bodybuilder gains lots of money, human health is the most important part. Furthermore, the anabolic steroid can destroy the justice of sports competition, and the results make serious decreasing of sports market for the future. These negative effects can solve if the players use anabolic steroids. Also, doping associations are an effort to block the players who used anabolic steroids. Han 6 References Beamish, Rob. Steroids : A New Look at Performance-Enhancing Drugs. Santa Barbara, Calif. : Praeger, c2011., 2011. EBSCOhost, James, V. H. T. and J. R. Pasqualini. Hormonal Steroids : Proceedings of the Sixth International Congress on Hormonal Steroids. Kent : Elsevier Science, 2013., 2013. EBSCOhost, Stark, Sharon W., R.N., A.P.R.N., D.N.Sc., et al.  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science, January. EBSCOhost, , Han 7