Zierten 1 Emptying the Everglades People seem to forget that each species of plants and animals play a vital role in keeping ecosystems nourished. When a species becomes endangered or even extinct, the whole balance of these ecosystem is demolished. In 1967, an estimated ten million alligators were hunted for their skin and meat, making most renowned reptile to become enlisted as an endangered species. Poaching had diminished gator populations so intensely that the number of reptiles left was only in the thousands. History is repeating itself as the demand for alligator skins increases and the sport for hunting becomes popular yet again. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service must enforce that hunting alligators in reinstated as illegal due to the reasons of the population declination, the detrimental role gators play in an ecosystem, and immoral ideals involved in killing these reptiles. Kendall Zierten ENC 1102 Murray February 24 2017 Alligator populations were substantial for a few decades, but in recent years the population is yet again decreasing rapidly. Frank Mazzotti, wildlife ecologist at the University of Florida who has been tagging alligators for over 15 years, was one of the first people to notice the decrease in reptiles. Zierten 2 gator population there is now half of what you would expect in a healthy (Shaban 2014). This information was collected almost three years ago and action has yet to be taken, implying the populations are even more scarce. In the late alligators were pronounced repopulated enough to be removed from the endangered species act allowing people to hunt them for meat or for their profitable skin. Tourism plays a large role in alligators being killed or removed from their habitats. People often forget how dangerous these animals are and go into their habitats to feed and mess with them. Alligators that are used to being human fed usually become a nuisance and dwell around humans believing they will be fed. If an interaction becomes dangerous, then the alligators are usually killed or removed from their homes. If alligator populations become extremely low again like in the and partnering with habitat loss from human construction, then it is logically inevitable that the everglades will be dried out and exanimate. Zierten 3 The everglades have decreased half in size from its original documented size in the early Once spreading across four million acres, it now barely reaches two million. The size has shrunk due to the loss of habitat taken by humans, and the imbalance of species within the ecosystems.(Houston 2012). Being one of the top predators in Florida, the alligator poses a large impact by interaction and preying on other animals. the greatest the contribution the alligator makes the ecosystem and its inhabitants are that adults expand and create each year. These submerged depressions tend to stay full of water throughout the dry season and extended droughts, providing critical sustenance for fish, insects, snakes, turtles, etc., that inhabits the (Houston 2012). If these animals are now continuously to be hunted, a large factor in helping the everglades stay hydrated will be eliminated. Being the top water source for Florida residents, people will soon be effected by the loss of habitat and in result must pay for their actions. Aside from the physical consequences taking effect from killing these animals, an emotional effect comes in to play. There is a common misconception that reptiles do not have emotions or obtain high intelligence. Alligators have protective instincts, specifically mothers. Mother will watch over her young anywhere from six months to two years. During that time the babies will follow her wherever she goes. They follow her like ducklings following their mothers. This type of caring is not usually talked about with reptiles, but more common than you (repitilis.net) Photograph by Clayton Bownds Zierten 4 These animals form strong protective bonds over their young, and when separated the mothers become distressed and emotionally distraught. Separating a mother from her offspring is one of the most cruel and inhumane actions one can inflict on another. Furthermore, when a mother is hunted, her babies are left alone to die with no protection. Alligators bask and feed in groups working together to hunt and thrive as a family. Much like a pride of lions, they have a dominant male that protects the females and young of the group. Most likely the males are the ones hunted, being greater in size and providing more meat and skin. The females and the young are commonly left unprotected and exposed to other dangerous threats. Consequently, hunting alligators in the end benefits no one. These animals are being murdered, while the ecosystem is dying alongside. By enforcing alligator hunting to become permanently illegal, the wetland ecosystems will become replenished and conservation will enact. These reptiles will not be separated from their groups and the population can be once more restored. If action is not taken soon, not only will the alligators be suffering by becoming extinct, but people will begin to run out of natural resources. Zierten 5 Works Cited Houston, Terence. The American Alligator and Its Importance to the Florida  Ecological Society of America, 4 June 2012. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Jurassosaurus.  The Reptipage: The American Aligator Reptilis, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Shaban, Bigad. Killing the Alligators of the Florida  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 17 Nov. 2014. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.