Jessica 1 COVER LETTER How was Kairos incorporated in the essay? It is explained on the essay how the iconic image of a clown transitions from an icon of entertainment and laughter to an obscure and evil character. Many iconic clown characters were also mentioned as time passed. How was pathos incorporated in the essay? The dark and dramatic twist this iconic character took, from been a symbol of entertainment to tragedies linked to sexual harassment and murder, might make the audience feel uneasy (scared, angry, disgusted) about clowns and agree with my argument. Also, the counter argument presented on this essay might make the audience turn their perspective from the symbolic characters and sympathize with them (Joseph story). How was logos incorporated in the essay? Reliable sources were cited, and many points such as: Being careful when it comes to leaving kids in the care of a stranger and Not being able to know real intentions when playing a character among other logical points. How was ethos incorporated in the essay? Several reliable sources were cited on this paper. Likewise, real life events were mentioned. I already presented and turn in my second image (a white dog balloon covered in blood) Jessica 2 Jessica Beckford TJ Murray English Composition II ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Maniac Laughter Clowns have been around for many years, not exactly as the happy big nosed guy covered on makeup, but there has always been a comedian, joker, buffoon, and prankster persona in our society that loves to make their audience laugh. But who exactly is this person, and what is his real intentions? If familiar with the miniseries It by Stephen King, you would know that letting kids play around this character might not be a good idea; as Benjamin Radford said a mistake to ask when clowns go bad because they were never to begin (Macdonald 4). Everyone has a dark side, and clowns the exception. As the main portrayers of this sinister character, circuses must put a stop the advertisement of clowns, nobody likes bad jokes anyways. As years pass by, clowns are getting associated with dark and undertone figures related into tragedies and terrifying bizarre accidents., At the end of the day, as Dr. Martin Antony (professor of psychology at Ryerson University in Toronto) mentions, see clowns in those kinds of safe, fun contexts anymore. You see them in movies and scary. Kids are not exposed in that kind of safe fun context as much as they used to (McRobbie). But it just the media that portrays clowns as bizarre people, many real-life accidents have made the foolish character a no so friendly individual. A major French clown figure from Jessica 3 the Gaspard Pierrot, was convicted of a boy with a blow from his walking stick after the youth shouted insults at him on the (McRobbie 3). Another major figure that terrified the American public back in the was John Wayne Gacy, better known as Pogo. Gacy, a hardworking man who entertained in many community events, was found guilty from sexually assaulting and killing 33 men in Chicago. These accidents made clowns a disrupted figure for the public. most terrifying, is the idea that we are letting our children be surrounded by strangers capable of anything just because hidden behind a form of entertainment, as case, man already been convicted of a sexual assault on a teenage boy in 1968, was given access to children in his guise as an innocuous (McRobbie 4). Sure, not all clowns are sinister. image has transcended from an, symbol of fun, frivolity, and (McRobbie 3), to a terrifying figure associated with tragedy camouflaged on a goofy smile. Joseph Grimaldi, most famous clown character and iconic figure who inspired the vivid clown character we know today, had a tragic life himself. every laugh, he wrought from his audiences, suffered commensurate The idea that a character slowly destroys himself while giving joy to others shows how fragile people are and how easily it is to disassociate a real person from his/her character, living under a mask (think about famous actor Robin Williams). However, it is hard to not question under all the makeup and wonder what happens in the personal life of a person that purposely humiliates himself for the joy of others. If we put it into context, the idea of getting entertained, mostly kids, by a stranger playing a different character under a mask is terrifying. On a study made by psychologists, Francis McAndrew and Sara Koehnke from Knox College in Illinois, Jessica 4 results concluded that, person is creepy if we are uncertain about whether he or she is someone to (Macdonald 6). Although circuses are home for this form of entertainment peculiarly appealing to our younger generations with the development of new technology entertainment has been incorporated into our hands and live performances foolish acts as fascinating as it used to be back in the old days. Nowadays, and jumping try to amuse the eye, but rather manages to give birth to troubled astonishment and emotions of (Macdonald 7). In fact, Hippodrome circus banned his clowns, as the owner of the circus justifies, show has gone from strength to strength without unfunny and quite frankly scary clowns, so the only place you will see them is in our museum (Carding) People love to laugh, human nature. We all like to occasionally laugh, it reduces our stress and relaxes us; the pleasure of laughter. When it comes to humor, for some reason looking at others fail, fall, or even getting hurt makes us giggly, but putting our safety comes first and Jessica 5 although clowns may be only seen as a joke, as John Wayne Gacy said, clowns can get away with (McRobbie 4). Shutterstock. Clown in the JPEG FILE. Jessica 6 Works Cited Carding, Nicholas, Neville Yardy, Dogwood Road, Old Catton, Geraldine Scott, David Hannant, George Ryan, and Dominic Gilbert. No more clowning around as Hippodrome Circus bans  Great Yarmouth Mercury. N.p., 17 Oct. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Macdonald, Fiona Culture A Surprising History of The Creepy BBC News. BBC, 19 Oct. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. McRobbie, Linda Rodriguez. History and Psychology of Clowns Being Smithsonian.com. Smithsonian Instituting, 31 July 2013. Web. 25. Fe. 2017. Shutterstock. Clown in the JPEG FILE. Photograph: Shutterstock Creepy Clown in the Woods