Andreucci Cover Letter In this essay, Ethos, Logos, Pathos and Kairos were used through images and writing. Ethos is used in the Introduction through an image. In fact, the image shows three teenagers eating fast food. Each teenager is from a different race and this shows how eating fast food is a phenomenon that afflicts many people in the United States regardless of their race or ethnicity, making fast food consumption a problem that afflicts all of society. This picture shows ethos because it highlights the credibility of the topic chosen, since it depicts people eating fast food around a table, showing that this is a real problem. An example of the use of another rhetorical appeal can be found in the second paragraph of the paper where the amount of people that use drive-through on a daily basis was reported. This is an example of Logos because an empirical data was used to prove a point. In the third paragraph, Kairos is used when it is stated that fast food ingredients have increased their popularity over time, and have become some of most popular ingredients in the Western diet over the past 20 years. Pathos was used in the fourth paragraph through a collage image that shows two overweight children eating fast food. One of them looks sad and tired, while the other one looks overly excited by what he is eating. These two images show the before and after of eating fast-food. When sugars kick in one feels energetic and overly excited; however, afterwards, during the digestion process, one feels overly tired and fatigued. The other two images of the collage challenge the reader to think critically of the harm that fast food is doing to our planet and to many animals that are exploited for their meat, drugged their whole life before being brutally killed. Andreucci 1 Marianna Andreucci Theodore Murray ENC1102 19 March 2017 The Influence of Fast Food on the Human Body and Society Easily accessible, cheap, tasty, and quick. These are the first positive adjectives that come to mind when thinking about fast food. However, this type of food does not only have positive attributes. The tastiness, the rapidity, and the affordability of fast food comes at a price, and this price is health. Fast food chains serve low-quality, processed, and unhealthy food that could be detrimental for an individual if eaten daily (Myles 2). The question that comes to mind when thinking about fast food then is: do the positives of eating it regularly outcome the negatives? The answer, on a health stand-point, is no; yet, according to many studies performed on the consumption of fast food in the United States, many Americans seem to disagree with this statement. The reason being that fast food is easily accessible, it is convenient, and it is quite inexpensive (Pirello). Fast food is so popular that every day more than a quarter of all Americans will eat at fast food restaurants (Pirello). Because of these reasons, the Western Diet is characterized by an over consumption of refined sugars, saturated fats and salts (Myles 1). Therefore, the largest and the unhealthiest American fast food chains such as Donuts, Chick-fill-A, Burger King, and Taco Bell should be required by law to use healthier and higher-quality ingredients, and lower the dosage of sodium, chemicals, and saturated fats in their products. Andreucci 2 Fast food plays a key-role in the current American Society. In fact, the American Society is a society where time and productivity are essential, and many aspects of the average American daily life are fast-pace. Time management has become crucially important to keep up with the work-load given at school and at many regular jobs. Many individuals must give up on many personal (Picture taken from The Healthy Archive) activities to keep up with the fast-pace rhythm of our civilization. Some of the activities that are needed to be set aside include having the time to Andreucci 3 cook a meal, having lunch or dinner at home and going grocery shopping regularly. Since many Americans do not have time to do these activities, fast food restaurants are loved by all the busy and hard-working Americans because they are fast and inexpensive. Especially, the drive-through option available in many fast food chains enables individuals to pick up food while driving to places. Based on the structure of the American Society, it is no surprise that 50 to 70 percent of all fast food orders come from a drive- through window (McDonnell). (Picture top left taken from Odyssey Online. Picture top right taken from Linked in. Picture bottom left taken from The Odyssey Online. Picture bottom right taken from Greatist.) Drive-through is not the only way in which fast food companies are changing the life style of many Americans; in fact, the amount of food and the quality of food eaten is being majorly changed by the over consumption of fast food. For Andreucci 4 example, study shows that, among ninth graders, a fast food restaurant within 0.1 miles away from their school results in a 5.2 percent increase in obesity rates (Currie 34). Additionally, a fast food restaurant 0.5 miles away from the house of a pregnant women will increases their chances of gaining over 20 kilos during pregnancy (Curries 34). The quality of fast food ingredients is also not getting better over time; on the contrary, it is getting worse. Nowadays, the average Western diet is characterized by omega-6 fatty acids, an overuse of salt, and a high amount of refined sugar, which are all ingredients that became popular in the past 20 years (Myles 1). These unhealthy ingredients which are highly used in fast food products are starting to become the main source of calories found in The Western diet (Myles 4). These ingredients, if not used in moderation, will damage kidneys, heart, and immune system. (Myles 1). One of the main ingredients in fast food is Hydrogen Oil. This ingredient is used in cookies, breads, chips, fried foods and salad dressing. Hydrogen oil contributes to buildup of cholesterol and it can cause plaque in the arteries because it is a saturated fat, which is the unhealthiest type of fat Fast Food Will Kill You: Here - ). Another widely used ingredient that is low quality is the meat that fast food chains serve. Low quality meat can be extremely unhealthy because it contains Antibiotics, Toxins and hormones. The buildup of Antibiotics in the meat and the intake of other types of drugs from the animal during its short life (Picture taken from Boise Weekly) Andreucci 5 can cause the human organs to get intoxicated, and even to collapse. Low quality beef can also favor the development of cancerous cells, as well as building up antibiotic resistance Fast Food Will Kill You: Here ). Industries also implant cows with hormones, some of them synthetic, to fatten the cow before it is slaughtered. Studies from the FDA have found that the hormonal intake of the cows can speed up the sexual development of girls and increase their chance to develop breast cancer Do Hormones in the Food Supply Affect the Human ). The compound that affects growth in girls is called Zeranol, an endocrine destructor that blocks estrogen levels causing growth abnormalities Do Hormones in the Food Supply Affect the Human ). Some people may argue that fast food chains are not supposed to change the quality of their ingredients because this will make fast food more expensive, and it will make the food less tasty. However, even if the food may cost more on average, it would still be worth it to improve the quality of the ingredients used. One positive instance where this happened is in the European Union, where low quality U.S. beef has been banned to protect human health Do Hormones in the Food Supply Affect the Human ). (Picture top left taken from The Christian Science Monitor. Picture top right taken from Medical Daily. Picture bottom left taken from Taringa. Picture bottom right taken from Mother Earth News.) Andreucci 6 Additionally, fast food would not necessarily taste worse but it could instead taste better with fresher and healthier ingredients, and it would not damage the human body. This change, which may not be profitable or easier for the big industries, would increase the life-span of many people that cannot afford or do not have the time to cook at home. In conclusion, the ingredients used in fast foods do not only harm a singular individual but an entire society. Additionally, the harm does not stop at the societal level because fast food highly pollutes the environment and it overly kills many species of animals, that spend their lives in cages being drugged. To change the fast food obsession, it is useful to think critically of the damages that one is provoking on own body and on the environment when buying and consuming fast food. This effort should be done collectively and education should play a key role in sensitizing people on this topic. On the other hand, the effort cannot only be done by the consumers, but it should also be done by the fast food providers on a larger scale. This change should include the use of healthier ingredients without altering the price of the food. This would cause the negative impact that fast food has on society not to last because higher standard for nutrition would be reached, and this would ultimately save the life of many Americans. Andreucci 7 Works Cited Allen, Aaron. LinkedIn: Log In or Sign Up, 27 Jan. 2016, www.linkedin.com/pulse/mcdonalds neglected-drive-thru-starbucks-chick-fil-a-exploited-allen. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Anti GMO Foods and Fluoridated Water: 6 Cosmetic Chemicals in Fast  Anti GMO Foods and Fluoridated Water, 12 June 2013, antigmofoods.blogspot.com/2013/06/6-cosmetic chemicals-in-fast-food.html. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Audiomatrix, Inc. Drive  Audiomatrix, audiomatrixinc.com/product/drive-thru/. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Bodzin, Steven, et al. Obesity Weighing on America Latin America, That is  The Christian Science Monitor, 4 Sept. 2012, www.csmonitor.com/World/Americas/2012/0904/Obesity-weighing-on-America-Latin America-that-is. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Currie, Janet, et al. The Effect of Fast Food Restaurants on Obesity and Weight  American Economic Journal, vol. 2, no. 3, Aug. 2010, pp. 34-68. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Do Hormones in the Food Supply Affect the Human  Healthy Eating SF Gate, healthyeating.sfgate.com/hormones-food-supply-affect-human-body-2194.html. Dollman, Kat. Healthy Food, Healthy  Odyssey, 1 Aug. 2016, www.theodysseyonline.com/healthy-food-healthy-life. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Fast Food Will Kill You: Here -  500 - Internal Server Error, Gould, Emily. Why Fast Food Workers Deserve More Than What  Odyssey, 29 July 2015, www.theodysseyonline.com/minimum-wage. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Haqqi, Ty. 16 Biggest Fast Food Chains in the  Insider Monkey, 5 Oct. 2015, www.insidermonkey.com/blog/16-biggest-fast-food-chains-in-the-us-375127/12/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Healthy Cooking  Greatist, greatist.com/healthy-cooking-tips. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Andreucci 8 McDonnell, Steve. What Percentage of Sales Are From Drive Through Windows at Fast Food Restaurants?  Small Business - Chron.com, Chron, smallbusiness.chron.com/percentage-sales-drive-through-windows-fast-food-restaurants 75713.html. Maneras Desagradables De Hacer Los Imagen @MrCheetah En  Taringa! Inteligencia Colectiva, www.taringa.net/MrCheetah/mi/czj92. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Myles, Ian A. Fast food fever: reviewing the impacts of the Western diet on  Myles Nutrition Journal, vol. 61, no. 13, 2014, pp. 1-17, Web. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Pirello, Christina. How Fast Food Has Changed Our  One Green Planet, 10 Mar. 2012, www.onegreenplanet.org/vegan-health/how-fast-food-has-changed-our-nation/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Prendice, George. Got Milk? Got Drugs? Got Both?: State Responds After Idaho Dairy Cattle Test Positive in Food Safety Tests High Levels of Antibiotics and Other Drugs Found in Cattle Linked to Dairies  Boise Weekly, 6 Apr. 2011, www.boiseweekly.com/boise/gotmilk-got-drugs-got-both-state-responds-after-idaho-dairy cattle-test-positive-in-federalgood-safety-tests/Content?oid=2174048. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Robinson, Jo. What You Need to Know About The Beef Industry - Homesteading and Livestock MOTHER EARTH  Mother Earth News, www.motherearthnews.com/homesteading-and-livestock/beef-industry-zmaz08fmzmcc. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Weller, Chris. Kids In Fast Food-Heavy Areas More Often Obese: To Blame, The Drive Thru Or The  Medical Daily, 13 Feb. 2014, www.medicaldaily.com/kids-fast-food heavy-areas-more-often-obese-whos-blame-drive-thru-or-driver-269245. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017.