Jade Geftman ENC 1102 James Josue 16 March, 2017 The Cross and Star of David significance In modern culture, images have become a significant component of the world we live in. Images inspire, encourage, create, depress, change, and break people and situations never thought possible. Images leave a lasting impression on the viewer whether good or bad. Images provide a sense of credibility, emotion, and time. The image of the cross and the Star of David have been known for multiple centuries. The colors and shapes, to the meanings and history of these images have a significant impact on the way these images are viewed. They have created a perspective on time which is rare in images of this style. Images are powerful and in these images specifically, we can develop a perspective on the most commonly asked questions about the purpose of life. These images use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, and Kairos to demonstrate the impact and create a sense of importance of these symbols. These images can change mood simply with the shapes and give us insight into the way these images impact the human brain and heart in the simplest ways. The image of the cross uses many resources to catch the eye of the viewer. As the image of the Star of David appears, it can be viewed in a variety of ways because of its history. The Star of David symbol not only represents the religion of Judaism but it reveals the meaning of a more historical context. In the image of the cross, the photographer uses ethos which is credibility of the source or information given within the text or image. The cross is a symbol Geftman 1 known around the world and it means something different to each viewer. According to a successful writer and producer Bill Chappell, As of 2010, Christianity was by far the largest religion, with an estimated 2.2 billion adherents, nearly a third (31 percent) of all 6.9 billion people on (Chappell 1). This proves just how many eyes are on this image creating a variety of meanings and perspectives. This statistic may seem large but this does not consider the perspectives of nonbelievers or the multiple opinions by people from different countries around the world. The image of the Star of David shows evidence of using ethos by demonstrating the historical meaning behind it. As commonly known, Hebrew name for the symbol a hexagram formed by two overlapping triangles, one pointed upward and the other downward comes from its supposed resemblance to King (Shnidman 1). To followers of the Jewish faith this could be significant because the symbol then became something more relevant to their religion as stated by writer Ronen Shnidman use of the Star of David as a Jewish symbol only became widespread in 17th-century Europe, when it was used displayed on synagogues to identify them as Jewish places of (Shnidman 1). But to nonbelievers this could simply remain the original purpose of the shied of David. The image of the cross also provides a sense of pathos which is the appeal of emotion such as joy or sadness. The image and symbol of the cross to Christian believers can activate a sense of joy in the thought of Christ and the forgiveness and mercy He provides. Or sadness if the first thought is the crucifixion and how Jesus was said to have died on the cross for our sins. To nonbelievers this may create a sense of wonder because they seem to hear of religion all around them yet they remain unsure of where they will go after they die. In this specific image, the word Jesus is implemented in the shape of the cross. This clearly represents the most significant meaning behind the image which is Jesus Christ dying on the cross. When people see Geftman 2 the cross they often think of God which is correct according to Christian beliefs but essentially, it is about Jesus (though to Christians they are the same).The symbol of the Star of David may appeal to Jewish emotions by causing the viewer to remember the place in which they see it most, in the place where they worship which may introduce the feeling of happiness if they associate that place with family, friends, or community, or sadness if they associate that place with confession or a place to mourn. Because this symbol is shown often, nonbelievers do not commonly know the meaning behind it. To nonbelievers it could simply mean nothing and initiate no emotion. This image of the cross also uses Kairos which is the appeal of time. Using time can be very significant in that emotions and/or credibility can stem from it. When a believer or even nonbeliever looks at this image and begins to think about time, they think of God or Jesus. Within this comes the thoughts of Heaven or Hell which can make the image compelling to anyone. The wonder for a nonbeliever, or assurance for a believer but this aspect of Kairos makes a significant difference in the way we view the image but also the world we live in and causes the viewer to ask or there There is a growing population of beliefs in the world but some must consider those who believe in any God, are approximately 450-500 million non-believers in God worldwide, which amounts to about 7% of the global adult (Zuckerman 1). This shows where the aspect of wonder is common throughout viewers. Without that a believer has when looking at the image of the cross, the atheist would begin to wonder how the world did come to be or where they would go after they die. Although the image of the Star of David is very different from the image of the cross, it uses the same concept of Kairos in creating the sense of wonder as being a symbol of religion and could be the answer to the questions commonly asked happens Geftman 3 Rhetorical appeals actively engage the audience, reader, or viewer in a unique way. Using these resources to catch the attention of the viewer in these images of the cross and Star of David can mean so much to a follower of either religion. The use of ethos, pathos, and Kairos within these images is essentially the only way the message being told would be heard. They catch the eye of all people in such a variety of ways but it would be impossible to create an image with no use of rhetorical appeals and they become significantly helpful in these images specifically. These images can substantially make an impact on the view of the purpose of life. These images represent just a couple of ways someone could answer that question to themselves about the purpose of life. They introduce the questions, contemplate the questions, and answer the questions for some people. Because there are so many religions today, it is difficult for someone to view one of these images and know what they mean or make up their mind about the topic but these images still provide a way of wonder and questioning and contribute to the opinion and perspective of a believer of one of these religions or nonbeliever. Geftman 4 Works Cited Chappell, Bill. Muslim Population Will Surpass Christians This Century, Pew  NPR. NPR, 02 Apr. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Shnidman, Ronen. The Star of David: More than just a symbol of the Jewish people or Nazi  Haaretz.com. N.p., 17 Feb. 2014. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Zuckerman, Phil. How Many Atheists Are  Psychology Today. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Geftman 5