Smith 1 Andrew Smith Mr. James Josue ENC 1102 February 22 2017 Get paid and not played The debate on whether or not college athletes should be paid has two main stakeholders. One of them is the NCAA whose main goal is to provide opportunity for over 400 thousand student athletes. The other stakeholder is the student athletes themselves whose main goal is to simply play college sports. These student athletes feel like they should be paid for their efforts but the NCAA claims that it is against their regulations to do such a thing. In the first image which is the tweet from the well-known broadcaster Dick Vitale, he is sarcastically congratulating the NCAA president on Twitter. The purpose of this image is to explain that although the NCAA is nonprofit, the members of the organization still make a lot of money. He is saying that some of this money should be given back to the athletes since they were the ones who earned it. In the second image, two college athletes are pulling a car that symbolizes the NCAA. The athletes complain about not getting any money or gifts or endorsements for their efforts. Basically, the pictures is saying that college athletes are responsible for the success of the NCAA, but they do not get any compensation or reward for their efforts. The purpose of these two images is to show how the NCAA uses its student athletes in an unfair manner in order to make money through the use of symbolism and rhetorical appeals. In the first image, Dick Vitale tweets about how much money the president of the NCAA makes and how some of that money should go towards the athletes themselves. By stating the Smith 2 fact that the President Mark Emmert made 1.6 million dollars on his last paycheck, the image successfully appeals to logos. The point of this appeal is to make it known, exactly how much the NCAA president makes. But he the only staff member who makes a lot of money. According to the NCAA, the organization has over 1000 workers/members (NCAA, 2017). But yet, they still claim to be a nonprofit organization. Another appeal to logos in the image is in the bottom left corner. It shows that Dick tweet has 451 retweets and counting. In the picture, there is also an appeal to ethos, or credibility. Dick Vitale is famous enough to get that many retweets so he must be a credible source. It also shows that at least 451 people agree with his statement making the purpose of the image even more credible. But his credibility does not stop there. In 2008, he was nominated for the fourth time to be enshrined into the basketball hall of fame and this time, he finally got the award (ASA, 2011). This is one of the highest awards in basketball and is only given to those who make tremendous contributions to the game. There is also an appeal to pathos in the image when he states, about the kids that pay his (image 1).This is kind of a low blow to the NCAA but it most importantly sends out sympathy to the student athletes. Without them, Mark Emmert be making money. The final appeal in this image is the appeal to Kairos. The last sentence in the image ends with an exclamation point which adds urgency to the image. Something needs to be done soon because the current situation is outrageous. As far as symbolism goes, there is not really any of it in the image. There is however satire that is present in the first sentence of the tweet. By congratulating the President for making so much money, Mr. Vitale is able to make him look like a bad guy for getting so much money and not giving any of it to the people that helped him get it. But overall, this image is very Smith 3 effective in creating the sense of emotional urgency that is needed to try to make a difference. It uses facts and credibility to state the point that student athletes deserve to be paid. In the second image, there are two people labeled student athletes that are pulling a car that represents the NCAA. The two student athletes in the image are big guys but they have small heads. This represents the way that the NCAA views the athletes. They only care about their athletic ability, not about making them more intelligent. And since many athletes only go to school for smarts and not academics, the NCAA thinks that they are stupid and that they can take advantage of them. This image also has a few rhetorical appeals in it. It appeals to pathos because it shows two athletes having to pull a car. The ironic thing about this is that a car should not have to be pulled by someone because it has an engine and it can drive itself. This shows how the NCAA uses its athletes to make money. According to Money Nation, the NCAA makes over a billion dollars a year and the student athletes make zero (Tom Gerencer, 2016). But back to the appeal to pathos. Showing the students struggle to pull a thousand pound car makes people feel bad for them. And like stated above, the car does not need help to move so the fact that they are using the students as basically slaves, make the drivers of the car look really bad. This image also appeals to Kairos by creating a sense of urgency. If action is not taken soon, then the athletes will have to continue to pull this car that represents the NCAA. This is not fair to the athletes who are responsible for all the money that the NCAA is making. In conclusion, these two images selected help to show how the NCAA uses its student athletes to make them money. In the first image, Dick credibility along with the appeal to pathos, Kairos, and logos helps to support my thesis. In the second image, there is a lot Smith 4 of symbolism to compare the student duties to those of slaves. This image also appeals to Kairos and to pathos by making people feel bad for the athletes. Smith 5 Work Cited the NCAA. http://www.ncaa.org/about. N.D. Vitale voted into Basketball Hall of American Sportscasters Association. http://www.americansportscastersonline.com/vitalehalloffame.html. N.D. Gerencer, Tom. Much Money Does the NCAA Money Nation. http://moneyna tion.com/how-much-money-does-the-ncaa-make/. March 22 2016 Smith 6 https://evanwatermolen.wordpress.com/2014/05/08/getting-played-or-getting-paid-injustices-in- college-athletics/