Moran 1 In this paper, I decided to write about why we should get rid of the pennies. The idea came when I received pennies as change and realized how useless these coins are. In my paper, I tried my best to include the rhetorical appeals to make my argument stronger. Logos is very apparent. The reasons included are just logical. It makes sense to get rid of the penny when it cost the US more and is harmful to the environment. As for pathos, this essay does not really have any. Besides the fact that pennies are harmful, there is nothing to this argument that hits emotions. Next, ethos was included in the particular sources. Giving the sources credibility strengths the argument and is more convincing to the audience. Lastly, kairos is included in the last paragraph. If the action is taken now, the change will also start happening right now. Moran 2 Michaela Moran TJ Murray ENC 1102 19 March 2017 A World Without Pennies Have you ever been in line checking out at a store and had someone in front of you pay entirely in pennies? Well, as one can imagine because a penny is only worth one cent, less than even the tax on the items, this can take forever. Frustrating to the cashier and the customers behind, it is just overall annoying. Pennies were the first coin created by the US Mint centuries ago. It may be this reason that makes some people feel the need to hold onto these copper coins so tight. However, the debate continues on whether these coins that hold so much of our history should be eliminated from our coin system completely or if we should continue using them. For money and environmental reasons, the US Mint should stop producing pennies. Moran 3 To begin, the penny costs more money to produce than it is actually worth. It seems irrational to keep the penny if the government is spending more money to produce it. According to an article in The Wall Street Journal, cost to produce the 1-cent coin rose to 1.5 cents in the 2016 fiscal year, Mint spokesman Tom Jurkowsky said. the first time costs have been up since 2011, but still just the latest in a string of losses for the most abundant but least valuable coin in (Sparshott 2016). It has been years since the penny was worth more than it costs. As the price continues to increase, getting rid of the penny all together will save the government money. Furthermore, the production of pennies is actually harmful to the environment. The process of getting the metal for these pennies and the metals themselves cause pollution. A popular bike chain in California has actually stopped accepting and using pennies. The store states: Making pennies wastes natural resources and is toxic to people and the environment pennies are 3% copper, 97% zinc and primarily made from virgin ore. Making pennies from zinc and copper means mining for those materials. Red Dog mine, which is the largest zinc mine in the U.S. by far is the number 1 polluter on the list, because of the large quantities of 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 Cost Worth Cents Cost vs. Worth of Penny https://img.washingtonpost.com/wp- apps/imrs.php?src=https://img.washingtonpost.com/blo gs/wonkblog/files/2014/12/cost.png&w=480 Moran 4 heavy-metal and lead rich mining tailings. The process of refining both metals can release sulphur dioxide, lead and zinc into the environment (Alter 2011). This data alone explains the risks and harmful effects of making pennies. Since pennies are produced in large quantities, putting a halt on this production, will be very beneficial to the environment. To continue, pennies weigh down our pockets and wallets. Almost every purchase one makes with money instead of using a credit card, includes pennies. Whether you are fishing in your pockets for that one penny or if you are receiving pennies as change from your purchase, they are annoying. In the image to the right, a wallet filled with pennies is shown. This wallet is full and there is no room for any other money. All together, these pennies do not even amount to more than one single dollar. On the other hand, even with all the obvious reasons to eliminate the penny, there still are people who believe we should keep the penny in our money system. According to Americans for Common Cents, non supporters believe, will lead to a as stores manipulate their prices to ensure that transactions are always rounded up instead of down (Headley The government can issue a law that requires a certain cent amount to be rounded down, while another value is rounded up. This will eventually even out and account for what pro-penny Moran 5 supporters believe will cost them more. In addition, as stated earlier, pennies are costing us more money and that money comes from the people of America. Therefore, getting rid of pennies will actually save Americans more money. All in all, the penny should no longer be produced in America. Pennies are not only hurting our wallets, but also weighing them down. Pennies take up so much room and are just overall useless to everyone. If the US Mint stops the production of pennies now, both the American people and the environment will reap the benefits. Hence, eliminating the penny is a step in the right direction for making America a better place. Work Cited Alter, Lloyd. Time To Ditch The Penny; It Is Useless and Bad For The TreeHugger. N.p., 17 June 2011. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Headly, Susan. The Great Penny Debate: Should We Keep Producing the  The Spruce. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Ingraham, Christopher. It Cost 1.7 Cents to Make a Penny This Year, and 8 Cents to Make a The Washington Post. WP Company, 15 Dec. 2014. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. Sparshott, Jeffrey. The Penny Cost More to Make Than Worth,  The Wall Street Journal Eastern Edition, 2016, p. 2. EBSCOhost, Moran 6 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.475231527&site=eds-live.