Ethos- To create creditability I added two sources that describes depression and a few treatment tactics that were either created or reviewed by a medical doctor. Pathos- The first picture along with the break down in the first body paragraph should have made the reader feel happy or sad and understand how depression can affect how you view the world. Logos- As I make a claim of how images and the different ways to interact with them, I provide examples to have the reader experience it firsthand. If the various examples did not affect the reader then they discard the information, but if it worked in in anyway as intended then logistically it can work outside the paper. Kakos- Was this an appropriate time to write a paper about depression and different ways to cope with it along with a few of its symptoms. Over 350 million people are reportedly suffering from depression and anxiety allowing this paper to appear at an appropriate time. My header and title is purposely positioned to draw the attention of the white triangle because an interactive example will appear in the paper about it. In my first body paragraph I wanted to present my source and use a deductive approach. If I had decided to create a topic sentence, list my interactive examples, then introduce my source then the order will confuse the reader as to what was going on and possibly not understand why the paragraph was mostly questions and directions. My source works as a topic sentence as I make sure my entire paragraph revolves around what it says. The paper was meant to look like a section of a medical magazine that informs and demonstrates how to stray from depressive state with the help of engaging and beautiful picures. Leriche 1 http://www.mrwallpaper.com/ wallpapers/path-autumn- forest-1600x900.jpg Nancy Leriche ENC 1102 Theodore Murray February 26, 2017 The Light in A Dark Place Leriche 2 According to Ann Pietrangelo, who wrote a factual article about depression that was medically reviewed by George T. Krucik, 350 million people worldwide suffers from Millions of people are feeling as if they are empty, irritable and have a lack of interest for weeks at a time (Pietrangelo). With so many people suffering from depression, drug free coping mechanism should be considered to relieve or decrease symptoms such as anxiety or stress. People suffering from depression should make effort to viewing positive and beautiful pictures to lift their spirits and mood. Viewing images and having something positive to focus on and interact with can help a person from slipping into a negative state of mind. In the article at pictures: Affective, Facial, Visceral, and Behavioral in the book Psychophysiology, colored images that varied in different pleasing and exciting elements produces physiological and emotional responses from subjects (Lang 261). Seeing action pictures can create excitement and viewing a beautiful scenery can calm a person down. Did you notice the cover was missing a triangle on the side and was filled with bubbles? After looking for the non-existent bubbles, did you not feel a bit calmer after looking at the beautiful scenery? Images can cause a person to feel various emotions such as happy or sad and calm or excited. Try looking at only the bottom half of the image which is also Figure A. Are the dark colors making you feel Horse, Gorilla, Dog, Cat, and Mouse Is It Just An Elephant? A B Situations and harsh circumstances will come during various parts of your life that will cause you to feel empty or incomplete. Instead of paying attention the negative parts of your life, make the best of what you have. The picture to the left is an elephant who could add multiple animals to his negative space. Below the image is a list of animals that was created through the space that helps create the large dark elephant. The next time you think something as large as an elephant took over your entire life, think outside the box and create a better perspective with the negatives. Latest Free Wallpapers 1 Finding Hidden Animals in Picture Brain 1 Leriche 3 sad and/or lonely? Now try the top half which is also Figure B. Did you feel like you were in better spirits compared to the darker image? Images can often lift your spirits when you are in a negative state of mind. For many people who suffer from depression, slipping into a negative state of mind is far easier than thinking rationally and being filled with joy. Melania Juntii summarizes a research that performs an experiment about interactive methods which results in reducing depression and anxiety. Such interactions can alter a negative thinking process and allow them to set goals to get them through the day (Juntii). Negative thinking can have a person feeling as if they must blame themselves for everything that goes wrong. A person can feel as if he or she is the black diamond above. Close your eyes and imagine a place you have always wanted to visit, and then the exact scenery that will guarantee a smile to be put on your face. Interacting with the black diamond and focusing on something positive can relieve anxiety and remove negative thoughts. Whether you like pictures that make you think, imagine, or engage, remember the purpose is to relieve anxiety and create positive thoughts. Have you notice all the metaphors in this short article? Or did realize how many times you have interacted with the images presented? Did you feel yourself gaining hope that a positive outcome can be formed regardless of your empty or negative thoughts? Depression does not define who you are, so the next time you feel yourself slipping, search for positive and beautiful pictures to focus on. Make a poem or think outside the box with that beautiful picture, and lift your spirits because a better day will come. Tunnel of Trees 1 The storm will pass, the sun will rise, the clouds will pass, the sun will shine. Leriche 4 Works Cited Finding Hidden Animals in Picture Brain Teaser. Digital image. Funwithpuzzles. Blogger, 18 Apr. 2014. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <http://www.funwithpuzzles.com/2014/04/interesting- brain-teasers-to-challenge.html>. Juntti, Melaina. These Apps Were Built to Treat Depression - And They May Actually  Journal. Journal, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lang, Peter J., et al. Looking at pictures: Affective, facial, visceral, and behavioral  Psychophysiology 30.3 (1993): 261-273. Latest Free  Free Wallpapers. MrWallpapers, 2 Apr. 2016. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. <http://www.mrwallpaper.com/wallpapers/path-autumn->. Marbury, Kate. Tunnel of Trees. Digital image. BlogSpot. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://1.bp.blogspot.com/- 2BTrees%2B4.jpg>. Pietrangelo, Ann. Depression and Mental Health by the Numbers: Facts, Statistics, and  Healthline. Healthline Media, 28 Jan. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.