Stewart 1 March 19, 2017 To Whom It May Concern, When writing this paper, I aimed to shed light on how verbal abuse can and does hurt as much as physical abuse. I championed the idea that the act of verbal abuse should be criminalized because of the long-lasting effects it has on its victims. The thesis of this paper is of the emotional and mental toll verbal abuse has on the victim, which leads to lack of confidence and the individual distancing themselves from love ones, the United States government should criminalize this Through the images used and created I aimed to use the different rhetorical appeals. I used Logos to create a convincing argument in the comic strip for example when the teacher told Amber she was his star pupil. Pathos which is peppered throughout the paper in the use of verbal abuse and the effects it has emotionally on the victim, in this case Amber. The use of Ethos was seen in the teacher and mentor on how smart Amber is and they capabilities she has. I did not aim to use Kairos but if there is an example in the paper of it I guess it would be when Ambers mom got her hopes back up to sign up for the career expo. Using rhetorical appeals, I was able to reach different audience on the issue on verbal abuse. Respectfully, Nicholas Stewart Stewart 2 Nicholas Stewart ENC1102 3/19/2017 Instructor TJ Murray The Effects Verbal Abuse Have on Its Victims Stewart 3 Because of the emotional and mental toll verbal abuse has on the victim, which leads to lack of confidence and the individual distancing themselves from love ones, the United States government should criminalize this act. One of the crippling effects of verbal abuse is that it promotes the loss of self-confidence. As seen in the comic strip Amber who once possessed this trait had it trampled because of the words said to her by her step father. The now, lack of self-confidences will play a role on the emotional psyche of the victim. effects of verbal abuse and emotional abuse intertwine because verbally abusive statements play on the (Ney, 198). This in return plays a role on their interaction with others around them. They self-doubt, low selfconfidence, and lose spontaneity and/or (Sofield, Salmond, 274). For example, when Amber refused to engage in the career expo. http://theinspirationroom.com/daily/2008/aware-helpline-for-verbal-abuse/ Stewart 4 It is said a tongue has no bones but can hit harder than a fist. Words themselves have a longer effect and are often replayed in the mind. A physical wound may heal over time but words are psychologically engraved in the mind. They begin to believe that the words said to them are true and because it is pronounced on them some claim it as a reality. They begin to or accept that there is something wrong with them on a basic (Grandey, Kern, and Frone, 63). Verbal abuse kill dreams and leaves life altering scars on the mental capacity. The dreams of are what pushes this country forward and an act against crippling and compromising it through verbal abuse should be a criminal act with sanctions by the government to eradicate it. Stewart 5 Stewart 6 Works Cited Grandey, Alicia A., Julie H. Kern, and Michael R. Frone. Verbal abuse from outsiders versus insiders: comparing frequency, impact on emotional exhaustion, and the role of emotional  Journal of occupational health psychology 12.1 (2007): 63. Ney, Philip G. Does verbal abuse leave deeper scars: A study of children and  The Canadian Journal of Psychiatry/La Revue canadienne de psychiatrie (1987). Sofield, Laura, and Susan W. Salmond. Workplace violence: A focus on verbal abuse and intent to leave the  Orthopaedic Nursing 22.4 (2003): 274-283. http://theinspirationroom.com/daily/2008/aware-helpline-for-verbal-abuse/