Reed 1 Hannah Reed James Josue ENC 1102 19 March 2017 Appealing to Those in Need of Healthcare Insurance The US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) was established in 1953 with the goal of providing equal health care to all citizens Over the years this department has strengthened by creating programs, such as Medicaid and Medicare, and enacting the Affordable Care Act. In order to inform more people about what this department has to offer, pictures have been placed on the internet. In the first image, there is a group of people, smiling next to the logo. The goal of the image is to show people that everyone is offered these services. In the second image, there is a chart about the Affordable Care Act. This is to show the basic facts of what is provided through the Act. In these images, rhetorical appeals and logical fallacies are used to successfully display the mission of the US Department of Health and Human Services. For the US Department of Health and Human Services to obtain credibility, they must display ethos in these images. In the first image, there is a list of different organizations that are familiar to the most citizens, such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Both organizations have missions related to using their knowledge to keep everyone healthier and With the support and information from these partnering groups to improve their resources to citizens, it provides credibility that the US Department of Health and Human Services will be up to date with health advancements. Another way this image displays ethos is by including a doctor and veteran in the Reed 2 group of people. These two types of people are ones that most citizens trust since their jobs are to provide assistance and safety to lives. By adding them it leads viewers to believe that HHS has a similar role to protecting the lives of citizens. In the second image terms, such as Medicare and Affordable Care Act, are used to show credibility to this Department. These two terms are commonly talked about, so by adding them to the image it shows that the information given is reliable and is related to the HHS. Ethos is an important rhetorical appeal to use in advertising because without credibility, it would be hard to trust anything that this organization claims. Another rhetorical appeal that is important is logos because it gives the facts about the US Department of Health and Human Services. In the first image, logos is not prominent, but there is the official HHS logo with the name and USA circling it. The purpose of adding the logo with the words around it, is to show that HHS provides to all and only citizens of the United States. The second image was designed to display facts and data, so there is a pie chart that includes many of the benefits provided to people through the Affordable Care Act (ACA). These are short excerpts of what is offered, yet the statements get enough across to appeal to their audience. This image also includes a column of even more facts about the ACA. There are specific numbers used, such as up to age and of Adding numbers is more appealing to readers because it shows exact data that might answer some initial questions about the ACA and could lead a reader to research further. Logos is another important element to add to advertisements because it provides information about an organization Pathos, and In this case, the facts given in the image help the US Department of Health and Human Services by leading viewers to look more into the programs and benefits offered. Reed 3 The last rhetorical appeal that may not seem that obvious or important to the images purpose, is pathos, which is used to appeal to emotions. In the first image, pathos is displayed by using a diverse group of people. In this group, there are doctors, a veteran, a pregnant woman, a disabled man, men, women, and people of all races. By doing this, it shows that the US Department of Health and Human Services is not just appealing to and helping one specific group, but instead they are helping every type of individual. This emphasizes their mission of providing healthcare to all citizens. Another way this image displays pathos is that all the people in the group are smiling. This shows that they are all satisfied with the help they have received from the Department. Most people view smiling as an expression made after a positive experience. Therefore, the US Department of Health and Human programs are seen as beneficial. The second image displays pathos in a different way and appeals to the emotions through the use of colors and worlds. The pie chart is filled with color and little cartoon images, which makes the overall image more pleasing to the human eye. This image also includes positive words, such as and These words stand out to viewers that are looking for help in the healthcare department because it gives them another option to consider. Lastly, in both images the color blue is the dominant color. According a study by Andrew Elliot the use of on stores/logos increases quality and trustworthiness (Elliot). This is an important aspect to pay attention to because in order to attract people, HHS must be able to gain their trust. Overall this rhetorical appeal plays a heavy role in these two images, which helps emphasize the mission of HHS. Logical fallacies are also present in these images in order to emphasize the importance of the US Department of Health and Human Services. In the first image, hasty generalization is used in relation to the group of people. This is when one jumps to conclusion given only a few Reed 4 pieces of evidence. This is just a small group of people, but because of the diversity in the group it is easy to conclude that the people getting help are just as diverse. The reality is that even though that is the ideal result, most of the people receiving help from HHS through their programs are less-fortunate minorities. These logical fallacies work because most viewers fall for this generalization and will look into the programs offered. The second image uses the cost bias logical fallacy. This is when something is made to sound much more valuable than it actually is List of Logical Included in the image are statements showing what is offered through the ACA, such as Even though the ACA is more for benefitting those less-fortunate, the way things are explained makes it seem like consumers are getting the best of the best when it comes to healthcare insurance. Through misleading viewers with logical fallacies in the images, the mission and programs are seen as positive and beneficial to outsiders. In conclusion, it is important to use rhetorical appeals and logical fallacies in images and advertisements to attract viewers. With the US Department of Health and Human Services, the goal of the two images was to use these techniques to get their mission, of helping citizens receive equal healthcare, across. By combining all the techniques into one picture, it makes sure to appeal to most, if not all, viewers and successfully display the main mission of US Department of Health and Human Services. Reed 5 Works Cited U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. < https://www.hhs.gov/about/>. Elliot, Andrew J. and psychological functioning: a review of theoretical and empirical Front Psychol. 6 (2015). 368. Wed. 5 Mar. 2017. Pathos, and ISU Writing Center. N.p., 2016. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. N.p., 24 Oct. 2016. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. <https://www.fda.gov/AboutFDA/WhatWeDo/>. National Institutes of Health. N.p., 4 Sept. 2015. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. <https://www.nih.gov/institutes-nih/nih-office-director/office-communications-public- liaison/mission>. Williamson, Owen M. List of Logical A Short Courses in Intellectual Self-Defense. (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. Reed 6 First Picture: Second Picture: