Jafri 1 Syed Maisam Jafri TJ Murray ENC 1102 February 26 2017 Cover Letter The reason that this topic was chosen as the subject of project 2 was because it is an important problem afflicting our nation. Not only does it affect growing populations, the data can be represented incredibly well with images. Raw data can be difficult to digest, but graphs and pictures can help readers understand the point much more easily. The thesis was written in such a way so that the problem was stated, the cause of the problem was stated, and an organization was called out to complete a specific action to remedy the situation. Also, the severity level of the problem was also described in the thesis. Another important change was the integration of images into the text. Having a large block of text and then pictures under it is not nearly as enticing or interesting as having images punctuated throughout the text. The break from the wall of text helps the readers stay engaged and fascinated. There are a myriad of rhetorical appeals present in the paper. The hook in the introduction utilizes both pathos and logos. Pathos is present by causing the reader to feel nostalgia and a connection since most people have played or heard of the game Monopoly. Logos is present in the hook because the reader is shown the state of affairs for African Americans and Latin Americans by drawing a connection between joining the Monopoly game late and the current unjust situation. Ethos is utilized throughout the text through the use of in- text citations and the utilization of credible sources. Jafri 2 Telos and Kairos are also in the paper. Telos is not used nearly as often as the other rhetorical appeals but it is still relevant. Telos refers to the purpose of the paper; the purpose of this paper is to enlighten readers and introduce a solution to the problem. Kairos is utilized in the sentence: half of all the wealth earned since 1986 went to the top 0.1% of American By comparing the fraction of wealth earned by a specific subset of a population after a certain period of time kairos is demonstrated. Jafri 3 Racial Wealth Disparity Imagine joining a game of Monopoly after it had already been going on for multiple rounds. The other plays have already established their properties and have passed to collect their money. Starting from so far behind heavily diminishes the chances of doing well in the game. In the same way, minority groups like African Americans and Latin Americans have been subjected to laws and policies which held them back from financial growth. Racial wealth gap is defined as, absolute difference in wealth holdings between the median household among populations grouped by race or ethnicity America is quickly becoming a more and more diverse nation while continuing to remain an unequal one. These inequalities and wealth disparities are a direct result of historic injustices and maintained by policies that fail to remedy the situation (Sanchez). The racial wealth disparity present in the United States is very significant and driven by public policy, the government needs to enact new policies in order to remedy the situation. According to the US Census Bureau wealth inequality has increased dramatically in the past few decades. Almost half of all the wealth earned since 1986 went to the top 0.1% of American households. The top 1% of Americans own 42% of this wealth. According to SIPP data, in 2011 the median black household had $7,113 in assets, the median Latino household had $8,348 in assets, and the median white family had over $100,000 in assets (Bureau). Jafri 4 As of now, 73% of white families own their homes while only 47% of Latinos and 45% of African Americans own their houses. Jafri 5 African American households hold a mere 6% of the wealth owned by white households while Latinos hold an 8% share. A disturbing piece of information arises from this statistic (Bureau). For every $1 that an African American family owns, white families own $15.63. For every $1 owned by a Latino family, white families own $13.33. Wealth disparity is a direct effect of federal policies which are geared towards making money for those who already have considerable wealth. The elimination of disparities in homeowner rates would reduce this wealth gap considerably (Emmanuel). If policies which benefitted the historically and financially deprived races were implemented successfully so that African Americans and Latinos were as likely as white Americans to own their own houses America would be a changed nation. The median wealth for African Americans and Latinos would grow to $32,113 and $29,213 respectively (Bureau). This is a shrinkage of 31% for the wealth gap between African Americans and white Americans and a 28% shrinkage of the wealth gap between Latino families and white families (Traub). Jafri 6 The wealth gap between minority groups is a direct result of the public policy enacted by government. The government needs to change laws that have benefitted majority groups and harmed minority groups. The racial wealth gap is much too large; small, effective changes in policy can have a huge effect. Minority groups start off their lives many steps behind majority groups. The playing field must be leveled so that America can uphold its own core values. Jafri 7 Works Cited Bureau, US Census. SIPP 2008 Panel  SIPP 2008 Panel Data. US n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Emmanuel Saez, and Gabriel Zucman, Inequality in the United States since 1913: Evidence from Capitalized Income Tax NBER Working Paper No. 20625 (2014). Sproat, Ethan. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: The Rhetorical Situation. Purdue, n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Traub, Amy, and Catherine Reutschlin. The Racial Wealth Gap: Why Policy  The Racial Wealth Gap: Why Policy Matters Demos. Demos, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.