Hadeel Ali Professor TJ Murray ENC 1102 March 19, 2017 Ali 1 In this paper I indicate my stand about the issue of medical school tuitions. In the past years the cost has increased exponentially. Although the price should be lower and more affordable I am not on the band wagon for free admission. Now, I do not speak for every student when I say that the salary for a doctor is a major incentive but for many it is. Being a doctor does not only mean you get a high salary but for this paper that is the aspect of the occupation I will be focusing on. With a tuition, the government would not be needed to fund schools and work ethic will be more inclined to be tip top. So, with the money aspect a part of this stage in the process of being a doctor it will positively affect the doctor in the long run and also the patients. The images are placed between paragraphs to give the readers something new instead of a flood of words. Ethos is portrayed by using Helen radiologist in chief at the Hospital for Special Surgery, two cents in this particular subject. Her position in her hospital not only depicts her experience in this field but excellence also. Her words hold value and credibility further strengthening my position. Pathos is portrayed by including the well being of the patients. health becoming well again can change their life in ways we cannot imagine. So, by including their perspective, the work ethic of doctors will be more expected to be at its prime. Logos is portrayed by including data of the medical school tuitions in the past few decades. I created a line graph to show just how high tuitions have gotten and how why people take this and want free admission. But, then I go into explaining how it is too high but tuition is needed. Ali 2 Should Medical School Be Free? For any aspiring doctor, medical school bills are one of the biggest aspects on their mind which can stop them from reaching their goal. However, without a tuition the work ethic and autonomy (Fisher, medical school? Not a great may be compromised. Everyone needs an incentive whether it be money, affection, or recognition. Although this does not apply to every aspiring doctor out there, without incentives, people are not pushed to give the best quality of what they are delivering and that can be detrimental not only for the giver but the receiver, especially in health care. Medical school tuition should definitely be at a lower cost but it should not be entirely free. Future doctors need not worry their debt for they will have the means to repay them that comes with their autonomy in the work field. When doctors went through the brutal 4 years that graduate school demand from them not only with the work load but with the stress of having loans to repay for the years to come. But that doctor is not the only having to repay. The salary that they will get will insure them a high quality of life and the means to repay the loans. That income is their incentive to work hard, take the best care of their patients, and even progress in the developments for cures. The reason why a tuition ensures their income is because if tuition is free than that leaves the government to pay for it instead of students and where will the government get that money from? The tax payers. and once the government has that power to decide their pay and their hours. This leaves many questions like, this new medical school curriculum model shun individual ingenuity in favor of health care budgetary imperatives? When a doctor has little monetary skin in the game, how will such a system assure an adequate work ethic from doctors going (Fisher, Medical School? Not a Great Idea). Ali 3 (Analysis. Cambridge) Doctors need work ethic to give patients the help they need. Without work ethic there is no point in doing anything because the problem will come back if not ever solved in the first place. If doctors pay and hours are arranged by higher people who are not in the medicine field, then they are left with little to no room to work on patients in certain ways where it may seem unethical to others. However, for people who have studied medicine know that new discoveries can work. So, when doctors cannot experiment and venture out for the health of the patients they most likely will stop caring and will not give their 100%. They may even go off to another field because they will not be able to make potential real. Helen Pavlov, radiologist in chief at the Hospital for Special Surgery, states in her article in the Huffington Post that is conceivable that those excellent, potential pre-med students may forgo graduate school and become (for example) an automobile mechanic instead of a physician. As an automobile mechanic, their income will start at a younger age, their hourly compensation may be greater, and a successful outcome of their diagnostic and technical efforts may be more appreciated than if they become $0 $20,000 $40,000 $60,000 $80,000 $100,000 $120,000 $140,000 $160,000 $180,000 1978 1988 1998 2011 Tuitions ( In 2011 constant dollars) Year Medical School Tuition Fees Ali 4 Although free tuition sounds inviting the downfalls are too dire. Doctors need incentives to work ethically and have some autonomy in their careers. It is sad to think that money is this important to people but keep in mind that when doctors have leeway with their salaries and hours they are free to discover new ways to treat people. Diseases plague a large part of out population on earth and so when people who do not understand medicine and science and have power over what is done and not done can make science stay at a halt and not progress. Tuitions for medical school are incredibly high but instead of erasing it all at once tuitions should decrease gradually. Docotr Thumb Up Stock Ali 5 Works Cited Fisher, MD Westby G., Arundhati Parmar. 10:59 Pm February 21, Stephanie Baum. 12:28 Pm February 26, Juliet Preston. 3:29 Pm February 24, and Neil Versel . 5:36 Pm February 23. Free medical school? Not a great  MedCity News. N.p., 01 Mar. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Pavlov, M.D. Helene. Should Tuition Be Free for Medical  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 15 Sept. 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Analysis. Cambridge - Mass: MIT, 1974. Web. Free Image on Pixabay - Cash, Finance, Financial,  Free Vector Graphic: Cash, Finance, Financial, Green - Free Image on Pixabay - 1296584. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. Happy Doctor Thumb Up Stock Photos &  Stock Photos, Video Footage & Audio by Dreamstime. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Mar. 2017.