Valdez 1 Nichole Valdez James Josue ENC 1102 3/20/17 Organ Donation Organ donation is an issue which has progressed over the years due to society questioning whether or not the procedure should be deemed mandatory upon the death of a person with viable organs. However, one must wonder if this act would be ethically acceptable after considering factors such as religious or personal beliefs and traditions. When considering the situation, one party may have a stronger opinion on the matter than the other. The potential recipient of the new organ and the medical staff performing the operation may feel that the end result of being able to save multiple lives outweighs any other factor. The organization, Donate Life America, believes that there may be the feeling major reward in becoming an organ donor and attempts to persuade their beliefs in society through appealing to sensations of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Both images use the rhetorical appeal of pathos to display their view on the topic of organ donation. You may want to think of pathos as which pertains to the experience of or sensitivity toward (Hoffman 22). Image A depicts two doves hugging and sharing an umbrella with hearts surrounding them. The use of bright colors and hearts, the symbol of love, may convince viewers to associate positivity or happiness toward the act of organ donation, rather than the fear that is oftentimes connected to the process. After viewing an image with a positive perspective on organ donation, society will potentially feel more inclined to want to Valdez 2 register to make a positive impact on life. The use of the umbrella in the photo is also extremely crucial when determining the use of pathos. Usually, umbrellas symbolize protection or in some cases, the idea of heaven above. The doves sharing the umbrella are hugging which symbolizes unity and compassion between both parties. In the process of organ donation, donors are often viewed as compassionate people while the recipient may feel a sense of unity to the person who has donated an organ to them. Image B also creates a strong appeal to pathos. In this image, there is a background of the united states with multiple body images of adults and children saying currently with a red heart in the bottom left corner saying The different emotions one may experience after viewing this image are feelings of shock a determination to change these statistics. By only 47% of the 120,000 that are in need being registered donors, less than half of those sick patients will most likely not receive their second chance at survival. Also, by the addition of adult body figures and body figures, people can see that these numbers apply to everyone and hopefully be more willing to register as a donor. Kairos is a second rhetorical appeal which was portrayed in both images as well. may want to think of kairos as the type of persuasion that pertains to the right place and the right 25). Image A exemplifies a to at a first glance. In image A the top of the umbrella sates, April is national donate life (SUNY). This may be considered a call to action in the sense that if more people recognize that April is just two months away, they will likely want to register soon. The second image as well has a distinct appeal to Kairos. By viewing the amount of people on the waiting list, versus the amount of people registered to donate, viewers will was to register as soon as possible to alter these numbers. The Valdez 3 feeling of wanting to make a difference sooner rather than before it is too late gives society a sense of urgency to become a donor. The images also appeal to the concepts of ethos and logos in similar ways. is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Hoffman 27). In image A, ethos is addresses by the logo of Donate Life in the bottom right corner. The creator of the image also places the official website on the center of the umbrella to ensure that it will be seen. Image B however, possesses credibility since it was obtained from the website SUNY.edu. The precise numbers and percentages also give strength to the credibility of the photo while introducing the appeal to logos. is the appeal to logic. Logos like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and 32). By stating that only 47% of the 120,000 people in need of a transplant are actually registered donors, it becomes that less than half of the amount needed is actually willing to be a donor. A less than 50% chance of receiving a donor does not seem hopeful to someone with little to no chance of surviving without a transplant (SUNY). Ultimately, the use of rhetorical appeals are very important when trying to convince society of a particular belief. By presenting those ideas of ethos, logos, pathos and kairos, viewers will feel inclined to accept certain ideas more easily. For some, the idea of organ donation could be a delicate subject unless addressed in the proper manor. In both photos, organ donation was portrayed with a positive connotation through bright colors with heart drawings, while still depicting the severity of the issue. Valdez 4 Valdez 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation . Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Suny. Donate Life -  Life - N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Vandenberg, Kristy, and About Kristy Vandenberg My New Passion Has Become Encouraging Others to Sign up as Registered Organ Donors. When I Retired from the American Red Cross I Looked for Another Opportunity to Impact Lives across the Texas Hill Country and throughout the Country. April is National Donate Life  Ultimate Gift of Life N.p., 17 Oct. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.