Povolny 1 Nicholas Povolny Professor James Josue ENC 1102 4 March 2017 Internet Censorship Visual Rhetoric Internet censorship has been an ongoing debate in America, with stakeholders arguing over what should or should not be allowed on the internet. Federal departments such as the Department of Telecommunications and the Department of Electronics and Information Technology want to limit what can appear on the internet (Singh, Shalini). These censors would be for social media sites, news sites, and potentially any website, that the departments deem necessary. The United States constitution protects against direct censorship with the freedom of speech in the first amendment (Stanford), however censorship can still occur. Federal departments are interesting in regulating and censoring more aspects of these media sites, while the media sites wish to have more control of censorship on their respective sites. These stakeholders both use visual rhetoric to persuade audiences and to get their message out. By using rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos, logos, and Kairos, the stakeholders create a strategy to appeal to audiences for their cause. As an authoritative figure and stakeholder, the federal advertisement contains great uses of the rhetorical elements of ethos. Ethos is a technique that appeals to the authority and credibility of a stakeholder. The federal government is a stakeholder that believes certain things should be censored on the internet. Many view this as taking away something from Povolny 2 the people, so a good way to appeal to an audience is to use ethos and assert authority. The government is already an authority figure, so this strategy works well for them. This technique is demonstrated in image 1, from the large official seal shown. One thing that people universally know that the government has authority over, is law. The appeal to authority can allow people to view censorship as something that the government wants to enforce in order to stop illegal activity. One legal issue that federal departments want censored is copyright infringements. This includes sites that potentially aid illegal activity. This is typically a grey area, much like the coloring of the image. The websites in question, such as piracy sites, do not actually break any laws (Condon). Instead, these sites act as a gateway to piracy. This censorship would affect sites like google, as they would have to limit the sites that appear in a search for this subject (Stanford). More than 75% of computer owners have at least 1 illegal download on their computer and piracy sites are visited internationally 53 billion times a year (DGA). Due to the legal reasons for censorship, ethos was used effectively to assert the federal authority over legal matters. In image 2, which is representing the stakeholder that is against censorship, the phrase freedom strengthens is used, which appeals to the emotions. This is the rhetorical technique known as pathos. The audience will most likely find democracy to be important, as the target audience is American. This phrase implies that online freedom will strengthen democracy, and most of the audience would want to be a part of strengthening democracy. Free speech is important for a democracy, and sites like YouTube allow people to freely make content for the public. A platform to express free speech, such as YouTube, strengthens democracy by giving the people a voice to the public. A copyright issue does arise by using material that you own, for homemade online content. While other media sites Povolny 3 experience issues with this as well, YouTube has gained the most attention regarding the topic of copyright infringement. YouTube allows anyone to make content for an audience, which can cause issues with ownership of certain things. For example, it would be ridiculous if every time a creator wanted to use a song in the background of a video, they had to acquire the rights to use the song. There are far too many YouTubers who require song, video, or movie clips for their videos, so the compromise currently being used is the use (YouTube). As long as the content using copyrighted material meets certain requirements, such as not using the material to profit, then the content is allowed. The advertisement strategy used in the image appeals to securing the freedom of content and speech, which strengthens democracy. In Image 1, representing the federal government that is for censorship, the phase your is used, which logically appeals to the audience. This rhetorical technique is known as logos. Protection keeps people out of danger, so the use of this phrase implies that the audience could be in danger without censorship. This phrase also insights appeals of Kairos. Kairos appeals to timeliness and getting an audience to act. People never want to be in danger, so this statement would cause the audience to want to act to get out of danger fast, and to be protected instead. News censorship has become a large issue in America revolving around the development of massive amounts of fake news stories that float around the internet, which is dangerous when people cannot tell the difference between a real and fake story. Facebook has become the largest outlet for fake news on the internet, even being accused of effecting the 2016 election results from its number of fake stories. Fake news has become an epidemic, encouraging media outlets to remove fake stories when possible. Fake news fuels opinions and arguments that are not actually valid because the story is untrue. Facebook does not actively search for fake news to remove currently. If Facebook set aside resources to have users report fake news, and Povolny 4 then evaluate reported stories for validation, then the fake news issue would be able to improve significantly. While fake news is technically someone speaking freely, it misinforms massive amounts of people leading to unwarranted assumptions and choices. On the other side, fake news stories do increase the amount of traffic Facebook receives, as the headlines are always able to be written as interesting or ground-breaking. Fake news is great at creating buzz for media sites, benefiting companies, but misleading massive amounts of people. Facebook may consider at least labeling stories as fake or validated instead of removing them completely, protecting users from misleading content. In image 2, representing pro censorship, the phrase is my is used. This phrase implies that the audience is entitled to something that the government is attempting to take away. The audience will not want something that they have the right to have to be taken away, so it causes a want to act. This is using the appeal of Kairos. Image 2 also depicts people about to cut down branches to helpful and beneficial parts of the internet. This implies that censorship will cut off beneficial access to the internet. In the image, the people are inevitably going to cut off these branches, which also appeals to Kairos, as it makes the censorship fell inevitable regarding time. Federal departments request censorship on sites for crime related information or material that internet users might find sensitive, but many people believe that they have the right to view this information. received 187 requests from United States law enforcement agencies and courts to remove content from its Web properties from July to (CNN). Google is allowed to deny requests for censorship, only complying if they deem it necessary or just. One request from law enforcement was to take down information that one of the departments officers, and google refused to comply with their request (CNN). Many believe that information like this should never be censored, or it will conflict with Povolny 5 freedom of speech. People have the right to know if a police officer or anybody is dangerous, and hiding that information from the public essentially suppresses something that should be public record. In another instance, separate law enforcement group asked Google to take down 1,400 YouTube videos (Google owns YouTube) because of alleged (CNN). On YouTube, users can make videos that address anyone publicly. Potentially users could use videos or comments on videos to bully or harass people. These would technically be acts of free speech, but unlike in the real world, these acts are able to be deleted. YouTube did not end up taking the video down, as people do have the right to say what they want, even if negative. When it comes to censoring the internet over sensitive material to users, those who are content with the material miss out on the information it provides when it is censored. Issuing a warning on sensitive information should be enough to steer people from potential being offended or scarred. The belief that is my makes an audience want to protect this material that might become restricted to them, and the inevitability shown in the image uses the appeal of Kairos. Povolny 6 Image 1 Image 2 Povolny 7 Work Cited Piracy Statistics - Piracy by the  DGA, Homepage. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Free Speech  US Censorship Policy, Stanford. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Condon, Stephanie. PIPA, SOPA Put on Hold in Wake of  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 20 Jan. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. reports rise in government censorship CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. YouTube. YouTube, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Travers, Robbie. The Fake  Censorship  Gatestone Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Povolny 8