Reid1 Reid2 Martin Reid James Josue.. ENC.1102 3 March 2017 A rhetorical situation: Tesla Motors All across the globe Carbon Dioxide emissions are rising, glacier caps are melting and, most importantly fossil fuels are running out. According to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, as of 2014 Carbon Dioxide made up 81% of all greenhouse gas emissions (EPA, 2014). The year is now 2017, and Carbon dioxide emissions have risen to an all-time high of 88 percent (EPA, 2017). So how can these rising Carbon Dioxide emissions be reduced? Hundreds of solutions have been presented but it all narrows down to humans stopping the use of fossil fuels, solely to power their vehicles. The use of electricity to power vehicles must become the majority of humans, not the minority. In 2003, with the creation of Tesla Motors, the first 100 percent electric car company, a positive step towards achieving sustainability, and efficiency was taken. Electric cars release zero Carbon Dioxide emissions into the air, making them the most fuel efficient cars ever created. Through the use of the print ads below Tesla Motors uses the rhetorical appeals, logos to appeal to logic/reason, ethos to present/establish credibility and Kairos, an appeal timeliness to effectively urge consumers to make the earth-saving switch to electricity before fossil fuels run out. In the first ad below, to one who knows who Tesla Motors is, ethos is automatically presented before reading the caption, or even looking in the background at the picture. Once the Tesla Motors logo is presented, a sense of credibility established because Tesla was the first 100 Reid3 percent electric car company. However, to those who recognize the logo, Tesla establishes credibility by creating an ad that looks further into the future of a known current issue humans face today. This creates a sense of trust because fossil fuels will in fact run out. According to Ecotricity, a green-energy company in Britain who specializes in fossil fuel depletion, fuels are expected to be depleted by (Ecotricity, 2017). Tesla Motors establishes logos in the first ad below through the use of their caption. The caption indirectly initiates further logical thinking into the issue. In addition, for those consumers who know nothing about fossil fuel depletion it presents a new perspective of destruction of the Earth, Tesla Motors also appeals to reason/logic by using the picture of the deteriorated gas station. The picture of gas station establishes logos because it invites consumers to logically question themselves from the perspective of; why help and be a part of the depletion of fossil fuels? Tesla also strategically places a picture of their flagship model, the electric Tesla Roadster Sports car as the solution to the issue at hand. This strategy also appeals sense of reason because if you drive an electronic car you are no longer contributing to the constant depletion of fossil fuels. The main and most important rhetorical appeal Tesla establishes through the use of first ad below is the appeal to timeliness, otherwise known as Kairos. The overall message that Tesla is sending in this ad is that consumers must act now, and covert to electricity as the primary source to power our vehicles before fossil fuel depletion, and complete global warming occurs. According to National Daniel Glick, an author who specializes in global warming; glacier caps in the eastern Himalayas are expected to be completed melted by 2035 (Glick, 2016). The Melting of glacier caps leads to rise in sea level which could result in entire state falling under sea level. On top of using this ad to say time is running out, along with the picture Reid4 of the Roadster S, Tesla is also indirectly using Kairos to say that the only sports cars that will be able to run in a couple of decades after the depletion of Fossil fuels are those that are electric. In the ad which shows a picture an old repair shop, a sense of credibility or Ethos is initiated through the caption of the picture. The caption reads anthropologists will be trying to understand what this strange ritual This caption establishes a sense of Ethos because Tesla is saying that eventually, cars will no longer need conventional car service repairs. This will automatically gain credibility to any car owner because generally, consumers do not like to spend money on auto repair. According to Doug Demuro of Autotrader.com, a website for buying and selling cars with the purchase of an electric vehicle you will no longer have to get oil changes, brake pads, and general engine servicing as you would with the use of a conventional car (Demuro, 2017). Much like the first ad, in the second ad Tesla establishes logos by simply using the cost of auto repair as an appeal to a potential consumers reasoning to buy an their electric cars. Although in the future the only way cars will run is through use of electricity; to get consumers to buy-in today Tesla uses the repair shop to play on the common yet current issue conventional car face in auto repair. The ad as whole gets you thinking about switching to electric cars, because no consumer likes to pay auto repair expenses. According to Brad Berman, from plugincars.com, when consumers make the switch from conventional fuel-based vehicles to electric vehicles, there is a 35 percent decrease in yearly costs (Berman, 2016). Finally, Tesla uses the ancient repair shop as an appeal to Kairos and as a sense of urgency to effectively communicate to consumers that the major switch to electric cars will happen in time. Tesla is also urging that with the purchase of an electric car, auto repair as of Reid5 today no longer exists. Overall, Tesla is urging consumers to act now, by switching to electric cars and to stop spending extra money on auto repair for a car that destroys the environment. In conclusion, Tesla establishes ethos and a sense of credibility in both of the ads presented through the use captions and logo. Tesla also strategically makes a logical appeal to reason in both ads through the use of the picture and caption because, both of them present a new perspective as to why you should purchase an electric vehicle, while also indirectly making you reevaluate your contributions to the environmental issues humans face today. Finally, Overall Tesla uses Kairos to appeal to its audience. Fossil fuels are continuously running short, glacier caps are melting, and carbon dioxide emissions are rising. Tesla Motors urges its audience to make a change today, for the sake of a better environment tomorrow. Reid6 Works cited Tesla Motors.Tesla Motors, 26 February 2016. Web. 2016 Berman, Brad. Cost of Ownership of an Electric 8 November 2016. Web. 2016 Demuro, Doug. Electric Vehicle Ownership: Pros and 4 March 2017.Web. 2017 Glick, Daniel. Big 4 March 2017. Web. 2017 of Greenhouse Environmental Protection Agency. Environmental Protection Agency, 4 March 2017. Web. 2017 End Of Fossil Ecotricity. Ecotricity, 4 March 2017. Web. 2017