Ferrari 1 Melissa Ferrari Professor James Josue ENC 1102 13 March 2017 Cosmetic Testing on Animals Everywhere a person looks, whether on a building, on a train, or on a bus, an advertisement for a product or organization can be found. These advertisements use rhetorical devices, such as appeal to logos, appeal to ethos, and appeal to pathos to grab the attention. When looking at the issue of whether or not animal testing is morally correct, advertisements are usually used. For example, when looking at pro-animal testing companies, such as Revlon Cosmetics, the advertisements usually contain attractive models that show the viewer that animal testing is okay since the product would make one feel and look a certain way, making the person appear attractive. An example of a Revlon Cosmetic is shown in Image A. An example of a pro-animal rights organization would be the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals organization, also know as PETA. advertisements show the ugly side to the beauty industry, by showing the harm and the suffering the animals are put through in order to create the product being put on the faces, two examples of the advertisements PETA creates are shown in Image B and Image C. When looking at the advertisements from both Revlon Cosmetics and PETA, appeals to ethos, pathos, and logos are used; for Revlon, the appeals are used in order to make the viewer purchase the product and to emphasize customer satisfaction, while PETA, uses appeals in order to gain support and create awareness of the abuse of animals in the cosmetic industry. Ferrari 2 When looking at the advertisement from Revlon Cosmetics, appeals to ethos, pathos, and logos can be identified. Halle Berry, a famous actress, who has played several leading roles in many well-known productions, such as Cat Women, X-Men: The Last Standing, and Die Another Day is seen in the advertisement. Halle Berry helps Revlon Cosmetics use appeal to ethos to attract viewers, because by being in the image, she is endorsing the product, and saying she supports Revlon, she supports their actions, she supports the product, and that the viewer should also buy and support the product. An appeal to pathos is also shown, because a beautiful woman is being lusted and loved by a man. This makes the viewers believe that if they apply this product onto their faces, they will be able to get this ideal looking face, and have a man lust and fall in love with them. It makes the viewers crave intimacy and hope to have that airbrush finish, giving them glamorous skin and a chance at intimacy. The image also shows appeal to logos, because in the corner a quote states creates understanding... And understanding creates (Revlon, 2015). This signifies that only intimacy and trust can lead to understanding significant other and only that can lead to love, which is true, because in order to gain love, there needs to be communication, trust, and understanding. So with this product, Revlon is declaring that the client using the product could obtain flawless airbrush skin, which could help the client gain confidence and intimacy, which could lead the viewer to falling in love. From the Revlon advertisement the viewer can assume that goal of Revlon is to please and improve the life of customers. In order to guarantee customer satisfaction, Revlon Cosmetics perform research experimental test on small animals to ensure that their products are at low toxicity levels, effective, and safe for human usage (Hajar, 2011). For example, to test a formula and toxicity level, Revlon would perform acute toxicity test on small animals, such as bunnies. To perform these tests, scientist would place the product near the eyes and the Ferrari 3 stomach of the animal to see if any reaction to the product would occur (PETA, 2016). If a reaction would occur, Revlon would reevaluate the formula of the product to improve it for human usage (Hajar, 2011). In Image A, it states, formula with light-filtering technology 2015). The quote shows how important the formula of their products are, Revlon did not need to include any information about the formula on its advertisement, but since it was made and tested to be perfect for human usage, Revlon wants to exaggerate it and let the viewers know. So due to how highly Revlon values their formulas, they promote and conduct animal testing experiments. Appeal to ethos, pathos, and logos are shown when looking at both PETA advertisements. Appeal to logos is shown in image B, because at the bottom of the picture it states of thousands of animals are poisoned, blinded, and killed every year in outdated product (PETA, 2015) This is a statistical fact, which explains how many animals die due to animal testing. This gives the viewer background information that not everyone necessarily With the quote, an appeal to pathos is also used, because one could sympathize with the fact that thousands of animals are being harmed every year for humans. An appeal to pathos is also shown when looking at the mouth. The mouth is shaved and painted with red lipstick, which could make a viewer feel uncomfortable, since one would usually see lipstick on a human. In addition, the image states This Is NOT What Animal Testing Looks which really makes a viewer think, if putting lipstick on an animal is not animal testing, what is animal testing, what are the protocols, and how bad is it really (PETA, 2015). It leaves the viewer thinking and encourages them to conduct further research to discover the truth about animal testing and the other side of the beauty industry. Ferrari 4 In Image C, appeal to pathos and appeal to ethos are shown. Appeal to ethos is shown, because singer, dancer, and choreographer, Kimberly Wyatt is endorsing PETA and supporting their cause by taking a part in the advertisement. By being in the advertisement, she is saying that she is taking action against animal testing and so should the viewer. In addition, seeing Kimberly in the advertisement may lead some viewers to take action, which would make themselves feel good and connected with Kimberly. An appeal to pathos is also shown in the image when mirror reflection is seen. In the reflection, face is red, puffy, and irritated looking, as if she was beaten, abused, or had a really bad reaction to a chemical. This make a person sympathized towards Kimberly and makes a person wonder, what is happening within the cosmetic animal labs, if this is what cosmetic testing would look on a human. The advertisement attempts to leave the viewers with the thought of wonder of what is happening being the scenes of the beauty industry. For the PETA advertisements, the viewer can assume that the goal of the organization is to save animals from the abuse they are enduring on an everyday basis. In image B, it states which really shows and clearly states one of the main goals of PETA (PETA, 2015). PETA is an organization created to fight for the rights of animals (PETA, 2016). The organization believes that the suffering of animals should not occur for the benefit of humans, since it was discovered that the research performed on animals is insignificant (PETA, 2016). It was discovered by researcher Pound and others in 2004, that animal research is inaccurate, due to the animal research being poorly conducted and not being evaluated through a systematic review (Pound et al., 2004). So in order to gain support from people and create awareness, PETA creates controversial advertisements that aim to influence people. For example, in image C, it makes a person wonder what is happening behind the scenes of the Ferrari 5 beauty industry, since the only way to see the cosmetic irritation on face is through her reflection. This is basically saying that on the surface makeup can cover up a lot of things, but behind the scenes horrible abuse that is both physically and mentally is occurring. The image also signifies, that abuse and torture is not easily seen, since the viewer is only able to see the tortured side in the reflection. In addition, in Image B, it states which really shows and clearly states the goal of PETA (PETA, 2015). When looking at advertisements, one can assume that the organization or company that produced the advertisements really want to pull viewers in, so that viewers can give in and either purchase a product or support a cause. In order to do this, advertisements include appeals to pathos, logos, and ethos, which are shown in Image A, from Revlon Cosmetics, and Image B and C, from the PETA organization. Revlon uses appeals to pathos, logos, and ethos, to make a viewer buy their products and support their company, while PETA uses appeals to pathos, logos, and ethos to create awareness of abuse during animal cosmetic testing done in several cosmetic companies, such as Revlon. Ferrari 6 Works Cited Hajar, Rachel. Animal Testing and  Heart Views: The Official Journal of the Gulf Heart Association. Medknow Publications Pvt Ltd, 2011. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3123518/>. Pound, Pandora, Shah Ebrahim, Peter Sandercock, Michael B. Bracken, Ian Roberts, and Reviewing Animal Trials Systematically (RATS) Group. Where is the evidence that animal research benefits  BMJ: British Medical Journal. BMJ Publishing. Group Ltd., 28 Feb. 2004. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC351856/>. Product Testing: Toxic and  PETA. 2016. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/animals- usedexperimentation-factsheets/product-testing-toxic-tragic/>. Revlon. Is Revlon Cosmetics. 2015. 035b0a771fd0.jpg (Image A) PETA. Is Not What Animal Testing Looks PETA. April 2015. https://animaltestingdmad15.files.wordpress.com/2015/04/e31a6a58525652c68af3bda55 48882b8.jpg (Image B) Grant, Karl. PETA. March 2013. http://www.peta.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/600- kimberly-wyatt-testing.jpg (Image C) Ferrari 7 Image A Image B Image C