Brown 1 Amani Brown James Josue ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Empathy Through Imagery The controversial debate over cochlear implants in children features the Deaf community against the population of normal-hearing parents with deaf children. In an accepting society, the deaf child would be able to freely participate in both the hearing and Deaf worlds. However, this is not the case and has led to a divide between the parties who should work together to enhance the social experience. Parents see the cochlear implant as a method to their child, and the key to their child living a life. This sentiment is offensive to the Deaf body because it paints being deaf as a disability, an ailment that limits the abilities of a deaf individual. Both parents and the Deaf community want the child to successfully participate in society, yet the way of doing this is non-inclusive of the Deaf. Consequently, the Deaf came to view the implant as a symbol of oppression that will lead to the end of Deaf culture. Below are two images that represent both sides of this controversy; Image One is a cartoon against the cochlear implant, whereas Image Two is in favor of the cochlear implant. Images One and Two garner attention from their audience through mostly manipulation of emotion via the pathos rhetoric with little to no appeal towards the logos or ethos rhetoric. Brown 2 Image One Image Two Image One is directed at an audience of parents and depicts a before and after of a child who had the cochlear implant surgery, it also encompasses how negatively the Deaf community Brown 3 felt about the implant. In the cartoon, there is a juxtaposition of a happy child and then an upset child, this is pathos rhetoric because the audience is likely to sympathize with the child and would want to protect their own child from such a depression. That inherent urge to protect their own child could also be a testament to the kairos rhetoric established by the and However, the audience could question credibility since the image was published in a Deaf newspaper, and is heavily biased. One can tell that this image is mostly geared towards making the audience feel strong emotions because of word choice. The artist deliberately chose phrases like and for because there is a negative connotation attached that causes the audience to feel averse to the situation. The fact that the cartoon has zero color could attest to the time this image was made or could be because the artist want the audience to focus on colors so much as the images and words. In contrast, Image Two is in favor of the cochlear implant but is still geared towards parents. This image lists activities the girl can do with her cochlear implant, such as being able to in the wider (Auditory Verbal Therapy. 2015). This implies that individuals who are deaf fully participate in the world because their own world is narrow in comparison. Image Two shares the pathos rhetoric with Image One, as the activities listed are so simple that the audience would be happy that the girl can now do these things because of the implant. By titling this image Not My Cochlear The Auditory Verbal Therapy organization wants the audience to focus on how the implant benefits a patient and recognize the following actions as taken for granted, and to even pity the fact that the girl could not do these things before. This image is reflective of the childhood of Rachel Chaikrof, founder of Cochlear Implant Online, who expressed that was a happy child having a great time playing with and TALKING to my friends at their houses, singing in music classes even though I carry a Brown 4 tune, and being able to learn alongside my peers in the mainstream (Rachel Chaikrof. 2008) Similar to Rachel as a child, the girl in this image is smiling which is a complete opposite from the crying child in Image One, this smiling girl refutes the in Image One as well. Even though, Image credibility is questionable, this image is endorsed by a known organization. The words in this image are written to be from the perspective. Likewise, to Image One this depiction relies heavily on pathos to connect with its audience. Though both, Images One and Two connect with the parents on a personal level via manipulation of emotion with little to no facts to support their claims, Image Two could is more trustworthy. Image Two is also more relatable to the audience; Rachel childhood could be summed up using Image Two, whereas the same cannot be said about Image One. Brown 5 Works Cited Chaikrof, Rachel. Much Better Is the Acceptance Cochlear Implant Online , 1 Mar. 2008, cochlearimplantonline.com/site/how-much-better-is-the-acceptance-today/. Accessed 19 Mar. 2017. Implant: Before & Cochlear Implant Online, Silent News, 1 Mar. 2008, cochlearimplantonline.com/site/how-much-better-is-the-acceptance-today/. Is NOT My Cochlear Auditory Verbal Therapy, 22 June 2015, auditoryverbaltherapy.net/2015/06/22/free-poster-this-is-not-my-cochlear-implant/.