Ayrsman 1 Haley Ayrsman James Josue ENC 1102 2017 March, 19 Youth and Technology In world there are many children that grow up with technology such as tablets and smartphones. This could be seen as a problem to many people but also seen as a positive influence to other people. There are two main stakeholders in this topic, the NAEYC and Ofcom. The NAEYC (National Association of Education in Young Children) believes that having children use technology in school will actually help children in the future. The first picture shows three kids in school studying on their tablets, which backs up the NAEYC belief that it will help them in education. Ofcom believes that children with technology have a higher attitude and they should not have technology at this young of an age. The second picture shows two kids sitting right next to each other on swings with their face buried in their phones and not socializing. Each of these pictures shows two different views of children with technology. The two images displayed portray very different messages and are very important, but the common goal between the stakeholders and these images is to make the best out of technology for the youth in order to avoid negative affect of these devices. Ayrsman 2 Image 1 is showing how technology can actual help kids learn and get them engaged in education. The image shows three children in school either studying or doing an activity on their tablets. The smile on the kids faces shows that they are actually having fun while learning. The effect of the fun games and learning activities that these kids are doing actually will help the kids remember the information they are being taught because they are more engaged in the activities versus just doing worksheets and learning out of a book. This image is using the rhetorical appeals of logos and pathos. The image displays logos because it shows that having technology in schools has a positive effect on the kids. Most schools today do not allow kids to have their phones or tablets in school when they actually should. Technology today is getting more advanced everyday. Education will soon be solely based off of technology, so by introducing technology early on the kids will be more prepared for the future. The appeal of pathos is shown because the kids are happy while they are learning. This is important because when people see that the kids are having fun in school and also getting an education they will be persuaded more towards having technology in schools for kids to use. Image 1 displays a very important message to its audience without using any words. In contrast to image 1, image 2 is showing that kids are two involved with their technology outside of school and is affecting them in a negative way. The image shows two kids sitting on swings but they are not even swinging. The kids are casually just playing on their phones with no recollection that the other is their. Children with unlimited access to technology at a young age will not develop good social skills because they are able to talk to their friends online due to social media. Today there are many social media websites where kids can go online and talk to people without having any face to face conversation. Having this ability will get in the way of kids being able to talk to someone in person. Having good social skills is an important Ayrsman 3 aspect in life when it comes to getting a job or having interviews for college. The image displays the appeals of logos and pathos. The appeal of logos is shown because it is showing that these kids do not have very good social skills because they are to involved with their phones. The kids do not even realize that there is another person sitting next to them. Pathos is displayed because the image is showing that kids are uncomfortable talking to other people because they can just talk to people online. The image will persuade the audience to monitor their kids technology and social media use and teach them how to have face to face conversations with people which will help better their future. This image will allow people to see that technology is getting in the way of kids ability to talk to people in person and make sure that kids learn the importance of having good social skills. Ultimately, there are studies being performed on children to get a better understanding on whether or not it is safe for the children to grow up around technology. This observation has its positives and negatives. The two stakeholders on this include NAEYC and Ofcom. The NAEYC organization believes that children growing up with technology at a young age should be able to use their devices to better their education because later it will allow them to reach their full potential. Ofcom on the other hand believes that technology use should be monitored and have restrictions on what they can access because they are not developing the social skills they need and have higher attitudes. Image 1 backs up the NAEYC by portraying three kids enjoying their studies on their tablets. Image 2 is in favor of Ofcom because it is showing that kids are spending too much time on their phones and not enough time playing with their friends. These images have to very important but different messages, but both organizations want to make the best out of technology and use it to help better the children for the future. Ayrsman 4 Work Cited and Interactive Media as Tools in Early Childhood Programs Serving Children from Birth through Age The NAEYC and Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and Media, January 2012, www.naeyc.org and Parents: Media Use and Attitudes Ofcom, October 2014, www.ofcom.org.uk the Screen Dilemma: Young Children, Technology and Early Campaign for a Commercial Free Childhood, October 2012, www.commercialfreechildhood.org can benefit young children when used Erikson Edu., December 12, 2012, www.erikson.edu Douglas Rushkoff, Kids and Technology at Edutopia, January 4, 2013, www.edutopia.org