Kemp 1 Jessica Kemp Professor James Josue Composition 2 January 29, 2017 Technology in the Classroom It is really no secret technology seems to be taking over the world. These technology advancements bring about many positive and negative factors into societies as and affect many of us each and every day. The age at which children are allowed access to phones, computers, ipads etc, keeps getting younger and younger. Within many of the school systems in the United States the integration of technology has been in heavy pursuit. According to the US department of education the percentage rates of public schools having internet access has done nothing but increase to nearly every school at 100% (Farris, 2001). Is this a good thing or not? As a college student who has had the opportunity to experience online schooling in starting my freshman year of highschool, I would have to argue that too much integration into the technology world has made teachers and students lose sight of the actual teaching and learning experience in its own. Teachers and students have become exceptionally lazy when it comes to making exams, writing essays, and even homework exercises because there always seems to be a website or some app to help them cut corners; although the impact of mobile technology in classrooms has been extensively studied, less is known about perceptions of how mobile technology impacts in learning and its relation to Applications (Apps) use in the classroom. This state of affairs is problematic since we know that perceptions have a great influence on their teaching (1) Although in some areas of teaching, technology can be very beneficial but for Kemp 2 classrooms to move towards not having paper submissions for any assignment in any subject, seems to be slightly extreme considering the integration of technology is rather new in the learning environment. With new tools come new challenges and new limits for students to push. Most students find the answer to any online class test question on the internet and this does not help them remember the information. However learning from only online classes is a whole different topic in itself however inside the classroom, technology is a huge distraction to the students. From own experience I have sat in a lecture hall where all students are to be diligently taking notes while the professor is talking and instead you look out at the glowing screens and see everything except note taking. Once logged into most on any campus you are free surf the web however you please. In reality though, you do not even need wifi to make a computer a distraction in school. From games, online shopping, social media, chatting with friends and more, a computer is a huge responsibility that not many can handle when their lecture class suddenly does not peak their interest. Author of article in Human Natasha Gupta claims , laptops and other Internet accessible technologies facilitate student learning in the classroom, they also increase opportunities for interruptions from off-task social networking sites such as Facebook to say a student is not going to scroll through their twitter feed instead of following along in lecture slides presented in are starting to be introduced to technology in the classrooms beginning as early as elementary school. However of course there are ways to restrict all computers and websites and there are many ways to monitor what your child sees on the internet many parents and teachers do not know about this and if they do, they may not think their child will do anything wrong so it is not looked into. When it comes down to it, if a high schooler is bored in Kemp 3 class and has a computer in front of them odds are they will not be focused on the discussion in class. For some subjects the use of technology is a bit overrated and at this point not even useful. For subjects such as advanced math and reading, good pen and paper seem to be the best way for students to learn. Ching-Ting Hsin author of an articled called The Influence of Young Use of Technology on Their Learning: A and declared, frequent use of computer programs for reading was negatively correlated with their reading achievement. They suggested that young children with low reading achievement would benefit more from reading instruction than from computer programs for There are apps out there designed to help students in advanced math classes to help them better understand a problem or show exactly how to solve it and yes these are all fine and dandy until it is test time and no one can use the app that helped them with their homework and or quizzes. There is no real shortcut to learning, and the fact that we have allowed ourselves to create so many shortcuts and more accessible ways of cheating is only actually hurting ourselves and our futures. Since integration of technology into the school systems has already begun, the overall salary for teachers and professors has not increased any substation amount in fact it has hardly gone up at all which does not seem logical. (6) Also the way educators are being taught has not changed much and with such advancements how are teachers to know the proper way in which to incorporate technology into the classroom in an efficient enough manner. Teaching at an elementary, middle or high school alone is one of the more time consuming jobs and difficult jobs there are due to the fact that you are working with kids day in and day out. Consistently Kemp 4 having to find ways to keep students involved in lessons and try your best in making sure everyone understands lessons can be a frustrating yet one of most rewarding jobs there is. However to ask these teachers to also integrate technology into their lessons plans and make sure no one is off task on their devices and monitoring who is doing what has turned into more of a babysitting gig rather than teaching. Many times teachers fumble around with technology in the front of the classroom and then proceed to ask a student for assistance. presence of technology compels teachers who have been trained prior to the emergence of digital technologies in classrooms and who are not technologically skilled, to first become efficient users of technology. This is so because 21st-century learners are said to be who are spending most of their time and playing games on ICTs such as smartphones and tablets. (4) Although some may say this is simply a generation gap that can be ignored, it can not be ignored and with technology continuing to advance we need to have our instructors just as well versed in technology as their students are or else the students will begin to have the upper hand in the classroom. course, because this new generation of learners not only highly benefits from but is highly literate in the usage of newer technological tools, this would also indicate the need for instructors to be equal in literacy as well. McPherson, Wang, Hsu, Tsuei (2007) illustrates the need for teachers to be information technology literate, both as a means to meet students equally in their educational experience and for collaboration with fellow teachers in order to bolster teaching (5) In subjects such as English or computer sciences, technology may just be the way of the future because in these subject areas computers have become a vital resource inside and outside the classroom. is evidence to support the use of technological tools in the English Kemp 5 classroom. Students are shown to have improved writing skills when provided with tools that help them interact with others and enjoy more (5) With websites that allow students to share their work and comment on one another papers entirely online has been the most efficient tool in the technology integration movement at schools so far. Not having to print out multiple copies of your paper for your peers to read, and review during class has surely saved many trees and will only continue to save more. In most writing classes there are always ways in which you can utilize a computer if not for its applications and internet service but simply to type out a paper instead of using a pen and paper, and for this I say technology should be used and it is beneficial for students to use them rather than not. Attempting to combat the many issues that come along with granting students the responsibility of using technology in the classroom may be nearly impossible and there is no permanent way to solve every problem due to the fact that new ones arise on the daily; however, with the idea of only using technology in some classes rather than all, we will see an increase in what students are retaining from their classrooms. In some cases teachers use the applications the technology provides as busy work for students and this can be not helpful for neither the student or the teachers time in the classroom. To avoid this misuse of technology teachers should be encouraged, however not forced, to weave technology smoothly into the curriculum not just use it because it is a cool new gadget and all the schools are doing it. Also if the use of iPads and technology in the classroom is such a huge deal for a developing country then possibly a pay increase and more schooling should be implemented for teachers. As of right now you only need a degree for the first year of teaching then you have to become licensed in whatever Kemp 6 you decide to teach but this is not enough school for what we are asking of these teachers to teach us for our futures. Kemp 7 Works Cited http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer? vid=3&sid=32c9b19b-4d5f-4d43-9f9a-8a7c9f641690%40sessionmgr102&hid=4213 http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail? vid=10&sid=1ed00989-8548-4300-96e2- b3d635701827%40sessionmgr103&hid=4213&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzL WxpdmU%3d# AN=S0747563215302387&db=edselp -http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail? vid=9&sid=90aa45c5-0b19-47f3-974b-33c936d3e27e%40sessionmgr120&hid=111&bdata=JnN pdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=S0747563214005457&db=edselp http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer? vid=5&sid=90aa45c5-0b19-47f3-974b-33c936d3e27e%40sessionmgr120&hid=111 http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer? vid=4&sid=6da23541-5dee-4a46-8a05-b4881175504e%40sessionmgr104&hid=111 Kleiner, Anne, and Elizabeth Farris. Internet Access in U.S. Public Schools and Classrooms:  (n.d.): n. pag. May 2001. Web.