Igilar 1 Prince Igilar James Josue ENC 1102 March 5, 2017 Igilar 2 Gun Control in America In America, gun control and other gun related issues have been an issue within the country. Everything from how guns are being obtained to our own constitutional rights come into play with this topic. There are many stakeholders in this debate so likewise many people and groups have shared their opinion about this topic. One of these groups is the Everytown For Gun Safety organization. This organization is like many other who support new legislation on gun laws to prevent gun violence on the everyday citizens of the United States. They do so by recruiting citizens of the United States from every type of background; mayor, teacher, etc. Above are two photos from the Everytown For Gun Safety organization. Each one uses elements of visual, literary, and rhetorical appeals. By analyzing, the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos; the visual appeals of color; and the literary elements of diction and symbolism, there can be a further understanding of how the organization unites people to understand the danger of no gun control and legislation around gun control laws. To provide further context, the Everytown Organization is a group of people who are actively working together to end gun violence in the communities of America through recruiting moms, police officers, teachers, survivors, gun owners, and everyday (Everytown) This is all to make sure communities around the nation are safer. To add some context to the situation, in California about a year ago, there was an issue with a Santa Monica gunman. The article from the Los Angeles Times quotes gunman who shot and killed five people in Santa Monica three years ago, was banned from owning a gun, so he bought the parts and made his (The Times Editorial Board) This situation brought into criticism something the federal government did not regulate. The federal government looked at the sale of firearms Igilar 3 only and not necessarily the components. Legislation like this is brought up by organizations like the Everytown For Gun Safety. Another situation which draws from similar legislation issues is the issue of recently appealed Obama gun law policy. In February, lawmakers and the National Rifle Association voted last week to scrap a policy the Obama administration finalized in December that would have added to the National Background check database about 75,000 people who receive benefits because they have mental health (The Editorial Board of the New York Times). This issue brought to the attention the unwillingness of federal agencies to give out these lists of people to people who sell firearms. To finalize these points, there are issues within the federal government and legislation that need to be addressed regarding gun safety and these are only a few of the issues. The first photo involving an organization of people within the Everytown organization draws upon the rhetorical appeals of ethos and pathos. Ethos is on the character, credibility, or reliability of the (OWL) or artist. In the photo, there is what seems to be a spokesperson reaching out to a crowd of people. Ethos is being incorporated into this photo through multiple variables. The first of these variables is the logo of the Everytown organization, which is made to symbolize the American flag. The American flag in this instant, uses a value known as patriotism and draws on what is called an imagined community. An imagined community was a term coined by Benedict Anderson which in summary, people of a nation who perceive themselves as a larger group despite never meeting everyone within that group(Citelighter). Going toward patriotic values is the same thing, connecting people together despite them not knowing each other and most likely having identical values. Another factor which involves ethos is the size of the crowd that the one person is reaching out to. Within the Igilar 4 crowd, there is a wide variety of people from all different backgrounds. The organization did all of this to convince and persuade people that anybody can get behind the idea that guns do need more legislation and more control. This factor also goes to display the amount of people gun control affects, not a small number of stakeholders but a whole nation. Pathos is defined as emotional appeal, appeals to an needs, values, and emotional (OWL). For example, within this photo there is a sign that claims that We Are Newtown. This is an allusion to the Sandy Hook shooting that took place within Newtown, Connecticut. This event was one that took the lives of many innocent people and children. It was an event that people will always remember within this issue of gun control and will be brought up within any argument around this issue. Considering the allusion, the first photo implies that many of these people within the crowd come from different backgrounds, with their own stories involving this issue. The organization wants to point out how widespread this issue is, and how it affects people of multiple backgrounds and how it might affect the viewer of the photo. In the second photo, the Everytown organization makes a claim about how it is much more likely for a citizen within the United States is likely to get murdered with a gun than in other developed countries. Within this photo there are elements of logos and pathos. Logos is defined as the to reason relies on logic or reason. Logos often depends on the use of inductive or deductive (OWL) In the second photo, logos apply to the main claim of the photo; Americans are 20 times more likely to get murdered through a gun. If the audience is to assume this is true or even half-true, these are alarming statistics. The probability of being murdered by gun is too high which draws to the main point in that this statistic should be explained through some means otherwise the number is still too high which implies Igilar 5 more control on guns. Pathos in this second photo draws similarity to the first to unite the audience who see the photo. It plays on the appeals of patriotism and the emotions that follow, such as pride and happiness. The second photo plays on visual appeals as well as rhetorical appeals. Looking past the obvious patriotic appeals and values, there are hidden meanings behind the colors used in the photo. The colors subconsciously assign values to the words and images in the photo. The organization mainly used blue and red in this photo for that reason. Blue which is used throughout this photo is associated with loyalty, wisdom, confidence, and (Color Wheel) The organization most likely uses blue as a subconscious way to build credibility and trust. Red is most likely used in this case to describe and (Color Wheel). In this case the bullets are used to create the symbolic American flag and is colored red. Despite, there not being a large amount of scientific research to back up the effect of colors on people within a society, there impact has been clearly noted. (Color Psychology) The Everytown For Gun Safety uses a combination of rhetorical and visual appeals to reach their audience about the widespread effects of gun violence and to promote awareness on how to limit their range across the nation. This is all done to reach their ultimate end goal of creating gun control legislation around the nation. Igilar 6 Works Cited proposed gun laws change our culture of violence, but they will make us Los Angeles Times. March 5, 2017. http://www.latimes.com/opinion/editorials/la-ed-adv- california-guns-20160422-story.html Collections of the Most Useful CiteLighter. March 19, 2017 https://www.citelighter.com/sociology/linguistics/knowledgecards/benedict-anderson-imagined- communities Control and the Constitution: Should We Amend the Second Paul M. Barrett. Bloomberg. March 5, 2017 https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-02-20/gun- control-and-the-constitution-should-we-amend-the-second-amendment New Gun Violence Prevention Group Everytown for Gun  Unites Mayors, Moms and Millions of Americans on New Paths to Victory: State Capitols, Corporate Responsibility, Voter Everytown, March 5, 2017 http://everytown.org/press/new-gun-violence- prevention-group-everytown-for-gun-safety-unites-mayors-moms-and-millions-of-americans-on- new -paths-to-victory-state-capitols-corporate-responsibility-voter-activation/ Color Theory in Color Wheel Pro. March 19, 2017 http://www.color-wheel- pro.com/color-meaning.html Psychology of Colors and Their Color Psychology. March 19, 2017 https://www.colorpsychology.org/ Igilar 7 The Purdue OWL Family of Sites. The Writing Lab and OWL at Purdue and Purdue U, 2008, https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/588/04/ Accessed March 19, 2017 Are Everytown For Gun Everytown, March 5, 2017 http://everytown.org/who-we- are/