Tran 1 Randy Tran James Josue ENC 1102 14 March 2017 Physician-Assisted Death The act of physician-assisted death is an immensely controversial topic. It is described as a physician prescribing a lethal dosage of medicine to a patient with the intent of taking it to invoke death. There are two stakeholders that are in opposition to each other on this topic, Focus on the Family and Compassions and Choices. Focus on the Family is a stakeholder that is against the legislation of physician-assisted death (Reasons to Oppose Physician-Assisted Suicide) while Compassions and Choices is a stakeholder that is pro legislation (Home Page) . These two stakeholders use images as a way to promote their cause. They use the rhetorical appeals of pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos to support their cause and sway the audience to accept their appeal. Focus on the Family is a nonprofit organization that uses rhetorical appeals in their images to guide their audience to accept their belief of not legalizing physician- assisted death. Focus on the Family believes that the act of physician-assisted death is against moral ethics of physicians. They state that the act is immoral and should not be legislated on their website and that it even be considered (Reasons to Oppose Physician-Assisted Suicide). They believe that physicians and doctors signed a code to heal patients not kill them so they should do everything in their power to keep trying to help fix them rather than giving up and killing them. Tran 2 In their image against physician-assisted death they use logos, ethos, and kairos to influence the viewer to accept their view. Logos is used in the picture by the utilization of statistics and studies to prove its point while the image from the other stakeholder does not use any of this. The inclusion of a bar graph showcases that doctors have changed positions from wanting the deed of physician-assisted death to going against it. This is a supply of information that the audience absolutely would not be aware of and gives them a new point of view on the issue that they otherwise have. This point of view allows the audience to understand the position of medical professionals and how throughout the course of years that physician-assisted suicide has been repelled. Crediting the bar graphs information to being done by doctors uses ethos. Focus on the Family states that are the reason why there are the reason of improved health and the increase of well to Oppose Physician-Assisted Suicide). Doctors are extremely credible since they have gone to school for health and medicine and should know what is best for their patients. This credibility is used to convince the audience that their information is the most prestigious and comes from the best source. No other source is as educated as a doctor since they have the most education. Kairos is used in the in the image by indicating the change of stance that physicians had between the years. Physicians were pro physician-assisted suicide and wanted legislation but after the legislation of the act they have decided to go against it. This complete one eighty showcases some insight that health care professionals have realized through first hand experience of having the operation done. Focus on the Family uses rhetorical appeals to enhance their image and get the audience to migrate to their side of the argument rather than the other. Tran 3 Compassions and Choices is also a nonprofit organization that is organized by normal citizens that want the legislation of physician-assisted death. Their goal is to allow for the choice of the patient to dictate whether they live or die and not be in prolonged pain for a undetermined amount of time (Psychology Today). Compassions and Choices also utilize rhetorical appeals to showcase their image and indicate that their position is superior then the other. The use of rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, and logos help the argument that they are in and sways the audience to taking their position. Ethos is used in the image by Compassions and Choices by putting a face to the patients that are trying to legalize the act of physician-assisted suicide. By putting a face to the patient it is using credibility to deliver the argument. It delivers this argument by putting an older citizen that would potentially need the deed of physician-assisted death to help them. According to procon.org is supported and backed by mostly patients since they hold the leading stake in the (Euthanasia - ProCon.org). Pathos is also used in the image by appealing to the emotions. It uses a frail old lady as its main marketer and it is used to make the audience feel bad for her and want to help her in any way they can. The specific feeling that the image evokes is sorrow. This sorrow causes the audience to want to help the lady who is wanting for the legalization of physician-assisted death. This stakeholder also uses logos to appeal to the sense of logic of the audience. It alters the infamous phase me liberty or give me that was uttered by Patrick Henry when wanting to succeed. This makes the audience think about the stance of physician-assisted death because the phrase was used when discussing the succession Tran 4 from Great Britain by America. A little insight on Patrick Henry is that was appointed to be the secretary of state and was a founding (Give Me Liberty Or Give Me Death). This showcases his influence and how much of an influential thinker he was during the time period of colonial America. By using this famous phrase, the stakeholder is able to sway the audience since it insinuates that that a founding father would be for the legislation of physician-assisted death. Compassions and Choices uses these rhetorical appeals to gain more attention to their stake and create a larger following based on it. Both Focus on the Family and Compassions and Choices contain rhetorical fallacies in their argument however. Focus on the image uses the fallacy of a slippery slope. Slippery slope is a fallacy that is utilized by saying one thing is correlated to the other when they might not have any correlation at all. It implies that since there is a decline of medical professionals using physician-assisted suicide that they are against it when it could be a number of factors such as the improvement of health in society or there being less of a need to utilize the procedure. Compassions and Choices also has a rhetorical fallacy in their image, which is ad populum. Ad populum is a fallacy that is used when talking about unrelated topics positive or negative rather than the issue that is presented. The image by Compassions and Choices utilizes an unrelated political quote to enhance their argument, which had nothing to do with the argument at hand. These fallacies negatively affect the arguments that the two stakeholders are presenting and causes distrust and lower regard to their argument. It shows that both arguments presented by stakeholders might be not reputable and have either some dishonesty or irrelevant information in it. These fallacies lead the audience away from the Tran 5 stakeholders however since they are extremely miniscule compared to the actual argument. Focus on the Family and Compassions and Choices are two stakeholders that have a position in the legalization of physician-assisted death. Focus on the Family is against it while Compassions and Choices are for the legislation. They both advertise their points by creating images that sways audiences to join their opinion. In these images they use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to prove their points that are trying to be made. These two stakeholders are at odds with each other and need a compromise for both to be content with the position of physician-assisted suicide. There are a number of ways that this can be brought about and will have to be agreed on by the stakeholders themselves. Tran 6 Works Cited Assisted Suicide In the United States? Go West Old  Psychology Today. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Euthanasia -  Should Euthanasia or Physician-assisted Suicide Be Legal? N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Give Me Liberty Or Give Me Death - Patrick Henry, March 23,  Give Me Liberty Or Give Me Death - Patrick Henry, March 23, 1775. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Home  Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Reasons to Oppose Physician-Assisted  Focus on the Family. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Tran 7