Cover letter I wrote this paper in a head of time with only study for my calculus and chemistry test which made me rush a bit while writing it, and I might have some difficulties as English is my second language. Introduction: The paper is going to talk about how harmful the phones in how distracting they can be in some cases, thus the title, and the thesis. Ethos: Ethos are evidence. And in this paper the reader can see ethos when the writer provided evidence from scholarly resources, like university research, and PhD holders. Examples are professor Kartz, and his survey. Pathos: Pathos are emotions. And in this paper the reader can see pathos when the writer wrote about the survey, were the participants were relying on emotion on how they feel when other people are driving and texting. Pathos was not really used that much in this paper, because this paper was written in an academic purpose, to mostly provide evidence. Logos: Logos is logic. And in this paper the reader can see logos when the writer was using logic by saying that phones should be banned, because banning phones result higher GPA, less accidents, and more. Kairos: Kairos is time and place. And in this paper the reader can see ethos when the writer wanted to stop usage of phones in cars and classrooms at certain times. Shehadehagha Alrefai 2 Youssef Shehadehagha Alrefai TJ Murry ENC 1102 29 th of January 2017 Cell Phones Are Harmful We live in a world where everyone uses their phone for everything, and taking it everywhere they go. Over the past few years we have seen a huge increase of reliance on phones, which led to many consequences, such as distraction while driving, while studying, and while in class. The United States government should implement laws to restrict the usage of cell phones in situations at certain times. Cell phones are a major distraction in classrooms. A study done by doctor Katz on removing cell phones from class rooms, it started with a positive reinforcement when the cell phones were removed. This method resulted in a great change, were the students started engaging more, and focused more in the classroom. In this experiment for the long run the researcher have found that a correlation between not using the cell phone in class and test grades, were students got higher grades and higher GPA in this experiment (Katz 340). That is why phones are distracting in classrooms and should be restricted in class rooms. Shehadehagha Alrefai 3 Using phones while driving can be really distracting, and can harm a myriad of people. A survey was done by the University of Utah about the behavior and ability of the participants while driving. Most participants said that they trust themselves to use their phones while driving but they do not trust others, and call it dangerous for other to use their phone (Sanbonmatsu 22). This survey shows how people are actually scared when other people while driving, which actually portrays how dangerous and serious actually it is to use a phone while driving. Another survey that was done by Accident Analysis and Prevention on 307 undergraduate college students. The survey contained questions about the amount of time spent using a cell phone, impulsivity, and history of motor vehicle crashes 372). After reviewing the results of the survey the researchers concluded that receiving a call or a text message while driving increases the usage of the phone, which leads to a higher accident rate. For those reasons the driver should be banned from using their phone while in a motor vehicle. In conclusion cell phones are very distracting, especially if the user is driving or might be in a class room. Cell phones can lead to many consequences if used at the wrong times, and can influence the user and might harm others in some occasions. This is why The United States government should put some laws to restrict the usage of cell phones in some situations at certain times. Like when driving or in a class room. Shehadehagha Alrefai 4 Work cited Katz, Louise, and Warren Lambert. A Happy and Engaged Class without Cell Phones? Easier than You  Teaching of Psychology 43.4 (2016): 340-45.PsycINFO. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Stephen S., Lindsey M. Shain, Jennifer M. Whitehill, and Beth E. Ebel. Measuring a Conceptual Model of the Relationship between Compulsive Cell Phone Use, In-vehicle Cell Phone Use, and Motor Vehicle  Accident Analysis and Prevention 99.Part A (2017): 372-78. PsycINFO. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Sanbonmatsu, David M., David L. Strayer, Arwen A. Behrends, Nathan Ward, and Jason M. Watson. Why Drivers Use Cell Phones and Support Legislation to Restrict This  Accident Analysis and Prevention 92 (2016): 22-33.PsycINFO. Web. 18 Feb. 2017.