Rosa 1 Alih Rosa Professor Josue ENC 1102 4 March 2017 Genetically Modified GMO in Advertisements Genetically modifying organisms, the act of inserting specific genes to get the crop, is controversial for its Frankenstein like tactics. While many businesses are all for the genetic breeding that leads to commercial success, there are those who see beyond monetary benefit, instead viewing the negative effects GMOs have on the environment and on human health. When it comes to advertising, companies are mindful about the message they put out. For a company like the Food and Agricultural Organization, or FAO, they would promote an advertisement like one by showing a baby covered in company labels with the quote making your baby a lab rat? Our babies deserve better than full of Pathos, Kairos, ethos, and logos. For the agricultural biotechnology organization AgBioWorld, they would advertise an image like one with a variety of characters, including humans, fruits, vegetables, and animals, all holding hands, dancing, and singing is good for exhibiting pathos and Kairos. Rosa 2 To begin with, when it comes to GMOs, opinionates are very favorable for their position. The Food and Agricultural Organization has a very opposing view on the genetic modification of crops, as stated on their website when they explain to the audience all potential negative effects on the human and socio-economic GMOs pose (FAONewsroom). This exemplifies why they would support the image against GMOs. This image consist of a smiling baby in a diaper with multiple labels of companies who use GMOs covering his body. The company seals plastered on the body include Abbott, Similac, Enfamil, which are pharmaceutical and infant companies, amongst others. Pathos can be observed in this part because it brings up a glee and joy to the viewer at first. Once the viewer realizes that the baby is the subject of experimentation, they feel mortified when thinking about a child being in a laboratory and going through trials for information. The viewer also feels disappointed at the fact that it is no one but their own fault for this because it is parents, family members, and babysitters who are feeding GMOs to children. Along with the baby, the question making your baby a lab and the phrase babies deserve better than can be spotted. The change in font from a bit more childlike to solemn from one quote to the other shows that the second part should be read carefully and taken seriously. Likewise, this is an example of pathos, as it evokes a sense of responsibility to stop letting our children be experimented on and give them better quality food, superior to GMOs. In regards to the labels, this represents ethos because the companies are supposed to be that we can trust. One of the companies that can be found on the baby, Enfamil, just recently created an option for Non- GMO formulas, informing their consumers on their website that been thinking about non-GMO, now you can choose a non-GMO* formula from the #1 pediatrician recommended brand. And like other Enfamil formulas, they have nutrients for healthy growth Rosa 3 and brain-nourishing When you see that companies such as Enfamil support GMOs and have been using them in their products for a long time, it conjures a feeling of confusion and distrust within the person, almost like they just found out dirty little secret. To continue, another rhetorical appeal that can be found is logos. The idea imposed that we are the reason our children are unconsciously apart of some big experimentation can be shocking, therefore it being logical for parents to stop feeding their children if they know it is affecting their kids in a negative way. Similarly, Kairos is found in the same aspect in which parents need to stop feeding their kids GMOs as soon as possible because they know that their baby does not benefit from it. Once a parent realizes these things, they will be more reluctant to trust these in which the advertisement accomplished its mission of educating and presenting surprising information. On the other hand, there are many who admire and glorify the many advantages GMOs have provided. It be a surprise if AgBioWorld was all for the second image that is supportive of the agricultural chemical DDT. DDT is a pesticide that, although now banned, was very popular and used often in the 50s, supported by an old memory Kelly Brogran recalls in her article We Can Learn From stating father grew up in NJ in the 50s and recalls running behind the spray of the trucks in the street (after playing with mercury beads in the dumpster!). The infamous ad campaign jingled, is good for In this image, many personalities are presented in the picture, including a dog, an apple, a young lady, a cow, a potato, and a chicken. The fruits, vegetables, and animals express anthropomorphism, which means that they display human like characteristics, giving them a more realistic look and appeal. The animals possess human qualities at the fact that they are singing, and the fruits and Rosa 4 vegetables show their human qualities because they have arms and legs and are singing as well. Although this sounds like a strange and unlikely combination for a group of friends, a perfect example of pathos. This exemplifies emotions of happiness and cheerfulness as the friends are all holding hands, dancing, and singing the phrase is good for With the variation between those that say DDT is good for them, it suggests to the viewer that a sense of trust is established between them because of the assortment of approval. Another aspect to take into account is the style of the cartoons. The way the girl is dressed is a representation of Kairos, as it displays the time period of the advertisement, which is the 50s, which also indicates that DDT was very popular during that time. With easy going visuals and feelings being brought forth from the image, the audience is persuaded to believe that DDT really is good for you. Ultimately, GMOs are a topic where persuasion through use of pathos, ethos, logos, and Kairos can be very powerful and swaying. For the Food and Agricultural Organization, an advertisement like the one by GMOInside.org is one they would fully support and approve of. From the smiling baby to labels all over its body, and even the contemplative questions and statements, the image is full of rhetorical appeals. The conclusion is that pathos, logos, ethos, and Kairos are all found in this picture and persuade the viewers to stop buying products from those companies, as well as to stop feeding GMOs to their children. In the case of the corporation AgBioWorld, the image of the girl, animals, vegetables and fruits would be one that they approve of. With the multiple different characters all holding hands and dancing and singing is good for the rhetorical appeals pathos and Kairos are an effective way of getting their point across. For both, the various uses of these appeals successfully achieves their Rosa 5 objective of persuading their audience to either stop consuming GMO supportive products or trust that the chemical DDT is good. Rosa 6 Rosa 7 Work Cited Brogan, MD Kelly, Elizabeth Said On, Annemarie Welch MD Said On, and Nikki H. Said On. What We Can Learn From  Kelly Brogan MD. N.p., 20 Dec. 2015. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. Enfamil Favorites: Now Available in  Enfamil US. N.p., 27 Sept. 2016. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. Weighing the GMO Arguments:  Weighing the GMO Arguments: Against. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. Rosa 8