Ajayi 1 COVER LETTER -Companies are exploiting children and using them for adverts because it appeals to emotions of the viewers (Pathos). -The companies doing this are logical about this and know that it is going to appeal to emotions and this is going to help them achieve their goal (Logos). -Some of the language the companies make the children use appeal to ethics in a convincing manner. This is done in order to convince the viewer of their credibility (Ethos). -They do this at times when they know there are going to be a lot of viewers on the T.V stations at that time (Kairos) Ajayi 2 Adedamola Ajayi T. J. Murray ENC 1102 14 th March 2017 The use of children as actors/actresses in advertisements Imagine a four-year-old having to learn grammar way above their age range. Using children in advertisements has become a norm in todays society. Companies usually do this because the adults who have the ability to purchase the product or use the services are easily lured by the use of children in the advertisements. Companies usually do this because the adults who have the ability to purchase the product or use the services are easily lured by using children to show off or explain the products. This defeats the purpose of growing up the They are introduced to experiences that they should not yet be exposed to. Growing up is a process that has to be taken step by step and should not be rushed because it can affect the mind of a child. As said in the article by daily mirror, upbringing is strongly influenced by (Daily Mirror). This is important because they are the future leaders of society. Ajayi 3 Using children in advertisements solely for the purpose of appealing to the conscience of adults who are able to purchase the goods and services should not be allowed. Other methods should be devised as an alternative to using children so as to allow these children grow up happy and the Ajayi 4 WORKS CITED Kids for  Daily Mirror - Sri Lanka Latest Breaking News and Headlines. N.p., 13 Sept. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Kali9. A multiracial group of children, ages 2 to 11, on  Getty Images. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Engel, Susan. Over-testing kids is not the answer: how we really spark  Salon. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Andhini, Linda. Pretty Little  Pretty Little Girls. N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.