Caceres !1 Karina Caceres James Josue ENC 1102 March 4, 2017 Euthanasia Visual Rhetoric The campaign for Dignity in Dying is an organization run by Sarah Wootton that supports and fights for dying people to have a choice/option to control their own death in the United Kingdom. Although their base argument is not inclusive of the United States, this organization cares about the global progression of assisted dying. Dignity in Dying makes sure to explicitly state the fact that they are only in support of the dying person being in control of their death and not permission for someone to end life. According to the Campaign for Dignity in Dy- ing, the current law in the United Kingdom is not working due to the fact there are so many dras- tic measures in order to be assisted in dying that people are willing to travel far or take their own lives at home. On the organizations website there are personal stories form people all over the Caceres !2 united kingdom fighting for a better law. The cartoon picture (to the left) is a take on how the government tries to make choices for the people, and the second picture (to the right) is meant to campaign to our broken by bringing people together. Both pictures portray an argument through all four rhetorical appeals, ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, to find an appropriate fix for the current euthanasia/assisted dying law in the United Kingdom. The cartoon picture plays on ethos by including the campaign for Dignity in Dying logo in the bottom left hand corner of the drawing. The audience sees the logo and immediately knows that the drawing is backed by an organization that is educated on the topic of euthanasia. This organization has even done extensive research to prove that a legalization for assisted dying would completely work with in their society. The people behind this campaign are also personal- ly involved with the law, for example many people share personal stories with campaign when the join the fight for a better law. Pam Parlanti, a woman suffering from an intensive case of arthritis, back in 2014 she was diagnosed with terminal bowel cancer. Upon the pain she was be- ing made to endure she made the decision to end her suffering in a positive light, yet she had to travel out of the United Kingdom to Switzerland to go through with her choice; her son Steve Parlanti is now an active member of the Campaign for Dignity in Dying to this day to help citi- zens of the United Kingdom to simply people be able to make their own choice. By having a per- sonal stories page on their website, the organization is using pathos to argue for help to fight against the government. The same picture uses pathos by having an old man depicted as old and ill who is looking for the right to choose his fate, but the government is deliberately making choices for him. From looking at this photo the audience knows that since this organization is requesting a law change that is to terminally ill and mentally competent their Caceres !3 hearts can hurt over the fact that this old man will not be able to choose for himself. This draw- ing brings kairos into the mix because since the man is suffering and elderly, a choice needs to be made regarding the law, so that this man can find his fate. Ultimately causing the audience to want to help change the law in a timely manor. This cartoon does not argue the case flawlessly though; there is a hasty generalization that causes the government to look corrupt. The audience could assume that since there is no explanation as to why the government is hesitant in changing the law, that it is simply because they are corrupt in their ways. The picture to the right uses ethos by proving both the campaign logo and the Crowdfun- der logo/website url. Considering that Crowdfunder is an online group that funds campaigns and organizations to create change about the world, the audience will view this sponsorship as trust- worthy. By using Crowdfunder the campaign for Dignity in Dying is raising money to create billboards all over the UK, in hopes that by widely spreading the cause for change people will join to make this change. With Crowdfunder being a popular place for users to find an organiza- tion to support, the Campaign for Dignity in Dying is getting more attention than they would without it. By using popular things, like a celebrity, the campaign is able to gain support; the im- age to the right includes a very famous celebrity, Patrick Stewart, the audience will find that they should look into the campaign an support since someone they look up to obviously does. Patrick Stewart is meant to be portrayed posing for a picture while a protest is blurred behind him, show- ing that he stands so much for this situation that he will go as far as to protest for it; by using such a notable actor the audience is very likely to further trust the campaign. By claiming that the law is the picture appeals to kairos, because the audience will feel as though they need to fix the law within a certain amount of time. The website for the campaign provides an expla- Caceres !4 nation as to why the current law in the United Kingdom does not work: dying people from asking for medical help to which causes people to take their own lives without the help of a professional, or ill people are forced to travel great lengths to finally end their sufferings. Both pictures depict the argument made by the campaign for Dignity in Dying to fix and properly legalize assisted dying in the United Kingdom, and to support Dignity in Dying global- ly. By using ethos, logos, pathos and minimizing the amount of fallacies within their argument, this campaign was able to raise 20,000+ euros to support the end of suffering for ill and mentally capable adults. Caceres !5 Work Cited Join the  Dignity in Dying. Sarah Wootton, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Parlanti, Steve. Pam  Dignity in Dying. Campaign for Dignity in Dying, n.d. Web. 20 Mar. 2017. Help Fix Our Broken Assisted Dying  , a Community Crowdfunding Project in London, United Kingdom on Crowdfunder. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.