VanWingerden 1 Jonah VanWingerden Mr. Josue ENC 1102 11 February 2017 Visual Arguments in Government Surveillance The attached photos were both supplied by the Global Government Surveillance Reform, an organization working for more transparency in the surveillance. The GGSR was organized by leaders of major well-known companies such as Apple, Google and Microsoft. The GGSR is primarily made up of technology companies because they are typically the ones mostly effected by surveillance whether it be through the devices or using information collected by the social networking site. While advocating for change in government surveillance, the GGSR released some images to help spread awareness about the issue. The first picture presented shows major company logos united below a government building, establishing credibility by using ethos, or establishing credibility. The next photo uses pathos to appeal to the emotions by showing the audience how the GGSR sees the NSA, giving their logo glowing red eyes and headphones signifying that always listening. Although these images differ, they both establish some of the major concerns such as transparency and accountability. To begin with, the first image shown below illustrates unity between popular major companies standing below a government building. This photo uses ethos as its main rhetorical strategy by establishing credibility with logos of companies that people are most likely able to identify with. If this organization was not backed up by major corporations that the public has heard of, there would be no reason to include logos at all. Making an image relatable is very VanWingerden 2 important to the success of the image so that people will be more willing to support the cause because it is supported by Twitter, Facebook and Google. The image also features an illustration of the U.S. Capitol Building which represents the U.S. government. There are a few possible interpretations of this image as to why the logos are pictured under it. It could either mean that these companies are standing against the decisions towards a specific subject or it could mean they are collaborating with the government to help create a solution to the issue of government surveillance. However, both interpretations accurately represent goals set by the GGSR. They want to take a stand against the current practices in surveillance and then work with the government to set new standards for the way surveillance should be conducted. Another reason these companies are featured in the image is because most of them deal with social networking, data storage, and cloud services. Companies like these regularly deal with sensitive information that could be useful in surveillance, so they are important to the cause. The second photo provided shows a depiction of how the GGSR views the current surveillance solution, the National Security Agency. Unlike the first, this image uses the rhetorical strategy pathos to appeal to the emotions. Although the seal is prevalent in the picture, it has been altered to show the way the GGSR views the NSA. With the addition of glowing red eyes, headphones, a switchboard and wires, the seal is easily transformed into a resemblance of what the GGSR claims the NSA stands for. Although the GGSR entirely against surveillance, they do not support the NSA and their approach towards surveillance and data accumulation. This image helps illustrate that they are fighting against from the government by making the NSA look like the bad guy Open Letter to para 2). The GGSR is made up of networking companies that VanWingerden 3 collect personal information and provide services and devices that could be useful in government surveillance. They put headphones on the eagle to make it seem like their surveillance is primarily conducted via phone call when in fact, they are just as likely to use social networks, cameras, and databases to obtain their information. Before social media or any type of communication over the internet, people were worried after hearing that the NSA had the capability to listen in on phone calls. At the time, it was a big deal, but no evidence suggests organizations against the surveillance. As cell phones became more popular and added features such as cameras, GPS, and internet, the subject of government surveillance really began to take off. Together, these images represent what the GGSR stands for: change in government surveillance. By creating images with different rhetorical strategies that are aimed for different audiences, the GGSR can spread their message to a broader category of people. Because some types of rhetorical appeals may have greater effects than others, it is best to provide a few options since some people may relate better to established credibility rather than an image that appeals to their emotions. The main goals include increasing transparency, reducing government conflict, and reforming the authority in the surveillance Government para 3). Both images below show that this whole issue relies on the government and its ability cooperate with their suggestions. Although these photos were not released with intentions to influence the decision on surveillance, they were meant for the people, to spread awareness of the issues at hand. These issues not only effect the employees and customers of the companies involved, but they also effect the people of America. It may be hard to stress in images, but this issue is a big deal that has potential to become something very dangerous. If Facebook, Twitter, and Apple are involved, it must mean VanWingerden 4 worried about the direction government surveillance is headed. Although it been too much of a major public issue, there have been a few instances where the government has infringed on the rights. Because of this, the GGSR is worried that they will take advantage of the fact that able to get away with unauthorized surveillance. In conclusion, the Global Government Surveillance Reform stands for change in the way the government currently handles surveillance of the public. By showing images displaying rhetorical strategies such as ethos and pathos, the GGSR is able to relate their message to the audience through emotions and establishing credibility. Their focus in sharing these images is not to solve the conflict with the government but rather spread awareness of the issue and gain support in attempt to make a larger impact. The GGSR wants the American Population to be on their side. VanWingerden 5 Works Cited An Open Letter to  Reform Government Surveillance. Global Government Surveillance Reform, Dec. 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kelley, Michael B. Spying on Business Insider, Electronic Frontier Foundation, 10 June 2013, www.businessinsider.com/expert-says-the-nsa-is-probably- spying-on-you-2013-6. Accessed 4 Mar. 2017. Madsen, Greg. Companies United under US Capitol Mobile Advertising Watch, 25 Mar. 2015, mobileadvertisingwatch.com/global-tech-giants-ask-for-global- government-surveillance-reform-16636/global-mobile-tech-giants-ask-for-global- government-surveillance-reform. Accessed 4 Mar. 2017. Reform Government  Reform Government Surveillance. Global Government Surveillance Reform, 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. VanWingerden 6