Elsingergy 1 Cover Letter - I revised my topic sentences so that each topic sentence explains the idea of its paragraph. - I did not incorporate many sources to support my claims because I am a college student, and have experienced many of the problems mentioned in the paper. Hence, my voice is already very credible. - I went through my paper many times to avoid minor grammatical and spelling mistakes. - My paper presents a problem, but does not provide a concrete solution for it. - I did not specify a certain audience for my paper. Hence, it is addressing the public. - Pathos: I used pathos in my paper by incorporating images that convey how the life of a college teenager may be miserable. This will attain some empathy from the readers. I also used emotional words like: unbearable amounts of stress, unhealthy social life, etc. Finally, I listed some of the complications to chronic stress, which students may face during college including, strokes, heart attacks, etc. This will affect the readers emotionally. - Ethos: I used ethos in my paper by citing some credible sources (including the HSE) to support my claims. I also used an image from my Facebook group as an evidence that proves my point. However, since I am considered a credible voice in my paper, I did not have to incorporate many sources to support my claims. - Logos: I used logos in my paper by incorporating statistics that convey the dangers of college. I also used general reasoning in my paper, for example, can, in some extreme cases, witness chronic stress because of failure, daily maltreatment from fellow peers, etc. Hence, the college opportunity is not totally beneficial after - Kairos: My paper is focused on a certain four-to-six-years interval, through which a teenager will face some difficulties. Elsingergy 2 Abdulrahman Elsingergy Dr. Theodore J. Murray ENC1102.906S17 25 February 2017 Is There Too Much Stress on Teenagers in College? test will be due You will bring this assignment with you next class... Do not forget to finish up the project before Students hear those sentences almost every week in college, and they, without a doubt, sound very frustrating. Throughout history, the public viewed higher education as a prestigious and honorable opportunity. College, in specific, was the first step to the mature and independent world, where you can learn to succeed on your own. However, what if this claim is erroneous? What if college, today, is a source of unbearable stress for teenagers? Initially, I would to like define the word Per the HSE, the Health and Safety Executive, which acts as a watchdog for work-related problems in the UK, stress is the feeling of being under too much mental or emotional (Treacy). Thus, when people are not able to cope with pressure, it automatically converts from pressure to stress. As a matter of fact, the pressure on 1: In college, many factors can cause teenagers unbearable stress. Elsingergy 3 teens to score good grades, to take manifold exams, to develop a healthy, social or romantic life, to cope with the very high costs of fees, etc., will no doubt produce anxiety and stress that will affect their academic performance. Hence, teenagers are vulnerable to unbearable amounts of stress that will affect their future. What may be the types of stress, students are vulnerable to? Stress can be categorized into three categories: acute stress, episodic acute stress and chronic stress (Miller). Acute stress, the most common and benign kind, is recognized by most people. It is that type of stress you feel, when you are stuck in an assignment, whose deadline is tomorrow. In fact, acute stress might just be the feeling you get when it is your first-time diving, and you have a phobia from sharks. However, although small amounts of acute stress might be thrilling and exciting, too much doses will be exhausting (Milller). Symptoms of acute stress include: emotional distress, headaches, jaw and back pain, fast heartbeat and sweaty palms. The second type of stress is the episodic acute stress. It takes the form of acute stress that happens frequently, and thus it has the same symptoms. The only difference is that its symptoms are more severe than those of the normal acute stress. People who suffer from episodic stress will always tend to be in a hurry, irritable, anxious and tense (Miller). The third and most sever type of stress is the 2: In order to cope with stress, students may seek the help of illegal drugs. Elsingergy 4 chronic stress. Chronic stress is the type of stress that has been there with the person for a long time. A perfect example of chronic stress, is the stress caused by poverty. Unlike acute stress, it causes severe and more complicated health problems including, heart attacks, strokes, and sometimes even cancer (Miller). Students can, in some extreme cases, witness chronic stress because of failure, daily maltreatment from fellow peers, etc. Hence, the college opportunity is not totally beneficial after all. After discussing the types of stress, we might want to look at the various reasons behind stress in college. During college years, students will face many factors that will cause stress. Among those factors are, homesickness, academic anxiety, finances, social life and post-graduate plans. For students living away from home, it may be difficult to adapt to the new life. That is, students who are used to living with their parents will have trouble adapting to live on their own, do all the chores by 4: A student asking for a friend on my class Facebook group. 3: The college life costs you tremendous effort and stress. Elsingergy 5 themselves and even find the proper motivation and psychological support. Others, who were very social back home may witness a drastic change in personality because of the culture shock. Another main, stress-causing factor is academic anxiety, which is the worrisome load students must tolerate because of the countless assignments, projects, finals, etc. Maybe it is just not right to be forced to bear such quantity of tasks within a short term. Beside the academic problems, a typical teenage problem is the struggle to find the healthy and proper social life. In my group on Facebook, it is very common to see a student complaining about not having friends, and struggling to lead a social life similar to the one he/she had before college. In addition to social life difficulties, almost all students must think about coming up with a plan for post- graduation. Where will they work? Will they find jobs? Thinking about such issues might cause stress and confusion. One might ask, to what extent is this subject serious? To what extent may be college life dangerous for teenagers? To start off, twenty percent of college students say that they are stressed all the time (Cohen). That is, one every ten students complains about being stressed. Another shocking fact is that ten percent of college students have thought about committing suicide, which means one every 10 students got very stressed, he/she could not take it anymore. Moving on, thirteen percent of college students have been diagnosed with anxiety, depression or another mental health condition (Cohen). So, if college is that harmful, why does the public view it as a golden opportunity? Elsingergy 6 Some opinions will say that college and higher education are the things that give values to people. They also say that education is always better than ignorance. I would refute this claim by saying that the fact that college can be very stressful contradicts the definition of education and learning. Indeed, education never meant tolerating a lot of pressure because with pressure comes lack of performance, which will affect the education. However, a solution to this problem might be coming up with a new system of education that does not require students to do tremendous amounts of assignments, offers psychological counselling and time management courses. Another rebuttal to their claim would be valuing people based on certain aspects is never a correct way of thinking. The public must admit that there are things more valuable than education. First of which, is HEALTH. Hence, if our educational system cannot provide a safe learning atmosphere, then the idea of is pointless. 5: Emotional problems can never be a complimentary to education. Elsingergy 7 In conclusion, education is not an excuse for health problems, since nothing is worth putting your health in danger for. educational system is one of the top, if not the best, educational systems in the world. Students there record the best educational performance. Now, one might wonder is it so? In Finland, there are no tests, take-home assignments, detentions or strict scripts, upon which every teacher must work (Doyle). William Doyle, who had the opportunity to teach at the University of Eastern Finland for a semester, says, five months, my wife, my son and I experienced a stunningly stress-free, and stunningly good, school (Doyle). Maybe now is just the time to change how teenagers are taught, or rather in colleges. I believe that the society must stand together to change the educational system to help the cut the stressful years in college. Why not help them if they are the building blocks of our country? 6: A teacher helping her students in a school in Helsinki, Finland (Doyle). Elsingergy 8 Works Cited Cohen, Melissa. Student Stress & Anxiety  Learnpsychology. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Doyle, William. Why Finland has the best  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 18 Mar. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Miller, Lyle H. Stress: The different kinds of  Apa.org. Web. 25 Feb 2017. Reifman, Alan. Stress in College  Psychology Today. N.p., 1 Oct. 2011. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Treacy, Rebecca. Stress and pressure of student  Campus.ie. N.p., 26 Feb. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.