Al Wahaibi 1 Cover Letter : Death Penalty Should Be Legalized The challenge in writing this paper was not in word choice, sentence structure or ideas flow only. The challenging part was creating images and adding them to the essay. Using rhetorical appeals made it a bit harder. We actually use them frequently but not labeled. Here are the appeals I have used with examples from my paper: Ethos: I used credibility to convince audience carried out across the states to determine the effectiveness of a death penalty has proven to be so effective that crime can be Logos: Logic is used through out the paper here is an example penalty is a very useful tool that can be used in sentencing those who commit worst crimes in the Pathos: Used in Moral paragraphs Kairos: Timeliness issue of whether the death sentence is legal or not has long been discussed dating as far as 1685 to 1975 where the court decided to leave the burden to the state. Over 40 years of research has proven the death sentence to be While writing this paper I chose to separate the information used into categories, So I divided the ideas into paragraphs: Moral, Historical..etc. Al Wahaibi 2 Rawan Al Wahaibi Theodore Murray ENC 1102 19 March 2017 Death Penalty Should Be Legalized issue of death penalty is an issue that has made the United States to be quite divided. This is because there are many people supporting it and also there is a lot opposing it. There are thirty three states currently where death penalty has been legalized and other seventeen states that have not legalized (Death Penalty Information Center). The state or country has no say or right in giving life, why then should it be allowed to execute the murder? The fundamentals of such an argument could be thus irrelevant. On the other hand, life imprisonment is denying an inmate the fundamental rights of life e.g. freedom. in prison is still where a person is subjected to manual labor, harsh conditions, poor diet among others in the company of other wrongdoers with unknown (Feser, 2016) Reformation is not guaranteed, and if it is, it serves no purpose since it is a life sentence. Would this be as good as death? The following paper quantifies the relevance of a death penalty thus determining whether it should be made legal. Morally, death sentences are given to the extreme cases mainly involving utterly odious murders. Capital punishment aims to eliminate the worst of the worst rather than what the critics argue that only an unlucky selected few face the penalty. This in some way ensures justice both to the state and to the victims involved because it is as we put it eye for an The Al Wahaibi 3 alternative, preferably life imprisonment would be unfair. This is because it match the crime committed specifically to the families of the victims who many not understand the gravity of in prison as opposed to death sentence. In some way capital punishment may be an appropriate penalty as it promotes respect for the moral order and belief in the majesty. The moral con of capital punishment mainly lies on the defendant and the executor. The dilemma lies in what if the defendant had reformed? What if the judicial system involved in prosecuting the accused made an error and the wrong person was prosecuted? What does the executor go through emotionally in overseeing the execution of inmates? As Sermon Frank confesses in his article I Learnt from Executing Two the emotional journey of such a scenario is complicated. He had to come to terms with his feelings about taking another life. After his term, he spent the rest of his life fighting against capital punishment. (Thompson, 2016) Constitutionally, the Fifth Amendment deters anybody from being held answerable for a capital crime unless in the presence of a court system or a grand jury. It also goes against deprivation of life without the intervention of the law. According to (Antonin Scalia, 2015), the Eighth Amendment was accidently mistaken to add onto this by attaching terror, pain, or disgrace that qualifies for capital punishment. Historically, there are cases where the death sentence had been administered like in the event of petitioners with a death sentence penalty who sorts mercy from the court under the Eight Amendment to nullify their sentence as and Two trial were carried out, one to determine whether they were guilty and another to determine whether the death sentence was appropriate. Al Wahaibi 4 However, the issue of whether the death sentence is legal or not has long been discussed dating as far as 1685 to 1975 where the court decided to leave the burden to the state. Over 40 years of research has proven the death sentence to be unreliable, hard to administer, and takes long to reach a verdict in a judicial system. According to Steven G. Breyer, an associate in the Justice of the US Supreme Court, it violates the Eighth Amendment. (Steven G. Breyer, 2015) As common in any thesis, the conclusion lies in the investigations and research done. Most of the Americans are for capital punishments. Research carried out across the states to determine the effectiveness of a death penalty has proven to be so effective that crime can be reduced. The study of (Muhlhausen, 2014) shows that three to eighteen lives could have been saved if the convicted killer would have been executed. Such results are not only eminent in the US but cut across Europe too. This indicates that death penalty saves lives. There are other statistics like in the case of Hong Kong and Singapore who did away with the death penalty and the later increased show no co-relation with the crime wave. This is also eminent in states that Canada and US states which have not abolished the system. John J. Donohue III, a professor of law at Stanford University also argues that the effect of executing a murderer who initially exposes his life during the murder and is convicted a long period after committing the crime would be minimal in reducing the crime waves. The image below shows an illustration of protesters demonstrating against capital crime as it was in the rise in 2015 Northern California, USA. It attaches the moral obligation to the Al Wahaibi 5 death sentence of inmates as approved by the court system. Killing to show killing is wrong make sense logically since it condones the issue that the justice system is trying to eliminate. It also begs the question that gives the mandate to allow a court to administer a death penalty. The picture below shows the percentage race of Americans mostly affected by the death penalty in the United States. It clearly shows that the largest population that suffers death penalties in United States is the African Americans. Al Wahaibi 6 RACE OF DEFENDANTS SELECTED FOR CAPITAL PROSECUTION The African Americans occupy the largest percentage (78%). This is maybe because they are most vulnerable to murder related crimes and thus susceptible to death penalty charges. Error and misjudgment of the judicial system may also contribute to the high percentage because, as the critics put it, a chosen unlucky few may be singled out by a faulty judicial system. More often than not, the highest tally of these defendants is black. All in all, the race or the economic status of an individual does not matter. If one is considered guilty then he or she is entitled to receiving the appropriate punishment including the death penalty. Death penalty can be referred to as an asset to the society since it serves as retribution to the criminals. It also deters the potential criminals from doing crimes due the fear of the outcome which is death penalty. It is very important that all states unite on this issue rather than being divided. Death penalty is a very useful tool that can be used in sentencing those who commit worst crimes in the society. Thus, death penalty should be legalized in all states. RACE OF DEFENDANTS SELECTED FOR CAPITAL PROSECUTION 1st black 2nd Hispanic 3rd white Al Wahaibi 7 Works Cited Antonin Scalia, J. (2015 ). Concurring opinion in Glossip v. Gross, US Supreme Court: supreme.justicia.com. Feser, E. (2016). Why the Death Penalty Is Still Pasadena City College: catholicworldreport.com. Muhlhausen, D. (2014). Capital Punishment Works: It Deters Chicago: dailysignal.com.x Steven G. Breyer, J. (2015). Dissenting opinion in Glossip v. Gross, US Supreme Court: supreme.justicia.com. Thompson, S. F. (2016). What I Learned from Executing Two . Oregon State Penitentiary: nytimes.com.