Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 26 March 2017 The Developing Process of Non-English Speaker Education Nowadays, more and more international students who are Non-English speakers choose to go abroad to study in English-speaking countries, like the United States, Canada, and Australia. As we all known, the language barrier is one of the biggest problems during studying abroad. With the craze for studying abroad, the universities pay attention to establish studying support to help Non-English speakers study English. At the first of 2003, universities most focused on leading Non-English speakers to adapt to scholarly life in English speaking countries. As times goes on, the emphasis has changed to help integrate Non-English speakers to the social life in English speaking countries in 2015. For example, they spent more time on alleviate the culture diversity for Non-English speakers during English language program. Although the ultimate goal for English language program is helping second language students learning English, the focus has changed from academically to socially within the last decade. Many researches showed the strong desire of urging Non- English speakers on learning academic English at the beginning of the ten-year span. In 2003, Cruickshank, Newell and Cole investigated that students still used the traditional language support, which supported from the university learning assistance centers, to access to education of learning English. The traditional language supports always consisted of short courses, self-access materials and summer schools. The observation showed that most students were still engaging in content- based courses to help with learning English in 2003. There were three characteristics for content-based courses: Student 2 general lecture followed by ESL students having a specific tutorial with an ESL options, counting for credit, designed to teach some program content along with specific language and run specifically for ESL student and taught by lecturers with both subject and ESL From the characteristics, traditional language supports were still revolve around the general part of learning the English, which are not detailed enough for Non-English speakers. Similarly to this result, the research from Chen in 2008 focused on the preference for discourse pattern of Chinese ESL students. The investigation compared the preferences of Chinese ESL students and native speakers when they writing a discourse in English. The deductive pattern was appeared to be a Western preference, and Chinese prefer to use the inductive pattern in discourse (Chen 188). Furthermore, Chen started to focus on the culture and a specific part when Non-English speakers learning English. However, Same as 2003, the education system in Chen is still restricting to the academic and professional forms. Something has changed during the end of last decade as well. According to Fox, Cheng& Zumbo, in response to the increasing numbers of second language (L2) learners studying in Canadian universities, many new language programs have been developed during times. The goal of the new developing L2 English language is still to support the successful transition to and engagement with academic work in university, which is same with Chen and Ken. However, there is a huge difference happened in Fox, they considerably in emphasis, methodology, and approach (Fox, Cheng & Zumbo 58). There are two types of programs showed in Fox, the first one is English as a second language (ESL; general English), and the second on is English for academic purposes (EAP). According to Fox, the ESL are typically related to improve communicative capability and tend to social interaction, while the EAP concentrates more on helping Non-English speakers adapt to the academic systems. Obviously, social Student 3 communication capability becomes the new emphasis of learning English for Non-English speakers. Because of the popularity of English and the desire of study abroad, there are rapid growth of education institution in Non-English speakers local country. They practice grammar, training writing skills before they came to the English speaking country. However, most people are afraid to talking because their poor pronunciation when they first came to the speaking country. Thus, improving the communication skills became the new specific difficulty to overcome for Non-English speakers. According to the article written by Yang and Chen, Non- English speakers education became a cultural continuity in international higher education for second English speakers. The English language programs are put in a specified cultural environment. The culture collision breeds an emergent significant feature of the culture (Yang & Chen 197). The original culture of Non-English speakers will not be denied, it will become the transportation between English culture and the original culture. Overall, the goal for Non-English speaker education has remained a constant of helping second English language students adapt English with the continued developing of emphasis from academically to socially. Over the span of the last decade, from 2003 to 2015, universities keep provide English learning supporting, like ESL, EAP courses, to help Non-English speakers from every aspect. Moreover, with the developing of technology and popularization of social media, universities have more methods to teaching English with the various requirements of the times. Thus, this information can be argued that this particular developing of Non-English speaker education changed from general to specific with the times, and it gradually pays more attention to help Non- English speaker adapt to the culture and social life. (WC:865) Student 4 Works cited Cruickshank, Ken, Sandra Newell, and Stephanie Cole. Meeting English Language Needs In Teacher Education: A Flexible Support Model For Non-English Speaking Background  Asia-Pacific Journal Of Teacher Education 31.3 (2003): 239-247. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Chen, Jianping. An Investigation into the Preference for Discourse Patterns in the Chinese EFL Learning  International Journal of Applied Linguistics 18.2 (2008): 188-211. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Fox Rodriguez, Janna, Liying Cheng, and Bruno D. Zumbo. Do They Make A Difference? The Impact Of English Language Programs On Second Language Students In Canadian  TESOL Quarterly 1 (2014): 57. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Yang, Wenhui, and Linhan Chen. Cultural Continuity In EFL Teaching In International Higher Education: From A Discourse Perspective Of Chinese  English Language Teaching 8.2 (2015): 196-205. ERIC. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.