Trotter Duce ENC 1102 Angelica Aranda February 22, 2017 Project One Intermediate Draft One of the biggest topics of discussion in politics and society since the middle of the 20 th century has been climate change. Two stakeholders concerned with this issue are Greenpeace and The Cato Institute. The former is an organization made up of people who believe that climate change is very real, caused primarily by human activities and are actively trying to stop it. This group is made up of environmental activists and many people with more liberal stances on social issues. The latter group is an organization that overall does not deny the existence of climate change but rather believes that the effects of it are marginal and there is not much urgency to set about stopping it. This group is mostly comprised of people who think that concerns over environmental safety should not outweigh the needs of the economy, and that any legislation regulating the environmental practices of a company is coming to interfere in the way the economy flows. Both of these groups have vested interest in the outcome of the debate, whether that be more environmentally friendly sources of energy or requirements regarding emission reduction. One way to compromise between these two sides is to employ a solution that benefits both. Greenpeace, the side of this debate that considers itself the people in this debate, gets its influence from early grassroots movements in the and According to their website, group of thoughtful, committed citizens came together in 1971 to create Ever since, Greenpeace has launched many campaigns concerning the environment, the most notable of which call for the banning of commercial whaling and an end to nuclear testing. Greenpeace currently has offices in more than 50 countries, with 250,000 Trotter Duce ENC 1102 Angelica Aranda February 22, 2017 members in the United States alone. mission statement is as follows: is the leading independent campaigning organization that uses peaceful protest and creative communication to expose global environmental problems and promote solutions that are essential to a green and peaceful (Greenpeace). When it comes to the issue of climate change, Greenpeace believes that the effects of climate change need to be stopped as soon as possible through government regulation and global awareness about emissions. Their main form of activism is carried out through protests and awareness campaigns, as well as lobbying legislatures. Around the time of foundation, research was beginning to come out suggesting that the Earth was slowly getting warmer, and fuel emissions were primarily to blame. Fast forward to modern day, and the trend has not only continued, but worsened, according to many studies. Statistics continue to show an alarming trend, with the average global temperature rising 1.7 degrees Fahrenheit since 1880, while land ice is disappearing at a rate of 281 gigatonnes per year. To top it off, 2016 was the warmest year on record (NASA). These statistics make for a very strong argument when it comes to lobbying for the Greenpeace representatives that work on emission-reducing regulation to be passed. This led to the passing of the Kyoto Protocol, in which President Bill Clinton, along with over 150 other world leaders, signed a treaty aiming to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to at least 5% below the 1990 levels by 2012. However, in 2001 President George W. Bush withdrew from the agreement due to fear that reducing greenhouse gas emissions could harm the United States economy (ProCon.org). This action exemplifies the whole debate, showing how divided the country as a whole is on this topic. Trotter Duce ENC 1102 Angelica Aranda February 22, 2017 As represented by the actions of President Bush, those who think climate change poses a big threat are mostly concerned with the potentially harmful economic effects. The Cato Institute is one organization that falls under this definition. Cato is a policy research also called a think tank, founded in 1977. Their mission is to disseminate, and increase understanding of public policies based on the principles of individual liberty, limited government, free markets, and peace. Our vision is to create free, open, and civil societies founded on libertarian (Cato Institute). It is important to keep in mind that, as stated, Cato is a libertarian institution, which explains the way they approach the topic of climate change. Libertarian doctrine generally follows a conservative way of approaching economics and a more left-leaning and tolerant approach to social issues. The climate change debate is an interesting one for organizations like Cato because it creates a conflict of interest. Due to this, Cato has taken a stance that acknowledges the existence of climate change, but claims that the effects of it are exaggerated. Their website states that there are many different legislative proposals for substantial reductions in carbon dioxide emissions, there is no operational or tested suite of technologies that can accomplish the goals of such Additionally, they claim that there is ample time to develop such technologies, which will require substantial capital investment by (Cato Institute). Cato has clearly laid out their proposed solution to the climate change debate, and the nature of it is one that leaves room for compromise. If Cato were to discuss a good middle ground with Greenpeace, a solution that satisfies both sides may be found. Trotter Duce ENC 1102 Angelica Aranda February 22, 2017 A good way to compromise between the interests of the opposing parties is by providing tax breaks or other financial incentives to companies that use more environmentally friendly practices. This way, companies lose money investing in cleaner production alternatives, while the government is still able to regulate (to a certain degree, at least) some of the bigger causes of climate change. Cato expresses a clear opposition to a proposed which would, in essence, fine companies that produce more than a certain amount of carbon emissions. Cato sees this as too much of an intrusion onto the rights of corporations that will reduce profits. The best alternative to the carbon tax would be not to penalize those companies that create a lot of carbon emissions, but to offer a tax break to those companies that produce less than a certain amount of emissions. This way, corporations are not forced to adjust their means of production and lose profits to meet a certain level of emission output. Rather, if the government gave a very generous tax break to those that did meet a certain level of emissions, perhaps companies would be more likely to invest in cleaner production methods on their own time. This compromise would likely please both sides and real change could begin to take place to reverse the effects of this harmful phenomenon. Trotter Duce ENC 1102 Angelica Aranda February 22, 2017 Works Cited NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. http://climate.nasa.gov/ Background of the Issue - Climate Change Debate -  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. http://climatechange.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=006525  Greenpeace USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. About  Cato Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017.