1 Priyeshwar Sodhi Sabah Uddin ENC 1101.022 March 26, 2017 Due to the shifting political landscape and active changes in the policies, the effectiveness of the EU is questioned by its members. Has the EU reached its end? The European Union has been a center of power since its establishment in 1958. Economic problems new to the EU and the 28 countries that are part of the Union. Through the years many economists have asked the same question, there a need for the EU in Brexit, the exit of Britain form the European Union in June 2016, came as a big shock to the entire world. It has led to many speculations among the other members of the EU if it is better for them to leave the Union as well. The recent policy changes initiated by the Union have further raised concerns for some of the members to consider if they will be better off without the Union. Many still wait to see how the economy of Britain reacts to the situation before making hasty decisions for their own economies. But it is time to look at the effectiveness of the EU and are countries better off without it. The shift in political landscape and active changes in the policies of the EU that limit countries more than help their economies is a question that needs to be answered. Vincent Navarro and John Schmitt 1 in Crisis Of The European Union: Weakening Of The EU Social talk about how the overall social model of the EU has weakened due to the budgetary agreements made by the Union. Higher interest rate is one of the major concerns for the member countries to consider as it is uniform even if some countries have lower GDPs compared to the others. This makes it harder for these countries to loan the money to use for the development for their countries, which is what the EU needs to be doing in the first place. It needs to help these low GDP members and not become another reason for their stunted growth. Alain 2 in Crisis and Social Protection in the European Union: Moving 2 beyond Immediate contradicts the claims made by Navarro and Schmitt by providing information about the steps that were taken by the EU to help its members to stabilize their economies from further damage and how it provided billions of euros to help facilitate the consumer cycle in times of crises like the 2007-2010 recession. Alain explains how the EU cannot always be the only source the countries rely on when it comes to economic development as the main objective is to aid in the overall development of all member countries. Thus, the changes in the policies made by the EU are with in regards to benefit all its members, big or small, evenly. Sabine Saurugger and Fabien Terpan 3 in Crises Lead to Policy Change? The Multiple Streams Framework and the European Economic Governance take a close look on what exactly does the EU do when it faces crises. Fabien focuses on the governance mechanism put in place by the Union to see results in times of crisis. Like during the recession 0f 2007-2010 the soft governance mechanism was transformed into hard law (more controlled taxes, interest rates and loan allocations) to help tackle the after effects of the recession. These mechanisms are hard to understand and not easy to identify by the common man. However, in and the Future of the by Boris Kagarlitsky 4 he explains the referendum that led to the Brexit and talks about how people made the choice for Britain to leave the Union as they felt it was not a good choice for their country. But was this choice made by looking and deeply studying the impact of the Union and how it helped the country during the recession, or was it just people making the decision based on things they saw around them like immigration and decrease in job availability? Boris explains the demographic of the referendum which shows that the people who believed it was time to exit the Union were mainly retirees over the age of 45. Whereas the demographic that wanted to stay in the Union was the actual working class between the ages of 18-35. 3 On one hand Navarro and Schmitt 1 state that there is a lot of work that the EU needs to do to improve the situation of its member countries, 2 and Saurugger and Terpan 3 argue that there is already so much the Union has done and without its presence a lot of countries would have probably suffered major economic fatalities over the years causing them to struggle with development and unemployment and maybe even covered in huge debt for many decades. The presence of the EU may not always give be a helpful thing for the member countries but it has proven to be more than effective to not only stabilize the most devastating economic crisis, the recession, but has also helped many countries in times of economic and political turmoil like Greece and Italy respectively. Despite having different studies the authors shed light on some very important issues but conclude that it probably is not the time for the end of the EU but there are always ways the Union can improve and play an even more significant role than it does today. 4 Bibliography 1. Navarro, Vincent, and John Schmitt. Crisis Of The European Union: Weakening Of The EU Social Challenge (05775132) 51.1 (2008): 69-77. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2. Alain. Crisis and Social Protection in the European Union: Moving beyond Immediate International Social Security Review, vol. 63, no. 2, Apr-Jun2010, pp. 71-86. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/j.1468-246X.2010.01362.x 3. Saurugger, Sabine and Fabien Terpan. Crises Lead to Policy Change? The Multiple Streams Framework and the European Economic Governance Policy Sciences, vol. 49, no. 1, Mar. 2016, pp.35-53. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s11077-015-9239-4. 4. Kagarlitsky, Boris. and the Future of the Globalizations, vol. 14, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. 110-117. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/14747731.2016.1228800.