Student 1 Ideology as a Purpose for Science Two stakeholders in genetic modification of people have some varying viewpoints that involve their perceptions of science. The first is all about removing the ideology from the science for the purpose of educating people on just the facts. The other is a therapeutics company that believes in compassion and bedside manner, but relies on a lot of this ideology when doing their work in science to cure genetic based diseases. The Genetic Literacy Project is all about divulging information and presenting it in the most appropriate manner. The Sangamo Therapeutics Company is about passion for people in their work. These two viewpoints vary as there is not a lot of similarity or agreement in execution of their missions. The best way for this difference to be overcome is an understanding of the appropriate manner of involving ideology in the science without creating a bias. The Genetic Literacy Project is all about educating and updating the people with information on the most current news in the realm of genetic modification, including work done with human genetics. Their mission statement is about them removing the opinions from the actual facts or science from (Genetic Literacy Project Team). Sangamo Therapeutics is a company dedicated to the clients and patients. In their mission they believe that ideology is important. Part of their mission states Guided by (Sangamo Therapeutics Inc.) This line is important as it reveals that the company does believe in ideology that is vital to its operation. To give an example of what Sangamo does as a therapeutics company, they are currently working towards a solution HIV involving STEM cells, similar to the study from the article, hematopoietic stem cells toward a functional cure of human immunodeficiency virus (Wang, 2016) The target of this kind of study is to use gene therapy to help patients, and gene therapy allows certain genes to be edited using Student 2 medication. These practices were applied in research such as that discussed in the Nature article, genome editing in human repopulating haematopoietic stem This basically lead to the study discussed in the previous article mentioned, and what these discuss are the processes involved in editing the genes involved and how it would affect the case of HIV and the patient if the method is used. The end game for this company is cures, so it makes sense that all their research is put towards caring for the patients/clients that need the cure. These companies do have similar interests as they both concern themselves with the current technology and practice of genetic modification. Keeping up to date with the most recent discoveries is vital to both of these companies, one as a journalistic source and the other as one of the leading companies in the field. Here lies motivation for their two different missions, motivation to be at the head of the crowd. GLP desires to stay forward so it can remain one of the leading sources on current events in the field, while Sangamo wishes to lead the game due to its strong moral compassion for its patients. As a proposal for a middle ground between the two companies, it should be asked that GLP keep updates on all the therapeutics companies involved in genetic modification and there current motivations. This will force them to present the ideologies of others, but they must still remain neutral in their articles. The information should be presented in a way that presents the companies ideologies without sharing a personal opinion on the subject. For part in the compromise the company must remain as unbiased as possible, providing evidence from studies as proof. Bias can be eliminated from clinical trials using double blind studies and third party doctors that are as uninvolved as possible with clients and not a part of company. These guidelines will help these companies progress without having to recreate their entire mission statement. Student 3 The compromise here has the companies push the outlines of their previously set ideals enough to make a noticeable change in the way their public image is presented. GLP a journal of the events in genetic modification, would have to present more than just the bare facts in their articles. This could cause some criticism when readers go back to the mission statement of science from (GLP). Sangamo may actually benefit with their public image with all the effort put into ensuring a lack of bias. It would however put a dent in their profit hiring third party doctors for physicals and client welfare. There is a large chance that the public image would later compensate for that later on. To make these changes GLP would have to either hire some writers or researchers to look into motivations of the therapeutics companies, and also get interviews with board members and company chairs. This could cost money, but GLP is already run mostly on donation, so it is possible. Sangamo would have to create a program to begin hiring doctors for their research to act as an unbiased third party for clients, which will cost them. It is highly likely that if they project this image to the public that their strong moral guidelines will better their public image and allow for these extra expenditures. These companies will be able to reach a middle ground with some effort that will help them keep at the forefront of this field and keep to their missions. These companies have some different perspectives, but finding compromise could help them both progress. GLP could make better connections if they have personal experience with the companies doing the research that is written about, helping them become even more prominent. Sangamo could better their image in the long run and ensure a future profit rather than a short term dollar. Student 4 Proposed Source List Genetic Literacy Project Team. Not Genetic Literacy Project, Genetic Literacy Project, www.geneticliteracyproject.org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Sangamo Therapuetics Inc. Therapeutics, Inc. Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc., Sangamo, www.sangamo.com/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Wang, Jianbin, and Michael C. Holmes. hematopoietic stem cells toward a functional cure of human immunodeficiency virus Cytotherapy, vol. 18, no. 11, Nov. 2016, pp. USF, doi:10.1016/j.jcyt.2016.07.007. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Genovese, Pietro, et al. genome editing in human repopulating haematopoietic stem Nature, vol. 510, no. 7504, 2014, pp. USF, doi:10.1038/nature13420. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.