Mara 1 Axhens Mara Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 15 March 2017 Gun control vs Gun ownership Gun control has been a hot debate topic lately regarding to its mission, partly restricting the gun ownership right, a right supported by the Second Amendment. When the Second Amendment was written, the right to bear arms was guaranteed to everybody, representing the right of people to defend themselves and their families (Second Amendment). Yet throughout the years there have been some change in that concept, leading the recent situation where gun violence is increasing (Beckett). Therefore, organizations like Violence Policy Center are working on finding new methods that would lead to a decrease of that phenomenon. As an educational anti-gun organization, VPC aims to reduce the number of deaths caused by gun violence. Through these two pictures, they are trying to deliver the same message, therefore both pictures have the same purpose, yet they follow different approaches to achieve this. Both relay on ethos, when it comes to the main rhetorical form used the most, since both pictures consist mainly on information. But, unlike the second picture, the first one also displays pathos through the Teddy Bear picture used, trying to create an emotional effect to the audience regarding the topic discussed. Both pictures analyzed within this paper represent the alarming consequences of gun violence pushing the audience to take action regarding this issue as per the goals. Mara 2 VPC is a non-profit organization formed by a group of people with a mission to reduce the consequences of gun violence, therefore providing a safer environment for the community. Since it was founded back in 1988 the Violence Policy Center has been contributing on the issue of gun control leading to major results that represent a decrease in the number of lives taken by gun violence (VPC). Being an educational organization. the methods used by Violence Policy Center are based mainly on research and education, implemented in the form of new laws regarding gun rights and campaigns that raise public awareness on the issue. Using such graphic material, Violence Policy Center aims to educate the audience on the consequences of gun violence, letting them realize that action should be taken, eventually leading them to the solution they suggest. The first picture is aiming on making the audience reflect on the way we are treating the gun control case by providing the contrast between the way two different objects are treated regarding public safety. Comparing Teddy Bears with guns on the context of product safety gives an understanding of how pathetic and underestimated the situation is. Judging from the shocking statistic, the fact that such a worrying situation is left without proper control and regulations is worrying and confusing. Minor problems were spotted on the Teddy Bear product analyze and action was taken decades ago. Yet, guns are related to so many accidents that lead to thousands of tragic results, yet no action has been taken yet regarding this issue. Through the comparison of the lethality of these two products, the image wants the audience to reflect on the recent situation and the actions taken regarding gun issue, answering their concern and confusion with the solution provided at the bottom of the page that would fix this problem. The first picture relies mainly on information and statistics. Ethos is implemented by providing references to credible sources regarding the case (Hoffman). This is achieved by Mara 3 displaying facts and statistics from United States Consumers Product Safety, which plays the role of a credible authority for this case. There is also a citation of the VPC at the bottom of the page, giving the audience all the information needed to get in contact with such a source or learn more about it. Pathos, the appeal of emotion is also present in this picture. The factor indicating Pathos is found on the contrast formed between the Teddy Bear and guns. Such illogical comparison combined with the intriguing facts, leads the audience to reflect over the lack of attention paid regarding the worrying situation. The picture itself is characterized by a logical timeline formed from the information indicating the problem followed by a pie chart and finally a solution. All this statistics and data provide the audience with the needed background to judge the situation from their own perspective and therefore understand that the solution provided in the picture would be the perfect move to deal with this issue. Kairos, the appeal to timeliness is also used here to push the audience to take action regarding the situation. The picture aims to achieve this by implementing elements of Kairos, stating that action over the Teddy Bear case was taken decades ago, yet nothing happened regarding the gun case which was followed by all these deaths. Such illogical contrast aims to shock the audience as well as make them furious and create feelings of anger toward such a neglected case, therefore bringing them to a revolted mood. In addition to all this element, logical fallacies were also used. When offering a solution, the intentions of are represented as deadly in this image, putting all the fault for the tragic consequences on them. By combining all this element, the image successfully manages to deliver the message that action should be taken regarding the case. The second image tries to deliver a message that gun ownership and gun right are responsible of thousands of deaths, despite their original aim to provide safety in the form of self-defense. According to studies, 33,000 people die in United States every year from gun Mara 4 violence. Furthermore, shows that states with the top rates of gun possession have nearly three times the rate of gun murders compared to states with the fewest (Defilippis, Hughes). The situation reflected by the image should make the audience realize over the real impact that such rights are having in the society and pushes them to reflect over the logical solution to this problem. This is intended to be achieved by providing statistics that contrast the real reason gun ownership rights are guaranteed to people. Using the effect formed from color gradients and size scales, the image aims to raise awareness of the audience over the immediate need for change, pushing the audience to act quickly over the case and support gun control laws, which is what VPC stands for. The image mainly consists of statistics and facts providing a needed environment to react logically over the situation. Ethos in this picture is implemented through citing a credible source such as VPC. Respectively, displaying the statistics, it is mentioned that the study was conducted by Violence Policy Center. In this situation, VPC is treated as an authority, being a big organization that has made numerous contributions regarding gun control, therefore giving it considerable credibility regarding this issue. An element of Pathos is displayed in the form of a saying on top of the picture, describing the reason behind all these deaths, letting the audience understand that the benefits to this issue are not worth the consequences. The audience is therefore expected to feel confusion regarding the whole reason after such consequences, therefore reflect on a possible solution. Logos is present throughout the whole image using statistics. But, when analyzing deeper, the size comparison of the numbers resembles a scale that gets bigger and bigger. This element, combined with the change in the color gradient resulting in a blood red color and the orientation of the guns pointed at the biggest number representing the Mara 5 number of suicides, aims to make the audience feel that the situation is getting more serious, thus immediate action should be taken. These elements combined are a form of implementation. Logical fallacies are also present here. The saying on top gives the idea that all these deaths are the result of guns issued based on gun rights even though most of the crimes happen with weapons provided illegally, thus a is implemented (Hoffman). Overall, the image manages to deliver the message that the benefits from gun right come with a lot of consequences thus we have to action is required to change the situation. All in all, both images successfully manage to deliver the message. The inform the audience over the situation and help them decide the best solution by providing information directly related to the case. Furthermore, in the first image, a solution is also provided, making it easier for the audience to realize what they need to do to change the situation for better. Both images implemented numerous elements regarding rhetorical appeals and were creatively designed to affect the audience to reflect and act. Hopefully, the situation will improve over the years, resulting on a safer environment for everyone. Mara 6 Mara 7 Mara 8 Works Cited Beckett, Lois, Aliza Aufrichtig, and Kenan Davis. Murders up 10.8% in Biggest Percentage Increase since 1971, FBI Data  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 26 Sept. 2016.Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Defilippis, Evan, and Devin Hughes. Study Links Higher Gun Ownership to Higher Violent  The Trace. N.p., 25 June 2015. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Japete. Common Gunsense A Blog to Advocate for Sensible Gun  Common Gunsense A Blog to Advocate for Sensible Gun Legislation. N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  Violence Policy Center. N.p., 10 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Strasser, Mr. Ryan. Second  LII / Legal Information Institute. N.p., 01 July 2008. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.