Jessica Parker 1 Uddin ENC 1101 3/26/17 TPP: Continuing the Conversation Project 2 Binding pacific nations through the Trans-Pacific Partnership offered low tariffs and a layer of protection from growing economy. For the US specifically, the TPP was said to increase their competition with the big businesses in the Asia-Pacific area. It soon became the largest trade agreement, but saw no impact in the US economy. No new jobs were made and some prices were raised. After Obama signed on to the TPP in 2008, recently elected Trump resigned from the partnership. Over a time period from 2000-2017, researchers have changed their view about the TPP and the effects on the US economy by initially arguing that the TPP negatively impacted other trade agreements to a shift where they saw the TPP as a tool to strengthen the US economy. John Ravenhill writes in the Australian Journal of International Affairs about his thoughts on both the positive and negative impacts on the US economy. Ravenhill emphasizes on 4 overall economic effects of asia-pacific trade agreements in general, which the TPP falls under. The first point he makes is large percentage of the total trade between the parties may already be little affected by The TPP consists of 12 countries that together carry 40% of the global GDP and 1/3 of the world trade. point puts off the idea that considering these countries already trade on such a large scale, the TPP offering low tariffs may be a negligible factor for involvement. second point of created by PTAs may be offset by other relates to thoughts. Vinod Aggarwal writes in Globalizations about 2 trade policies moving towards Asia. According to Aggarwal, the advantages thought about the TPP concerned some committees, saying a TPP might negatively impact existing PTAs that the US has negotiated with Chile, Singapore, and The US had to weigh the advantages of either joining a trade agreement that could protect them from growing economy or continuing to make existing trade agreements stronger that are already proven to encourage growth in the US economy. Some of the advantages dealing with China may not be as great as thought. Aggarwal explains to negotiate an FTAAP ignores the reality of US trade politics by misunderstanding how the continuing and increasing US trade deficit with China in recent years has dramatically increased domestic protectionist pressure in the United 3) With this being said, and then being proven, it was hard and was thought to be hard to get China on board with the idea of the TPP. The Asian-Pacific region had rising suspicions of the US motives while being encouraged to join considering the allies included in the agreement and their past trade deficit. The TPP is full of US allies, and Ravenhill explains that with has not stopped the US from making personal economic negotiations. Ravenhill says decided to prioritize negotiations with in selecting its partners for negotiating PTAs*/but this preference for working with friends has not prevented it from rigorously pursuing its own economic interests once negotiations begin. Even if the primary objectives of a state in initiating the negotiation of a PTA are political, the agreements will inevitably also serve some 8) This tactic of working with allies comes into play with defensive motivations, which takes away the negative aspects the economy might face when competing in the foreign market due to the fact that they country is preferential. Defensive motivations encourage the goal 3 of joining a trade agreement to benefit economically and have closer ties with other countries. Jacques DeLisle writes in the Case Western Reserve Journal of Internation Law about administration and their focus on Asia. DeLisle says the promises to link the U.S. more closely to major economies in the region and thereby strengthen the economic presence and interests in the part of the world that Obama-era policies have identified as singularly important to the international interests, economic as well as Joining the TPP meant strengthening ties with new countries and countries that are already strong allies with the US. This is very strategic of the Obama administration as the stronger the ties become, more economic negotiations will be possible. According to Resar, agreement phases out thousands of import tariffs, establishes uniform intellectual property rules, enforces standards for labor conditions and environmental protection, and, among other provisions, regulates both the state treatment of foreign direct investment and the arbitration of disputes arising This statement gives insight to the fact that US had such a hold over the overall agreement and negotiations would easily be made. Through the years, there have been on average an equal amount of advantages and disadvantages all directly or indirectly impacting the US economy. However, the direct impacts are mostly associated with disadvantages that effect the economy short term and long term. Resar made a strong statement saying TPP continues the largely responsive evolution in international investment Although this statement may be true, based on the opinions, time progressing, and the research question being addressed, the TPP make any real impacts on the US economy.