Student 1 Student Derisi 3-26-17 Men vs Women in the Military Historically, the military was a job. It was not until World War I that women were allowed into the US Military. Even though women were allowed into the military, they were mainly only nurses because they were perceived unfit for combat. Today certain organizations hold the belief that women are not fit for the military; on the other hand, there are also groups that see women as being equal to men and just as fit for the military. Although these two organizations have battling viewpoints, they do share similar goals such as service, unity, and support; the fact that they are serving the same country could possibly be enough to bring them together. The first organization supports women having an active role in the US Military they call themselves Service Women Action Network (SWAN). The mission they attempt to voice is to provide support, unity, and service to all women serving the US. targeted audience is extremely narrow to all present, and service women. They claim to be the be the only organization for service the perspective of SWAN is they want service women to have the same benefits, maybe more, as service men have. The organization has a strong bias towards a matriarchal society and the idea that women are just as important as men in the military. SWAN argues that women are just as fit for the military and to have a successful military woman need to be integrated among all branches and fields not just nursing like it was in World War I. no secret that men and women differ in many ways. Men are more prone to possessing good leadership skills, while women contain feminine attributes that deal more with nurturing and caring. Jenifer Boldry, the author of Gender Stereotypes and the Evaluation of Men and Women in Military Training, investigated men and women in the military and their similarities and differences. She found that they did have different skills and strengths, however their military performance was not any different. They performed equally as well. This meant that sex-differentiated evaluations of cadets enrolled in training most plausibly reflect the influence of gender stereotypes rather than performance differences between the Females and males are equally as capable. argues to ensure fairness and proof women should be integrated into combat that there should only be single physical fitness for both genders. Not only does SWAN argue women need to be integrated but harassment ad assault need to not be allowed and enforced more efficacy. The mixing of genders in the military provides a breeding ground for sex related incidents whether it being assault, or harassment. SWAN works to ensure that women troops are better protected in the military, and strives to support victims and to eliminate the fear of reporting a case. The SWAN activist group is all about the women troops and how the military needs to change after being well established for a long time. They want support. However, they hold an extremely biased point of view and rhetoric that only favors females. Student 2 The second organization is called War on the Rocks; their mission is to support men in the military and prove why women do not fit. They claim that only men can endure the physical hardship that goes along with combat. The stakeholder claims that women are good for types of missions, especially special but that women alongside men is not a good idea. Having a mixed military will cause certain male/female interaction issues that occur daily but instead in a war zone. They have done research that shows that cases have been observed where women have indeed ended up being unfit for the military environment. Things like stress levels, physical ability, and mental health all end up taking a toll on people, however it seems that men come out on top when it comes to managing these issues with their career in the military. Another reason females affect military performance is that men like Women being present almost always results in male competition. Being in a war setting is not exactly the best time to fight for a woman or focus on getting her attention. Men have had issues focusing on the task at hand and completing the mission. Anna Simons states that women and men spending long hours together means that, form. At some point, how couples interact sexually, emotionally, happily and/or unhappily makes life uncomfortable for those around The fact that this type of issue is rarely unavoidable makes it difficult for a military situation to run smoothly. Similarly, to a normal workplace romance, it ends up causing drama and being very unprofessional. The organization claims that women in the military will have no positive effects and end up causing more negative effects that its worth. Although they have strong contrasting views, the two stakeholders show signs of common ground. They are both interested and devoted to helping those in the military. The fact that they both have websites dedicated to people in the armed forces is evidence enough that they care about their people. They also share the same concerns. Everyone knows how it feels to have a parent that wants the best for them. Someone who cares and tries their best to help you become the best person you can. These two organizations both take on that parental figure and try to provide a place where people in the military can come for support and guidance. Finally, these two organizations share the same needs. They both are constantly recruiting people to help with their own unique missions. SWAN actively gets people to join and help support those who need it. War on the Rocks also accepts people who are just as devoted to assisting those in the military. A compromise to this conflicting issue is an organization that supports all US troops. Since the military is a nationalistic organization the mission of the organization should be to unify and protect the freedom of America and all Americans. Clyde Wilcox states that gender should not influence participation in the military. Gender should not be the reason that these two organizations are against each other. By having an organization that tends to the interests, concerns, and needs of both genders, a compromise will be reached. Having a common goal of serving their country will help unify the two stakeholders. In the end, people have the freedom to do whatever they want. They have the freedom to join the military, the freedom to support or not support people in the military, and the freedom to join any organization they like. However, sometimes the best choice, is to pick something that does some good rather than bad. SWAN and War on the Rocks are two organizations dealing with people in the military. The provide support, care, and service for those who need it most, those fighting to defend the USA. Although the two organizations differ on who exactly they Student 3 support, they should team up and work together to create a joint organization that supports anyone and everyone. (WC: 1327). Student 4 Works Cited: Service Action  Service Action Network. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Why Women in Combat Units Is a Bad  War on the Rocks. N.p., 21 Nov. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Boldry, Jennifer, Wendy Wood, and Deborah A. Kashy. Gender Stereotypes and the Evaluation of Men and Women in Military  Journal of Social Issues. Blackwell Publishers Inc., 17 Dec. 2002. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Sadler, Anne. Health-related Consequences of Physical and Sexual Violence: Women in the Military  Health-related Consequences of Physical and Sexual Violence: Women in the Military. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Wilcox, Clyde. Race, Gender and Support for Women in the  Oxford Textbook of Women and Mental Health (2010): n. pag. Web