Student 1 Student Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 26 March 2017 A Proposed Plan for Marijuana Legalization On the November 8, 2016 ballot, eight states sought to legalize marijuana, and in each of them, some form passed (Berliner). Adding to the previous twenty-five states, there are now twenty-eight states with legalized medical marijuana and three with recreational laws (Huddleston). All around the country, voters seem to be voicing their opinions as to whether marijuana should be legalized, and how: medically or recreationally? The question as to whether marijuana should be decriminalized has been risen across the nation, and both sides claim to have evidence supporting their platform. As a key stakeholder on the policy, Drug Policy Alliance (DPA) continues their mission to achieve legislation in all fifty states and to legitimize the use of medical marijuana. Another important stakeholder, the Marijuana Policy Initiative (MPI) intends to reverse the legalization process of marijuana, and putting a dent in the cannabis trade. Despite their obvious differences, both organizations are aiming to have government consider the health aspects of marijuana and the education of consumers about drug consumption. Knowing that complete legalization of marijuana and total repudiation may never occur, a compromise can be made between the organizations to address both parties for the benefit of the American people. DPA is led on a volunteer basis, involved in the legislative process to roll back to excesses of the drug war, and promote sensible drug policy the Drug Policy DPA argues that consumers are punished for what they put into their Student 2 bodies, not their actions, and want to influence policies in order to give power back to the people and Since the legalization of marijuana in Colorado, arrest rates of white juveniles have dropped nine percent from 2012 to 2014 396). As more and more states follow the trend of Colorado, DPA hopes that the arrest patterns will drop nationwide, preventing the convictions based on drug possessions. Drug Policy Alliance maintains that Uruguay became the first country to legalize cannabis in 2013, and urges the United States and United Nations to take a similar health orientated approach rather than criminalization Laws and Drug Enforcement Around the Although research on the medical uses for marijuana is limited, medical marijuana may be beneficial for conditions such as glaucoma, nausea, seizures, HIV/AIDS, and even Alzheimer disease (Cavalet 42). By providing some health assistance, DPA offers hope to patients who find relief from such conditions with marijuana instead of traditional medications. However, to provide any assistance to patients, DPA insists that marijuana would have to continue to be legal. Alternatively to Drug Policy Alliance, MPI is non-partisan group of people have come to understand the negative local-to-global implications of an organized, legal, freely- traded, commercialized and industrialized marijuana Most of concerns surround the negative health effects and the social problems associated with cannabis. The marijuana sold today is not the same from the and nearly 10 times more potent than the old-fashioned plant (McGorrian). Similar to other illegal drugs, 50 percent will suffer withdrawal (McGorrian). In a study conducted by the National Center for Biotechnology Information(NCBI), it has been found that there is association between frequent use of marijuana from adolescence into adulthood and significant declines in indicating that marijuana does have substantial health effects. MPI disregards the large taxable Student 3 amount each state may collect from marijuana sales since the health effects outweigh any monetary benefits. While tax revenue of sales may help the state grow, it will focus much of that revenue on drug relief programs since 9% of those who experiment with marijuana will become costing the state money to fund programs fighting addiction (Volkow et al). By limiting the sale of marijuana, states will lose the additional tax revenue, but citizens of those states will be less likely to become addicted to the drug. Both the DPA and MPI are invested in the health effects of marijuana and hope to influence policies federally and on the state levels to achieve their goals. These stakeholders are committed to passing legislation to better benefit the American people and those who use marijuana. DPA and MPI educate Americans of the benefits and disadvantages of marijuana usage, hoping others share their views. However, there is hope that a compromise can be found between the two organizations that truly focuses on voter health. As of 2000, approval of marijuana legislation has been increasing, even hitting 50 percent in 2011 (Swift). As Americans seek legislation, common ground must be found to appease everyone. Past solutions have been risen at the federal level and individual states. As seen in the 2016 election, a majority of states approve of some form of marijuana legalization, but the federal government still disapproves of the practice despite being more laxed on laws in the past administration. The federal government should issue a new law stating legalizing medical marijuana, but as a controlled substance. Being a controlled substance, consumers would be required to have a prescription from a physician and carry it with them at all times. This would appease both stakeholders as it solves their main issues: DPA wanting to offer relief to those with medical needs, and MPI having regulation of the marijuana trade. Since dispensaries would have to be registered with the government, they can be regulated, unlike for recreational use. Student 4 Recreational marijuana largely remains unregulated due to the residual illegal sale of cannabis that cannot be tracked since it is readily available to anyone who seeks it out. With marijuana being controlled, various types of cannabis can be restricted to ensure that only the approved chemical compounds can be added to the plant during growth. Meaning, the federal government would have control over which genetic variations have actual medical benefit for consumers. Currently, the federal government condones marijuana sale and usage, but has done little, during the last administration, to enforce the stance. State governments, on the other hand, have legalized the sale and usage of cannabis, whether it is only medical use, recreational, or both. To implement the law, it cannot simply be passed; the federal government must enforce it. Any state that does not comply with the federal law should be fined until proven enforcement. As the drug, would be prescription only, penalties should be enforced for any individual caught without prescription, similar to narcotics, such as oxycodone. Contrary to popular belief, individual states do not have any explicit right to nullify federal law by blocking federal agents (Levy). Although seemingly tyrannical, there has not been a single case in which the judicial branch has granted states the right to dismiss a federal law that is not agreed upon by its citizens (Maus). However, it has been established that states do not have to enforce certain laws, but the federal government may place sanctions on states who do not comply. Since the federal government has more power than the states, based on the Constitutional rights, it should be prepared and willing to place fines on any state that does not comply to the new national law. (Word Count: 1180). Student 5 Works Cited  The Marijuana Policy Initiative. The Marijuana Policy Initiative. n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. About the Drug Policy  Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance. n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Berliner, Uri. As More States Legalize Marijuana, Investors And Marketers Line  NPR. NPR. 20 Nov. 2016. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. Cavalet, Jill Vargo. The Highs and Lows of Medical  Clinician Reviews (2016): 40- 53. Clinician Reviews. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Magdalena. A Public Health of Consequence: Ask About Who  AJPH 107.3 (2016): 396-97. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Drug Laws and Drug Enforcement Around the  Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance. n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Huddleston, Tom, Jr. This Map Shows How Legalized Marijuana Is Sweeping the Fortune.com. Fortune. 30 June 2016. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Levy, Robert A. Yes, States Can Nullify Some Federal Laws, Not  Cato Institute. Daily Business. 18 Mar. 2013. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Maus, Craig. Nullification & Secession What You Must  From the Trenches World Report. From the Trenches World Report. 13 Nov. 2012. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. McGorrian, Dr. Grace M. Pot Used to Be Pretty Harmless, but Plenty Dangerous  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 24 May 2015. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Mission and  Drug Policy Alliance. Drug Policy Alliance, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Swift, Art. For First Time, Americans Favor Legalizing  Gallup.com. Gallup Inc. 22 Oct. 2013. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Student 6 Volkow, Nora D., Ruben D. Baler, Wilson M. Compton, and Susan R.B. Weiss. Adverse Health Effects of Marijuana  The New England Journal of Medicine. U.S. National Library of Medicine. 05 June 2014. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.