Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Teaming Up to Make African Dreams into Reality *Disclaimer: For word count purposes, any form of or refers to rural African community members. The effects of western societies on African cultures have been relevant from the beginning of colonialism on the African continent. The well being of natives is being affected in two different ways through two different stakeholders involved on the African continent. These two stakeholders are invested in the two most prominent activities that effect today: non-profit charity and tourism. Trees For The Future want to donate trees/crops and man-power to plant those trees/crops in order to create a self-sustaining environment within rural tribal Africa communities. African Dream Safaris is a safari tourism venture that shows the world what it is like to live in a beautifully cultured area such as the tribal communities of Africa. However, there is a major downside to safari tourism, which is exploitation of the natives. Potential exploitation comes in the form of: paying for pictures with/of natives, underpaying for handmade crafts from the natives, and not giving any portion of profits to the natives for allowing them to enter the tribal areas. During the educational and culturally diverse tours, natives have learned to do for money (dance, photos, etc.). The Trees For The Future organization and African Dream Safaris tourism company need to reach a compromise in their endeavors with the native African people that will benefit all parties and stop any negative effects on the natives. The Trees For The Future organization uses donations, as explained in the next paragraph, to better the Student 2 lives of these natives; therefore, African Dream Safaris can use a non-profit charity as an outlet to rid the stigma of relationship with natives due to the aforementioned In order to avoid possible exploitation of native, African Dream Safaris can donate profits to charities such as Trees For The Future, to help those cultures and communities that they care for and benefit from. A solution is needed involving these two stakeholders in order to keep their purpose and assets strong in the native communities. Trees For The Future is an organization that is invested in benefitting the natives by planting trees/crops to promote a self-sustaining lifestyle in the tribal communities. This purpose includes teaching production of crops and wood (from trees) used in trading to boost their economy and self-sustenance (Trees For The Future, Trees.org). Additionally, African Dream Safaris has an essential relationship with the natives and an (self-imposed) obligation to reveal the culture to their customers (African Dream Safaris, www.africandreamsafaris.com). This obligation is treating the natives with dignity and respect while bringing foreigners into their communities. Both goals and purposes involve a dedication to retaining the culture of the natives. Trees For The Future is trying to retain the lifestyle that natives have relied on for centuries, rather than the capitalist system that is being implemented by western societies (Cernansky A295). For the African communities, more comfortable to live in a self- sustaining crop economy than a capitalistic economy that causes poverty in the communities. Once they are slowly acclimated into a capitalist economy, their self-sustenance will less essential and become more reliant on markets for food and stores for clothing, for example (Fourie and Santana-Gallego 351). Student 3 A change of economy can result in a change of cultural identity. The current cultural identity is one of traditional dancing, chants, mud huts, and reciprocity. This diverse, colorful culture is what African Dream Safaris brings its patrons to observe. However, the safari tourism in Africa poses a threat to the traditional economy of the natives therefore it poses a threat to the very cultural uniqueness that results in profits. Safari companies bring visitors to African communities and tell them that purchasing crafts and haggling is essential to not insulting natives. This is pushing cash into an economy that was not meant for cash flow (and a smaller amount too due to haggling). Furthermore, visitors are urged to pay locals for photos of them or with them. The realization that cash can buy items such as clothes or household items that the community cannot produce leads the natives to rely on this from the exploitative ways. The exploitation of locals via haggling, photo purchasing, etc. is a small portion of what is causing the capitalistic shift in rural African societies (Sender and Sheila 113). A solution to aid the African struggle between self-sustenance and capitalism has never been proposed via the way of a for-profit and non-profit (of the specific types that the two stakeholders are) working together for a mutual benefit. The solution that is being proposed now is that African Dream Safaris teams up with Trees For The Future, by donating a percentage of profits to the charities in order to benefit those that they directing interact with and preserve the culture that they display to the world. The monetary support proposed for Trees For The Future is extremely beneficial for their ongoing goal of reviving the self-sustenance crop economy in rural African communities. The charity has nothing to lose by participating in this compromise. Some might make the point that accepting donations from a company, safari tour groups, with negative stigmas with locals will turn away other donors because they want to be associated with people. However, Student 4 Trees For The Future can put out a statement telling other donors that accepting the donations from African Dream Safaris results in the of gain revenue to grow the company and increase the help being distributed to the rural African communities and helping a company redeem themselves and their industry from years of exploitation claims. This statement will reassure the skeptical donors of the validity of the compromise. Furthermore, this influx of donations will result in more trees/crops to plant and qualified people who teach the natives farming and care of what is planted (Hotlzhausen 298). One may argue that hiring more employees that teach the planting and care of trees/crops will cause too much overhead and hurt the non-profit. However, with good budgeting and high donations, hiring more people is a great thing for the non-profits. The natives benefit from this because they learn to farm and acquire new trees/crops, which is the purpose of the non-profit. Additionally, the other party is benefitted too. African Dream Safaris benefits from this proposal because it deters the negative stigma that safaris contribute to the falling economies of tribal nations. This positive message can be sent around the world that tourism is not destroying the culture. Also, since African Dream Safaris will be the first to drastically contribute to the specific goal of sustain the self-sustaining, good publicity will result. One may argue that this will make the company look because the first to act to try and fix what they may have done. To argue against this, exploitation has already been a pressing topic in Africa as a whole. look better for a company to act before finding themselves in a hole that they cannot dig themselves out of. On the other hand, compromising by donating a percentage of profits may have negative effects on African Dream Safaris. By donating a percentage of profits to Trees For The Future they lose profits. This would lead to a lower profit margin, which is bad for any company. Student 5 However, conversely, with heightened good publicity from donating, people who advocate for native benefits could chose, or refer peers to, this company for touring. This will result in a higher patronage and more money. Furthermore, one might say that the negative effects could be less reliance on the safari profits for the communities therefore they welcome them as openly. However, for this specific company, there will be a positive association of a better (more independent) life and their business. Therefore, the natives will be more willing to allow them in because they helped restore their independence from a monetary system. Practically, the donation compromise works. The proposal can be implemented at a practical level. For the Trees For The Future, hiring more employees and constructing plans for more trees/crops to be planted is essential. Once they obtain donations, they must put those donations to use in a beneficial manor to the natives. African Dream Safaris must be willing to portion out a percentage of profits to donate. Furthermore, they must be willing to deter their customers from paying for services in native communities. Due to the fact that they may want little crafts, small purchases should be allowed. Finally, there must be a discussion with locals to stop trying to entertain or charge for pictures and a focus on becoming self-sustaining as they used to be. In conclusion, compromising by donating is beneficial to all parties. The solution gives money to a great cause that will grow an organization that reenergizes the cultural spectacle that African Dream Safaris thrives off of. Although there is a small monetary loss for the safari group, greater publicity and native relation benefits for them. This solution can benefit the economy of many native communities and lead to an even bigger movement help all of Africa. (Body WC: 1500) Student 6 Works Cited Africa Dream  Africa Dream Safaris. Michael Wishner, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.africadreamsafaris.com/?gclid>. Cernansky, Rachel. Indigenous Fruit Trees a Blessing in  Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 123, no. 12, Dec. 2015, pp. A291-A296. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1289/ehp.123-A291. Fourie, Johan and Santana-Gallego. The Determinants of African  Development Southern Africa, vol. 30, no. 3, Sept. 2013, pp. 347-366. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/0376835X.2013.817302. Holtzhausen, Lida. Non-Profit Organizations Bridging the Communication Divide in a Complex South  Public Relations Review, vol. 40, no. Public Relations and Communication Management in South Africa, 01 June 2014, pp. 286-293. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.pubrev.2013.10.006. Sender, John and Sheila Smith. The Development of Capitalism in Africa. Routledge, 2013. Routledge Library Editions: Development. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsebk&AN=347552&site=eds-live. Trees For The Future. Why Trees Sustainable  Trees For the Future. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.