Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Using Cost-Benefit Analysis Conducted by a Third-Party to Ensure Reliability of Research The continued research of wind energy and the potential methods of implementing the technology is a primary focus to ensure that carbon emissions are reduced. While wind power is regarded among the alternative energy field as a highly successful way in which carbon emissions can be reduced, there are also ecological and societal issues with the technology (Duan 343). It is common, today, for people to be constantly bombarded with advertisements and propaganda by interest groups on both sides of the issue. Even so, it is stated by researchers that climate change is occurring and will lead to the extinction of many animal species; however, people are unsure of whether or not it is due to natural causes or human interference. Without finding beneficial alternative sources of energy, the increasing amount of greenhouse gases may lead to an increase in global warming (Snyder and Kaiser 1576). Two organizations with a vested interest regarding wind energy are the National Wind Watch and the American Wind Energy Association. While the National Wind Watch does not support wind energy as a future alternative to fossil fuels, the American Wind Energy Association advocates for the continued use and research of wind power. As an organization comprised of individuals, the National Wind Watch remains concerned with wind energy due to its effect on communities and the environment, while the American Wind Energy Association advocates for the further implementation of wind energy as they claim it will decrease greenhouse gases and help fix Student 2 global warming. Therefore, a compromise involving unbiased, third-party research and personal wind turbines would allow the two organizations to best come to an agreeable solution. The American Wind Energy Association, also known as the AWEA, works towards the implementation and research of wind energy by education and having organizations participate as due-paying members. As a trade organization, the AWEA focuses on larger corporations investing in wind energy rather than as an organization focused on individuals. However, they do contain information on their website as to the benefits of wind energy in order to educate the common person. The AWEA claims that wind energy impacts the environment less than fossil fuels and does not contribute to climate change as it offers a viable alternative method for sustainable energy Research that reflects the benefits of wind energy includes secondary uses, such as determined in a study conducted by Iowa State University. The wind turbines may actually affect the air in the area directly around the turbines, which can help influence how well crops grow and the type of crops that may be planted nearby as it affects the overall climate conditions through the change in air pressure. This, can help increase crop yield and provide another reason as to why wind energy should be utilized 16). Additionally, an article by Hongbo Duan, published in 2017, showed that wind energy is necessary in creating alternative energy pathways; however, acknowledging that other sources of alternative energies, like solar energy, are required to vastly reduce the carbon output (Duan 348). Creating alternative pathways to reduce carbon emissions is important in ensuring that humans do not cause a significant impact on the ecology of the Earth. While the AWEA focuses on the benefits of wind power, the National Wind Watch (NWW) is highly concerned with the impacts of windmills on the environment and on communities. The NWW claims that wind turbines have many negative impacts as they are Student 3 large, measuring up to four hundred feet, and noisy. Moreover, there are many economical costs associated currently with wind energy. The presence of wind turbines often leads to the overall reduction in property value due to the unsightly nature. Additionally, wind energy interferes with the wildlife and the environment of the area that they are placed upon. The wildlife is affected due to the reduction in habitat and the interference with flight patterns Wind A study by Brian Snyder and Mark Kaiser affirms that, are still present and could harm populations or species that live nearby (Snyder and Kaiser 1577). One of the main issues that the NWW has with the current research surrounding climate change and wind energy is that they claim that the research is mainly sponsored by organizations involved with the technology, which brings about a conflict of interest as they are making money from the beneficial aspects that are discussed in the research Wind These impacts on the landscape, environment, and the economy are present when using both onshore wind power and offshore wind power; thus, wind energy is not the ultimate source of a future alternative energy as there are still many negative effects that come with the technology (Snyder and Kaiser 1577). However, while it is not the only potential source of alternative energy, it can be combined with other technologies to advance clean energy. While the AWEA advocates for the continued use and further development of wind energy as a viable source of alternative energy that will have a beneficial impact on the environment, the NWW promotes the idea that the impacts that wind energy causes are highly detrimental to communities and the environment. However, even though both organizations disagree upon these points, there is still much in common between the AWEA and the NWW. Both organizations share an interest in researching possible solutions to combat climate change and carbon emissions. Also, they share in interest in educating the population on their point of Student 4 view. By acknowledging that climate change is occurring, they both are taking a step toward a compromise between the groups. Their main concerns are based around the environmental impact of developing usable energy and Both the AWEA and the NWW place a desire on continued research regarding wind power to understand the beneficial and detrimental effects of the new technology. Through this agreement to continue research on wind energy and the desire to limit the impact on the environment, both organizations may agree upon a compromise that finds a solution to the problem while also considering their needs. According to the NWW, a compromise bill was voted on in order to development of private wind which will give those living near the windmills a tax (Walton). This compromise seemed to have been mostly in vain due to the basis upon which the two opposing sides differ. Due to the conflict of interest perceived by the NWW, the research regarding wind energy should be conducted by an unbiased third-party in order to lend the most credibility to the studies. While research is very important in the continuity of wind energy, the implementation of new technology is vital too. Recently, personal wind turbines have been developed and could be installed in businesses and outside of homes This development would reduce the noise created by large wind turbines and the unsightliness of the machine. Additionally, it would allow the individual to decide whether they want to utilize the turbine. Furthermore, it has been studied and determined by multiple researchers, such as Khare et al. in 2016, that the combination of wind and solar energy would create the one of the most efficient systems to reduce carbon emissions (Khare et al.). Another study performed by Vick and Moss in 2013 showed that a combination of the two alternative energies helped to improve the capacity for the than either one could do alone (Vick and Moss). Using this combined Student 5 technology, it would benefit the companies that produce wind turbines as they would sell more of their product to individual consumers. The compromise would benefit the NWW as it allows each person to make their own decision as to whether they want to use wind power. This compromise will be implemented by having companies develop and manufacture smaller wind turbines that can be installed on an individual case-by-case basis that can help power a home. Tax relief can be given to those who install these turbines to encourage their use. Additionally, the personal wind turbines can be used in conjunction with solar panels to work towards creating a fully alternatively powered house. Utilizing these steps can lead toward increasing the usage of alternative energies by individual people, which can help reduce climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. The NWW works towards reducing the implementation of wind energy due to inconveniences for communities and ecological impacts, while the AWEA advocates for the continued research and implementation of wind power. In order to resolve the issue, research conducted by a third-party to reduce bias would allow for more acceptance of the results, whether or not it supports the usage of wind turbines. To lead to an inclusive solution that will reduce carbon emissions currently given off by fossil fuels, people should advocate for the creation of personal wind turbines would allow the individual to decide whether to implement the technology (WC: 1482). Student 6 Works Cited AWEA , American Wind Energy Association, www.awea.org/. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. Duan, Hongbo. and Temperature Benefits: The Role of Wind Power in Environmental Research, vol. 152, Jan. 2017, pp. Science Direct, doi:10.1016/j.envres.2016.07.016. Accessed 21 Feb. 2017. Khare, Vikas, et al. Hybrid Renewable Energy System: A Renewable and Sustainable Energy Review, vol. 58, May 2016, pp. Elsevier, doi:10.1016/j.rser.2015.12.223. Accessed 22 Feb. 2017. Wind National Wind Watch, National Wind Watch, www.wind-watch.org/. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. , Felix. Design of a Modular Wind Turbine Meant for Houses and Office Buildings Journal of Industrial Design and Engineering Graphics, vol. 11, no. 2, 2016, pp. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ac i&AN=120674137&site=eds-live. Accessed 22 Feb. 2017. Snyder, Brian, and Mark J Kaiser. and Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis of Offshore Wind Renewable Energy, vol. 34, no. 6, June 2009, pp. Elsevier, doi:10.1016/j.renene.2008.11.015. Accessed 22 Feb. 2017. Vick, Brian D, and Tim A Moss. Concentrated Solar Power Plants to Wind Farms to Achieve a Good Utility Electrical Load Solar Energy, vol. 92, June 2013, pp. Elsevier, doi:10.1016/j.solener.2013.03.007. Accessed 22 Feb. 2017. Student 7 Walton, Don. Reached on Wind Energy Columbus Telegram, 28 Jan. 2016, columbustelegram.com/news/state-and-regional/compromise-reached-on-wind-energy- Accessed 5 Mar. 2017. Turbines May Benefit National Science Teachers Association, vol. 54, no. 6, ser. 16, 2017, pp. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.480286535&site=eds-live. Accessed 22 Feb. 2017.