Parker 1 Madeline Parker Enc 1102 Professor Derisi 28 February, 2017 How the New Generation of Electric Cars Will Effect Gas Companies As people can imagine, the transportation will be completely different in the future. New and advanced technology will be produced to impress people and benefit their lives. As of today the new and improved vehicles that car manufacturers have produced have included electric powered cars. A company called Smart Cars has produced one of the top selling electric cars all over the world. Their car is called the electric coupe, which is becoming very popular in society. This is a giant step into new technology that can alter the market completely. If the demand of electric cars increase then there will be a decrease for the need of gasoline. An important stakeholder that would be greatly affected by the rise of electric cars would be Shell Global. Shell Global is one of the main producers of natural gas throughout the whole world. They continue to produce over 3.7 millions of barrels of oil each day and have over 44,000 service stations all over the world. Without this gas manufacturer, or any of them, people would not be able to get to work or school to attend to their responsibilities. If electric powered cars continue to become more predominant to society, the need for gas for citizens will decrease. Gas stations might soon be replaced with electric charging stations. Today, the Shell gas station continues to fuel everyday lives. Without the company there would be a scarce amount of gas, causing gas prices to rise. Their company has been around since 1897, and is located in the deep waters in the Gulf of Mexico. Out in the middle of the ocean is where they have high advanced technology drilling thousands of gallons Parker 2 of oil each day. They have different locations all over the world. The manufacturing and sales operations are carried out in about 37 . (Oil & Gas Industry Profile, 20) They are one of the leading gas manufacturers in the world, producing the most oil. Not only do they help provide fuel for transportation, but also consumer goods, medical, packaging, rubber, textiles and . (Oil & Gas Industry Profile, 20) Their company continues to be successful because of the high demand for oil. Shell generated revenues of $318,845.0 million in the financial year ended December 2006, an increase of 3.9% compared to the previous  (Oil & Gas Industry Profile ,20) The net income is an average of 26,311.0 million dollars in 2006. Shell has continued to be a successful company for 120 years. They employ about 87,000 people with jobs for their company. Including people working in headquarters to those who work out by the oil pumps. This company impacts lives all throughout the world. Gasoline production companies have always been a successful business because of the high demand for gas for transportation. Well what if the transportation did not run on gas anymore? Electric cars have been a movement into the transportation. Currently there are a lot of different car manufacturers that produce electric powered cars, but one of the most popular electric cars that is well know is called the Smart Car. As time progresses people will start to see more and more people driving electric cars. One reason people are switching to the hybrid car is because it can be cost efficient to budget. In an article by Bert Wee, Kees Maat, and Cees Bont they state that the cost of electricity per kilometre will be lower than fuel costs per . (Wee, Maat, Cees, 101) They then continue to explain how people will be encouraged to travel more if they wanted too. Another topic they bring up is how electric cars will benefit the environment. The electrirc coupe made by Smart Car does not produce as much pollution as a gasoline powered cars in some areas. Forecasts Parker 3 show that emissions of pollutants (CO, HC, NOx, PM) are expected to decrease, whereas an increase in CO2 emissions is generally expected. (Wee, Maat, Cees, 97). This new technology that Smart Car provides for electric powered cars can specifically benefit those who live in urban areas. People who live in big cities that have high pollution rates could benefit from electric powered cars because they could reduce the amount of pollution in the area. Bert Wee, Kees Maat, and Cees Bont continue to elaborate more about how they are beneficial to urban areas. There are a lot of pros and cons when it comes to driving an electric car. It is still a working progress, as electric cars are not that popular in society yet. People are working on having car changing stations as people might see gas stations everywhere. If the want for electric cars continues to increase the need for fossil fuels will decrease. This can significantly harm the oil industry, since some people will have no need to purchase gasoline. Electricity and gasoline are a sources of energy that are currently competing in the market. Of course it is hard for people to adjust to change, there will most likely be people who are going to continue to drive gasoline powered cars. There are also other needs for fossil fuels that Shell Global and other oil industries provide for. The rise of electric powered cars will have a negative effect on the oil production industries, but there will still always be a need for fossil fuels all over the world. Some countries have not even been introduced to electric powered cars yet, therefore they will still be dependent on oil companies to help fuel their transportation. This can create a compromise between the tension between oil companies and electric powered cars. The number of electric cars being produced will not run oil industries out of business. It might decrease their net income but they are still a wealthy industry regardless. Unless there is a major boom in electric car producers there might be a drastic change in the oil industry. Until then, there is a Parker 4 gradual interest in electric cars that is rising. It all comes down to interest in electric or gasoline powered cars, to determine if enough electric cars will be purchased to affect the oil market. To come to a compromise between these two stakeholders, would be for car manufacturers to produce a car that can run on gas or electricity. A person can either decide whether to use gas to run their car or electricity. Sometimes when people go on long drives and do not have time for their car to charge, they could just use gasoline. Electric powered cars could really be beneficial to people who only have to drive a small distances everyday. Smart Car does make both electric and gasoline powered cars, so why not make a car that can operate on both? This could still help raise their sales if they sold that kind of car. As well as still letting the Shell gasoline company to keep their business. Allowing people to have the option to use electricity or gasoline to power their cars could also reduce to amount of pollution entering the atmosphere. This compromise will help both stakeholders and all people as well. Electric powered cars and gasoline are two completely different products that are commonly sold in market. Even though electric powered cars have not been around since the first day they started pumping oil, they are becoming more popular in society. These two different stakeholders are greatly affected by each other but in the end they do have the same goal. Whether car is powered on electricity or gasoline, both cars must be designed to transport people safely. The idea of electric powered cars is suppose to reduce pollution and save money but there are always going to be cons to this product that will lead to people to continue to drive gasoline powered. The idea of not having changing stations everywhere and to not having the option to automatically fill up a car, misleads people from buying it. The pros of the vehicle will lead people to purchasing the car though. There is a gradual rise of electric powered Parker 5 cars in society but until there is a drastic amount purchased, gasoline industries will still continue to fuel most vehicles. (WC.1206) Sources Afghanistan,United States : PENTAGON Shell out $43M to Develop Gas Station in  MenaReport,2015.EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com /login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.433620630&site=eds-live. Healey, James R. Electric Cars Vs. Gas  USA Today, 2013. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.333770050&site=eds-live. Lovins, Amory B. Energy Strategy: The Road Not  Foreign Affairs, vol. 55, no. 1, Oct. 1976, pp. 65- 96.EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?dir ect=true&db=aph&AN=4852824&site=eds-live. Oil & Gas Industry Profile: United States. Oil & Gas Industry Profile: United States, June 2007. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed b&AN=25767060&site=eds-live. Smartusa. Drive a 2016 smart coupe for just  SmartUSA.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. <https://www.smartusa.com/>. Van Wee, Bert, et al. Improving Sustainability in Urban Areas: Discussing the Potential for Transforming Conventional Car-Based Travel into Electric  European Parker 6 Planning Studies, vol. 20, no. 1, Jan. 2012, pp. 95-110. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/09654313.2011.638497. What we  Shell Global. Shell, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <http://www.shell.com/about- us/what-we-do.html>. Zhiyun, Li1, et al. Connectivity Supported Dynamic Routing of Electric Vehicles in an Inductively Coupled Power Transfer  IET Intelligent Transport System, vol. 10, no. 5, June 2016, pp. 370-377. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1049/iet-its.2015.0154.