Owowo 1 Christiana Owowo Professor Uddin ENC 1101 26 March 2017 Views on Parenting over time In psychology, today, there are four major recognized parenting styles: authoritative, neglectful, permissive, and authoritarian. Parenting styles affect many different factors that are significant in a development. Each one contains different characteristics that affect children differently. They show what discipline strategies are effective on each child and help to establish effective communication between parents and children. For example, authoritative parents are warm but firm. They encourage their adolescent to be independent while maintaining limits and controls on their actions. Authoritative parents do not invoke the I said rule. Instead, they are willing to entertain, listen to, and take into their viewpoint (Kopoko 1-2). The perfect balance between limits/firmness and warmth tend to have a positive effect on the development of children. It creates the healthiest environment for a developing child and helps to promote a productive relationship between the parent and the child. Another example is the neglectful parenting style. Neglectful parenting is one of the most harmful styles of parenting that can be used on a child. This type of parent decides to have little to nothing to do with their life which allows room for the child having a difficult time developing relationships with people in the future. The authoritarian and permissive parenting styles clash because they both have their balance of beneficial and harmful effects on child development. Although authoritarian parents show little warmth and are very strict, their children are more disciplined Owowo 2 and they tend to show more respect to figures of authority. Likewise, permissive parents show warmth but enforce minimal rules and restrictions. When observing how the conversations about how these four parenting styles have changed over time, evident that from 2000 to 2017, scholars have identified and discussed that the authoritative parenting style is the most beneficial for childhood development (although there are distinctions between the scholars), therefore there is a lack of change in this conversation over time. In 2007, Kimberly Kopko, author of Parenting Styles and Adolescents, states, parents engage in discussions and debates with their adolescent, although ultimate responsibility resides with the parent. Research demonstrates that adolescents of authoritative parents learn how to negotiate and engage in discussions. They understand that their opinions are valued. As a result, they are more likely to be socially competent, responsible, and In this quote, Kopko describes an example of a benefit of authoritative parenting and the result of it, according to research. significant because we get a deeper-than-surface understanding of what authoritative parenting the outcome of the practice in the communication between a parent and a child. Likewise, Noor A. Rosli, the author of Effect of Parenting Styles on Emotional and Behavioral Problems Among Different Ethnicities of Muslim Children in the U.S., acknowledges that authoritative parenting, which includes high behavioral control and high acceptance has been found to be the most effective parenting style on multiple occasions and that this style leads to the healthiest outcomes for children. Like Kopko, Rosli mentions the importance and wide acceptance of the authoritative parenting style and the results of it. In 2016, Stephanie Stein and Lillian J. Breckenridge, authors of Parenting argue: Owowo 3 her research on child-rearing practices, Baumrind not only identified patterns of parenting styles but also identified characteristics of children reared by these parents. She found that approaches to child rearing have important implications in terms of the degree of autonomy and responsible social behavior exhibited by children. The children of authoritative parents, in comparison to other peers, were found to be more self-reliant, self-controlled, content, and explorative. They were also energetic, friendly, curious, cooperative; they got along well with peers, and they exhibited high self-esteem. Furthermore, these children exhibited more mature moral judgments than their peers and were better able to control their own aggressive impulses and channel them into more appropriate prosocial Very similar to the previous quote by Kopko, Stein and Breckenridge discuss the results of the implementation of the authoritative parenting style. This is important because it shows the consistency of the beneficial aspects of the authoritative parenting style, therefore also exposing the lack of change of the predominance of this technique from the year 2007 to 2016. In addition, Monica K. Mensah and Alfred Kuranchie, authors of Influence of Parenting Styles on the Social Development of  assert: authoritative style balances clear, high expectations with emotional support and recognition of autonomy. The authoritative parent tries to direct the child, but in a rational manner (Baumrind, 1991). Such a parent encourages give and take but shares the reasoning behind his or her rules. These parents value both autonomous self-will and disciplined conformity. They exercise firm control with certain points but the child is not tied up with restrictions (Baumrind, 1991). Authoritative parents provide a warm family climate, set standards and promote independence, which result in more active career exploration on the part of children (Kracke 1997). This sort of parenting is characterised by high levels of nurturance, Owowo 4 involvement, sensitivity, reasoning and encouragement of autonomy. They provide a positive emotional climate for their children in order to promote autonomy and support assertiveness and individuality. Authoritative parents are assertive but intrusive and restrictive. Their disciplinary methods are supportive rather than punitive. Parents who direct the activities and decisions for their children through reasoning and discipline are described as authoritative (Turner, Chadler & Heffer, This quote can be connected to the quote by Kopko because they both provide that explanation of the authoritative parenting style. Mensah and Kuranchie supply a much more detailed explanation of this parenting style though, focusing more on what these kinds of parents bring to the table more than the results they produce (as a handful of previous quotes do). The characteristics of the authoritative parenting style and the results of the practice of this technique provided by multiple studies, have made the style a highly favored and promoted one, thus resulting in a lack of change in conversation overtime. Owowo 5 Works Cited: Kopko, K. (2007). Parenting Styles and Adolescents. Parenting in Context. Retrieved from http://www.parenting.cit.cornell.edu/ Rosli, Noor A., Effect of Parenting Styles on Emotional and Behavioral Problems Among Different Ethnicities of Muslim Children in the U.S. Dissertation, Marquette University, 2009. Stein, Stephanie, and Lillian J. Breckenridge. Parenting  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health (2016). Mensah, Monica K. and Kuranchie, Alfred. Influence of Parenting Styles on the Social Development of  Academic Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies, vol. 2, no. 3, 2013, pp. 123-29.