Running head: DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 1 The Dangers of the Anti-vaccine Movements Throughout History Yuly Basulto University of South Florida Instructor Carr DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 2 Abstract Anti-vaccine movements have been around as long as vaccines themselves, over the past two decades there have been many claims fueling the movements but in recent years its popularity has exponentially grown due to the internet and to many influential individuals supporting the movement. This endangers the idea of Herd immunity and puts the community at risk of many life threatening diseases otherwise preventable through immunization. Keywords: Immunization, Herd Immunization, immunocompromised DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 3 The Dangers of the Anti-Vaccine Movement and its Growth While the scientific community unanimously agrees that vaccines play an essential role in public health, there are various groups who oppose to this. These anti-vaccine movements started out as small groups who opposed immunization for social, political or religious reasons, some simply out of fear, some believed the vaccines to be unchristian because they came from animals. Over the years these groups have experienced substantial growth, both in popularity and in supporters. One of the main factors fueling their growth have been the internet and celebrities with their immense influence on the public. In the 90s when the internet was just starting out, internet providers filtered any misinformation on the medium, it was a relatively simple task back then; in the past decades, the internet has experienced a massive growth, due to this the task of filtering out misinformation has become nearly impossible. According to the International Telecommunication Union in 2015 almost half of the population have access to the internet, with its ease of access the internet has become one of the main mediums for rumors and misinformation to spread. One of the main claims of Anti-vaccine movements is that vaccines cause autism, this rumor started out in the internet and they spread incredibly fast, but according to Bisset to this date researches have not been able to duplicate the experiment linking autism to vaccines. It is clear to the scientific DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 4 community that vaccines do not cause autism, many government sources even state that this claim is false but there is still fear among the public when it comes to vaccines. Furthermore, with celebrities and other influential individuals supporting the movement scientific evidence has become less persuasive, many people prefer listening to celebrities talk and believe stories without verifying if the information is credible or not, this is what Chong D. Hoi and Ron Berger (2010) argue in their article of Celebrities and Their Increasing Influence in 21st Century It is not only our responsibility to get immunized, but also of the state to have firmer laws when it comes to the public. Due to the importance of the matter one would think that the legislature would have strict laws supporting immunization, but the truth is that this subject has been highly controversial throughout the year. On her article the Age of Consent: Pushing Back against the Anti-Vaccine Allison M. Whelan (p.466, 2016) argues that on one hand legislatures have made laws making immunization mandatory, but on the other hand the exceptions on these laws are so broad that they make the law nearly useless. There will always be controversy surrounding the involvement in decisions, but one thing is certain; when it comes to something as important as the health and wellbeing of society there should be strict laws surrounding the subject. Not only has this movement spread through misinformation but its actions can be detrimental to public safety. In society, there is something known as herd immunity, according to vaccinestoday.eu immunity is a form of immunity that occurs when the vaccination of a significant portion of a population (or herd) provides a measure of protection for individuals who have not developed In other words when a high percentage of the population is immune to a certain disease, the spread of that pathogen to individuals who are not immune is less likely. There are many people who are not able to get vaccines, like pregnant women, infants DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 5 or some immunocompromised individuals, herd immunity is an essential part of these well being. Opting out of vaccines can compromise the and possibly jeopardize their health. Another aspect, the most important to most people is that vaccines are made to prevent life threatening diseases, and by not getting immunized people are putting their lives in danger. When anti-vaccine movements promote this kind of behavior they are putting others in danger. In 1998, the Gangarosa International Health Foundation conducted a study comparing the occurrence of pertussis in countries with active anti-vaccine movements like Australia, Ireland, Italy, Russia, Japan, and Sweden and countries where these movements did not interfere with immunization such Hungary, East Germany, Poland, and the U.S. The study provided undeniable results, it showed that in countries with anti-vaccine movements the occurrence of pertussis was from 10 to 100 times higher than countries without the disruption of immunization. (Gangarosa, 1998). With this information, it should be a given that immunization is not something to take lightly, vaccines are among the most important methods in keeping a healthy population. The anti-vaccine movements put the health of our community at risk, there needs to be strict laws mandating the immunization of everyone physically capable of it. Over the years the expectations of both the public and the government have changed, with the development of science and more efficient vaccines the government has tried to be more strict on the subject. however to some activists this change has been regressive to human rights and personal freedom. As science and technology keeps evolving, and we have more control over our health, some moral questions start to surface, like how far should science go, things become more about we do than we do The major stakeholders of this issue as classified by the Institute of Medicine in 2008 are, Advocacy Groups, Media, the General Public, Healthcare DANGERS OF THE ANTI-VACCINE MOVEMENT 6 System and Providers, Vaccine Manufacturers and public activists. This goes to show that it is also in our interest to get informed and make educated decisions regarding the topic at hand. REFERENCES: Bisset, Cameron. The Scientific Facts about Autism and Vaccines. Digital image. Vaccine Nation. Vaccine Nation, 23 Sept. 2014. Choi, Chong D., and Ron Berger. of Celebrities and Their Increasing Influence in 21st Century Journal of Business Ethics (2010) Gangarosa, E., Galazka, A., et al. (1998). Impact of anti-vaccine movements on pertussis control: the untold story. Lancet, 351(9099). Whelan, A. M. (2016). Lowering the Age of Consent: Pushing Back against the Anti-Vaccine Movement. Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, 44(3), 462-473.