Kaushal 1 For Project 2 I took a very unconventional approach in discussing an issue that I wanted to increase awareness towards: anxiety. Now, we have (just assuming people actually stay current with news, etc.) seen and read countless stories, movies, interpretative dances etc. about this pandemic known as anxiety. However, much of the way anxiety has been reported on and described has been cloaked in layers of academic and scientific terminology that it is extremely difficult to understand what exactly is trying to be conveyed about anxiety and how to deal with it. Thus, I once again have taken it upon myself (so nice of me) to explain this prevalent issue of anxiety and how to deal with through humor, specifically memes. I think humor, if used appropriately can not only alleviate the uncomfortableness surrounding a specific topic, but allows for people to understand and deal with a serious issue with levity. Thus, I thought what better to deal with a serious issue, such as anxiety, by portraying it through a series of memes. Now, I did not just arbitrarily select memes that were related to anxiety and put them into this word document. The first meme is a clever way (is it ok to be impressed with myself?) to call on the government to take a more active role in mental health. Famously, in 2010 a political activist, Jimmy McMillian, running to be the Governor of New York created and represented a party known as Rent Is Too Damn (the cost of living in New York is incredibly high thus the name). Though while McMillian garnered attention, he was unsuccessful in winning, obviously. However, he was able to attract significant attention towards the exorbitant costs of living in New York and has been active in campaigns and programs in order to deal with this. Thus, by incorporating this meme I would like to see people in government, or people looking to get involved in government take a more active role in dealing with mental health conditions, specifically anxiety. After this introductory meme, I thought it would be unique to portray the feelings of the onset, pinnacle, and recovery from an anxiety attack through memes. Each meme Kaushal 2 gradually increases in its relative intensity (similar to how an anxiety attack progressively gets worse) and ultimately culminates in the sixth meme; it describes how at the height of an anxiety attack other negative emotions compound on one other and make a person feel worse (I also tried to depict this by stretching the picture out mimicking a person going through an incredible amount of distress during such an attack). However, after the sixth meme, every meme thereafter represents how people have and should deal with anxiety attacks (breathing, etc.). The last meme is indicative of people who have overcome anxiety attacks and are ready to deal with any such related attacks that may come in the future. In the end, I believe I have done a good job (hopefully) in depicting a serious issue in a light-hearted way. Through depicting how the government should become more involved in mental health issues such as anxiety, what an anxiety attacks feels like, and how it can be overcome, my additional goal of bringing awareness to this issue has been accomplished as well. The various rhetorical appeals (ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos) manifested themselves within this project as well. start with how an appeal to ethos is in this project. At first, it may be difficult to derive how ethos could be present in this project, but that is why this cover letter is beneficial. Ethos is an appeal to ethics, or credibility, but how I am credible? That is hard to discern, but by understanding that a well-informed member of society who has an understanding of prevalent issues in our society, lends to my project having ethos. Yes, that is convoluted, but it makes sense, since if you assume this (or just outright believe it) then naturally you, as the reader, will believe that what saying has a certain level of credibility. Logos is also appealed to in this project. Logos is an appeal to logic, and well logically it makes sense that it is generally easier to convey something (an idea, etc.) serious through humor. Now, that does not mean being insensitive towards the topic at hand, in this case anxiety. Kaushal 3 However, if able to inject a bit of comedy while conveying a topic that is usually difficult to discuss, and able to get my point across then I have accomplished what I have set out to do. Additionally, reasoning (this is big assumption that the people who are reading this have an understanding what having anxiety is like, and also believe that I understand what it is like as well) towards whatever audience, be it people dealing with anxiety or people who need to be informed about anxiety, of how an anxiety attack can be debilitating, but that it can be dealt with in an appropriate manner. Pathos is also appealed to in this project, and I probably appealed to it the best out of all the other rhetorical appeals. Pathos is an appeal to emotion, and that is exactly what I tried to do with the memes I selected. Through humor, I have tried to convey the processes of an anxiety attack and how to subsequently deal with one. Moreover, I was also trying to demonstrate to people who have dealt with anxiety, or people looking to be informed about anxiety, that it can be dealt with (this is in no way meant to trivialize anxiety). Lastly, kairos was also appealed to in this project. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness, and represents a call to action. In our world today, there are a myriad of mental health illnesses, such as anxiety, that plague a significant amount of people. One of my goals in this project was to bring awareness to anxiety since it is a serious issue that affects large population of people. Additionally, my to is towards both people suffering from anxiety and those who read my project and want to assist people with anxiety. Yes, anxiety and anxiety attacks are enervating, but they can be overcome. I want people suffering from anxiety, and people wanting to help others with anxiety to be equipped with at least some basic information to help deal with this issue. Though a bit more difficult to readily realize, these four rhetorical appeals were apparent in this project. I hope my explanations helped in clarifying how they were present, if not I still hope I can get an based on my amazing and uncanny ability to use memes in an academic assignment. Kaushal 4 Adithya Kaushal TJ Murray ENC 1102 19 March 2017 Anxiety (Anxiety Levels) Kaushal 5 (Anxiety Humor) (Anxiety Humor) Kaushal 6 (Anxiety Humor) (Anxiety Humor) Kaushal 7 (Anxiety Humor) Kaushal 8 (Anxiety 101) (Cute Anxiety Cat) Kaushal 9 (A month ago) gotta think) Kaushal 10 (Anxiety Rambo) )) Kaushal 11 Works Cited A month ago, after a YEAR of battling with anxiety, I found a method of relaxation that works for me. Digital image. Imgflip. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <https://imgflip.com/i/e9ga4>. Anxiety 101. Digital image. Straight Talk About Overcoming Anxiety Disorders: General, Social, & Panic. Thriveworks, n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <http://thriveworks.com/anxiety disorder-counseling/>. Anxiety Humor. Digital image. 1000 ideas about anxiety humor. Pinterest, n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <https://www.pinterest.com/explore/anxiety-humor/>. Anxiety Levels are too Damn High. Digital image. Meme Generator. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. <https://memegenerator.net/instance/53755104/rent-is-too-damn-high-anxiety levels-are-too-damn-high>. Anxiety Rambo. Digital image. Memcrunch. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <https://memecrunch.com/meme/BIARL/anxiety-rambo>. Cute Anxiety Cat Meme. Digital image. Segerios, n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <https://www.segerios.com/cute-anxiety-cat-meme/>. gotta think positive. Digital image. Meme Creator. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <https://www.memecreator.org/meme/youve-gotta-think-positive/>.