Safin 1 Syed Azfar Safin Student(FRESHMAN) COMPOSITION 1 Instructor: Sarah Roth 28 March 2017 Change in conversation on the influence of robots in laboring Robots are perfect and there is no doubt about that. Robots are the definition of perfection and are superior. They are the best in what they do as to their programming and no human on Earth can ever do that. Robots are seen to be efficient which is why human labor are soon to be replaced, which is why there can be a decrease in human unemployment. The conversation on the influence of robots in labor has had a huge impact on society itself. The reviews of robots in the past till now has risen; and is far more advanced than it is than it ever was. The public started pleading to this godly invention and potentiality to change the world. They started to accept the fate of dependency which once was lost due to a turn of events in the world at a different era. What exactly are industrial robots? The data comes from the International Federation of Robotics (IFR). The IFR considers a machine to be an industrial robot if it can be programmed to perform physical, production-related tasks without the need for a human controller. Industrial robots dramatically increase the scope for replacing human labor , compared to older types of machines, since they reduce the need for human intervention in automated processes. Typical applications for industrial robots include assembling, dispensing, handling etc. Crafts, N (2004), as a General Purpose Technology: A Growth Accounting The Economic Journal, 114(495), (pp. The reasoning and the purpose over here is about the growth accounting perspective. Robots are the general purpose of technology and it should it spammed as much as its durability. Safin 2 Fernald, J G (1999), to Prosperity? Assessing the Link between Public Capital and The American Economic Review, 89(3), The impacts of automation technologies are already being felt throughout the economy. The worldwide number of industrial robots has increased rapidly over the past few years. The falling prices of robots, which can operate all day without interruption, make them cost-competitive with human workers. In an economy that employs dramatically fewer workers, we need to think about how to deliver benefits to displaced workers. Robots are very impressive if one were to tangle themselves with one. Over the decades there has been a lot of breakthroughs which is why the question rises do artificial intelligence deserve a hall of fame spot beside the legendary scientists of the world. To support my argument as to why robots should replace human task forces Robots ready to replace human  Bangkok Post (Thailand) 03 Dec. 2012: NewsBank. Web. 7 Oct. 2016. The writer in the following newspaper article approves that a high probability as to why robots should replace human task forces. He approves that its mandatory robots take over human labor. There are likely chances that the middle class people are to go struggle in that time period. This would also increase household costs and it be affordable. This creates crisis for the middle and the lower class to pay over debts and other costs. In addition to that, there will be economic crisis and rise in inequality. The Bangkok posts also says that there is a demand in robotic welding as it is much more cheaper and efficient than normal labor. Fewer people has the interest to work in harsh hazardous environments and so it is most likely to be favored. The wage hike is only one factor, but another thing is the difficulty in finding  (line 40). Wealthy business really care about cost but when it comes to getting the job done they prefer the best hands in the business and so robots favor their interests. The robot production manager adds that the order from Thailand increases on daily scale and that orders are still coming in. He has had times when there were delay in the deliver of the bots because the order lots keep on simultaneously expanding. link:http://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/local-news/324227/robots-ready-to-replace-human- labour. View our policies at http://goo.gl/9HgTd and http://goo.gl/ou6Ip. Post Publishing PCL. All rights reserved. Safin 3 Ford, Martin. Rise Of The Robots : Technology And The Threat Of A Jobless Future. New York: Basic Books, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 26 Sept. 2010. The author Martin in this source recognizes how there is a chance for the world to have a jobless future for humans. Robots have specialized skills in some ways humans can never acquire. They are mechanical beings and are the best in the business in what they do according to their programming. Therefore we can conclude that robots can mean the rise of jobless futures for humans. The author adds that , and white collar jobs alike will (line 2) . This proves that there is a huge probability that job interviews would be just a mere thing in the past and it is not to be found in the future. Moreover, there are some authors who talked about the appliance of robots in dangerous working conditions which is humanly impossible. The source here is a valid reason to the following Habib, Maki H., and Y. Baudoin. Using Robots In Hazardous Environments : Landmine Detection, De-Mining And Other Applications. Cambridge, UK: Woodhead Publishing, 2011. Discovery eBooks. Web. 27 Sept. As the world ages, people look forward to apply for jobs that are not so life threatening and harsh to adapt to. They look for benefits and bonuses and especially wages. Mining is not usual taste of job and therefore the job market in mining in landmines is slowly fading away. The only solution to run the programs in the industry is to look for labor who care about even the most devastating working conditions and therefore robots are the key. The author adds, and other applications is a standard reference for all those researching the use of robots in hazardous environments as well as government and other agencies wishing to use robots for dangerous tasks such as landmine detection 12-13). This shows that the government are willing to hire robots to do the work faster and safely as they value human lives. The reasons as to why robots are take over labor is because they are seen to be cheap in cost in the long run. The reason as to why they are cheap is because their Safin 4 maintenance is very low and they were off are a long time. To support my claim, there are more examples and advantages for robots. Robots can build products in high numbers. They have high service hours and be kept on running without a single break. Some drawbacks for robots would be that programming robots takes a lot of effort and time. They are not cheap in market and that if there is a single defect in the product then it would mean the robots are not to be put in working conditions and that there is a loss in resource material. In conclusion, we can add that the world advances forward with time according to the advancement in technology. In addition, robots are meant to take over certain jobs that humans able to do. Robots made significant contributions to labor productivity and aggregate growth, and also increased wages and total factor productivity. While fears that robots destroy jobs on a large scale have not materialized , we find some evidence that robots reduced low and middle-skilled employment. We should let knowledge flow as it betters the most of us by improving our daily life. Safin 5 Work cited 1) Ford, Martin. Rise Of The Robots : Technology And The Threat Of A Jobless Future. New York: Basic Books, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 26 Sept. 2010. 2) Robots ready to replace human  Bangkok Post (Thailand) 03 Dec. 2012: NewsBank. Web. 7 Oct. 2016 3)Cockshott, Paul, and Karen Renaud. Issues And Opinions: Humans, Robots And  Technology In Society 45.(2016): 19-28. Science Direct. Web . 16 Sept. 2016. 4)Habib, Maki H., and Y. Baudoin. Using Robots In Hazardous Environments : Landmine Detection, De-Mining And Other Applications. Cambridge, UK: Woodhead Publishing, 2011. Discovery eBooks. Web. 27 Sept. 2016.