Gill 1 Cover letter Ethos: I used ethos in the last picture that shows me being mad when I am playing a video game with a mad expression on my face. This shows ethos because I am the author of this essay and I show an example of me being mad when I play a video game. Pathos: I used pathos in the first picture because you can see the angry look on the face and the audience can feel the anger coming from the kid. Logos: I used logos in the second picture because I am showing a kid who is happy over a kill streak and then talking about how that is bad. This appeals to a logical way to persuade the audience to see violence in children as a bad thing. Kairos: I used kairos in the second picture and third picture. The second picture shows a kid excited about being violent and then the following paragraph shows how a violent kid is bad. The third picture shows kairos through the previous sentence saying, not let your kid be violent like and then showing a picture of a violent kid. Gill 2 Jordan Gill Murray ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Childhood Exposure to Violence Shapes Violent Behavior Have you ever heard the saying that children are like sponges? This statement is actually true. In an article by Maureen Healy, an author who writes about how to raise children, states brain is incredible sensitive to external stimuli as it wires itself in response to his or her environment. This plasticity means children are like sponges soaking up their environmental cues and (Healy). This begs the question if children act similar to the situations that they are surrounded with. Happy children usually develop from happy parents and a loving childhood. Therefore, if a child is exposed to more violent situations and violent media, the child develops a more violent nature. One main source of violence today is from video games. Granted, not all video games are bad. Some develop young learning and problem solving skills, while others help with spelling or the alphabet. However, too much violent videogames can be hazardous to a child. According to Gregory Fritz, founder of the website American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, of children exposed to violent media have shown that they may become numb to violence, imitate the violence, and show more aggressive behavior. Younger children and those with emotional, behavioral or learning problems may be more influenced by violent (Fritz). This allows for children to act violent and think it is ok because it is what they are around. An example of this is the kid from Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. He was playing a violent video game in the opening scene and was later shown as disrespectful to his Gill 3 parents and depicted as having a violent personality. source: image from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory Another source is from the type of community a child grew up in. According to researcher Eunju Lee, a child is constantly surrounded with arguing parents, cussing, and community violence, they are more likely to exhibit similar (Lee). This explains how children are like their parents when they are older. Another researcher, Joy Osofsky, developed a research experiment that shows that children to household violence as children develop posttraumatic (Osofsky). Children should grow up with healthy role models and in a loving environment instead of constantly being exposed to violent situations. The impact of violence in the media and in situations on children is astonishing. It corrupts a child into thinking violence is natural and allows them to think violent actions are okay. There have been multiple cases in which children have harmed others, such as when a year-old boy brutally killed a 6-year-old girl by imitating professional wrestling moves, the Columbine High School massacre, carried out by two adolescents who had practiced their plan by playing violent video games, and a 17-year-old setting himself on fire while being videotaped in an attempt to duplicate a stunt as seen on (Gentile). If parents limit their exposure, Gill 4 the child can develop a more well rounded mind through educational games and situations than develop a violent personality through video games. The image below shows how youth rejoices when they get new achievements such as a or Killing someone should not be a reward in a video game or make kids desensitized to violence and death. source: original image Parents should limit their exposure to violence in video games and in surrounding situations. It is unhealthy for kids to be around violent influences and to grow up thinking killing someone is just an achievement. If the world placed more emphasis on doing good acts instead of trying to get the highest kill streak then the world would be a more loving place. Do the right thing and do not let your children be like the picture below. Gill 5 source: original image Gill 6 Works Cited Burton, Tim, dir. Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Warner Bros. Pictures, 2005. Film. Fritz, Gregory. Games and Children: Playing with Video Games and Children: Playing with Violence. American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gentile, Douglas A. Media Violence and Children : A Complete Guide for Parents and Professionals. Santa Barbara, California : Praeger an imprint of ABC-CLIO, 2014. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t00847a&AN=usflc.034222770&site=eds-live. Healy, Maureen. Mind Training for  Psychology Today. Health Profs, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lee, E. Exposure to community violence as a new adverse childhood experience category: Promising results and future  Families in Society 98.1 (2017):69-78. Web. Osofsky, Joy D. The effect of exposure to violence on young  American Psychologist 50.9 (1995): 782.