Shawn Peed Sabah Firoz Uddin First Year Composition 2/27/17 Recreational Marijuana with Taxation The debate over the legalization of marijuana has been an ongoing debate since its illegalization in the and has gained a lot of controversy in the to the present day, especially since it has been legalized for recreational use in places like Colorado and California. We have also had an economy that has been going downhill since the early with no hope for getting better. In this struggling economy we need a new form of income to help boost are finance system. We need to legalize marijuana with taxation to help our economy. If this new form of taxation was established it would make a new form of income for the United States government and it would also cut the cost for prisoners seeing as marijuana is still a criminal drug in many states which only provides more prisoners for the prison system to spend money on. One thing that proves this ongoing debate has become more popular is the many medical books and journals being published to show unlikely dangers. The book that will be used in this book is the book The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed written by Kevin Hill. This is a book with no biases written in 2015. It shows all of the supposed dangers of marijuana and debunks them. It shows medical and statistical research on things like addictiveness and its ability to help those suffering mental illness like depression, anxiety, or post-traumatic stress disorder. The reason for this book proving why the view on this topic has been changed drastically is mostly because of the fact it is unbiased. It shows the downsides to marijuana like memory and cognitive impairment, however it states that marijuana is a much healthier alternative to the legal drugs such as tobacco and alcohol. When debated in a much earlier time like the and it would only be discussed as a bad drug that could only hurt. This book even dispels the false accusation made by a famous movie in 1936 titled refer madness that argued marijuana turns good kids into drug addicts and violent spouse abusers. Back in the this was a serious movie and every one believed its information was factual, but since the topic has changed so much this movie is considered a joke and this book treats it like one. The second reason this topic has changed so much is because of the changing and the decline of the United States economy. The United States economy has plummeted since the early and reached an awful low in 2009, as described in the book The Decline and Fall of the U.S. Economy: How Liberals and Conservatives Both Got It Wrong written by William McDonald, written in the year 2010. Throughout the book, he discusses the facts and shows why now of all times is so bad and what lead to this point. This source discusses a great factor in why this topic has changed. It shows and highlights the problems and reasons for the economic tumble that we are in. marijuana, being illegalized after the great depression in a time of economic fortune, can finally have a justified purpose to be legalized for the United States economy. As a struggling economy, we are now in need of ways to get any income can get, and so recreation marijuana has a purpose due to the fact that you can impose a tax on it. As described in the book What Are Taxes written by Baron Bedesky in the year 2009, taxes are one of the biggest incomes that the United States government receives. So since recreational marijuana can be taxed it has the ability to also help the United States economy. A third, and also very large topic that has created a change in the topic of medical marijuana is the large number of prisoners we have. Prisons are not only growing at an alarming amount, but they also cost a large amount of money to fund. The amount that is spent on prisoners is anal yzed in the book The Price of Prisons: What Incarceration Costs Taxpayers which is written by Christian Henrichson and Ruth Delaney in the year 2012. It goes over the logistics and the change in the price per prisoner over the years. The reason the cost of a prisoner has been changing the topic of legal marijuana is because of the amount of people that are imprisoned due to marijuana related charges. In the the cost of an individual prisoner was much cheaper however with the change an ethics for prison and the way that prisoners are treated, the amount of money per prisoner has increased a lot. Due to the fact that prisons are increasing at an alarming rate, at least decriminalizing marijuana in every state would cut down those numbers and make the United States government spend much less on prisons. Bibliography 1. Hill, Kevin P. Marijuana: The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed. Center City, MN: Hazelden, 2015. Print. 2. Wallace, William McDonald. The Decline and Fall of the U.S. Economy: How Liberals and Conservatives Both Got It Wrong. Santa Barbara, CA: Praeger, 2010. Print. 3. Bedesky, Baron. What Are Taxes? St. Catharines, ON: Crabtree Pub., 2009. Print. 4. Christian Henrichson, Ruth Delaney, The Price of Prisons: What Incarceration Costs Taxpayers. New York: Vera Institute of Justice, 2012.