Last Name 1 Otero, Samira Professor Uddin Composition 1 03/26/2017 Project Two The topic of the gender wage gap was created in America due to the past accusations of unfair pay in business between men and women. In the continuation of time, scholars have addressed the wage in relevance to how it has changed over a period of time and how it has attributed to our current economic state between the way different genders are being payed. In 1963 the Equal Pay Act was introduced in order to eliminate the gender wage once and for all; and although this was the purpose of the Act, scholars are still spewing conversation in regards to its effectiveness. Overall there has been, for most scholars, a significant change from the 2000-2010 time frame moving into the 2011-2017 time frame. The majority of scholars have recognized a decrease or even elimination of the gender wage once the Equal Pay Act was created. At the time The Equal Pay Act of 1963 was created, scholars in America had positive views of finally ending the gender wage gap and enforcing work pay order in businesses all over the country. In the journal, the U.S Gender Wage Gap in by Shannon M, and Kidd M, the authors speak of the importance of the creation of the equal pay act and how it has businesses to represent The authors believe the gender wage gap has reduced, however, statistics inform us that the projections of gender wage gaps from 2000-2004 still exist, making this not only unfair to society but to women Many other scholars such as David E Paas, author of Equal Pay Act of analytical Last Name 2 research paper would agree with this point of view. Paas prevails his research and opinions in the 2016 time period where he explains the purpose of the Pay and furthermore explains contributions to America. Even so Paas, continues to agree with scholars such as Shannon and Kidd that the gender wage gap has in fact unfairness in pay for the most part, but is prevalent even in the current time The introduction of this Act allowed for many scholars to see the benefits and justices it brought to America, but many scholars are also in-tune with the fact that many statistics report it is still a prevalent issue in the United States, and they agree that something should be done to solve this issue. Emily Canal, author of These Are the Gender Wage Gaps in 25 Popular a premier journalist for Forbes in 2016, explains how even 50 years later the gender wage gap is experienced in 25 of most popular Canal would agree with scholars Paas, Shannon, and Kidd that although the Equal Pay Act has had its effect on America, significantly reducing the gap in gender wages, is not fair that so many years later we are facing the same In the given time range from the creation of the Equal Pay Act of 1963 to current times in 2016 it is oblivious that scholars accept the change the act has contributed to American businesses, but continue to be appalled by the negligence to the ongoing issue regarding gender wage gap. Although the acknowledgement for the prevalence of the gender wage gap is understood and noticed by several authors and scholars, the conversation between some scholars from the year 2000 to current time periods believe that the gender wage gap is protected by The Equal Pay Act, and therefore does not pose for being considered a in America. Katrina Trinko author of No Gender Wage Gap is Not That disagrees with scholars who continue to believe that wage gap continues to be an ongoing Trinko admits that she does understand that gender wage gap is still prevalent however, she disagrees with many Last Name 3 scholars who continue to believe the is wider than it truly Many scholars would disagree with Trinko in the belief that no gender should be underpaid simply for their gender. Trinko acknowledges this as a not accounting for skill, experience and work management in the work Trinko believes that many projections for statistics regarding the gender wage gap such as Shannon and projections for 2000-2004 do not consider certain skill sets that would allow for another person to be paid at a higher rate than the other. Shannon and Kidd would disagree although they cannot account for all bias, they do mention skill sets and experience taken into account when Author Widmer, L. (2016). Equal work unequal pay: the risks of the gender wage gap. Risk Management, (9). 22. would agree with Trinko in the sense that gender wage gap is seen very rarely in American business. Widmer acknowledges the many law suits that have been filed in recent years due to unfair pay in the work force. That being said Widmer, acknowledges the existance of the gap but states the gap is so small, due to wanting to be cautious of the risks that come with the gender wage and that businesses prefer to perform risk management to prevent these types of issue settling in the In past years, businesses were not enforcing rules and regulations as well as were not up to par with all necessary requirements but in this day and age, American businesses want to prevent losing money or credibility on account to issues such as the gender wage gap, which Widmer and Trinko, would both agree is almost non-significant and rare. These authors as well as other scholars still acknowledge the gender wage gap to be existence but not quite in relevance to society. Scholars in America have shown both sides to the opinion of the prevalence of the gender wage gap from the year 2000 to the current day and age. Although some scholars may disagree on the relevance, many agree that although years have passed the gender wage gap is still Last Name 4 prevalent in the work force. The conversation between scholars has maintained constant throughout the years, still having both sides argued as to whether it is significant or not but most scholars agree that it is still, an ongoing issue. Last Name 5 Citations Widmer, L. (2016). Equal work unequal pay: the risks of the gender wage gap. Risk Management, (9). 22. Trinko, Katrina. No, gender wage gap is not that  USA Today 2015: Academic OneFile. Web. 14 Feb. 2017 Canal, Emily. These Are The Gender Wage Gaps In 25 Popular  Forbes.Com (2016): 1. Business Source Premier. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Paas, David E. Equal Pay Act Of  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Shannon, M, & Kidd, M 2003, the U.S. Gender Wage Gap Atlantic Economic Journal, 31, 4, pp. 316-330, Business Source Premier, EBSCOhost, viewed 12 March 2017.