Murtha 1 Jonathan Murtha Professor Sabah Firoz Uddin Composition 1 March 24, 2017 The Conversation on Abortion There has recently been a heated debate in the United States, specifically in the past two decades, on the topic of abortion. In the year 1973, the Supreme Court ruled that abortion is to be considered legal in the conclusion of the Roe v. Wade case. There were many citizens who opposed this decision, and on the other hand, there were many citizens who supported this decision. Those who were against abortion are referred to as pro-life advocates. Those who were for abortion are referred to as pro-choice advocates. Today, there is still a debate between these two groups on the controversy of abortion. However, due to a shifting social landscape, there has been a shift in the debate. The controversy as to whether abortion should be considered homicide in the United States has shifted from a pro-life standpoint to a pro-choice standpoint; the pro-life standpoint argues that abortion should be considered homicide, and the pro-choice standpoint argues that abortion should not be considered homicide. In the early 2000s, there was more of a pro-life standpoint on abortion in the United States. For example, the philosopher Patrick Lee is a well-known pro-life advocate. He published an article in 2004 called, A Christian View Of Recent Directions In The Abortion In this article, Lee argues that abortion is wrong because the fetus has full moral worth and value, even though it is at an immature stage. Murtha 2 A general belief among pro-life advocates is that the embryo should be considered a human being with full moral value. Lee emphasizes, with many others, I hold that the basic facts reported by the standard embryology texts are sufficient to show that the human embryo is a distinct, individual human (Lee, 2004). The embryo is distinct from the parents because the embryo has its own genes which are different than its genes. Another belief among Pro-life advocates is that the embryo is a completely new, individual, whole human being. Lee claims, this organism is distinct from any cell of the mother or of the father: in normal reproduction it has its own genetic make-up distinct from that of the mother or (2004). Even though at the point of conception this new organism is at an immature stage, the embryo has a purpose: to grow and develop into a human fetus. A question is often raised when talking about the topic of abortion. This question regards when the fetus should be considered a human being. Advocates of the pro-life movement insist that the embryo comes to be at the point of fertilization. Lee further comments, biological evidence clearly shows that in normal reproduction a new organism of the relevant mammalian species is generated with the completion of the fertilization (2004). This is what many citizens agreed with and believed to be true in the early 2000s. Another philosopher, Timothy Hall, is also a pro-life advocate. He published an article in 2005 called, Abortion, The Right To Life, And  Hall, as well as many pro-life advocates, agree with many arguments made by Lee. In his article, main argument is that the fetus has an assumed right to life that obstructs abortion, even if the fetus does not have a right to the aid in which it depends, given by the mother. Murtha 3 Most pro-life advocates would agree that the fetus has an assumed right to life, even if he/she have the right to the aid of the mother that it depends on. Hall calls this the from Many pro-life advocates agree with this reasoning. A large number of pro-life advocates also believe that a majority of abortions violate the right to life, because these abortions are attacks against the fetus, as well as withdrawing the aid that he/she depends on. Hall endorses this reasoning: many abortions are not simply the withdrawal of aid to which a fetus has no right. Many abortions are attacks against the fetus, and these attacks will violate its right to (Hall, 2005). Most pro-life advocates would agree that these attacks can not be justified by any line of reasoning or argument. There was originally a pro-life standpoint in the United States. However, as time went on, there was a shift in social landscape, which led to a shift in the debate. The United States has been becoming a more liberal country, rather than a more conservative country. This has led to the majority of citizens shifting to a pro-choice standpoint on abortion, specifically in the past seven years. In 2013, the philosopher Bertha Alvarez Manninen, who is a pro-choice advocate, published an article titled, The Value of Choice and the Choice to Value: Expanding the Discussion About Fetal Life Within Prochoice  In this article, Manninen emphasizes the importance of the right to choose to have an abortion or not. In her article, Manninen argues that the new generation of pro-choice advocates want to defend abortion rights by moving towards a complex view of abortion rights, instead of the viewpoint of past generations of pro-choice advocates. The past viewpoint is that the fetus is just a clump of cells that has little or no value. Manninen comments, a new Murtha 4 generation of pro-choice advocates to move away from defending abortion rights via the view that fetal life has little or no value and toward a more complex view of abortion (Manninen, 2013). Pro-choice advocates recognize that the fetus has value to some extent. However, they believe that abortion is not considered homicide, even though they recognize the value of the fetus. The right of women to choose to have an abortion or not is important, Manninen argues, because through choice affirm their own separateness [from the (2013). Many pro-choice advocates support this argument and believe that the choice to have an abortion or not is more important than the right to have an abortion. The philosopher Georgia Warnke published an article in 2015 titled, The Right to Choose: A Hermeneutic  Warnke is also a pro-choice advocate, and has written numerous articles regarding abortion. In this article, Warnke examines the importance of the right of the individual to the decision to have an abortion or not.Warnke, along with many other pro-choice advocates, agrees with numerous arguments made by Manninen. Agreeing with Manninen, many pro-choice advocates, as well as Warnke, believe that the right to choose to have an abortion or not recognizes that women are individuals who are capable of controlling their own bodies and ends. Warnke insists, the right to choose in the context of abortion marks an important achievement insofar as it recognizes autonomy and pronounces them to be individuals capable of choosing their own (Warnke, 2015). Many pro-choice advocates agree with this argument. Warnke also argues that the right to choose rather than the right to have an abortion recognizes that women hesitate about their decision in the presence of another human life, which is the fetus. Warnke further asserts, the right to choose over a right to have an abortion acknowledges our hesitation Murtha 5 about the latter in view of the presence of another consideration, namely, a human (2015). Women have to balance out the decision to have an abortion or not with other important considerations, the main one being the fetus. In the past two decades, there has been a heated controversy on the topic of abortion. In the early 2000s, the majority of citizens supported a pro-life standpoint in regards to abortion. However, due to a shift in social and political landscape, the majority of citizens now support a pro-choice standpoint. Whether an individual supports abortion or is against it, abortion involves many factors, and is a complicated and sensitive subject for many people. However, there is a need to address it, because it involves the lives of unborn human fetuses. Murtha 6 Works Cited: 1) Lee, Patrick. A Christian View Of Recent Directions In The Abortion  Bioethics: Non-Ecumenical Studies In Medical 10.1 (2004): 7-31. Search Web. 9 March. 2017. 2) Hall, Timothy. Abortion, The Right To Life, And  Theory & 31.3 (2005): 405-429. Search Alumni Web. 9 March. 2017. 3) Manninen, Bertha Alvarez. The Value of Choice and the Choice to Value: Expanding the Discussion about Fetal Life within Prochoice  vol. 28, no. 3, Aug. 2013, pp. 663-683. doi:10.1111/j.1527-2001.2012.013 02.x. Web. 10 March. 2017. 4) Warnke, Georgia. The Right to Choose: A Hermeneutic  of Social vol. 46, no. 2, Summer 2015, pp. 161-177. doi:10.1111/josp.12095. Web. 10 March. 2017. Murtha 7