Villa !1 Jessica Villa Sarah Roth ENC 1101.018 26 March, 2017 Inherent Inequality Within Mass Incarceration in the United States In the United States, 2.3 million people are incarcerated for various criminal offenses. White people make up 64% of the American population where black people make up 13% (Wagner and Rauby). However, this is not accurately represented within the United States criminal justice system.(Wagner and Rauby). Inside United States prisons and jails, only 39% of the population is white people, while 40% of the population is comprised of black people. (Wagner and Rauby). Although these numbers are close together, they do not accurately represent the amount of people from each race that makes up the United States population. The differences in sentences for Brock Turner and Cornell Hood incite speculation about whether race plays a role in amount of people being incarcerated. Brock Turner lured and sexually assaulted a woman after a fraternity party at Stanford University (Buncombe). This offense should have put him away for 14 years. Due to his affluent background, a swimming scholarship, and his position as only a freshman in college, he was convicted of three felonies, but only was sentenced six months in prison (Buncombe). Consider the effects of his actions and punishment had on his victim. She will have to live knowing that the man who has scarred her forever walks free because he had a earned swimming (Buncombe). However, Cornell Hood had been caught selling marijuana two times before being charged with a life sentence in prison for possession of two pounds of marijuana. Hood did not take away dignity Villa !2 while invalidating the effects of what his actions had done to them. The only crime Hood had committed was possessing a drug that is already decriminalized in multiple states. These stories are common within the criminal justice system in the United States. This racial disparity is only one of the many injustices within our criminal justice system (Wagner, Rauby). The unethical imprisonment of people in the United States is reinforced by outdated and inflexible laws and policies, and calls for revision. If there is racism within the United States criminal justice system, what evidence validates this claim and where has this inequality sourced from? In the United States criminal justice system, 2.3 million people are currently incarcerated. Of these people 40% of them, or 920,000 people, are African American. However, this overrepresentation does not stop with African Americans. The representation of Latinos jumps from 14% of the United States population to 16%, while the representation of Native American rises from comparison 0.9% of the population to 1%. (Wagner and Rauby). This clearly shows that there is a stark misrepresentation of minorities in federal, state, and local prisons in the United States. The reasoning behind this misrepresentation is not clear, but can be traced back to Civil War times (Thompson). Mass Incarceration in the United States has no definitive beginning, but it can be traced to as early as the Civil War (Thompson). After the Civil War ended, many African American men and women went forth upon the country as free people, beginning to harness their newfound constitutional rights. Although slavery was now seen as a crime, it did not mean that prejudice and discomfort from white people would cease. When these newly freed men and women ventured into cities to settle down to start families and build communities, the surrounding white people would become increasingly uncomfortable by the growing presence of African Americans Villa !3 in their neighborhoods. This caused the uncomfortable white people to decide to act. As published Heather Ann Thompson wrote, became clear that southern whites responded to African American claims on freedom by redefining crime and imprisoning unprecedented numbers of black This demonstrates how the idea of mass incarceration is not a new concept, as has been in the roots of modern-day society. This longstanding presence of mass incarceration therefore makes it a difficult problem to stamp out. This also shows that the incarceration of someone based on their race is not a new concept either. It first reared its ugly head right after the Civil War, and continued to do that when Nixon introduced the War on Drugs. There was heightened strain between white people and African Americans during the Civil Rights movement (Western and Wilderman). This tension was demonstrated best through the example of the march from Selma to Montgomery. Before the march and during events leading up to it, Martin Luther King Jr and various supporters of the march organized peaceful protests in the Selma area. Since peaceful protesting as a right granted to the American people, it is not a crime. Therefore, local police would arrest these people, and hold them for 48 hours until they needed to be released. This need to arrest people aligned with the Civil Rights movement is best shown through this quote from Bruce Western and Christopher Wilderman: Republican campaign of 1964 linked the problem of street crime to civil rights protest and growing unease among whites about racial This inclination to arrest African Americans and other minorities continued after President Nixon called for the War on Drugs. This War on Drugs where President Nixon called drugs enemy number one, subsequently triggered an influx of african american and hispanic people to be incarcerated. Although the goal Villa !4 was to minimize drug abuse, it incited racial profiling throughout the country. Many minorities were stopped and searched by police based purely on their race. This shows that incarceration based on race continued throughout history. There is an incredibly strong trend of misrepresentation of minorities within the United States criminal justice system. It starts as far back as the Civil War (Thompson), and continues into today (Wagner and Rauby). Although the presence of misrepresentation has been longstanding, the conversation about it and mass incarceration has definitely changed. Before, mass incarceration and racial profiling were definitely first choice and the absolute way to go when it came to searching and arresting minorities. Nowadays, for many States, the War on Drugs has come to a close (Wagner and Rauby) and racial profiling is a method that is strongly looked down upon. However, even though the concept of mass incarceration and misrepresentation is met with distaste, it is still a strong and very apparent issue in the United States criminal justice system. Villa !5 Works Cited Buncombe, Andrew. rape case: Read the impact statement of Brock Independent, 2 September 2016, http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/stanford- rape-case-read-the-impact-statement-of-brock-turners-victim-a7222371.html. Accessed 29 January, 2017. Thompson, Heather Ann. Why Mass Incarceration Matters: Rethinking Crisis, Decline, and Transformation in Postwar American  The Journal of American History 2010: 703. JSTOR Journals. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Wagner, Peter and Rauby, Bernadette. Incarceration: The Whole Pie Prison Policy Initiative, 14 March 2016, https://www.prisonpolicy.org/reports/pie2016.html. Accessed 25 January, 2017. Western, Bruce, and Christopher Wildeman. The Black Family and Mass  The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 2009: 221. JSTOR Journals. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.