Rashida Dacas Dacas 1 Professor Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 Race in the justice system something that is new to the modern worlds talks on how race deals with justice system have surfaced multiple times from many scholars throughout America. Scholars have made a clear firm stance that race is something that does effect the justice in modern times and dating back for centuries. Scholars may have different supporting information for their arguments but the scholars arugement seems to remain the same. Due to an on going of racial issues throughout the history of African Americans scholars continue to push forward the thought that racism still seems to be very prevalent in the united states justice system.Despite the different methodology towards the authors findings they all seemed to come to the same conclusion. Alexander, Michelle. jim crow: mass incarceration in the age of Place of publication not identified: New Press, 2010. Print. This author uses the incarceration of african americans as a control aspect for renaming jim crow laws as the criminal justice system. the author believes that the justice system uses the war on drugs in order to to target a large cultural group in america. research on the 4th ademedemt find it to be the culprit for incarceration of african american males. the author concludes that racism is very much still primitive . Taylor, Keeanga-Yamahtta. #BlackLivesMatter to Black Chicago, IL: Haymarket , 2016. Print. Even tho resulting in the same conclusion that race plays a very strong role in the justice system taylor uses the basis of race within the person using black lives matter to show the study of how police interact with the black community. the author states these mass protest have not stopped the racism in the system but it simply has awaken a new generation of activist. not only black incarceration but mass unemployment plays a role in the struggle. new push for black liberation. Dacas 2 Case, P. F. The Relationship of Race and Criminal Behavior: Challenging Cultural Explanations for a Structural  Critical Sociology 34.2 (2008): 213-38. Web. attitudes towards blacks (and other racial minorities) may lead to a self- fulfilling prophecy of greater arrests in the black community and stronger laws to prose- cute 222 Brooms, D. R., and A. R. Perry. Its Simply Because Black : Black Mens Experiences and Responses to the Killing of Black  The Journal of Studies 24.2 (2016): 166-84. Web. This study takes a more personal route compared to the sources with a basis of law and current events that support their arguments. this source is an interview of 25 black males that have obtained a college degree or is seeking one. these educated males personally support the rest of the arguments with how the victims of this acquzation of race feel. perceptions of race stereotyping and profiling. 25 black males. ages of 20 to 73. educated. degree seeking or sough through being followed in stores was becoming the norm blacks are targeted for what they represent 176 - jeff going to jail its historic Within time and current events scholars still seem to be pretty evident on the issue of race playing a big role in todays justice system. Even though the opinion of scholars changed drastically over the years its the events that constantly seem to occur that allow their opinions to continue on a steadily pace.