Running head: EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 1 Earthships and the Environment Possible Impacts and Global Uses Matthew E. Belleci University of South Florida EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 2 Abstract This paper is organized in a sequential manner utilizing four scholarly articles that discuss the earthship and the environmental benefits that this design can provide. The articles that have been chosen, vary in their topics regarding the earthship design and the global environmental benefits that it can provide. Laura Sevier (2009) writes about Michel beginning journey in designing the earthship and his biotecture concept. Chris Turner (2008) further explores earthship concept and its potential global impact. Roy Nersesian (2010) discusses the need for clean energy and other forms of options to preserve our environment. Finally, Kristen Pope (2015) emphasizes some issues in the building design may encounter in its mission to assist in preserving the environment. Current and future operations for the earthship are discussed with information from earthship.org to solidify the outlook of the project. This paper is designed to explain the origin of the earthship and the impacts that it can have on the environment as well as some issues that it has encountered along the way. Keywords: earthship, a building design that boasts no carbon footprint. Biotecture, a term developed by Michael Reynolds regarding the earthship design. EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 3 Earthships and the Environment Possible Impacts and Global Uses There is an ongoing conversation regarding the current state of our environment. Many different concepts and ideas have been utilized and tested to combat this issue. One has been developing in which a household can be completely self-sustaining and having a positive impact on the environment. This concept is the earthship design initially developed by Michael Reynolds. Laura Sevier (2009) conducted an interview with Michael Reynolds about how and where he began designing his concept. Since 1970 he has been justifying and adjusting the earthship design. It has been proven to be capable of self-sustained living and a diversity in its construction. As well as the capability to be implemented almost any environment on every continent. To reinforce the need for sustainable living, Roy Nersesian (2010), has explained the need for a solution to human consumption and its environmental impact. This paper will utilize for mentioned articles to convey the global need for further development of the earthship design and its journey along the way. In Laura (2009) interview with Michael Reynolds she reveals how he concluded that there needs to be a solution to how humans have impacted our environment. Reynolds explains to Sevier that there is value to these self-sustaining homes. She describes the basic idea of what an earthship is capable of providing, can operate entirely off-grid, with no power, gas or water lines coming in and no sewage lines going out. Yet they still manage to keep their inhabitants (Sevier, 2009, pg. 46). Simply put, the earthship can provide for itself and it utilizes naturally occurring environmental factors to create a comfortable living space. A typical earthship can use rainwater to provide everything from potable water to water to a shower or a EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 4 sink. In an article by Chris Turner in 2008 he describes a stay that he had in first commissioned earthship had ample electric light, running water, a hot shower, a gas stove to cook dinner on, and a fridge for my He continues with, were urban people with a toddler in tow, and we had no (Turner, 2008, pg. 91). Also, based on the south facing large windows the earthship not only is heated by the sun but it also converts solar energy to electrical power by way of the solar panels mounted on the roof. More specific highlights of the design are how the walls are constructed and insulated. Three sides of the building are dug into the surrounding earth, and these walls are fortified by old rubber tires. One of the most unique things about earthships is in the materials that are being used. Like the surrounding walls most the construction of an earthship is made from recycled material. Reynolds mentions that people pay to dispose of old tires and that you could find them all over the world just lying around. With these arguments in mind the argument that in the materials alone, earthships literally clean up the planet. A pile of garbage can become a useful inhabitance for a family right where it is piled. None of the development of the earthship was gained without struggle. Reynolds had to pick up some of his own trash along the way while attempting to promote his idea and used it to build a fortified plan. In the world of architecture there are legal and social constraints that every architect must consider in their designs. This is why the process of obtaining and maintaining a license as an architect is so prestigious. Michael Reynolds experienced this first hand while attempting to broaden the idea of the earthship. Chris Turner (2008) explores, not only, the beginnings of archeological self-sustainment but also highlighted the struggles that Reynolds faced in the initial introduction of his design. Chris Turner (2008) paints the picture of an outsider, an unmistakable hokiness to terminology; it veritably begs to be dismissed in favor of a EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 5 Le Corbusier slab with triple-glazed (Turner, 2008, pg. 90). Turner first compares Reynolds to a well-known French architect who, like Reynolds, challenged the standard and was successful in doing so. Here you can consider how Reynolds was discarded to an outsider or to an armature architect. Reynolds challenged form and policy to create his self-sustainment design. Challenged also by the state and federal requirements for building a living structure in the state of New Mexico. design had been in violation of state ordinances and county building codes, resulting of him surrendering his license to peruse his project. At this point he has given up everything that he has previously worked for to promote an idea that could one day save humanity. Why would a man do this? Why would he give all of that up to start all over? His intentions were not for fame or glory but for a solution that he saw growing worse over the years. Reynolds was perusing a solution to the issue of impact on the environment by simply living. In the ongoing conversation of, how can we preserve our planet for our children, the one factor is what do we use today and what will we have tomorrow. Roy Nersesian (2010) simply highlights the issue more plainly. In his book, Energy for the 21 st Century, Nersesian quotes Thomas Jefferson if the first could charge it with debt, then the earth would belong to the dead and not to the living (Nersesian, 2010, pg. 305). Also, Theodore Roosevelt when defining the need for sustainable energy was quoted in saying; duty to the whole, including the unborn generations, bids us to restrain an unprincipled resent-day minority from wasting the heritage of these unborn (Nersesian, 2010, pg. 305). More simply put both men recognized the need for conservation on the individual level. Every person has the duty to ensure that the earth will be inhabitable for their next generation. Looking at individual comforts of living that we have become accustom to and the cost to the EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 6 environment may be staggering. There are certain comforts that everyone could afford to lose so that their children will have a planet to inhabit in the future. Both presidents are long since passed but they had the foresight in considering the industrial revolution and population booms to be a major limiting factor on our life span. There has clearly been an ongoing conversation about how to preserve our environment on the micro level. What solution could there be where mankind can lessen the blow to the earths limited resources? More recent development of self-sustaining habitations is approached by Kristen Pope (2015) in an article Recycling to the Max. She outlines the basic concept of the earthship and the issues that it is struggling with today. She talked about local concerns with the initial construction of earthship development in Taos New Mexico, 1996, the development was deemed an illegal subdivision and in 1997, an injunction halted further (Pope, 2015, pg. 45). Reynolds had to approach the New Mexico Legislature from 2004 to 2007 so that he could get the Sustainable Development Testing Act passed. Reynolds fought for years trying to get his design to become a legally legitimate project to continue construction. According to earthship.org, the web site for up to date company, there has been vast utilization of the earthship design all over the world. His company is called Earthship Biotecture and boasts an academy and even internship opportunities all over the world. There is also a blog on the home page where you can view projects as recent as March 10, 2017 and updates on the progress of construction. They have also been working on relief projects in countless countries to provide secure self-sustaining living for families in need. For example, Earthship Biotecture is proposing a small city that will serve as an International Earthship Academy that will be teaching Syrians how to construct their own earthships. Progress for the earthship community since the initial start has and will continue to flourish. EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 7 In conclusion, humanity has a need to lower its impact on the economic and environmental systems. Preservation today will ensure that there will be sustainment tomorrow. Roy Nersesian (2010) highlighted this need utilizing presidents past and their recognition of the environmental conservation issue. Knowing that these men could tell that the way we were developing as a society would only increase along with our consumption of limited resources. Laura (2009) interview with Michael Reynolds digs up the theory behind the earthship and its simple design. Starting from the to 2017 there has been some struggle and limiting factors along the way. However, there has been continuous growth worldwide as many have discovered the rational driving this concept. After all the legal and social hurtles were surpassed, the simple design could now be used all over the world. Earthships are a strange concept but they have a pure intention and will bring a positive impact on our future environment. EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 8 References Nersesian, Roy L.. (2010). Energy for the 21st Century. Taylor & Francis (prev. M. E. Sharpe). Retrieved 26 March 2017, from <http://www.myilibrary.com?ID=289118> Pope, Kristen (2015). Recycling to the max. American Planning Association 81(3). Server, L. (2009). Garbage warrior. Ecologist, 39(6), 46-49 Turner, C. (2008). The earthship has landed. Walrus, 5(4), pg. 88-93.