Al- Shehhi 1 Wafaa Al Shehhi Janie Gill ENC1102.077S17 March 18, 2017 Controlling Immigration in The United States Most of the immigrants that come to the United States every day need to change their life to better because they cannot found it in their home country. There are some of organizations help this kind of people. One of these organizations is American Friends Service Committee. It was founded in 1917. AFSC is an organization that defends immigrants and trying to do as much as possible to support immigrants. Also, they think that immigration is a good way to develop the United States economy. The American Friends Service Committee (AFSC) is a Quaker organization that advances enduring peace with equity, as a pragmatic articulation of confidence in real life. Drawing on proceeding with profound bits of knowledge and working with individuals of many foundations, they sustain the seeds of progress and regard for lives that change the systems (AFSC, n.d). In fact, both images try to inform people that immigrants need help, and they need someone to talk or take care of them. Also, both images have a lot of feeling that may touch the audiences. The people in these images try to deliver a message toward those who care about immigration issues. There are a lot of colors, composition, and words in the images. Both images use rhetorical appeals, pathos, ethos and logos, to persuade people. Thus, two images were selected to analyze the creative rhetoric analysis, both of these images concentrate on pathos to attract the attentions. The AFSC organization effectively convinces the audience that immigration is one of the most popular topics that people should pay attention for through using of emotional ads, which include some ethos and logos to create an Al- Shehhi 2 effective argument. The first image (see figure 1) shows there are some people carrying banners and pictures in a demonstration for the rights of immigrants. Some people come from different places and different faiths. There are children, elderly, women, men, and security men who participate this event. The location of this demonstration was in the middle of street between buildings in the state of Washington. They did this demonstration in this place because it is a good place to take people attention. It is clear that some of the shops were closed because of the demonstration. Also, a great number of cars jammed because of the giant number of people present at the demonstration. Obviously, people can notice the anguish of this problem on the faces. Also, there are some people who are clearly sad and this is evidence that they have faced the immigration issue, and they left their country because of a better quality of life in the United States. Some people stand with immigrants and decide to support them to make other people realize what these immigrants feel when they face the discrimination. There are a lot of phrases and sentences in this picture. Some of these words are (I AM BECAUSE WE ARE, THIS JAWN IS YOUR JAWN THIS JAWN IS MY JAWN). This related to the Land Is Your by Woody Guthrie about the freedom. To recognize that all the words that people in this protest used are in a capital letters to emphasize the importance of this dilemma, and they want people to see it clearly. The demonstrators are using these images and phrases in order to deliver the idea to the people or to people whom will they meet during their protests. There is pathos rhetorical appeal in this point, the color of the image is black and white, and this shows the sadness and depression. The organization has made the image in this color to convey the idea of the suffering of immigrants to people and explain to them what immigrants face, including the passing of pain and suffering. According to the Symbolism of Black-and-White Photography article, Al- Shehhi 3 white images have been used in place of color in order to give special emotion to particular topics and (Byrne, 2015). Whereas the trees leave in the picture falling down and this shows that was in the autumn i.e. by September. There is a lot of pathos in this image. Pathos is an appeal to emotion. First of all, there are many people hold pictures and some words and the sadness show in their faces. The image color is so sad and makes people think emotionally for those immigrants and what they face everyday. Also, the words that they hold is so emotional, like, No ban No . mean America for all and need any ban or wall to prevent immigrants from come to U.S. That show how immigrants suffer the strict immigration laws. Secondly, in the first line of the protest, people held a poster and wrote on hashtag this hashtag by the American Friends Service Committee organization. This hashtag talk about refugees and how they face their life everyday. Some of them find the safe place to live in because the tough decisions that from the government. Also, there is a logo of this organization in some of the pictures that protesters hold it, so that show us there is an ethos rhetorical as well in this image. In their website shows there are some of celebrities join their protests to let other people get interested and join with them. Thirdly, there is one picture shows the logos rhetorical, the percentage of immigrants that enter the United States and faced issues while they come, this percentage is 70%. In their website, they use the percentage of people who joined this organization because it is one of the great organization who help immigrant, this percentage is 80%. The audiences in this image is all people that know what happen with refugees and other immigrants who face problem while they enter the United States. The second image (see figure 2) shows us that there is a group of students who are doing demonstrations for the rights, and this demonstration was prepared by the American Al- Shehhi 4 Friends Service Committee organization. Students who are in the picture indicate the age of about 13 to 16 years. They are carrying pictures, logos, and flags about immigration. This demonstration was in New York; it seems between the middle of the street and Public Park in New York City. They did the protest in this location because the huge number of people there with their children. The faces show the childlike innocence and a sense of pride, because they volunteer to help people. There are some of words and sentences that kid hold. Pathos was used a lot in this picture. The organization uses the children in this demonstration to achieve the audience sympathy. The color that used in this image is more about red and green which carry a lot of meanings. Red is a very emotionally intense color. It represents war, energy, strength, danger, determination, power as well as passion, desire, and love. Green has strong emotional correspondence with safety. According to the Rhetorical Situation article, is frequently translated as some variation of credibility or (Owl, n.d). The ethos rhetorical that used in the image is Obama picture, and they write beside it (Mr. President stop deportations). Stopping deportations is sensible and humane. It resolves a crisis thousands are facing instead of prolonging it. There is a kairos in this statement as well by saying stop deportations in the Obama image that shows this protest done when Obama was the president of the U.S. Also, they use the American Friends Service Committee logo in their pictures. For the logos, in their website, they write under this picture the number of schools that joined in this demonstration. It was 8 schools. The audiences in this image are all people but especially young people to let them know who the immigration issue is very important. In conclusion, both images have the same message, which people should care about the immigration issue. Also, both images used the pathos rhetorical appeal more than other rhetorical appeals. They used and hold different pictures in the protest. On the other hand, the Al- Shehhi 5 locations of the protest were different in each picture. In the first picture, there are women, men, children, adult, youth, police and other. In the second picture, the organization let children to take place in this protest to touch people heart obviously. The AFSC goals are all persons affirm the common good and recognize their mutual interdependence, societies steward resources equitably, caring, respectful economic development, including. There are a lot of problems and wars have happened in their country, so leaded them here. AFSC one of the greatest organizations that defend for immigration rights. From both images, the rhetorical appeals are used. In the first and second image, the pathos rhetorical appeal was used more than other rhetorical appeals. For example, the colors, faces, people, children that used in these protests were very influential and may touch the audiences. Also, both images use the American Friends Service Committee logo; it means both protests start from this organization. Since the demonstrations were by the AFSC organization, the demonstration was arranged and does not affect other people. Al- Shehhi 6 Works Cited American Friends Service Committee. (1947). History of AFSC. Retrieved from https://www.afsc.org . Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Byrne, Brianna. Symbolism of Black-and-White  EHow. Leaf Group, 13 Sept. 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. blackandwhite-photography.html Owl Purdue Online Writing Lab. (27 April 2012). Rhetorical Situation. Retrieved from https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/625/03/. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. (Figure 1) (Figure 2)