Andres Corredor Project 2 Intermediate Draft ENC1102 February 26, 2017 The End of Second-Hand Smoke on College Campuses The dangers of smoking and tobacco in general have been more pronounced than ever before as more evidence of diseases and causes of death as a result of smoking continually surface and have grown exponentially. Teens and young adults in this day and age, in particular, are aware of the harmful effects of smoking and this population has the largest decrease in smoking rates compared to older generations. College campuses, a large meeting ground for young and educated millennials, across the country are beginning to take into account the dangers of second-hand smoke to non-smokers and are making initiatives to ban smoking on the premises. As of the beginning of 2017, there are at least 1,757 smokefree campuses across the country with 1,468 being 100% tobacco free and 1,331 also banned e-cigs. A federal ban on smoking tobacco on all college campuses, both public and private, should be considered by congress and the Department of Education to promote clean air for all students/staff and restricting urge to smoke as much. The above image is an example of what some anti-smoking signs look like on many college campuses that have implemented the rule. The message on the sign starts off with a powerful better which emphasizes the intention of improving health and quality of life of those on the campus. The dangers of smoking are clear to many and it is no surprise that institutions with medical or health-forward curriculums do what they can promote better health to the public. Many student or teacher smokers on these campuses who take offense to the ban and protest against it usually feel so due to a sense of their rights or privileges being infringed upon unjustly. The message in the sign is the clear indicator of the intentions to assure better health rather than taking away choice to partake in an activity. A campus- wide ban aims to maintain a clean air atmosphere for ALL patrons of the university and not to restrict smoking time for those that do smoke and can freely do so elsewhere. This image displays students abiding by the rule of smoking in designated smoking areas. Before any campuses implemented a smoking ban, they had designated smoking areas dispersed throughout the premises in which smokers could go and not disrupt the air in any other areas. Most designated smoking areas, however, are still within areas where other pedestrians still walk through and continues to pose a problem for the non-smoker seeking clean air. Campuses seeking bans on smoking do so because it is apparent their complaints from individuals against smoking being allowed are higher than petitions for more smoking areas. This demonstrates the passion and emotion individuals on one side of the argument have over the other and this has lead to more campuses taking more initiatives to appeal to them. Alternatively, this image above shows a college student smoking in a non-designated smoking area on campus surrounded by other individuals who are not smoking. Many of the people around the woman may feel bothered or angered by her decision to openly smoke and contaminate their air, even if they are not in a smokefree campus. This final image is a graphical depiction of the rise of smoke-free campuses from 2010-2013. Hundreds of colleges have adopted bans on smoking in a short time span, demonstrating the urgency to prevent smoking rate to rise in young people. Although many of them still allow e- cigs and other forms of tobacco, cigarette smoking in particular has been largely aimed at since it does seem to be the most deadly form of tobacco use. Cigarette smoking is particularly important to look at considering it affects others indirectly by way of second hand smoke, a byproduct not usually sought after by the nonsmoker. In retrospect, a nationwide ban on smoking across many college campuses in the U.S. has taken a rapid spike in the last decade with more campuses adopting such ban. A larger public health initiative against tobacco use has also taken place outside of colleges, showing the efforts to educate the public on the dangers of the drug. Teen smoking rates and young adult rates have dropped considerably in this generation. A report by the USA Today claims: year after the smoking ban went into effect in 2011, the University of Michigan surveyed students and faculty. After the ban, 64.5% of students said they saw a decrease in smoking on campus while 4% said they planned to stop smoking altogether, according to the So although these bans cannot be lawfully and physically enforced, the idea of breaking a rule plays into the mind of the smoker and better prevents him or her from taking a smoke break while on campus, reducing smoking during a day.