Saleh 1 Miriam Saleh 24 February 2017 ENC1102 T.J Murray For kairos I emphasized that now is the era of feminism. Maybelline has chimed into the recent voice of modern day careers was my main message. I used words like or phrases like last couple of to show that making Maybelline the only legally sold makeup company in the US would be complimentary to recent change in America. For ethos, I felt there was a lot of credibility involved in using a substantial study to reveal true results. This was about bacterial growth, something that needed a credible Doctor to stand behind. There was a lot of trust involved in using a partnership with PEOPLE. PEOPLE magazine has a high reputation followed behind that did advance stand point. For logos, I did a good job at sticking to the exact numbers provided by Dr. study. important to affirm a belief with exact data or else people take your words the next time. I also made sure I used the exact names, organizations and values Maybelline was involved in so a reader can refer back to them and see that all true. I ever want to make a claim I back up. For pathos, it was important to recognize that telling facts is helpful only to a certain extent but making people feel compassion will drive action. I made sure my audience knew that Maybelline helps people further than just aesthetics. I wanted to ensure my audience it was about making fundamental changes they otherwise Saleh 2 Project 2 Intermediate draft One day, Maybelline will be the only legally sold makeup-company in America. For the sake of all American women, the government should eradicate all other makeup companies from being sold nationally. Making Maybelline the only makeup provider for America would advance careers for young women in America. Maybelline New York Honors Women Who Empower It was recently found that Maybelline has the cleanest products nationally. According to Dr. Wickman, mascara had the lowest amount of bacteria out of the twelve other leading competitors (Microbial contamination associated with mascara use 591). His three-month long study also found that test subject was not affiliated with any ocular trauma, itching or irritation. Maybelline has a high level of cleanliness due to their staffing efforts. They hire people specifically for the task of making sure all products are biodegradable (Sizing the Clean Economy 21). such a relief for American women to know their makeup is safe! Saleh 3 Through Education concluded that Maybelline partners with PEOPLE to find ten girls to qualify for career advancement. Every four months, this program teaches these young women more about business so they can develop lucrative careers in business. After the program the girls are free to go into whatever field of entrepreneurship themselves! NOW is the era of women empowerment. As of the last couple of years, females nationally have spoken up about their rights. Maybelline has chimed into this recent movement. Lastly, involvement in donation is the epitome for companies in America. According to Catherine Phillips, Maybelline is heavily involved in this partnership by donating profits towards cancer research and patients (Images, femininity and cancer: an analysis of an international patient education programme 69). They did this so families who are currently drowning in debt from medical bills have less of a burden. Maybelline wanted to bring financial hope to these women to remind them Saleh 4 exactly how each life is valuable. made partnerships, as seen below, with cancer awareness programs not only to help those in need, but also for preventative purposes. We need more companies like Maybelline in the US to model this type of compassion for the American people. Going the extra mile to ensure all products are safe shows how much they care. Their willingness to help young women chase their dreams is complete selflessness. Plus donating their own profits back into communities is a love America needs to know. Making Maybelline our only provider in America would perfectly embody what their country was founded on. Starting here with makeup would lead a positive chain reaction for other industries and how beautiful would that be. Saleh 5 Work cited Pack, Latricia D., et al. Contamination Associated with Mascara Saleh 6 Optometry - Journal of the American Optometric Association 79.10 (2008): 593. Web. Phillips, C. Femininity and Cancer: An Analysis of an International Patient Education Health: 13.1 (2009): Web. York, Maybelline New. New York Honors Women Who Empower Through Sept. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Muro, Mark, and Jonathan Rothwell. the Clean Brookings.edu, The Sept. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.