Running head: INCLUSIVE CLASSROOMS IN SCHOOLS ACROSS AMERICA 1 Why there should be Inclusive classrooms in Schools across America Erica Exalien University of South Florida Author Note Erica Exalien, Student at The University of South Florida Correspondence concerning this paper should be addressed to Erica Exalien, Student at The University of South Florida, 56014, Holly-Kosove Complex, Tampa, FL, 33620 Contact: ericaexalien@mail.usf.edu 2 INCLUSIVE CLASSROOMS IN SCHOOLS ACROSS AMERICA Abstract This paper discusses reasons why there should be inclusive classrooms in schools in America using four published, scholarly articles as resources. It discusses the relationship between students, students and parents, students and teachers, and even teachers and parents. There are several different techniques that are helpful in this transition into inclusive learning and education. This paper analyzes the research from Washington, Marino, Shanni and Hebel, and Straus. Each of the findings help contribute to the informative paper on why students with disabilities should not be limited to segregated classrooms to further their education. Keywords: Inclusive, disabilities, education 3 INCLUSIVE CLASSROOMS IN SCHOOLS ACROSS AMERICA Over the past few decades, the global understanding of mental and physical disabilities has furthered immensely. Even the language people use when speaking about people with disabilities has changed. For example, people first language is used instead of defining a person by their disability. Currently, many people understand that having a disability does not make one incapable. Realizing that students in school can learn the same information as students in regular class has prompted schools all over the United States in intertwine the students with disabilities with regular students in the classrooms because this is a crucial matter. This gives the students with disabilities a chance to gain the knowledge they should have the right to learn. This also serves as a fairness and equality statement. Including students with disabilities is something that should continue to spread across the classrooms in America. It gives students with (Individualized Learning Plan) of all sorts to grow as a student in the academic aspect as well as the social aspect which is extremely important as well. Inclusion does not just affect the students with disabilities either, it also helps the teachers to push for and to learn new and different ways of teaching. It also helps the regular students to be more open minded and knowledgeable about how to interact with students with disabilities. In the article, Attitudes toward the Inclusion of Disabled Students in the General Education Nicole Washington claims that administrators also have a responsibility to manage educational programs for all students; disabled and (p.3). This direct quote describes the main topic of the article, being that students with disabilities should be included, and this should be done in a positive environment, otherwise it will not succeed. The researcher, Washington, used an electronic questionnaire to conduct the study of finding the effects and attitudes of inclusion from those who would work that specific setting. Washington talks about how inclusion can bring success to 4 INCLUSIVE CLASSROOMS IN SCHOOLS ACROSS AMERICA various parts of the classroom for students with and without disabilities and teachers. The major part about this is the attitudes of administrators and how that can affect the success of the classes that practicing inclusion programs. If there is a positive and productive attitude and vibe from the instructor, then the outcome and of the material learned and understood by students will be greater with a higher success rate. Also, the social aspect Attitude Towards Inclusion of Disabled Students in the General Education Setting for both students with disabilities and students without will be better. This article touches and ties in with various statements and parts of my argument. One major key point that the article touches on is the interaction between students with and without disabilities. I know that students that have either mental or physical disabilities struggle heavily when it comes to making friends and just being in social situations in general. Being secluded limits their social skills dramatically. Most of the time, these students just want someone to talk to them. I am aware of this because when I was in high school, I was involved in a group called PIT Crew, Peer Inclusion Team Crew. This group consisted of general education students that visited the students with disabilities and worked with them. Never had I looked down on students with disabilities but I was unsure on how to interact with them. Little did I know; it would be just how I interact with my other classmates. My instructor would always push for students to become more integrated and because of that, by my senior year, I was going into regular classes assisting students with This alone shows that over time, people are becoming more open to the thought of inclusion. One way to help bring inclusion into classrooms would be to utilize technology. In the article, Defining a Technology Research Agenda for Elementary and Secondary Students with Learning and Other High Incidence Disabilities in Inclusive Science  Mathew T. Marino states that National Science Foundation (2002) has stressed the critical importance 5 INCLUSIVE CLASSROOMS IN SCHOOLS ACROSS AMERICA of providing efficacious educational opportunities for individuals with disabilities to improve their academic outcomes and reduce the marginalization and underrepresentation of this group in the science (p.1). Providing the correct technology for the students will help improve the success rate and abilities to learn in the classrooms. The article specifically talks about science and math topics and how technology will especially help in these areas. He also states that students with and without disabilities passed the science exams after using the technology to learn and understand the material. The research also talks about how many general education teachers are not yet prepared to teach inclusive classes so using the technology could help in the long run because it could assist teachers who are not yet trained to teach those classes to share information and knowledge to the students in those inclusive classes. Until they get proper training, of course. This information and utilization of technology has especially opened more doors in the realm of education throughout the years. In the article Educating Towards Inclusive Education: Assessing a Teacher Training Program for Working with Pupils with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND) Enrolled in General Education Skills, Michal Shani and Orly Hebel state that high sense of self-efficiency among teachers also influences dialogue and cooperating between school staff and parents in developing individual (p.3). This study was about assisting educators at learning how to teach a wide range of students including those with disabilities. The article has a lot of background information including information about the attitudes of the teachers, the many pros of inclusive education, and the training process itself. In the end, those educators who experienced special training felt better because they genuinely felt that they could help more students even more because they had better tools and knowledge and it was reflected in the abilities to learn and they could see it in the work that the students were producing. The 6 INCLUSIVE CLASSROOMS IN SCHOOLS ACROSS AMERICA push for training teachers shows that inclusion is looked upon as something that should be more mainstream. Inclusive classrooms go further than just the school setting. Families are important as well when it comes to this. Making sure that families of both general students and students with disabilities are informed on going on in the classroom and why those things are taking place. In the article, titled Families about Inclusive Education: A Month-by-Month Guide for teachers of Inclusive Miriam Straus states how members play important roles in promoting the success of inclusion The article talks about methods such as sending home newsletters, having open-houses where the instructors present the programs and what exactly is going on and how it is being conducted, and recruiting volunteers to give parents and families a more hands on approach. The article also suggests conducting conferences so that parents knows their progress as well has having small parties and things such as small plays, displaying work, and engaging in the community. Keeping the family educated and up to speed will ensure more support as well as push for more inclusion. This show that inclusion is pushed for. The thoughts of many have grown stronger, but there been a change in pace. Inclusion is the way to go. 7 INCLUSIVE CLASSROOMS IN SCHOOLS ACROSS AMERICA Conclusion Inclusion in schools throughout America can take our nation to greater lengths. We as a nation are already one big melting pot, but that does not just include race. It includes so much more. Doing better for our country starts with education because the students are the future of our country, therefore they should all be given the opportunity to learn and grow to the best of their abilities. Washington states that with positive attitudes when it comes to inclusion, this can be done. Also, making sure that teachers are well equipped and trained to teach those in those classrooms is also vital. Having supportive families is also important which is why keeping people informed on students with disabilities and educated on the education system is extremely important as well. Having inclusive education and classrooms does wonders for our education and it needs to be prioritized. 8 INCLUSIVE CLASSROOMS IN SCHOOLS ACROSS AMERICA References Washington, Nicole. School Attitudes toward the Inclusion of Disabled Students in the General Education  Pro Quest. Pro Quest Dissertations Publishing, 2010. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Michal Shani, and Orly Hebel. Educating towards Inclusive Education: Assessing a Teacher Training Program for Working with Pupils with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND) Enrolled in General Education  USF Libraries. International Journal of Special Education, 1 Oct. 2015. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Marino, Matthew T. Defining a Technology Research Agenda for Elementary and Secondary Students with Learning and Other High Incidence Disabilities in Inclusive Science  USF Libraries. Journal of Special Education Technology, 01 Jan. 2010. Web. 2 Feb. 2017 Stivers, J. L. (2007, November 30). Educating Families about Inclusive Education: A Month-by- Month Guide for Teachers of Inclusive Classes. Retrieved March 6, 2017,