Tabari 1 Mursalin Mahfuz Tabari Professor Sarah Roth ENC 1101 March 9, 2017 The Changing Discussion of Schizophrenia The afflictions of the human brain and mind are a matter that has greatly intrigued both physicians as well as the common man since we first began attempting to understand them in the 16 th century. One such affliction is schizophrenia. According to Pitrowski, schizophrenia is a disorder of the brain and mind characterized by thinking and odd perceptions that cause dysfunction in major activities, sometimes including withdrawal from the world, delusions, and (Pitrowski 159). Initially in the mid-eighteenth century, schizophrenia was known as and was thought to cause a health to deteriorate due to death of brain cells, eventually leading to the demise. It was Eugene Bleuler, an 18 th century Swiss psychiatrist, who first named the disease and proved through research and deduction that schizophrenia was vastly different from its previous notions. Since that time to today, the conversation regarding schizophrenia has changed greatly, from the use of family- focused therapy to new technologies and research methods such as MRI, fMRI, and antipsychotics. All these have enabled physicians to have a better understanding of how to treat the disorder. Schizophrenia can present itself in many forms. Over the years, physicians attempted to categorize the disorder into distinct subtypes based on the symptoms displayed. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) initially categorized schizophrenia into 5 distinct subtypes, known in order from DSM I to DSM V. However, the great variety and Tabari 2 overlap of symptoms in patients, as well as within cases made these classifications of little use. Eventually in 2013, the American Psychiatric Association (APA) all subtypes of the disorder from the fifth edition of its Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (Pitrowski 235). Given the diversity of symptoms and cases in patients with schizophrenia, various approaches to treatment, both physical and psychological, have been attempted. For instance, in 2006 Amy Weisman and her laboratory, based at the University of Miami pilot- tested the development and evaluation of a family-focused, culturally informed therapy for schizophrenia called CIT-S. This form of therapy integrated case studies of ethnically diverse patients along with aspects such as spirituality/religion, expressed emotion, family cohesion as well as an individual causal perceptions regarding an event in order to formulate an effective fifteen session treatment plan for every patient. Even though this unique therapy program was only in its beginning phase, it proved to be very effective as the vast majority of patients reported to be content and various improvements in areas such as neuro-cognition and social cognition were recorded. Technological advancements have also assisted physicians in understanding schizophrenia, thus opening up new possible treatment methods. According to Kurtz, the developments and improvements in MRI and fMRI has helped immensely as it allows for in- depth look at the human brain, making comparisons possible between brain volumes in patients versus healthy (Kurtz 203). This method of comparison allows researchers to monitor both brain activity as well as brain volume to see how socio-cognition and neuro-cognition are affected in patients. Using the data from these methods, it was found that schizophrenia affects dopamine, serotonin and oxytocin levels in the brain and thus various new medications such as Tabari 3 Ziprasidone and Olanzapine were created that assisted in controlling the levels of these substances in the brain. The results of these medications showed positive results, with patients exhibiting predominantly improved symptoms (Kurtz 240). Another aspect of schizophrenia that was investigated in 2010 was the effectiveness of early treatment in patients with first episode schizophrenia. Nielsen hypothesized that the focus on first-episode schizophrenia treatment would be associated with earlier diagnosis and that the earlier and more continuous treatment with antipsychotics would be associated with improved outcomes, reflected by lower readmission rates, and less patients being on early retirement (Nielsen 305). Subjects for the study were identified by having an ICD-10 F20 schizophrenia diagnosis in the Danish Central Psychiatric Research Registry. The results of the study proved their hypothesis to be correct as patients were diagnosed with schizophrenia earlier and number of bed days decreased significantly. There was also intensified outpatient treatment, increased use and dosing of antipsychotics and antidepressants. This study provided valuable insight into the effectiveness of early treatment and paved the way for various new treatment methods in the future. However, one of the limiting factors in the study was the fact that the National Danish Cohort study may not be geographically or demographically generalizable to other countries and regions. On a related matter that takes place in a more recent time, Pitrowski in 2017 discusses various works of research that attempted to explore the causes of schizophrenia. Due to its propensity to run in families, the disorder is thought to be partially genetic. As stated by Pitrowski, schizophrenia in roughly 1 percent of the general population, but it occurs in roughly 10 percent of individuals with a first-degree relative (parent, sibling) who has the (Pitrowski 413). This led researchers to attempt to locate the gene that causes schizophrenia. It was later announced that clues had been discovered which Tabari 4 to a specific gene with a possible role in causing (Pitrowski 415). The gene is known as dysbindin, and it is involved in the operation of the synapses, the points where one neuron wires itself to another. Further research is still in progress regarding the causes and treatment for the disease. In conclusion, the advancement of technology and research methods today have enabled physicians to have a stronger understanding of schizophrenia than ever before. Various approaches to treatment both psychological and biological have been attempted. From family- focused psychotherapy in 2006 to investigating brain volumes using MRI scans, physicians today continue to investigate the causes and treatment for schizophrenia. However, antipsychotic medication predominantly continues to be the most prescribed form of treatment for patients as they appear to be the most effective. Given the variety of cases in patients, further research and development in the fields related to schizophrenia shall lead to the formulation of effective treatments for every individual patient in order to allow them to lead a significantly improved life. (Word Count: 1017) Tabari 5 Works Cited Piotrowski, Nancy A., Ph.D., Tischauser, Leslie V., Ph.D., Medical Guide (Online Edition). Schizophrenia. January 2017. Web. Accessed March 10, 2017. Kurtz, Matthew M. and Its Treatment: Where Is the Oxford Scholarship Online, 2015. Web. Accessed March 10, 2017. Nielsen J, le Quach P, Emborg C, Foldager L, Correll CU. 10-Year trends in the treatment and outcomes of patients with first-episode 2010. Web. Accessed March 10. 2017. Weisman, Amy, et al. The Development of a Culturally Informed, Family-Focused Treatment for  June 2006. Web. Accessed March 10, 2017.