Hoggins 1 Ronnie Hoggins Professor TJ Roberts ENC 1130 March 19, 2017 Cover Letter Image 1 depicts these beliefs through the use of ethos, pathos, and logos. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal to ethics and credibility. This image presents the ethical appeal through the text. It states that there is a to energy reminding the viewer of the image that energy drinks are not healthy. Additionally, this image is credible because it comes from the American Medical Association website, and lists specific doctors names in the image. By having such a credible source and because a study done by doctors, the viewer is more likely to take the message seriously. Pathos is the appeal to emotion. This appeal is used to trigger a feeling in the viewer that will help convince them to support a specific argument. In this image, the person conveys a confused facial expression. The mans facial expression makes the reader second guess their views on energy drinks, leading them to question whether or not they are healthy. In this image, the facial expression is the form of pathos, which raises doubt from the viewer. Logos is the rhetorical appeal to logic and reason. The image uses this device through the written text. The text tells exactly the negative effects of energy drinks, making the reader feel that the healthiest option would be to stop drinking them. Red Bull presents a counter argument to the views of doctors in the American Medical Association. Red main purpose is to satisfy needs for superior quality and great tasting, healthy, natural and functional beverages, while also giving Hoggins 2 them the boost they need throughout their day. Image 2 upholds this belief by presenting an image that advertises for energy drinks, while implementing ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to uphold their argument. In this image, ethos is seen in the form of the logo, which is located in the middle of the can of the image. This logo reminds the view of the energy drink company that the picture is advertising for, and also reminds that it comes from a credible source. The image also uses the rhetorical appeal pathos, by picturing a tiger as a symbol of power and energy. This strategy makes the audience feel the energy drink will give them power. If an athlete were to see this, think that drinking the Red Bull would improve their athletic ability. Logos, or the appeal to logic, is used in this image through the obvious statement that by drinking the energy drink, the athlete will have the strength to be able to fly. Additionally, the blue and silver colors let the viewer of the image forget the brands name. Finally, kairos, the appeal to timeliness is used to strengthen this images argument that it is trying to convey to its viewers. The text makes the audience feels a sense of urgency to drink a Red Bull energy drink to improve performance. Energy Drinks In Sports The new trend among athletes is the consumption of energy drinks. Athletes, who train for long hours of the day, search for a source of energy that will allow them to keep going. As a supplement to coffee, energy drink contain caffeine that is used to give the athlete an boost that enables them to perform at their best for longer. However, recent studies performed by doctors have shown that energy drinks, especially combined with strenuous physical activity, have negative effects on health. Increasing evidence has been found that athletes who drink energy drinks suffer from various health problems that Hoggins 3 impact their training and performance. Because of this, American Medical Association warns against the consumption of energy drinks while an athlete is performing. Image 1 upholds the argument of the doctors and the American Medical Association stating that energy drinks are harmful. Image 2 represents Red Bull as a stakeholder, and presents a counter argument, showing that energy drinks can make you stronger. Both images use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, to convince the viewer of their respective arguments. Being an athlete myself I support the doctors claim that energy drinks are harmful. By myself being an athlete, if someone told me something was harmful for me to drink my question to them would be, is in the majority of athletes realize how harmful these drinks are to their body and though they make you feel good at the moment they really helping you. For example, in high school this track athlete though that it was a god idea to drink a five our energy before she competed. By the time she ha started to warms up she had said that she did not feel like herself and that her heart had felt like it was going to burst out of her chest. She did not want to get in trouble so she kept it to herself and ran her event, which was the 1600meter dash. Not even halfway through the race she had fainted on the track and they shut down the race. Most energy drinks also contain large quantities of sugar and other substances such as taurine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, nicotinamide, B vitamins, and various stimulating herbal deriva- tives (Sandra D. Reid, 104). The more studies that are being conducted, the more that these energy drink companies are being exposed of what is in their products and how harmful they are to the human body, especially at a young age. In image one, you can see that the image has a circle around it with a slash going through it meaning that it is not Hoggins 4 good for you. Also, in the image you can see that it has hazard signs and chemical bottles on it showing the view that this is harmful to the body by what in cooperated inside of it. Energy drinks contain massive and excessive amounts of caffeine that may lead to a host of health problems in young people, banning companies from marketing these products to adolescents is a common sense action that we can take to protect the health of American kids. (Dr. Alexander Ding). The things that energy drink companies are putting into their product are very harmful to athletes but by the NCAA banning them it will make for a safer sports world. The American Medical Association believes that energy drinks are harmful to the youth and that these drinks are harmful due to the fact of what they contain inside of them. (Sandra D. Reid). Hoggins 5 When it comes to energy drink and you had to say one off the top of your head the first one you would say would be Red Bull. Why? The reason being that they have invented the most catchy slogan in the energy drink industry that keep consumers coming back for more. When you say Bull gives you believe it or not it actually makes you want to go and buy a drink, consume it and see if you can really fly. Every TV commercial you see it will have some sort of red bull commercial because this drink actually gives you the bust you need and it taste good. For example, on game day the coach locker is always filled with Red Bull. Why? Simply due to the fact that they need a source of energy, a boost for they game after them having to work long nights during the week. Made me think of why the players locker room waste filled with Red Bull in stead of PowerAde because we need a boost of energy to especially since we are the ones playing in the game and they the ones coaching. In image two the viewer can see how the energy drink gives you the bost you need by if drinking it will make the consumer grow wings. Also, the colors and the design of the can is unique from the two bulls running into each other head to head to the colors of gray and blue giving of protection and safety of the drink. Bull GmbH are dedicated to upholding Red Bull standards, while maintaining the leadership position in the energy drinks category when delivering superior customer service in a highly efficient and profitable manner. ( Dietrich Mateschitz). Hoggins 6 To conclude, increasing evidence has been found that athletes who drink energy drinks suffer from various health problems that impact their training and performance. Both images use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, to convince the viewer of their respective arguments. Both stakeholders have their different viewpoints on how they believe the consumer should view energy drinks and the things the product does to the body. The American Medical Association believes that energy drinks are harmful to youth, and especially to athletes, because of their ingredients. While on the other hand, Red Bull presents a counter argument to the views of doctors in the American Medical Association. Hoggins 7 Works Cited Academy, U.S. Sports. Energy  The Sport Journal. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Impact of an Energy Drink on the Structure of Stomach and Pancreas of Albino Rat: Can Omega-3 Provide a  Impact of an Energy Drink on the Structure of Stomach and Pancreas of Albino Rat: Can Omega-3 Provide a Protection? N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Arria, Amelia M., and Mary Claire The Risk of Energy  JAMA : the journal of the American Medical Association. U.S. National Library of Medicine, 25 Jan. 2011. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Red Bull  Who makes Red Bull? Red Bull Company - Origin & founder :: Energy Drink :: Red Bull USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Reid, Sandra D., Jonathan Ramsarran, Rachel Brathwaite, Sarika Lyman, Ariane Baker, C. Cornish, Stefan Ganga, Zahrid Mohammed, Avinash T. Sookdeo, and Cathrine K. Thapelo. Energy drink usage among university students in a Caribbean country: Patterns of use and adverse  Journal of Epidemiology and Global Health 5.2 (2015): 103-16. Web.