RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 1 Project 2 final Draft Lowell Fahs University of South Florida Instructor Carr RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 2 Abstract: This paper is intended to inform the reader about the birth and death of the most powerful conventional (Artillery based) warships ever devised. The modern Battleship was only in service and effective for essentially 30 years spanning from 1905 with the early dreadnoughts to the start of WW2. While historians may debate the actual span of time that the Battleship was effective, it is clear that by the outset of WW2 the Battleship was out of touch with the technological progress of the day and could not adapt to advancements in submarine warfare and carrier aviation. The paper will go into what made these vessels so special as well as highlight the reasons that the Battleship disappeared from the seas. Historians like Mitsuro Yushida, Samuel Loring Morison, and others have written extensively on this topic. Also looked at will be the evolution of fleet organizations as a means to illustrate the changes in the Battleships role. These sources lend a good glimpse into the evolution of perceptions on this topic and provide insights into the developments and changes in perceptions as to why these vessels ceased to exist. RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 3 Battleships are some of the most fascinating and awe inspiring vessels to have ever sailed the seas. From the time they first appeared in 1906 to the inevitable end in 1992 these vessels served in every major conflict in the 20th century and helped shape the early geo-political atmosphere of the world. The Battleship was so important to naval doctrine and theory that they spawned their own naval religion that sprang up around the which essentially maintained that these heavy hitting behemoths would dominate the organization and deployment procedures of the navies. While the battleship was at the forefront of technology it was however a technological idea that was stretched to its limit and many historians argue that unadaptable to new technologies because of how specialized these warships were. As the decades went on many historians and military strategists concluded that the battleship was obsolete after WW2 while others argue that they still had their uses beyond the world wars. Overall while they may have remained marginally effective post WW2 the general consensus is that the lessons learned between the world wars and especially during WW2 proved airpower had severely diminished the importance of the battleship which was a blow that it could never fully recover from. To fully understand the factors involved in the diminishing of the battleships prominence one must look no further than the growing importance of carrier base air power. In his article: With Gallantry and determination: The Story of the Torpedoing of the Bismarck, Horan states that The squadron was ill-prepared for its assignment, several of the pilots having only made their first carrier landing on the 19th, and they had not made even a single squadron attack in  while this may seem like a snip of information it is important to understand that the Bismark was the forefront of battleship technology and was regarded as the most powerful RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 4 floating object ever created. Horans primary point is that despite the power of the Bismark, the lack of training the crews of the Ark Royal and Victory had when they engaged the battleship was negated by the power of carrier based aircraft and as a result the Bismark was mortally wounded by the torpedo strikes and subsequently swept from the seas by conventional means (Horan, 2013). While the singular event of the Bismark may not be enough to prove airpower as the new religion, the British destruction of the Italian Fleet at Taranto harbor was definitely enough to prove the viability and potency of carrier borne aircraft so much so that in his memoirs, Vice Admiral Yamamoto highlights Taranto as the inspiration for the attack on Pearl Harbor (Horan, 2013). The Axis powers were not the only ones to feel the cold knife of airpower and technological progress pressed to their necks. The British and American fleets were definitely subjected to frighteningly similar humiliations notably the sinking of the HMS Prince of Wales and the Japanese attack on Pearl harbor. In his book The Reluctant Admiral: Yamamoto and the Imperial Navy, Hiroyuki Agawa essentially claims that while the battleship was important in terms of its sheer firepower, its effectiveness and overall power was far outstripped by that of carrier aircraft . As a result of his analysis which primarily centered around Admiral Yamamoto and the attack on Pearl Harbor he also echos belief that the age of the Battleship was essentially over by the start of WW2 (Agawa, 2000). This would be in line with what Horan was pushing in his article. Furthermore Yamamoto highlights the failure to take care of the U.S. carrier forces was one of the gravest errors that he had ever committed while in command (Agawa, 2000). This highlights the changing perception of what really made a fleet effective and that was the aircraft carrier. RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 5 These assertions are further backed up when one examines the fate of the most powerful Battleships to ever sail. In his book Requiem for the battleship Yamato, Mitsuro Yoshida claims Yamato, while the most powerful ship ever built, fell victim to the greatest foe of the battleship. Bombers and torpedo planes struck the ship again and again until despite her might Yamato succumbed to the onslaught and was claimed by the sea. The most important thing to be drawn here is agreement with almost all scholars on the idea that the sphere of Naval aviation caused not only the demise of the Yamato, but also her that of her identical sister ship Musashi along with a large percentage of the IGNs Naval forces. It is telling that even the most powerful of the breed were not able to withstand the forces of technological advancement (Yoshida, 1985). Yushida follows the common ideas that are already present, most notably hat by WWII the battleship was essentially obsolete in the face of advancements in Naval aviation as well as improvements in submarine warfare. While battleships saw limited deployment after the war, in the book: The American Battleship Samuel Loring Morison, makes the assertion that the advancements made in aviation, rocketry, and submarine warfare caused the battleship to be more of a token reminder of times gone by than an effective military asset. With the rate of global technological advancement vessels like the battleship were not capable of being adapted adequately to counter the new dynamics of warfare (Morison, 2003). These historians concur that the battleships demise was directly attributable to its inability to be adapted as well as its poor performance in the face of airpower. All cite the attack on pearl Harbor in 1941 as a major indicator of the weakness of battleships when faced with a coordinated surprise carrier attack and reaffirmed the change in fleet organization. All of which follows the conventional understanding of why the battleship was replaced by vessels that RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 6 were much smaller and more lightly armored but equipped with new technologies that changed the doctrines of naval warfare and rendered the battleship obsolete. Overall, the consensus of the histories is that the battleship fell victim to its own slow ability to adapt, this is especially apparent because no country could produce a battleship that was impervious to air attacks.. That, coupled with the dramatic increase in the pace of technological advancement around the world played a large role in the battleships demise. While there is not much new information, given that most events and data surrounding the demise of the Battleship happened a long time ago and are extremely well documented and have been extensively analyzed. This therefore allows for an incredibly clear and concise picture of what cause the battleship to lose its reign of the seas. Sources: Morison, S. L., & Polmar, N. (2003). The American battleship. St. Paul, MN: MBI. Farley, R. M. (2015). The battleship book. Rockville, MD: The Wildside Press. Yoshida, M., & Minear, R. H. (1985). Requiem for Battleship Yamato. Seattle: University of Washington Press. Ireland, B. (1996). battleships of the 20th century. New York: HarperCollins. Agawa, H. (2000). The reluctant admiral: Yamamoto and the Imperial Navy. Tokyo: Kodansha International.