Child Sexual Abuse 1 Child Sexual Abuse Anoosh Mohsin University of South Florida Nancy Carr Child Sexual Abuse 2 Abstract Child Sexual Abuse is a reality around the world. This heinous reality leaves a child hollow and shaken. The child may never be able to recover from his/her such encounter and keeps paying for it till his/her adult years. As this sin takes place around the world different countries deal with this issue differently. There is a huge difference in the way Child Sexual Abuse is considered or perceived in developed countries and in underdeveloped countries. Child Sexual Abuse 3 Children all over the world are celebrated for their innocence, but little thought is given to what happens when that innocence is mutilated. With time after time man has proved his capability of the monsters he can unleash on society. Children in our world are more vulnerable to sexual violence than adults, as they are weak and can easily be threatened to settle back in shadows of silence. In this essay I plan to begin with explaining the huge impact of the sexual abuse on children and their family. My main focus will be the difference among the developed countries and underdeveloped countries when it comes to dealing with children that are sexually abused. Though the issue of child sexual abuse remain the same around the world but different countries deal with it differently. The main difference persist due to the culture. In some cultures this sensitive issue is suppressed due to the family honor, this gives rise to my question; Does culture in underdeveloped countries let sex offender get away with their crime ? There is a large cloud of ignorance and disbelief when it comes to the figures of child sexual abuse. The abuse unfortunately takes place in all countries and communities no matter the family or position in society child sexual abuse is still a possibility. According to UNICEF (United Nations International Emergency) it is near impossible to know the true magnitude of child sexual abuse due to low reporting and poor documentation in many regions. Child Sexual Abuse 4 The severity and impact of sexual abuse on children can range but always shows some sort of long term damage to the child. are predisposed to numerous psychiatric and somatic disorders. This population is known to have increased vulnerability to stress and the subsequent health-deteriorating consequences of lifelong 2010, p.62) The sexual abuse of the child affects the child and even the non-offending parents as they become depressed and less proactive. After knowing that their child was violated and abused, some blame themselves for allowing such to happen which torments their psyche even though they were not aware of such violations. half of the mothers and one-third of the fathers reported suffering from psychological distress. Regarding PTSD related to CSA disclosure, 32% of the mothers met the criteria when evaluated by trained clinicians with the SCID, compared with only 13.1% based on self-report. For the fathers, the rates were comparable based on diagnostic interview and self-report (7.1% and 7.3%, respectively). The prevalence of self-reported PTSD related to past trauma was lower for both genders (5.3% for mothers and 4% for fathers). Regarding major depressive disorder, 40.8% of the mothers and 14% of the fathers exhibited symptoms based on the diagnostic (Cyr et al, 2016, p.771). The parents also show physical decline after knowledge of the sexual abuse done on their child. This shows that sexual abuse on a child can affect everyone surrounding the child. So it is important for everyone to recognize the painful affects of sexual abuse on the child and the family of the child. In many countries the way the society recognizes and deals with sexual abuse on children let alone report it is much different for every country. In more developed countries Child Sexual Abuse 5 you can see more reports and documentation of child sexual abuse but that necessarily mean that child sexual abuse is low in undeveloped countries. It is due to the lack of administrative infrastructure and documentation to report sexual abuse. Which leads to larger physical and psychological damage to the child and the family in these undeveloped countries. In developed countries it can still be difficult for one to report child sexual abuse but there are still many pathways to report such horrendous acts. About 200,000 cases including child sexual abuse were reported in 2015 according to the National Alliance and that is just within the United States. The penalty can range from high fines, imprisonment, and registration as a sexual offender. The registration of such violators helps neighborhoods, schools, and communities to keep such violators from committing such a crime again. In most developed countries this is the case for those who sexually abuse children. The sexually abused children are also perceived as survivors and victims of a terrible crime in these developed countries. Which can help give the victim confidence to speak up about the crime The crime of child sexual abuse is handled and perceived much differently in undeveloped countries. The government may have laws to punish those who commit such crimes, but the path to persecute a sexual offender can be very difficult and discouraging for one to go through reporting. As in many societies in undeveloped countries see those who are sexually attacked as impure or defective, which can put even more pressure and damage on the victim. It is even possible for those to try to report such crime but given no justice and only looked down upon in their society as it is seen as taboo. Many of those who avoid reporting is because violence as they are met with cruel threats. Child Sexual Abuse 6 you tell anyone I will kill you/ kill your according to WHO the World Health Organisation. Which can lead to lower reporting and prosecution of offenders rates for both girls (113/1000) and boys (41/1000) were found in Asia, and highest rates were found for girls in Australia (Stoltenborgh et al, 2011, p.12). The article is referencing the rate of child sexual abuse per 1000. This large representation of under reporting shows the damning facts of child sexual abuse in undeveloped countries. There are plenty of reasons that contribute to the cases of child sexual abuse going unreported. Especially in undeveloped countries, as the strong presence of culture, social stigmas, politics, and taboos often interfere and hide the light from such a topic. In many cultures in undeveloped countries there is a strong tie with the community and the religious leader or elder of the community so when such elders or leaders commit such crimes on children. It may seem as a better option to not tell anyone in the community as it would be questioning the leadership and role of such community leaders as a victim. As they would become outsiders from their community if not worse. psychological research on deviance has shown that group members are especially keen to derogate and reject norm-breakers within their ranks. One might expect from this research that Catholic participants would be more motivated than anybody to derogate and exclude church members who face serious and credible allegations of child sexual abuse. But across two studies we found the opposite tendency: Catholic participants were more likely than non-Catholic participants to cast doubt on the credibility of the accusations, and to defend the credibility of the Hornsey, Gillespie, Healy, & Jetten, 2016, p.12). Child Sexual Abuse 7 There is also strong social stigmas surrounding the subject of child sexual abuse, that if the child is sexually abused. As the victim is then seen as impure and unfit for marriage or undesirable. This is a common problem in smaller societies such as villages and small towns. The subject can also lead to elders preferring the more children in social events causing more damage to the victim socially and causing them to be more alone. Another large issue is that these areas can be very conservative with their conservations and even speaking of the subject is very taboo and not wanted. In these undeveloped countries there are several ways to improve the situation for these abused children and to prevent such occurrences from taking place . First education is the best way to inform the children about abuse and how to report it instead of hiding it. awareness of children on sexual abuse and the way to protect themselves is an important measure to prevent child sexual abuse. Since the late 1970s, developed countries began conducting research on the impact of educating children about personal safety in general and sexual abuse prevention in particular. These studies found that children can grasp the basic knowledge and skills related to prevent CSA after proper training and that young children, even the age of 3 years, can understand what are how to distinguish appropriate contact versus inappropriate contact, and soon. In China, several studies have also confirmed that appropriate educational intervention can raise awareness on sexual abuse and skills to better protect Chen, & Yu, 2016, p.686-696). Also teaching the children how to say no to adults and what is the appropriate behavior of elders is important. Another step is to spread awareness that sexual abuse happens and that a step to stopping it is to talk about it. Then letting them know on how to report it or who to tell it to is Child Sexual Abuse 8 important to make sure they are heard. With such steps those abused or about to become victimized can prevent it and report it, that way the offender can be stopped from doing such acts in the future. Overall it can be as simple as talking about sexual abuse that can change the way these undeveloped countries handle child sexual abuse. Overall child sexual abuse is seen worldwide but seems grossly wide spread in undeveloped countries where the crime itself is not reported, due to threats and lack of administrative infrastructure to help those report it. Allowing such offenders to continue their crimes and keeping the victims in the dark. It is the role of the societies in these communities to speak up and stop this continuing injustice on children as it is the only way they can lower the occurrence of child sexual abuse. Child Sexual Abuse 9 Jin,Y,Chen,J,Yu,B.(2016).KnowledgeandSkillsofSexualAbusePrevention:AStudyonSchool-Age 16.1199079 Stoltenborgh, M., van IJzendoorn, M. v., Euser, E. M., & Bakermans-Kranenburg, M. J. (2011). A Global Perspective on Child Sexual Abuse: Meta-Analysis of Prevalence Around the World. Child Maltreatment, 16(2), 79-101. doi:10.1177/1077559511403920 Wilson, D. R. (2010). Health consequences of childhood sexual abuse. Perspectives In Psychiatric Care, 46(1), 56-63. doi:10.1111/j.1744-6163.2009.00238.x Maikovich, A. K., Koenen, K. C., & Jaffee, S. R. (2009). Posttraumatic Stress Symptoms and Trajectories in Child Sexual Abuse Victims: An Analysis of Sex Differences Using the National Survey of Child and Adolescent Well-Being. Journal Of Abnormal Child Psychology, 37(5), 727-737. doi:10.1007/s10802-009-9300-x Cyr, M., Frappier, J., M., Tourigny, M., McDuff, P., & Turcotte, M. (2016). Psychological and Physical Health of Non Offending Parents After Disclosure of Sexual Abuse of Their Child. Journal Of Child Sexual Abuse, 25(7), 757-776. doi:10.1080/10538712.2016.1228726 Minto, K., Hornsey, M. J., Gillespie, N., Healy, K., & Jetten, J. (2016). A Social Identity Approach to Understanding Responses to Child Sexual Abuse Allegations. Plos ONE, 11(4), 1-15. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0153205 Child Sexual Abuse 10 B. k., & Berger, A. (2017). Gendered pathways from child sexual abuse to sexual aggression victimization and perpetration in adolescence and young adulthood. Child Abuse & Neglect, 63261-272.