Sruthi Nagabandi 2/26/17 Bill Drugan ENC1102.017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Many institutions such as puppy mills, animal testing, and slaughterhouses are often petitioned against by animal rights activists. PETA is an organization of animal rights activists which advocate for the ethical treatment of animals. The goals of this organization are mainly to help people understand their claim that animals have rights. Furthermore, PETA strives to petition against corporations who violate animal rights such as circuses, animal testing labs, and slaughterhouses. Many big business and corporations violate animal rights. PETA strives to show how simple concepts such as eating meat or larger aspects of business such as puppy mills all equally negatively affect animals. motto is Animals are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other way Their message is centering how animals have their own rights and humans are not able to treat them in the ways that they do. images use rhetorical appeals to convince viewers to stray away from puppy mills or eating meat. The images shown are an example of how PETA incorporates ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to convince people to stray away from harming animals. PETA has many platforms which it chooses to speak on including climate change. Climate change is an environmental concern but it affects humans and animals equally. PETA strives to connect eating meat with the issue of global warming and uses images with celebrities to do so. The image of Maggie Q wants to convey the importance of climate change and global warming. PETA utilizes a public figure to establish ethos or credibility which may convince a larger scope of audience. Not only is there text within the image discussing the consequences of eating meat, the image shows the bigger impact of non- Sruthi Nagabandi 2/26/17 Bill Drugan ENC1102.017 vegetarianism. The stakeholder also utilizes ethos by including a logo of PETA in the corner. This logo makes the image more valid and recognized by a company. The goal of this image is to educate and spread awareness, but also convince people to try a vegetarian diet. The use of integrating the planet onto Maggie body shows how humans are one with the Earth. The image uses pathos by combining the earth with a human body to convey an emotional connection between the planet and the audience. Furthermore, colors such as a blue and green are connoted with peace or calmness. This promotes an idea that vegetarianism will lead to a peaceful Earth. The contrasting black background allows the color of Maggie Q to stand out further. Pathos is also established because the actress is passionate about global warming, and this can be conveyed to the audience. The image uses logos by relating eating meat to an increase in climate temperature. This picture may cause individuals to believe that a switch to vegetarianism will decrease global warming. Because climate change is a current issue that requires immediate help, PETA also uses kairos to establish their point. The text in the corner explains the implications of eating meat and how climate change is a pressing issue. This image uses text to explain how action needs to be taken soon in order to help the problem of global warming. Additionally, the stakeholder PETA also advocates against puppy mills. PETA utilizes logos to convince individuals to stray away from puppy mills. PETA places words such as in the text to exaggerate the situation. The extreme consequence of buying from puppy mills is the death of dogs in animal shelters. This may not be an immediate effect but PETA strives to use logos to convey their message. The logic that if puppy mills do well in business, animal shelters will not is used. PETA conveys how if puppy mills sell well, dogs Sruthi Nagabandi 2/26/17 Bill Drugan ENC1102.017 in shelters will not be adopted. This simple logic may decrease the amount of dogs in shelters. PETA uses ethos by placing its logo in the corner. Credibility or a connection to a reputable organizations helps make the claims more valid. PETA also uses pathos by placing a sad dog under the gun. This extreme claim with a gun is used to connect to viewers on an emotional level. PETA strives to make this image relatable by using a sad pet dog. The stakeholder hopes viewers will feel sorry for dogs in animal shelters and stop buying from puppy mills. The text in this image is written in black and red. Red is a warning color which often connotes danger or death. The contrast of the words against the white border allows the words to stand out more. PETA also utilizes Kairos by implementing a gun which implies that there is little time to save animal shelter dogs. The gun creates a sudden sense of urgency in the viewers. The image uses pathos by placing a sad dog to connect emotionally to viewers. PETA uses a commonly owned small dog to relate to a larger audience. Viewers may feel sorry for dogs in animal shelters and boycott breeders. The goals of PETA may be achieved through rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos and Kairos. In a world of many corporations and big businesses, it is important for advertisements to use proper techniques to convey their message. PETA resorts to pathos by using a sad dog or certain colors to create emotionally connections to viewers. Logos is used by incorporating logic and how eating meat will have direct consequences on global warming. Warning colors are used to create a sense of urgency in the audience. Ethos or credibility is established by implementing logos of the stakeholder in the images. All in all, Sruthi Nagabandi 2/26/17 Bill Drugan ENC1102.017 PETA strives to make a difference in the world convincing individuals to respect animal rights. The methods of persuasion can be understood when analyzing the images. Sruthi Nagabandi 2/26/17 Bill Drugan ENC1102.017 Works Cited PETA. N.p..,n.d. Web. 08 Mar. 2017. Clines, Francis. Satanists, Vegans And Atheists Seek Equal Opportunity In Little . Taking Note. N.p., 2017. Web. 8 Mar. 2017. Revkin, Andrew. After Death, Rethinking . Dot Earth Blog. N.p., 2017. Web. 8 Mar. 2017. The Deadly Consequences Of . PETA. N.p., 2017. Web. 8 Mar. 2017. Times, The. In Yulin, Dog Lovers Vs. Dog . NYTimes.com - Video. N.p., 2017. Web. 8 Mar. 2017.