Friederich, School Board Slaves 1 Amanda Friederich ENG 1102 Prof. Drugan February 26, 2017 School Board Slaves not surprising to say that every school board is very important and has a lot of say in the decision making that goes into how a school is to be run. You could compare the school board to the President of the United States; obviously there are checks and balances in place, but what they say goes. I have chosen two pieces of visual rhetoric that explain what an overpowering force any school board can be. The authors of both pieces of visual rhetoric use an overwhelming amount of ethos and pathos to illustrate how the school board dictates parents, as well as students, when it comes to mandatory volunteerism. The first piece of visual rhetoric that I have chosen comes from (enter source here). It illustrates two parents and their child at their home mail box, getting a letter that then makes the parents claim, a subpoena from the The parents look shocked and confused that the PTA is summoning them to complete service hours for their child. The author is using a heavy amount of pathos in terms of appealing to the emotional side of how the parents feel. By using the term, it carries with it a negative connotation and makes the school board seem superior and all-ruling. Ethos is also used as it appeals to the ethical question of if a school board should be allowed to dictate a involvement in the schooling, specifically when it comes to completing mandatory service hour requirements that are technically volunteer options. Friederich, School Board Slaves 2 The second piece of visual rhetoric that I have analyzed is even more compelling as it deals with a much hotter topic slavery. The photo shows three men all chained down, doing manual labor on a boat. They are obviously imprisoned and aware that they are slaves. The one man says to the others, a volunteer. These are my resume-building (enter source here) The school board has differed depending which school district in, however almost all universally the same in the fact that they think community service for students is important and crucial to building their resume. Depending on the district and state, this is where mandatory volunteerism comes into play, some state school boards even go as far to require these hours in order to graduate. the real issue though, how can they be if these hours are (The author) uses an overwhelming amount of both pathos and ethos to get his/her point across. The ethos is the most evident in this example of visual rhetoric because it obviously compares the school board to treating its students and parents to its slaves; forcing work upon them that they say is their own It also pulls from some pathos as the author wants to appeal to the emotions and make them feel sorry for these poor mandatory volunteerism victims that fell into the grasp of the school board. Just to be clear, not all school boards are on board with the mandatory volunteerism that other states and school boards have set it place. really a case-by-case situation that has both its ups and downs. For example, the school board in Alaska has no required community service restrictions on its students whatsoever. Unlike Washington D.C., however, that states, are required to complete 100 hours of volunteer community service to graduate. The specific community service projects are established by the local education agency. (D.C. Mun. Regs. tit. 5-E (50-State Comparison, 2014). Friederich, School Board Slaves 3 Although many school boards are different, when it comes to those that require mandatory volunteerism, there is obviously some backlash that results. The authors of these two forms of visual rhetoric both use ethos and pathos to get their points across that the school board has far too much power over students and parents in regards to community service. The appeals to emotions and ethics are powerful and seem to persuade the audience against the motives of the school board. Friederich, School Board Slaves 4 Works Cited 50-State Comparison. (2014, January). Retrieved from The Education Commission of the States: http://ecs.force.com/mbdata/mbquest3RTE?Rep=SL1301 *I will also be adding the two authors and sources of my two forms of visual rhetoric once I retrieve the exact files off of google images.