Zamorano 1 Student Jenifer Paquette English composition 1 March 5, 2017 The Arts in School The argument of whether or not art programs should stay in the school system and receive the amount of funding that it does has been a constant fight. There are constant debates on whether or not the arts affect lives and if it is even worth all the funding it takes to have an adequate arts program. What has change are view points on the issue. At the very beginning, almost everyone was onboard with the idea of keeping the arts in schools because of their positive effect on the students. But , more recently , people are now starting to think that , sure, the arts do need funding , but there are other programs in schools that help students just as much , if not more, that seriously need the funding as well. We are starting to shift our focus for the arts as a society. In 2003 , a study was released on a Canadian elementary art program and how it affects the students in an article entitled The Good, the Bad, and the Partnerships in Canadian Elementary . The study indicated that the arts were impacting the lives for the better and went on and on about how we must preserve the arts programs in schools. Compared to the previous article from 2013 , it is easy to see how the argument has changed in regards to the arts in schools. The following article basically states that there are other things Zamorano 2 more important in the lives besides the arts , and the article following that is tells us the arts are something we cannot live without as a society. In 2010, the No Child Left Behind Act was written. This act brought back the Elementary and Secondary Education Act which helps those students who are at a disadvantage compared to the rest and authorized several federal funding programs one of which sent funding to the arts. This act helped bring back the arts to disadvantaged areas , but it also came with some disadvantages. Now that it was mandatory for students to take fine art credits , scheduling became an issue. There are only so many hours in a school day , so to have to figure out how to fit another class into the schedules became an issue. The actual discussion of these issues did not happen till 2013 when the article Education Advocacy: The Relative Effects of School-Level Influences on Resources for Arts was written . It investigated the pros and cons of the No Child Left Behind Act ( which at the time everyone thought it was a great idea) . This helped fuel the fire for those who believed it was not a necessity to keep the arts in schools. In the 2010 article in the UAE: Teacher Profiles, Perceptions, and studies were discussed that discovered that there is key parties involved with shaping a mindset, and one of those parties is art. This article argued that children that participate in the arts at a young age, tend to do better than those children who do not. While the Canadians are fighting on the pro arts programs side , the Australians seem to think differently. In the 2011 article Ode to Joy or the Sounds of Silence? An Exploration of Arts Education Policy in Australian Primary , it was discussed that the arts not seem to affect the students in any way. The Australian public school system made so many policies Zamorano 3 that practically eliminated the arts programs in schools , and instead of having the expected negative affect on the students , they are indifferent. The students had not changed in anyway and they carried on like normal. This article could be used to argue the fact that the arts are actually not doing anything for our students and that the funding should go towards other programs. In conclusion, it is amazing to see how much of a difference few years can make when it comes to how individuals see issues. It started out as everyone believing the arts were the future for children and now it is as if no one would care if the arts were to leave the school system. Works Cited Classrooms in the UAE: Teacher Profiles, Perceptions, and  Journal of Research in Childhood Education 24.4 (2010): 332-50. Web. Russell-Bowie, Deirdre. An Ode to Joy or the Sounds of Silence? An Exploration of Arts Education Policy in Australian Primary  Arts Education Policy Review 112.4 (2011): 163-73. Web. Hanley, Betty. The Good, the Bad, and the Partnerships in Canadian Elementary  Arts Education Policy Review 104.6 (2003): 11-20. Web. Miksza, Peter. Arts Education Advocacy: The Relative Effects of School-Level Influences on Resources for Arts  Arts Education Policy Review 114.1 (2013): 25-32. Web.