Running head: CHRONIC TRAUMATIC ENCEPHALOPATHY AND SAFETY PROMOTION IN AMERICAN FOOTBALL 1 Chronic traumatic encephalopathy and its Influence on Safety Promotion in American Football Derrick Johnson Jr. Professor Carr CHRONIC TRAUMATIC ENCEPHALOPATHY AND SAFETY PROMOTION IN AMERICAN FOOTBALL 2 Abstract This paper details the influence of a brain injury called Chronic traumatic encephalopathy, that has recently been provided more information and evidence from research of football players, as well as professional athletes in other contact sports such as hockey, and wrestling. To address how the approach of scientists, athletes, and business owners has changed in regards player safety in their respective sports over time, we will be looking into four published articles and case studies on Chronic traumatic encephalopathy. Omalu et al (2008) do a case study on a former professional football player and analyze his brain after he died. Austin Murphy (2016) did a piece for Sports Illustrated that provided public perspective on the newest findings for CTE over the last few years and provides information on head and neck injuries throughout all levels of football that have drawn lawsuits. Jeff Wheelwright (2016) describes the reaction of the NFL and its fan base to the initial findings of CTE, and its link to football that shows what led to the changes for increased safety in football. We also get a look into the challenges that researchers face as they try to diagnose CTE because of how closely its symptoms resemble Dementia and with Hanlon et (2016) article that explains the path to finding a solid neuropsychiatric profile for Chronic traumatic encephalopathy. These articles will help us look into the conversation about CTE, and how it has impacted rule and equipment changes to football over time. Keywords: Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE)- brain injury caused by repeated concussions and other mild injuries Chronic traumatic encephalopathy and CHRONIC TRAUMATIC ENCEPHALOPATHY AND SAFETY PROMOTION IN AMERICAN FOOTBALL 3 Safety Promotion in American Football Football, new pastime has grown tremendously since the late with the dawn of the Super Bowl Era. Players such as Walter Payton, Dick Lane, Junior Seau, and Mike Webster have epitomized toughness within the sport for years, and set the standards of fast paced, hard hitting football for what it is today. Since the inception of the sport up until now, the sport has shown extreme physicality but has very little to offer in terms of head and neck protection. Efforts have been made recently to reduce the risk of head and neck injuries such as rule changes, and significantly improved helmets, however even these measures have not been enough to eradicate the newest emerging injury named Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). Due to the physicality of the sport, experts have come to the conclusion that we cannot completely prevent CTE, we can only reduce the risks of getting it. Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy is a result of repetitive trauma to the brain, with the most common injuries being concussions. CTE appeared on Dr. Harrison radar in 1928, when he described punch drunk boxers as poor fellows who staggered and trembled uncontrollably at the end of their careers in the (Wheelwright, 2016, P. 19) Boxing during this time period led doctors to begin research into what is actually causing brains and bodies to rapidly degrade over time. According to Faith Hanlon, Christopher McGrew, and Andrew Mayer the first labeled signs in boxers came from doctors Bowman and Blau which they listed as behavior, depression, paranoia, aggression, poor orientation, insight, and short-term ( Hanlon et al, 2016, P. ) The nature of how football is played usually draws a lot of head to head contact as well as to other areas such as the thigh, leg, and chest. In CHRONIC TRAUMATIC ENCEPHALOPATHY AND SAFETY PROMOTION IN AMERICAN FOOTBALL 4 the Walter Camp developed the technique for tackling that is still used today. The process of tackling starts at your feet, having them shoulder width apart, and then shooting your hips and driving your legs toward the waist/lower torso of the ball carrier. To avoid concussions or neck injury, be sure to keep your head up and across the ball torso rather than him or ramming your head downwards, and directly into the ball carrier. Lastly, you must be sure to wrap up and drive! Although this is a very effective technique to bring down the ball carrier, the head placement leaves you open to contact from a driving knee straight to the face, or driving your head downwards into a thigh if performed incorrectly which can and will lead to concussions. Depending on a position, athletes have modified their technique over time to execute the best tackle according to their angle on the field. Junior Seau is a Hall of Fame football player in the NFL that played from 1990-2009, that was the prototypical linebacker to build a defense around. Linebacker is considered one of the most physical positions next to offensive and defensive line as you go through the most contact every play. At and 250 pounds Junior Seau was one of the toughest, smartest, and most versatile players to play at a position that would constantly have to run full speed through linemen with 3-4 inches of height and 50+ pounds on him every play, sometimes even requiring more than one player to block him. Playing at that level draws a lot of contact and concussions, which Seau dealt with often and played sometimes when he have. Seau most clearly suffered from depression and ended up committing suicide and leaving the lyrics to a song behind titled Who I which talks about a man disappointed in the person he had become. Upon his death, Doctors Bennet Omalu, Ronald Hamilton, M. Ilyas Kamboh, Steven DeKosky, and Julian Bailes researched his brain and discovered that he suffered from Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy, and it is believed that he shot himself in the chest to allow them access to be CHRONIC TRAUMATIC ENCEPHALOPATHY AND SAFETY PROMOTION IN AMERICAN FOOTBALL 5 able to discover this. This was found in a player that was active in a time period with plastic helmets, compared to players who initially used helmets made of leather, which was even less safe than the plastic ones used today. The leather helmet time period occurred around the same time period Dr. Martland began to notice symptoms developing in boxers. With this information, doctors were able to identify the problem however, they could not separate the symptoms from other diseases such as Dementia and due to their extreme similarities until after death. As technology developed, players were able to play the game even faster and harder as the plastic helmet was introduced to the game. This event marked the beginning of the evolution of football as players began to train for football seriously to increase size and speed, while coaches developed tactics to play the game smarter and faster. This made football more fun to watch and dramatically increased interest in playing the game, but at the same time it also increased the risk of concussions as well as other head and neck injuries. As football tactics developed and the art of the game evolved, so did the knowledge and awareness of head injury within the sport along with other contact sports. This inspired the plastic helmet, enforcing tackling form and technique, and later down the line changing the rules to penalize helmet to helmet contact. Hanlon et al state that CTE currently does not have its own neuropsychiatric profile, but is currently in the process of being made. Due to the strong resemblance in the symptoms of CTE with and Dementia it is very difficult to differentiate it between the other two before death. As rules continue to change with technology to protect the head and neck, we will be able to reduce the risk of developing CTE but we cannot completely prevent it as it goes completely against the nature of how the game is played. Austin Murphy poses the question of possibly CHRONIC TRAUMATIC ENCEPHALOPATHY AND SAFETY PROMOTION IN AMERICAN FOOTBALL 6 changing the layout of football to remove tackling, while also supporting the need for this change by providing lawsuits from peewee leagues for brain injuries to children. article shows that we may need to change the game but we may not be able to maintain its popularity with the limited contact however, if we want to protect people it may be a necessary course of action. Ahead of the Hit article sets the atmosphere for the relationship between Dr. Bennet Omalu and the NFL as he concluded that CTE was indeed linked to football. As time progressed following statement and his case study on Junior Seau the NFL has made a clear effort to take more care in protecting players from head and neck injuries through rule, fine, and equipment changes to the game. In the future it will be interesting to see if the NFL does make changes to the game that would completely take away tackling, as it has already made efforts to reduce injuries by shortening the kickoffs, and are contemplating completely removing it from the game. This will be a small but important decision to make and the efforts to make an earlier diagnosis of CTE could significantly be helped. If we can do those two things alone we can make a lot of progress towards protecting players, and being able to better diagnose, and treat the injury. References Bailes, J. DeKosky, S. Hamilton, R. Kamboh, I. Omalu, B. Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) in a National Football League player: Case report and emerging medicolegal practice questions. (2010) Journal of Forensic Nursing (40-46) CHRONIC TRAUMATIC ENCEPHALOPATHY AND SAFETY PROMOTION IN AMERICAN FOOTBALL 7 Hanlon, F. Mayer, A. McGrew C. (2016) Does a unique Neuropsychiatric Profile currently exist for Chronic traumatic encephalopathy? American College of Sports Medicine (30-34) Murphy, Austin. (2016) Endgame. Sports Illustrated NFL Preview (122-128) Wheelwright, J. (2016). Ahead of the Hit. Discover Magazine (18-20)