The Analog Synthesizer as the Standard for Synthesized Sound The Development of analog synthesizer and its standing amoung other innovations in synthesized sound. Andrew Lindstrom University of South Florida The Analog Synthesizer as the Standard for Synthesized Sound Abstract In this paper, I will be utilizing scholarly articles and journal entries to analyze the role and development of the analog synthesizer to discuss how the analog synthesizer has set the standard in terms of technological advantages and its role in a society. I employ articles varying from publishers of the Oxford press to noted music historians, which are all dated from the to 2016. Perspective of the time Ever since synthesizers have been commercially produced, the have been a wide variety of brands producing synthesizers with other manufacturing standards. As more and more synthesizers became produced, product of quality strayed farther and farther from Robert first produced synthesizer. When the first Moog synthesizer was developed in the mid they had developed the early stage of analog synthesizers in which the standard was set. In creating the Moog synthesizer, the music world had found its synthesized sound of choice. This device would go on to be featured in some of the most influential and iconic music of the and Analysis of sources. As we go through time, we find that time after time we see technology being made obsolete by the newest innovation. Although we see a piece of technology being made obsolete, we still have recollection of what had been such an integral part of society. Therefore, technology in its entirety is not replaced. In a publication by Hood Woodrow of Wake forest universty he says in his essay The Problem of Persistent Technology Narratives and Practitioner Use that did not kill the radio star, radio still exists just maybe not at its peak 3 (Hood, 2013 p. 3). The same can be stated for analog synthesizers, and can also go on to make this statement; just as radio was a crucial part of society (such as campfire chats), analog synthesizers were once a crucial part of society. The Analog Synthesizer as the Standard for Synthesized Sound When I think of music that relies heavily on the sounds of synthesizers, I recall the and were computers had just begun to be introduced to music. However, the analog synthesizer had been developed back in the and had already risen to fame through an album called an album that fused classical and electronic music in a revivalism manner. The Moog analog synthesizer would continue to go on be featured in works ranging from songs released by Joy division in 1975 to Madonna up to the late The analog synthesizer had beat out other imitators its kind. As read by Mark Vail, a journalist of the Oxford university, in his book The Synthesizer he says there was another product that was capable of doing the same computations of a synthesizer, however, expensive ($4,995) and polyphonically challenged (five voices at best) Neuron failed to attract enough buyers to remain in production 2 (Vail, 2014 p. 67). Even though this is an ancestor of the Moog synthesizer, this gives an example of an invention that strayed too far from the original product. The standard that is set by analog synthesizers is within the operator friendly interface. Due to the ability to alter the sounds produced, the only permanent part of analog synthesizers was their ability to offer a control panel that easy to manipulate. In a publication by Hood Woodrow of Wake forest universty, he says in his essay The Problem of Persistent Technology Narratives and Practitioner Use that digital synthesizers can be loaded with individual sounds sampled from these elderly instruments, the actual characteristics and qualities of the original are lost (Hood, 2013 p. 332) This statement reassures that the sounds themselves effortlessly replaced. Later, he goes on to say that patch chords, analog sequencers, and touch plates, all of which provide more control over the resulting sound than any modern The Analog Synthesizer as the Standard for Synthesized Sound synth 3 (Hood, 2013 p. 335). In this, he confirms the superiority of analog synthesizer interfaces. Being a product of electronic invention, it made it through the threshold in which invention turns into product. As explained by T.J Pinch in Analog Days, field of electronic music instruments is littered with inventions, but very few 4 (Pinch, 2009 p.332) In this statement, Pinch implies that within the timeline of technology, there have been many new things produced in that realm, very few however actually revolutionize the realm of the instrument itself. This is ever more relevant in the argument on analog synthesizers. As discussed in the example which newer models may be produced, but are not a more effective product. Going all the way back to 1982, analog synthesizers were predicted to meet its demise. Even Robert Moog, the inventor of the analog synthesizer got involved with the switch. However, there was still a characteristic in which was still desired as all synthesizers went digital, the synthesizers still retained their and inhuman 2 (Vail, 2000 p. VIII). There is an aspect to the analog sounds that are irreplaceable. To set up the sounds, an array of wires and cords had to be arranged a certain way and according to Mark Vail, was not humanly possible to remember how you had set up all the patch wires and the numerous knobs. There was no guarantee you could find exactly the same sound again. That was the beauty and the frustration of analog 2 (vail, 2000 p.VIII). Conclusion When it comes to describing the aging of synthesizers, they are a bit too young to use the term However, the sound of an analog synthesizer brings a vintage aesthetic in which we can recall a time in which synthesized sound was a lot less complex. While writing, this paper, we have analyzed what perspective these articles have to offer. Once these articles are explored, it will become evident that from a technological, ergonomic, and societal standpoint The Analog Synthesizer as the Standard for Synthesized Sound that the analog synthesizer that even though it proceeds the digital synthesizer, the digital model had failed to innovate past the viability of the analog model. Citations 1. Vail, M. (2000). Keyboard Magazine Presents Vintage Synthesizers : Groundbreaking Instruments, Pioneering Designers, Collecting Tips, Mutants from the Tar Pits. Miller Freeman Books. 2. Vail, Mark. (2014). Synthesizer. Oxford University Press, USA. Retrieved 6 March 2017, from <http://www.myilibrary.com?ID=571504> 3. Hood, W. (2013). Creative Non-Fiction Essay--The Problem of Persistent Technology Narratives and Practioner Use: The Case of the Moog Synthesizer and Moogfest, or Will Analog Survive?. Technoculture: An Online Journal Of Technology In Society, 31-26. 4. Pinch, T.J, and Frank Trocco. Analog  Google Books. Havard University Press, 30 June 2009. Web. 07 Mar. 2017.