Student 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 26 March 2017 Final Project Two Gmo has become a normality in humans lives at this current time. It has made it way into foods in to medicines much more we have all come into contact of do scientific research and advancement triggers the effect, that there is going to be a change in the way that people research and view that issue, will there be a transition to different ideology as time progress? ? When it comes GMOs, there has been little change in the views of genetically modified organisms. Why is this important because over time people have research GMOs does it have any environment impacts to the crops is beneficial or bad? And they have also studied the concept that deals with is it most beneficial to health. Over these past fifth teen years, there has been little to no change in the way people, views GMOs and that must do with the small amount of research, and data that is available about the GMOs. Causing in the research to halt and for all these scholars to conclude their views in a similar path. First, talk about topics that deal with the environment impacts that have on the environment going to take into consideration two sources. The first source partakes in a much earlier time than the second one this source. The first source which is an academic journal that was written in 2010, and we are going to be comparing it this to the second source that was written in 2016. A little background about the first source the first source talks about a critique the data that has been given to the public by the company called Monsanto,and it challenges the data over the effects of GMOs. Within in the text they provide a statement from the text et al., these tests prove chronic innocuousness for mammalian and human public health. And they claim it is not essential to demonstrate the GMOs (Int J Biol Sci 595). This was taken in 2010 and they critically Student 2 analysis the data that by an organization in their time to indicates that gmos is still a product that been tested to fullest extent. Now going to talk about the second source and then going to have a comparison of the two sources to see if there any proof a transition of mindset on the whole topic. So, the second topic It sources has to deal with a study on the crop of maize and soybeans this source goes into deal about the integration of GMOs. In these two crops in this source they go analysis they analyzed data in this paper here a statement from the report. much of the existing work, our analysis relies on directly observed herbicide use for plots using GE and non-GE varieties, rather than arbitrarily constructed counterfactual use (Science Advance) From this statement, they say there views are only able to go as far as the data that they are capable of providing. Now to compare these two sources to see if there is a transition in views over times. To be honest, comparing these two sources I see that they both deal with analyzing data in a similar way they provide data through graph and the way they handle analyzing the data is similar to one another they also both come to the conclusion that they can only form views from there data, and they have similar views because of the lack of data there a correlation that leads back that there is a minimal change in the views of gmos in the past 10 years. These researchers view environment impact that GMOs have; it has to deal that there is little research because are relatively new scientific inventions at this time there has been little discovery at the time that why when it comes to the view on the environment impact. There seems kind of similar thought process between both of the two sources. Research has change little to none, and the main thing that seems to be hindering seems to be the lack amount of data that is given over gmos that why both of these sources seem like they have a similar path of thought. Furthermore, now to talked about another point in my topic which deals with does GMOs have a bad an effect on human health or is it benefits to one life, and it improves the quality of people life. I have two sources that have to deal with this one of sources is written in 2009 this source test the correlation to GMOs to have any increase any type of diseases of into the likely hood of those who Student 3 come in contact of GMOs. Which means either through eating or other forms of GMOs are they more liable to be effect by chronic disease, in the long run, this source challenges the lack amount of data that is provided and demands that there should be more studies that show how GMOs effect humans in the long-term. We call for more serious standardized tests such as those used for pesticides or drugs, on at least three mammalian species tested for at least three months employing larger sample sizes (Int J Biol Sci 441). Again there the researcher hit a similar wall as the the past sources with the lack of data. The second sources were written in 2016 it was written a by the National Academies Sciences , and it talks how GMOs have little to no evidence that they can provide the consumer with cancer or that the GE food is less safe to eat it was stated in the report. committee also examined epidemiological data on the incidence of diseases and other human-health problems over time and found no substantiated evidence that foods from GE crops were less safe than foods from non-GE crops.( 2). In this source, it seems similar to the previous source why because also think that data is inadequate. , and brings it all back to there is little change of transition of thought. in when it comes to views on because there is a lack of evidence or research available to form much of a view so at this time research have little to go off leading them to have similar views even from a seven-year gap. In this paper, important to figure if there any transition. In the way researcher views GMOs into two sub-topic one that deals with have scholar change the way they think about the impact of GMOs have towards the environment. And other has to deal with the how views have changed over the times towards do GMOs have benefits for human health or are they just damaging and should be avoided. When it comes to the views of researcher on the topic of gmos there has barely been any change due to being such a new topic that within the scientific community the view on gmos really change to due to the lack of data that research are offered leading them to have similar view even through a decade and a half. Student 4 Works Cited Perry, Edward D., Federico Ciliberto, David A. Hennessy, and GianCarlo Moschini. Genetically Engineered Crops and Pesticide Use in U.S. Maize and  Science Advances. American Association for the Advancement of Science, 01 Aug. 2016. Web. 6 Mar. 2017. Gilles-Eric. How Subchronic and Chronic Health Effects Can Be Neglected for GMOs, Pesticides or  IJBS Current RSS. IJBS, 28 Aug. 2009. Web. 6 Mar. 2017. <http://www.ijbs.com/v05p0438.htm>. de Spiroux . Debate on GMOs Health Risks after Statistical Findings in Regulatory  IJBS Current RSS. N.p., 13 Oct. 2010. Web. 6 Mar. 2017. <http://www.ijbs.com/v06p0590.htm>. Genetically engineered crops: experiences and prospects. Washington, DC: National Academies Press, 2016. Print.