Rogers 1 Quinton Rogers Professor Drugan ENC 1102 28 February 2017 Many pictures have been created to support the ideas of people who identify as Republican. Over the years there have been plenty of arguments about how health care should be distributed within the United States. The cause of these debates were pretty much sparked by the passing of a new health care plan in 2010, drafted up by President Obama. The plan for the act was to ensure people of America would be covered with health care and it would not be pocket burning. However, once the act hit congress a few changes were made which created a totally different outcome than what was expected. The newly improvised health care document caused controversy between republicans and democrats, liberals and conservatives, and people in general. For this draft the focus of the arguments shifts to one specific stakeholder and the rhetorical appeals used by that group to get their point across. After gathering information from both, stakeholders through both literary sources and images, one could say that a major argument for republicans is that the current health care policy goes against the constitution. To reference the arguments of the Republican party, in the previous draft we went over the main argument of the Republican party by viewing the document care: The Debate for The author of this document discussed the Republican argument by stating, Rogers 2 For the Republican party, one of the main arguments against current health care situations is that it goes against the constitution. Another argument is that the current health care situation in years to come will cost the American people a vast amount of money to be implemented. The cost of health care is a general problem for many people in general. For instance, there are many people who do not pay for health care because it is too expensive for their salary, but they face fines during tax season if they do not have health care. This is a brewing problem for many folks in similar situations, especially if they tend to have a lot of health problems. The current health care does in fact go against the Constitution because it basically forces citizens to own some type of health care. something one would agree with, because no one should be forced to spend money on something they feel that better off without. (Rogers 4) The picture above is a symbol to represent one of the main arguments of the Republican party. Many people who identify with the Republican party feel like the new health care policy is being forced on citizens. As you can see in the picture it appears that the Obamacare policy is being shoved down a throat forcing the policy upon the citizen (the citizen represents Rogers 3 the U.S as a whole). This is how many folks feel here in the U.S because they are put into a position where they have to buy health care even though it is too expensive for many. There is a fee in place that acts as a penalty for those who do not have health care when tax season rolls around. Having a system to where there is a penalty for not being covered with health care goes against the constitution because the constitution is supposed to limit the power, and give freedom to citizens. In addition, the picture above is an example of pathos when looking from a Republican point of view. As stated in the previous paragraph, in the illustration there is a character shoving a book down another throat/mouth. The character holding the book represents the government, the character in the chair represents the U.S as a whole, and the book represent the current Health care policies. The picture fall into the pathos category because the illustrator created the picture to evoke a rebellious or angry emotion out of U.S citizens. The picture was created to spread the message that citizens were being forced to make a choice on health care, in hopes to get viewers to go against the policy and call for a change within the policy. Also, one could say that the image is using logos as a way to persuade viewers. The illustrator attempted to use his/her logic of the health care situation and connect it to potential first hand situations and personal feelings of viewers to persuade them. Rogers 4 The picture above shows a character painting an into the word to make it The character painting the wall could be the representor of Republicans and the painting could represent their thoughts on the current health care policy. The illustration is an example of both logos and pathos. For the pathos aspect, the illustrator wants viewers to think of fear when they think of Obama care. The in the picture painted is in the shape of a dollar sign and leads the word One could say the meaning is that Obamacare could affect the money of both the U.S (nation) and the U.S citizens, in-which money would be the trigger of emotions from viewers. Now looking at the logos aspect of the picture, one could say that the illustrator uses logical predictions from the predictions of what needs to happen for the policy to be successful as a reference to the picture. These predictions causes the author to portray Obamacare as a or something to be feared. Rogers 5 Works Cited Hudak, John. Give Me Liberty or at Least Your Votes: A Study of Altruism on Health Care Brookings  Brookings. Brookings, 28 July 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.brookings.edu/research/give-me-liberty-or-at-least-your-votes-a- study-of-governors-altruism-on-health-care/>. Clayton, Edward. Posts about Republican on The Political Spectator: Insightful News and  The Political Spectator Insightful News and Views. N.p., 30 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <https://thepoliticalspectator.com/tag/republican/>.