Rahman 1 Aashik Rahman Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 5 February 2017 The Difficulties Faced by Children with Same-Sex Parents Imagine a child being born or adopted by a homosexual couple. The child would have either two fathers or two mothers. He or she would grow up in that way until the child goes to school where he or she starts seeing other children with their fathers and mothers. Thus a confusion is created. This is just the beginning of all the difficulties that are faced by children of homosexual parents. A child needs both the love of a father and a mother. The same-sex marriage was always a debate among the people and was looked at as taboo for a very long time. But after 2015, when the United States Supreme Court legalised same-sex marriage all over The United States, many homosexual couples got the chance to fulfil their long waited desire to marry and start a family. They can now fulfil their desires for a family by adopting a child. Not thinking about the difficulties the child would have growing up. Children growing up in a gay household often gets to only meet people from the LGBT community and not heterosexual couples (Dawn Stefanowicz). Children in gay families are often used as props to display the public to prove gay families are just like heterosexual families( B.N. Klein). So one question that can be asked: What difficulties do children, raised by same-sex couples, experience? Rahman 2 Brown, Lauretta. Adults Raised by Gay Couples Speak Out Against Gay in Federal  CNS News. N.p., 23 Jan. 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This news article is about four adult children who grew up with same-sex parents and how they speaks out against gay marriage in Federal Court. This article is written about the situations they had to experience growing up with gay parents. The four of them argued that same-sex marriage would harm a children by depriving them a mother or father. Dawn Stefanowicz ,who had gay fathers, talks about how she surrounded by heterosexual couples, but more people from the LGBT communities and how she was exposed to overt sexual activities. B.N. Klein , who had lesbian mothers, talks about how she was forced to like people based on what they thought about gay people. She also says about how she was taught that only gay people were achievers in life and how Jews and Christians were bad. Robert Oscar Lopez, also lesbian mothers, talked about how the void of a father in his life made him want to have sexual interactions with older men who were about his fathers age. This article was written by Lauretta Brown. She based this article on the four children who were against the same-sex marriage because they grew up experiencing the bad sides of it. Rahman 3 Goldberg, Abbie E., and Randi, Garcia. Of Relationship Dissolution In Lesbian, Gay, And Heterosexual Adoptive Journal Of Family Psychology: NCBI, vol. 29, no. 3, 2015, pp. 394-404. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26053348. This articles attempts to discuss about the negative sides of adopting a non-infant by homosexual and heterosexual parents. The author talks about how the homosexual parents often adopt non-infant kids and their struggles. Non infant kids have an idea about how a family works. They know that a family consists of a father and a mother. But when a homosexual couple adopts them, the whole perspective changes. They either get two mothers or two fathers, which is a new concept to them. So the author tells about how the homosexual couples should prepare themselves and the child for the new family environment and how that causes the family stress to be less and healthy. The author also talks about how the relationship between the same-sex couples have changed after the adoption of non-infants. Most of them had broken up their relationship due to lack of intimacy and communication. Which puts a lot of pressure on the adopted kids since they were the reason of the breakup. This causes depression and anxiety in children. This article was published in 2015. The authors, Abbie E. Goldberg and Garcia Randi, are both from the Department of Psychology of the Clark University. They have both published many articles regarding this subject. Rahman 4 Hansen, Trayce. Same-Sex Marriage Is Harmful to  Gay Marriage, edited by Debra A. Miller, Greenhaven Press, 2012. At Issue. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, eztcc.vccs.edu:2048/login?url=http://link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/EJ3010014234/OVIC? Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Originally published as Same-Sex Marriage: Not in the Best Interest of  The Therapist, 2009. In this article, the writer talks about the downsides of same-sex parents who raise children. The writer talks about how the supporters of same-sex marriage thinks children just really needs love, but that is not the case. Research shows that normal family structure for a child is being raised by a mother and a father. The writer talks about how some research suggests that children raised in a same-sex household is more likely to be sexually confused and tries to experiment with sex. Swedish researchers researched and found out that fathers reduce behavioural problems in boys and psychological problems in girls. In a lesbian household, the children get fathers as a parent and can thus result in having psychological or behavioural problems. This article also talks about how children reared by homosexuals are likely to engage in homosexual relationships and how study shows that homosexuality is environmentally induced. This article is written by Trayce Hansen. Trayce Hansen is a licensed psychologist with a clinical and forensic practice. She has a interest in areas of marriage,parenting and homosexuality. Rahman 5 Jaslow, Ryan. Kids of gay parents fare worse, study finds, but research draws fire from  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 12 June 2012. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. This article shows a study that finds that the children of same-sex couples may be more likely to have more social and emotional problems than the children of heterosexual couples. The study was made by Mark Regnerus, who surveyed 15,000 Americans from the age of 18 to 39, asking them questions about their upbringings. There were questions related to whether their parents were in a same-sex relationship during their upbringing. The statistics showed that sixty- nine percent of children with lesbian mothers had receiver welfare at some point compared to seventeen percent of children from biological parents. Only twenty-six percent of children from lesbian parents had full-time jobs compared to fifty percent children from heterosexual parents. About fourteen percent of kids from lesbian mothers has spent time in foster care compared to two percent of kids from biological parents. The statistics of children with gay fathers had less bad outcomes than the kids with lesbian mothers, but still more than those kids who grew up with their heterosexual parents. This article was written by Ryan Jaslow. Ryan Jaslow is a health editor. He wrote about the study which was performed by Mark Regnerus. Mark Regnerus is a associate professor of sociology at The University of Texas. Rahman 6 Staff, ZENIT. Dangers of Same-Sex Couples Adopting Children (Part  ZENIT English. N.p., 05 Nov. 2004. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article is about Dale and how she thinks that adopted children of same-sex parents are likely to face the deprivation of either a mother or a father in their lives. When asked about the difference between children being adopted by same-sex parents versus the children being adopted by heterosexual parents, she talks about how the children would ask why he or she was purposefully handed over to a motherless or fatherless family. She talks about how the children would be made to feel that something is wrong with their natural desire to have a parent of the opposite sex. Dale gives an example about a child of a lesbian couple who wanted to have a daddy, and how his mother made him understand that if he were to have a father he have her as a mother. Dale talks about how the mother made him feel that his natural desire for a father was a rejection of his mother, and that this was a terrible burden to place on a little boy. She also says about how children from adoption have already been separated once from their biological parents and have attachment disorders. Same-sex couples are the least stable arrangement and these kids should be put into more stable situation. This article is based on an interview of Dale Dale is a writer and a researcher for the Catholic Medical Association. Rahman 7 Stanton, Glenn T. Are Children with Same-Sex Parents at a  Facts About Youth. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. This article talks about how children with same-sex parents, single-parent family, divorced, step-family or cohabiting parents are at a disadvantage from children living with their married heterosexual parents. In this article, the author quotes from different leading scholarly summaries about the difference between same-sex parenting and married couples parenting. Researches shows that when young boys have primary caretakers from both sexes, they are less likely to engage in woman-devaluing activities and in self-aggrandizing, cruel or overly competitive male cults as adults(Mary Stewart Van Leeuwen). Researches also tell that father love appears to be as heavily implicated as mother love in little kids psychological well-being and health(Ronald P. Rohner and Robert A. Veneziano). The writer also talks about how there is no reliable research which indicates that children in same-sex homes do as well as children living under married heterosexual parents. The writer then concludes by saying that anything other than the ideal family living has caused children to have social and emotional problems. And that same-sex marriage was no different from them. This article was written by Glenn T. Stanton. Glenn T. Stanton is the director of Family Formation Studies at Focus on the Family. He lectures and debates on the issues of gender, sexuality, marriage and parenting at universities and churches.