Haddad 1 Chad Haddad Angelica Aranda ENC1102 February 22, 2017 More Guns for a Safer America, or Fewer Guns for a Safer America? According to Everytown for Gun Safety, a well renowned movement of Americans, an average day, ninety-three Americans are killed with a gun, seven of these being Gun control and violence has been an extremely controversial issue that has nearly every American concerned. This issue has been fueled by recent incidents where guns were used for the wrong reasons: mass murder, theft and threats. It is quite unmistakable that these acts do not constitute a safe America. There are numerous national organizations that are deeply involved and passionate regarding guns and the control of them. The National Association for Gun Rights (NAGR) and the Brady Campaign are two organizations that have conflicting views on the issue. The NAGR works primarily towards defending the Second Amendment, the right to bear arms, as well as promoting Constitutional Carry. The Brady Campaign strives to limit gun sales, make it more difficult to purchase a gun and shut down gun dealers. While the two organizations have opposing approaches, they have a shared ultimate goal: keeping US citizens protected. Despite contradictory beliefs, there is a feasible solution that will satisfy both organizations. This solution being that all gun suppliers, licensed or not, undergo a more thorough application process to achieve a license with increased monitoring on these dealers, without altering the Haddad 2 standard of who can purchase guns. The solution would benefit both associations without creating any further problems as it does not go against their beliefs nor does it fail to benefit both organizations. The National Association for Gun Rights is an organization consisting of over four million determined members seeking justice for Americans through the conservation of the Second Amendment, the right of the people to keep and bear arms. Their mission statement also states that the organization is, to advance true firearms freedom in the form of Constitutional Carry This is the act of carrying a gun without a government permit. The two fundamental strategies mentioned are intended to build up to a protected America. The NAGR is extremely ardent about their beliefs. As an organization, they are willing to make sacrifices to achieve their end goal. In fact, NAGR spokeswoman Danielle Thompson has said that the organization is, looking for a compromise but for a (Terris & Goldmacher). This victory Thompson mentions refers to accomplishing their primary goals. They have indeed been victorious in the past with passing their Constitutional Carry legislation in multiple states. With this in mind, the proposed solution of a revised and more thorough application for gun licensing does not interfere with their goal and therefore would still benefit them. The Brady Campaign seeks out a safer America, with a concrete objective of, gun deaths in half by In order to achieve this, there are currently three principal approaches the organization is focusing on. These are to have enforced background checks on every gun sale, eradicate all gun dealers and alter the social norms surrounding the real dangers of guns. The Haddad 3 organization has been very vocal and active with their campaigning and has even sought out to make a difference in common places such as Starbucks. The Brady Campaign requested that Starbucks changed their policy concerning customers carrying firearms, which is currently allowed. The Brady Campaign urged Starbucks to review their policy and modify it so that it protects customers from potential harm, stressing that it would not mean the company is taking a position in gun debate. They recognize the popularity of Starbucks and set forth to keep the customers there safe by attempting to keep gun carriers out. The Brady Campaign would definitely be on board with the suggested compromise of re-working the current application process for supplying gun licenses as it covers a great portion of their goals and has no negative setback for them. It is clear that both of these organizations long for nation-wide protection through the involvement of guns, yet both have remarkably differing methodologies for doing so. The NAGR must be applauded for being so persistent with their views and actions on the present issue, for they have, great strides in protecting and preserving the Second Recognizing that this is part of the Constitution of the United States of America, the NAGR fully believes that it should remain and all law-abiding citizens have the right to bear arms as a mean of self-defense. The Brady Campaign too deserves recognition in its attempts of achieving safety through their central idea of, guns out of the wrong Rather than struggling to have each of their desires granted, the two organizations could perhaps join forces in pursuit of fulfilling their respective ambitions, through a joint solution that pleases both parties. Haddad 4 My proposed solution for this issue is that the organizations call upon and work with the government in making the application process to be a licensed gun supplier more in-depth. This would mean that applicants would have to go beyond the current requirements in supplying further background information, additional interviews, and perhaps specific letters of recommendation. This solution is exceptionally viable and it does not go against either organizations beliefs. The NAGR will be satisfied as it corresponds with the Second Amendment and does not infringe the right to bear arms while the Brady Campaign will too be pleased considering it will help eliminate gun dealers. Although roughly only 5% of gun dealers are ones, this percentage supplies, of all crime which would severely decrease gun violence nation wide considering only those with approved backgrounds and clean histories can be retailed a gun. The Brady Campaign will agree to the terms of the solution as the president of the organization, Dan Gross, has said himself that his plans to resolve gun violence are, by the American and that of them are a threat to the Second (Lawrence). This demonstrates recognition of the focal point, which therefore validates that the two could negotiate over the proposed solution. Despite stating that they do not want compromise, the NAGR will also agree, as guns will still be accessible but only to the law-abiding citizens, which the organization supports. The organizations can spearhead a revised application process and submit it to the government so that it can be reviewed and accepted. This way both organizations can get their say in exactly what should be required in order to attain a license to supply guns. Haddad 5 With all this in consideration, there are still some gaps in the solution. For instance, some states and stores do not require a background check on customers purchasing guns, which could result in the guns still falling in the wrong hands. Unfortunately, resolving this concern would contradict the stance, although it would meet the Brady The of this ongoing national dispute can undoubtedly be changed for the good. For this to happen, the National Association for Gun Rights and the Brady Campaign should collectively pursue the indicated compromise of developing the application process to earn a license to sell guns. Both organizations will absolutely put full effort into the proposed compromise in order to protect the beloved American citizens. Haddad 6 Work Cited Violence by the EverytownResearch.org. 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 05 Feb. 2017 About NAGR. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Terris, Ben, and Shane Goldmacher. NRA Gets Some National Journal 2013: Academic OneFile. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. at Starbucks? Thousands say Seattle Post-Intelligencer (Seattle, WA) 2010: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Lawrence, Jill. Success Is in Sight for the Brady National Journal, 7 Feb. 2013. General OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.