Harb !1 Karem Harb ENC 1102 Professor Aranda 5 February 2017 Affirmative Action and Uniting Both Sides Since the American Civil Rights Movement of the affirmative action has been a widely debated topic among politicians, civil rights organizations, and universities. Affirmative action is roughly defined as compensation for groups that have been formerly oppressed or excluded. Two opposing yet similar political organizations come to mind concerning affirmative action. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) is a pro- affirmative action organization with a long history which was established in 1909. Former President Kweisi Mfume of the NAACP believes that affirmative action sparked the growth of the black middle class and that an attack on affirmative action is an attack on black progress (Fletcher 1). The mission statement of the NAACP is: mission of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is to ensure a society in which all individuals have equal rights without discrimination based on (NAACP.org). On the other hand, the American Civil Rights Institute (ACRI) is a relatively new organization which was established in 1996 (ACRI.org). The ACRI is an anti-affirmative action, conservative organization established by an African-American man named Ward Connerly. The ACRI believes that racial preference is counter-productive to reaching the goal of social equality, hence they believe that affirmative action is counter-productive to social equality. These organizations disagree on the approach to achieving racial and social equality and opportunity, however they both agree that equal access Harb !2 and opportunity should be fought for. A viable compromise for both organization is to treat no race or gender with preference, and instead of compensate a group for former oppression, they should level the playing field for individuals currently oppressed. The NAACP is a strong supporter of affirmative action. To further their cause of social equality, they help advocates register to vote, meet with political candidates, fund civil right groups, join coalitions to protect affirmative action plans, and lobby governing organizations and institutions (Fletcher 1) . The goal is to end racial preference, which is the goal of the NAACP as well, however the view affirmative action as racial preference despite former oppression of minorities. Connerly and his supporters helped to pass a bill called Proposition 209 in the California state legislature. Propostion 209 states, state shall not discriminate against, or grant preferential treatment to, any individual or group on the basis of race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin in the operation of public employment, public education, or public (ARCI.org). Connerly also led the majority of the California Board of Regents to end the use of race-based preferences in the admissions policy of the University of California in 1995. The organization was even mentioned in a scholarly article by Tim Goral as a leader in the effort against affirmative action (Goral 32). The ACRI believes that race preferences do not promote equality. This statement is true because preferring one race over another is the opposite of racial equality, however there are individuals that happen to be a part of minority races in the U.S. that are still in disadvantaged positions. It is simply unreasonable to give benefits such as scholarships or employment due to diversity quotas to someone because their grandfather was oppressed at one point. The oppression and exclusion of that grandfather whether that be living as a black man Harb !3 during the segregation era or as a slave during the 19th century is absolutely wrong, however their grandson should not receive benefits on their behalf because their grandson is not currently oppressed given that the grandson is currently alive. Instead of compensating those who were never oppressed as individuals, A compromise between pro and anti-affirmative action organizations would be to make an effort to end oppression that is currently being inflicted upon individuals. For example, many women are on average paid less than men for coin the same work, the ACRI and NAACP should join forces tend this current unfair convention in the U.S. inflicted upon women. Both could support or create bills to make equal pay for equal work the standard in states and nation by using their influence and resources. They both could use lobbyists to influence legislators to vote in favor of bills that establish pay equality. Both could also hold events in which they educate the public about pay inequality to influence the electorate to be active in the fight for equal pay. These proposals are real actions that can be taken to help end current unfair treatment of people and some of such actions are already used by organization such as the NAACP to promote affirmative action and by the ACRI to end affirmative action. Harb !4 Works Cited About  American Civil Rights Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. http://acri.org/about-acri/ About Mr. Ward  American Civil Rights Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. http://acri.org/about-ward-connerly/ Affirmative Action  Affirmative Action Overview. National Conference of State Legislatures, 07 Feb. 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. http://www.ncsl.org/research/education/affirmative-action-overview.aspx Ayres, B. Drummond, Jr. Foes of Affirmative Action Form a National  The New York Times. The New York Times, 15 Jan. 1997. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. http://www.nytimes.com/1997/01/16/us/foes-of-affirmative-action-form-a-national- group.html Fletcher, Michael A. Affirmative Action Tops NAACP  The Washington Post. WP Company, 14 July 1998. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/politics/special/affirm/stories/naacp071498.htm Goral, Tim. The Battle For Affirmative Action. (Cover  University Business 6.5 (2003): 32. Education Source. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. http://connection.ebscohost.com/c/articles/9748981/battle-affirmative-action Proposition 209  American Civil Rights Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. http://acri.org/proposition-209-language/ What Does NAACP Stand  NAACP. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. http://www.naacp.org/about-us/ Harb !5