Caroline Jeczalik Professor Aranda ENC 1102 2/22/17 Immigration in the United States For many years immigration has become a popular topic of discussion. A handful amount of organizations pertain profoundly to immigration wether they are for or against immigrants. An organizations that views immigration as a negative factor would be NumbersUSA. The perspective of this organization profoundly looks at negative key issues involving economic, social and political factors. However, there are organizations that believe immigration has a positive influence on the United States. These organizations include Catholic Charities USA and National Council of La Raza. These organization help immigrants transition steadily without any complications while fighting for equality, nondiscrimination and freedom. Although both stakeholders look at opposite side of the spectrum, they both share one common thing together. They do not believe in illegal immigration and a hinder of growth for the United States. NumberUSA is an organization that opposes immigration for the benefit for the numbers and Americans who are facing problems attributed to immigration. NumbersUSA states favor reductions in immigration numbers toward traditional levels that would allow present and future generations of Americans to enjoy a stabilizing U.S. population and a high degree of individual liberty, mobility, environmental quality, worker fairness and fiscal Immigration ). This organization believes immigration is one of the key factor of environmental impacts. According to NumbersUSA, immigrants have accumulated 2,000 tons of trash, have caused many large fires and have declined the wildlife population of the U.S Sonoran Pronghorn by 79% from 2000-2002 Immigration ). NumbersUSA is informing their audience that immigration is causing harmful effects to our environment that could be dangerous to the population and the ecosystem. They inform the readers the more people (immigrants) coming into the country, the less farmland is available for farmers to grow food for the mass population. NumbersUSA states that in order to have a functioning and efficient environment for a population you must have approximately 39,000 square miles for services, businesses and living Immigration ). In order to have an efficient population, this organization is informing their audience of space for suitable living. They see immigration as an insufficient number of people taking up space that could not be beneficial to the environment and the economy. This organization stresses about illegal immigration and how it affects negative outcomes for this country. NumbersUSA believes immigrants are competing for jobs with the American people. As more immigrants come into the country, they take up jobs Americans normally would not apply for which provides more income to immigrants. However, these jobs are for low skilled individuals that do not receive enough income to contribute to taxes. The taxes they do not fully contribute to provide them will many benefits that citizens provide for them Immigration ). NumbersUSA believes the key factors that are hurting the country (unemployment, environmental impacts, taxpayer burdens and farmland) are caused by immigration. This organization supposes immigration is the cause of illegal immigration which cause for pressure on their negative factors. Catholic Charities USA is an organization that works to reduce poverty in America. Not only does this organization help immigrants settle into the country but they also help with finances, education, health, adoption, disaster relief, shelters and feeding the hungry. Catholic Charities 2 USA newcomers struggle to establish themselves in a nation that is ambivalent about their presence, particularly those who are not authorized to reside in our country. Cultural and linguistic differences and limited opportunities make it difficult for these newcomers to integrate, find work and support their families. They need culturally competent supportive services to help them thrive in their new Welcoming Newcomers ). This organization sees people as one of their own brothers and sisters. They believe that everyone deserves equal opportunities and benefits. They try their hardest for newcomers to come into the country legally and responsibly because they are trying to provide positive and efficient help legally. Catholic Charities USA helps immigrants find jobs and resources, and to overcome barriers that impede their adjustment to life in the United States Welcoming Newcomers ).This organization looks at the positives for immigrants coming into this country. They give everyone a chance with the proper knowledge they need to become successful in the country as well as the tools they need to strive. Another organization that helps immigrants come into the country is the National Council of La Raza. This organizations goal is for individuals to become successful in this country the legal way. They provide citizenship documents, online tools, resources for people to know their rights and how to take action (Immigration ). They believe everyone has the opportunity to become something great even if you are an immigrant to the United States. Although there are two stakeholders (organizations) that view immigration from different ends of the spectrum. These two organizations have a common ground that they share. The two organizations believe in striving as a country to be the best we could be with no problems economically, socially nor politically. Both sides disapprove of illegal immigration for it causes 3 problems in the negative key factors for this country. These organizations do not discriminate amongst one another, they just have different views for immigration. However, the common ground they share is striving successfully as a country economically, socially and politically. In order share a common ground and to strive successfully both organizations can agree on securing the boarder efficiently, controls jobs that attract illegal immigrants and stop illegal immigration. These solutions would bring a compromise to both organizations that would result in a agreement. Stakeholders against immigrations main concern is roughly illegal immigrants coming into this country and negatively effecting the economy and the environment. The stakeholders who are for immigration want immigrants to come in legally and become regular citizens without any disruption just a life they can enjoy. Immigration is a popular topic of discussion that targets one side or the other. Although both organizations have different views on immigration, it is possible for the sides to come together and come up with a compromise. The compromise of these two organizations is to secure boarder control and control jobs that attract jobs for illegal immigrants. This compromise is efficient because it pertains to what both organizations believe it which is keeping the United States striving economically, socially and politically. 4 Work Cited Immigration  Immigration Problems. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <https:// www.numbersusa.com/problems>. Welcoming Newcomers  Catholic Charities USA. Catholic Charities USA, 2015. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. <https://catholiccharitiesusa.org/efforts/welcoming-newcomers>. Immigration  Immigration NCLR. N.p., 2002-2015. Web. 22 Feb. 2017.