Kulow !1 Nathan Kulow Professor Phillips ENC1102 February 26 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric The Constitution Party is a political party that was founded in 1992. They refer to themselves as meaning they believe in keeping the principles of the Constitution whole. The Constitution Party illustrates this on their website; believes in the principles of the original Constitution, and is firmly committed to keeping those principles intact, from all enemies foreign and Consequently, The Constitution Party believes that the Federal Reserve should be abolished because it is unconstitutional. Like all political parties, the Constitution Party relies heavily on rhetoric in order to appeal to their audience, in hopes to get them to become a part of their movement. The Constitution Party uses the two images presented to appeal to their audience, in order to increase the size of their movement, which will in turn help accomplish their goal to end the Federal Reserve. To achieve this, they effectively use numerous rhetorical strategies to appeal to their audience. The Constitution Party is lobbying for the complete abolishment of the Fed. They believe solely in the Constitution; anything considered unconstitutional, such as the Fed, is opposed by this party. The Constitution Party writes this in their Platform, stand opposed to any regionalization of governments, at any level, which results in removal of decision-making powers from the people or those directly elected by the This party believes the Fed should be abolished not only because the organization itself is unconstitutional, but also because Kulow !2 the current monetary system used is unconstitutional. They take note of this issue in their Platform as well, federal government has departed from the principle of  money as defined by the U.S. Constitution and the Mint Act of 1792 and has granted unconstitutional control of the monetary and banking system to the private Federal Reserve In order to get people to side with them on this issue, the Constitution Party heavily relies on rhetoric using images on their website. The first image appears unsophisticated, due to the fact that it only contains three words. Although it may seem simple and ineffective, this image does a good job of utilizing pathos. According to Merriam-Webster pathos is, element in experience or in artistic representation evoking pity or (Merriam-Webster). The short and bold text grabs the attention of the audience, and will actually be read since it is only three words rather than a full text, which in most cases would be ignored. Both the bold font and the red background effectively grab the attention of the audience; according to Color Psychology, color attracts attention more than any other (Przybyla). Not only does the color grab the attention but also might subliminally make the reader feel more alert or even in danger. Color Psychology also states that, has to do with the fight-or-flight response, so too much red leaves the person feeling not just alert, but also stressed (Przybyla). Therefore the red background helps the Constitution goal to make the reader feel alarmed of the Fed, and even make the reader feel as though the Fed is dangerous. As a result, this image helps the Constitution Party instill their ideology of the Fed on to others. The second image the Constitution Party presents is used to inform the audience of their contact information. This image mainly uses rhetorical strategies in order to get the Kulow !3 attention, and to take action. The main rhetorical appeals used are ethos and kairos. The text in red reads, Your Vote and Voice Exploiting the word is an appeal to timeliness, representing kairos. Merriam-Webster defines kairos as, time when conditions are right for the accomplishment of a crucial action : the opportune and decisive (Merriam-Webster). This persuades the audience to take the opportunity to become involved sooner. The picture also uses ethos which is defined as, distinguishing character, sentiment, moral nature, or guiding beliefs of a person, group, or institution. In this image ethos is used in a number of small ways to make the audience feel they are more credible. The first way shown is in the quote, Uniting Constitutionists since Informing the audience of how long they have been established is a very common way to establish ethos. The picture also makes the audience feel as though the party is credible in the image itself; the crowd of people in the image makes the party look as though they have many established supporters. Even though the group of people is just a cartoon image, it can still effect the way the audience perceive the Constitution Party. Both of these subtle rhetorical strategies are very effective, and ultimately help the Constitution Party gather more support for their cause. After reviewing the rhetorical strategies used, it is clear that The Constitution Party relies heavily on rhetorical strategies in order to get their audience to side with them. The rhetoric used in the images are subtle, yet effective, towards the cause. The more people who are influenced by this rhetoric and join the Constitution Party, the closer the party gets to abolishing the Federal Reserve. rhetorical skillful speakers have traditionally been able to influence the preconceptions, views, ambitions and fears of the public, to the extent of causing people to accept false statements as true postulates, or even to support policies Kulow !4 conflicting with their (David 164). This quote not only relates to political speakers but also images used by political parties. The Constitution use of rhetoric is an example of how powerful and useful rhetoric can be when trying to accomplish a particular goal. By using appeals such as kairos, ethos, and pathos, The Constitution Party was able to spread their ideology of the Fed and get people to side with them. Kulow !5 Works Cited Constitution Party. N. p., 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. David, M.K. (2014). Language, Power and Manipulation: The Use of Rhetoric in Maintaining Political Influence. Frontiers of Language and Teaching , 51, 164-170. Merriam-webster.com. N. p., 2017. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. Merriam-webster.com. N. p., 2017. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. . Merriam-webster.com. N. p., 2017. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. Przybyla, Dena. Color Psychology. N.p., 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Kulow !6 Image 1: https://www.constitutionparty.com/principles/seven-principles/sound-money-constitutional- banking/ Image 2: https://www.constitutionparty.com/about-us/faqs/how-long-has-the-constitution-party-been-in- existence/