Johnson 1 Anjelica Johnson Mr. Phillips Project 2 Intermediate February 26, 2017 Technology in Society Technology has become such an essential part of society, as it plays a significant role and is a prime source in the world of education. The Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and Media believes that technology plays an important role in a development, especially if used effectively. The center wants to give technology meaning by explaining that technology enhances cognitive and social abilities. Now looking at the photos, image one shows a man talking with a group of kids, and it portrays that the children are having fun and enjoying what they are doing and learning. Image two is an event the organization held, and it shows the audience what the organization does to help explore childhood development. Furthermore, the center is dedicated to helping children thrive in the digital age and promoting effective learning and development; they accomplish this through these two images messages and purposes by using the rhetorical appeals of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Johnson 2 Rogers was known for his creativity, kindness, spirituality, and commitment to the well-being of The Fred Rogers Center was established to build on the legacy set forth by Mr. Rogers and to become better equipped with technology so it compliments social interactions with the friends and family in their lives. By doing this children can take advantage of its many uses and get the opportunity to learn more. The Fred Rogers Center partnered with the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) in 2012 to release a position statement. According to the official website, the position statement . . provided research-based guidance to early childhood programs and educators on effective uses of media and The images included in this essay support the ideas and goals of the center. Image one suggests that Mr. Rogers interest is in the kids and making sure that they have fun while learning. Image two, on the other hand, shows what the organization does to promote their beliefs and goals. When dealing with pictures an organization wants to publicize most will start off with an appeal to ethos. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (27). The man in image one is assumed to be Fred Rogers, the Johnson 3 founder of the center. This is an example of intrinsic authority, the authority that comes from the rhetor, not only because he is the founder but also because he turned his degree in music into a job in television. When he did this, he launched a community owned, public television station. Image two is a picture from a conference the organization held. This would be an example of borrowed credibility because on its own the picture has no credibility, but associated with the Fred Rogers Center is it borrowing credibility from the center. After looking at the credibility of a photo, most would look for an appeal to logos. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (32). Mr. goal is to help children grow and learn through the use of technology. Image one enforces this when looking at Mr. Rogers with the children. The logos in image two is that the conference is used to explore different techniques to help the development of children. According to the website, . . the Fred Forward Conference brigns together researchers, technologists, media creators, educators, and advocated, to explore current and emerging issues impacting the healthy development of children birth to age The people who attend the conference look at the issues faced with technology and come together to try and find solutions. By finding solutions, children are now offered a better way to thrive in the technological world to help further their education. While looking at the logic behind the images, one might also look at an appeal to pathos. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, appeal to emotion, or pathos, is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (37). Image one gives off a sense of enjoyment as you look at the children and see that they are laughing. Even though the photo is in black and white, the balance a black and white photograph provides Johnson 4 makes this image appear to be timeless. Image two is in color which can emphasize the realness of the picture and the event itself. Image two also has a warm tone because of the bright colors used which gives off a sense of joy or tenderness. A study done by the department of psychology at Edge Hill University says that has been suggested that there is a reciprocal interaction between color and emotion, which particular feelings being associated with color, and the combination of cognition that affect all bringing memories, feelings, and emotions to the Last, but certainly not least, is an appeal to kairos. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (41). Neither image one nor image two have the traditional examples of kairos. In image one the appeal to kairos may be lost in the present time period. Kairos is about taking creating the perfect moment to create a message; what better way to do that than putting a powerful picture (image one) on the homepage of a website. Doing this emphasizes the urgency and the relevancy of what the organization is about and what they are trying to do. Even though neither image has the words or text that are usually associated with kairos, the lack of it is still a message. It suggests that technology is not something that is just for the moment. Instead, it is something that will last forever. Technology is not going to go away, so the best way to deal with it is to embrace it and become a part of the new era. The website states, legacy of Fred Rogers guides everything we do. From the beautiful simplicity of modeling nurturing interactions with young children to the thoughtful use of educational technology, we learn from timeless wisdom and Technology has become a key part of this generation and as a society need to take advantage of it. One of the main focuses of the Fred Rogers Center, as well as other organizations, has been to find the Johnson 5 balance between human interactions and technology use. It has been shown that adult- child relationships are essential to the benefits that technology can give to everyone, not just children. A interaction with media and technology strengthens the relationships between the child and their self, the child and others, and the child and the world. Technology is one of the most important aspects of life, so why not take advantage and give children the best possible way to learn and grow. Johnson 6 Works Cited Debbie J. Pope, Hannah Butler, and Pamela Qualter, Understanding and Color- Emotion Associations in Children Aged 7-8 Child Development Research, vol. 2012, Article ID 975670, 9 pages, 2012. doi:10.1155/2012/975670 Finger, Peter, and Walt Seng. digital media & learning - Fred Rogers center for early learning & Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning & Media. Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning & Media, Dec. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 26, 2017. Hoffman, Allyson and Alysia Sawchyn Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Pgs. 41-46. E-text. Lane, Emily, Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Pgs. 32-36. E-text. Lee, Kendra Gayle, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Pgs. 37-40. E-text. McKee, Jessica and Megan McIntyre Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Pgs. 27-31. E-text. Johnson 7