Knowles 1 Ivy Knowles Adam Phillips ENC 1102 March 12 2017 Mental Illness Mental illness is considered to still be a stigma in society despite the fact that one in five Americans experience a mental illness and one in twenty-five Americans live with a serious mental illness. (See Nami) Nearly 60% of adults with a mental illness do not receive mental health services every year due to lack of diagnoses, their health care not covering it, or improper diagnoses. The National Alliance on Mental Illness(NAMI) is an organization that helps people find the support they need whether it be medical or just someone to talk to. Two images will be reviewed today and will show the rhetoric appeals NAMI uses. Image one is a picture of a crowd with the words in black and red lettering up and tell Congress to KEEP WHAT WORKS for mental health This image uses pathos and logos. And the image two is a waterfall in a forest with the words in white lettering day we will finally shine a light and support those who are suffering in This image uses ethos and pathos. Besides discussing what rhetoric appeals NAMI uses with their image propaganda, these images also further beliefs and what they stand for as an organization such as finding proper help for mental illness patients and fighting for their rights like their medical insurance coverage. Knowles 2 NAMI is leading and largest mental health organization with thousands of community centers all over the US. They educate the masses on the realities of mental health with their education programs through NAMI state organizations and affiliates. They advocate by helping shape national public policies for people with mental illnesses and fight to help create bills for people whose health insurances do or even cover mental illnesses. They have a toll-free hotline to help provide free information, referrals or support for those in need. They even have public awareness events and activities like NAMIWalks and Mental Illness Awareness Week. They raise thousands of dollars to help support those with mental illnesses and even have a yearly national convention is Washington, DC to promote awareness on mental illnesses. NAMI uses rhetoric appeals to further their missions and beliefs such as image one which is a black and white picture of a crowd with the words in front of the crowd saying in black and red lettering saying, up and tell Congress to KEEP WHAT WORKS for mental health coverage. The words in red lettering are what Red as a color in text is associated with vigor, willpower, and courage. (The Meaning of Color) It is also good for bringing text to the foreground. NAMI uses those words to stand out and make it the first thing you look at in the picture for emphasis. They use the crowd in the picture to symbolize people coming together to fight for their rights. Nami uses this whole image to try and get people to fight for not only their medical coverage, but for others who might be changed for the worse if congress gets their metaphorical hands on it. This whole image plays on rhetorical appeals such as pathos (means to appeal to the emotions) and logos (means to appeal to logic and reason) (Rhetoric Really Matters). It uses Knowles 3 pathos by having using the red font to make certain words stand out and call forth your attention to and having the crowd in the background to use your emotions to join the fight. The image uses logos by appealing to make you wonder what Congress is doing to mess with current mental health coverage, and the hashtag to make you even more curious to go on social media websites and look into what is going on. This image supports the beliefs of Nami by bringing up the topic of what Congress is doing to change mental health coverage. NAMI helps the people of our country fight national bills and laws to provide equal access to treatments and services such as therapy or different forms of medication to everyone with mental illnesses. They invest in mental health innovation and push legislators and congress to Medicaid caps or block grants that drive down innovation and force state program cuts, putting individuals with mental illness and families at risk and support Medicaid expansion, with income-based eligibility, to provide coverage and a pathway to self-sufficiency for individuals with mental health See NAMI on national policies) NAMI also uses rhetoric appeal is image two such as a waterfall in a forest with a blue hue over it in the background with white text in the forefront with the words day we will finally shine a light and support those who are suffering in and lists two mental health organizations in the bottom corners of the image. White as a color in text is associated with light, innocence, purity, safety and usually has a positive connotation (The Meaning of Colors) They use the blue hue over the waterfall to promote the sense of tranquility, softness, and sincerity. They use the waterfall in a forest to further promote a sense of tranquility and peace since people generally associate waterfalls with nice, peaceful things. Knowles 4 This image uses the rhetorical appeals of ethos (appeal to credibility and morality) and pathos (appeal to the emotions). It uses ethos with the actual text which reads day we will finally shed a light and support those who are suffering in They are trying to evoke the thought to people that perhaps they should help and support people with mental illness instead of ignoring them and letting these people suffer on their own and decay in their self-toxicity. It uses pathos with the whole image to play on your emotions and make you feel calm and want to help others. The image ties into the mission of NAMI, which is to support people with mental illness by any means necessary. They seek to provide help by offering referrals, medical assistance, hotlines and even just mailing pamphlets to help educate people. (See NAMI on what is NAMI) These two images are kind of different while also kind of the same, they both exist to promote helping people find some justice per say for their mental illnesses while still showing and promoting the beliefs of NAMI. They are different with how image one only focuses on seeking help for mental illnesses with their health coverage and fighting against Congress to protect it, and how image two believes in helping support anyone and everyone suffering with mental illness in a peaceful, kind way and using the text to appeal to the emotions. In the end, Nami uses two kind of same and different images of promoting mental health stability. They use image one to provoke people to fight for their rights with their health insurance and they use image two to appeal to compassionate side to make people want to help others suffering with mental illnesses. Everyone needs love and support with their mental illness whether it be physical like fighting for their rights or emotional by being a shoulder for someone to lean on. Knowles 5 Works cited NAMI: National Alliance On Mental Illness NAMI: The National Alliance On Mental . Nami.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. < http://www.nami.org/About-NAMI> 2. The Meaning of  The Meaning of Colors. Raetta Parker, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. gofcolors.htm>. 3. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, Action MA: XanEdu, 2016, Print, pages 27,32,37 4. NAMI: National Alliance On Mental Illness Learn More About Mental . Nami.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017 < http://www.nami.org/Learn-More/Mental-Health-Public- Policy/2017-National-Policy-Priorities> Knowles 6