McCullough 1 Taylor McCullough February 26, 2017 ENC 1102 Professor Phillips Rhetorical Appeals and The Florida Department of Environmental Protection Out of our entire galaxy, Earth is the only planet with life. It is the only planet that we as humans can have the privilege to live on. Yet our planet is treated so terribly and is weathering away day after day. The Florida Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) wants to change this. The DEP protects, conserves, and manages natural resources and enforces the environmental laws (Florida Department). Through the DEP Coastal Management Program has emerged and works to coordinate local, state, and federal agency activities using existing laws to ensure that coast is as valuable to future generations as it is today (Florida Department). Two other main goals the DEP focuses on through The Beach and Shore Preservation Act is to protect beaches from erosion, and to protect structures (Spahn). The DEP uses two photos on their website which are used to re-enforce these goals that the DEP has. The two images used by the DEP provide rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, and logos which are used to trigger readers to help protect beaches from erosion, protect structures, and make sure that coast is as valuable to future generations as it is today. The DEP is a key component to keeping coast clean. In doing so it has created a department within the DEP, the Florida Coastal Office (FCO). The FCO manages more than 4 million acres of valuable submerged lands and select coastal uplands in Florida (Florida Department). Through the DEP and FCO, Coastal Management Program has emerged. The goal of this program is to coordinate local, state, and federal agency activities using existing McCullough 2 laws to ensure that coast is as valuable to future generations as it is today (Florida Department). The Beach and Shore Preservation Act has also emerged as a plan of action to limit construction along coastline and focuses primarily on coastal construction regulation. The DEP also uses images to grasp the attention and call them to action through specific rhetoric appeals. One rhetorical appeal seen in both photos is ethos. Ethos represents credibility or an ethical appeal which involves persuasion by the character involved (Definition and Examples). This rhetorical appeal is a key component of earning the audiences trust and respect and sets their mindset for what you have to say. The DEP works hard to make sure that their information, research, and photos are all credible. The first photo, the beach scene, seems to be credible in itself. Society knows that our earth holds so much beauty, we just may not have the opportunity to see it every day. The DEP wants to relay a message to the audience through their credibility. By photographing the clean white sand and breathtaking sunset, the DEP wants the audience to crave this sight at every beach or shoreline they are in the presence in. The audience McCullough 3 then must understand that indeed there are places that look like this, just a matter of keeping your local community clean so it will look that way as well. The second photo, the construction machine, uses ethos to also make the audience understand that not only the source is credible, but to believe that this issue is really going on along coastlines. It also makes the source more credible because it shows the audience that they are aware of both sides of the issue by showing photos of each circumstance. Without ethos, the DEP would use a key component of gaining the audiences trust and support. An appeal that we mostly only see in image one is pathos. Pathos is a quality of an experience in life or a work of art that stirs up emotions of pity, sympathy, and sorrow (Definition and Examples). Pathos seems to be the most used rhetorical appeal in this photo. When you see this beautiful beach sunset it takes the reader to a place of joy and relaxation. It triggers a sense of peace inside the reader and makes you want to experience this every time you visit coast. The use of different colors in the photo also cause the audience to feel a certain way. For example, the color orange triggers a feeling of warmth, yellow triggers happiness, blue triggers calmness, and pink triggers love and gentleness (Color Psychology). When the audience looks at this photo and begins to feel all of these strong emotions come over them, it motivates them to make a change so they can experience these feelings first hand regardless of what beach they are visiting. Now taking a look at only photo two, the rhetorical appeal of logos is strongly present. Logos is a literary device that can be defined as a statement, sentence, or argument used to convince or persuade the targeted audience by employing reason or logic (Definition and Examples). Logos is strongly present in photo two by firstly counting on the reader to have common sense. If you ask anyone if they wanted to sit on the beach with construction machines McCullough 4 surrounding them, it is just logic that they would say no. As mentioned previously, people go to the beach to relax and feel peace and serenity, not to listen to jack hammers and cranes. Well, logically the only way to make this stop is to stop or limit construction along coastlines or on beaches. Photo two uses this machine as hope that the reader will logically think that this is the tragedy found on beaches and that we must get rid of this to experience the natural beauty the earth is trying to provide for us. The color that the DEP chose to use for the machine is also quite ironic as well. The color green represents growth and money which are the only two reasons companies build and construct on beaches and coastlines (Color Psychology). When the audience sees this hopefully they begin to think logically in that companies are only doing best for them, not the rest of society or nature. As you can see, there are many rhetorical appeals present in these photos used by the DEP. Even though some may be more present than others, all three elements of ethos, pathos, and logos are found within one photo or another. By using color, emotion, and common sense the DEP is able to gain their audiences trust and support to achieve the goals they work hard to pursue. The two images used by the DEP provide rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, and logos which are used to trigger readers to help protect beaches from erosion, protect structures, and make sure that coast is as valuable to future generations as it is today. McCullough 5 Works Cited Color Psychology: The Emotional Effects of  Art Therapy. N.p., 2007. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Definition and Examples of Literary  Literarydevices.net. Literary Devices, 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Florida Department of Environmental Protection. Florida Coastal Management Program. 07 December 2016. 26 February 2017. <http://www.dep.state.fl.us/cmp/>. Spahn, Kenneth E. The Beach and Shore Preservation  Regulating Coastal Construction in Florida XXIV (1995): 359.