1 Ying Mao ENC 1102 Project 2 02/23/17 Drunk Driving is Harmful Driving safety becomes a vital problem for everyone because it associates with life and property. Among all the dangerous driving, drunk driving is one of the most serious problems in the current society. There are so many organizations try to stop drunk driving, MADD is one of the organizations which are working on advertising the harms of drunk driving. The organization, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), is an organization found by a mother lost her daughter because of the drunk driving. This nonprofit organization aims to show the harmfulness of drunk driving and persuade all people do not try to drive after drinking any alcohol, the results of drunk driving are much serious than people can imagine. On the website of this organization, there is so many information about the drunk driving, such as two minutes, a person is injured in a drunk driving average, two in three people will be involved in a drunk driving crash in their The organization also provides the photos of the car accidents which caused by drunk driving and the photo of people who were killed by the drunk driving accidents. This organization provides data and photos to persuade people do not drink and drive. There are two photos have shown the importance of avoiding drunk driving. The 2 first photo has been taken at night on the highway, a car was terrible broken and stopped on the road. The whole part of the head of the car was ruined, the airbags came out, an ambulance was behind the car, and some policemen were working next to the ambulance. And the second photo is a family photo, the girl who was wearing a graduate cap and gown was surround by her parents on both sides. The photo shows that the girl just graduated from college, her smile was beautiful who looks like be hopeful to her bright future after the graduation. And the whole family looks so happy and peaceful. Both of them have used great rhetorical appeals to strengthen the effects to make a greater impression of audiences. The first photo used Pathos which is scared to tell audiences that if they do the drunk driving, they may have this result that he or she has to be sent to the hospital and the car cannot be fixed. Although they do not want it happen the car accident may happen on them, they will lose they family, future, and life. The broken car, opened airbags, and ambulance all makes the audience scared about the result if they do drunk driving. It is a good rhetorical appeal because audiences will imagine that they will be put into the ambulance, be sent to the hospital, get a citation from the police, and lose the car forever if they get a car accident. Every audience will be scared by the result of having a terrible car accident which is caused by drunk driving. The first photo also uses Logos; this car accident is a good example that people will have a car accident if they drink alcohol which stops people try to do it. Alcohol reduces the attentions, sight, and logical thinking ability of the driver, most of the people think they can drive after drinking, however, the fact is not, they might 3 lose control of the car when they are inattentive. The second photo has used Ethos because the resource of the photo is ABC News, which is an American famous TV station which focuses on making news and can be trusted by audiences because it only reports current news which never adds personal bias. The credibility of the photo can make people trust that drunk driving will cause horrible results. Moreover, Pathos of the second photo is using the feeling of sad. Because most of the people will feel the girl is poor because she lost her life because of somebody fault. She just started her new life; she could have a wonderful future if there were no car accident, no drunk driver. But the accident killed her everything and ruined a happy family. People will think about the feelings of the victims and their family and stop drunk driving because they do not want to make more people heartbroken by drunk driving. The second photo also has used Logos; audiences know that drunk driving will kill an innocent person such as this girl. More families and young people will be hurt or killed by drunk driving if people do not stop doing it. It is necessary for the organization to persuade people do not do drunk driving, because drunk driving cased too many deaths and ruins. Drunk driving is hurting so many families every year, more than 9,967 people were killed in the drunk driving accident (CDC). The report (CDC) also introduced: for nearly one-third (31%) of all traffic-related deaths in the United States. Of the 1,070 traffic deaths among children ages 0 to 14 years in 2014, 209 (19%) involved an alcohol-impaired a lot of drivers, their families, and poverty have been ruined by drunk driving 4 every year. Stopping people from doing drunk driving is necessary which is not only for saving the lives of drunk drivers, but also other innocent passages and drivers who get involved in the accident. Both photos used wonderful appeals to persuade people to think about the feelings if they make car accidents which might hurt their body, families, and other people and their families. The feelings will be remembered when they get into a car and try to turn on the engine; they will not drive after drinking because they do not want those situations to happen on them. Therefore, it is necessary for organization, such as MADD, to use data and photos to help people understand why they should stop driving and drinking. It is a responsibility for everyone to protect their own other and safety when they are driving on road. Drunk driving is not only hurting the drivers themselves but also killing passengers and innocent drivers, nobody should try to drive when he or she is drunk. Both photos use different views to persuade readers, one is from view, while another is from innocent passenger, they gave excellent examples, motivations, and emotions to tell readers how serious is any drunk driving. To think about the results, to think about the feelings of their families, to think about other innocent graduation young people die for drunk driving, to think about the broken families appeared every 3 minutes, all the drivers will regret what they have done and stop drunk driving in the future. In conclusion, Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) has done a wonderful job that it not only provides a lot of facts and information about the drunk driving but 5 also gives a lot of photos to audiences which make them think about the results of driving after drinking alcohol. The photos of the broken car and a happy family both tell the audiences that if the audience does not want to be sent to the hospital and lose the car, and break s family and dreams, stopping drunk driving is necessary. (Word count: 1224) Work Cited Mothers Against Drunk Driving. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.madd.org/about-us/. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.madd.org/drunk-driving/about/understanding-08.html?referrer=http:/ /www.madd.org/drunk-driving/about/drunk-driving-statistics.html. 6 Photo 1. A broken car on the highway Photo 2. A victim who died for drunk driving and her family