Jackson 1 Christian Jackson Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.12 3/30/2017 Do We Still Need the Electoral College? The electoral college is the tool that this country has used to determine who will become the president and vice president for generations, so the intense discussion about the electoral college is nothing new for it has been raging on since the birth of our nation. There are two sides of this conversation: those who support the electoral college voting system because they believe it is still a relevant tool in determining who the future president will be and those who oppose the electoral college voting system for they believe it needs to be changed in major ways or abolished entirely because they feel it no longer needed to determine the president. The three main points in this essay will cover are: the overall structure of the electoral college and an analysis of some of the main proposals that revolve around changing the current system, what the anti-electoral college voices believe should be done with the current electoral college voting system and how it can be changed or abolished entirely with some of the proposals they have presented throughout the conversation, and a balanced view on the conversation will be presented by understanding what the pro-electoral college voices are saying and what are the problems with some of the proposals the anti-electoral college voices believe should replace the current system. The debate over whether the electoral college is still effective in determining future presidents has changed in relatively minor manners and theories such as the direct election proposal have remained consistent over the years, but the voices have changed and new scenarios have arisen that have amplified this debate. Jackson 2 The electoral college has a well-established structure, but some, primarily those who support on the anti-electoral college stance and a few of the pro-electoral college supporters who want some minor changes to be made, have always believed the electoral college could be improved or needed to be abolished entirely so a variety of different proposals to amend or replace the electoral college have been presented overtime. Gerald Webster, a professor of the Department of Geography at the University of Wyoming who is the author of an article that has been peer reviewed and that was written in 2016, and Estes Kefauver, the author of an article that was written in 1962, discuss the overall structure of the electoral college and they analyze some of the main proposals that revolve around changing the electoral college voting system or change the way it is conducted that have been presented ever since the birth of this nation. Webster established the basics of how the overall electoral college voting system operates during the election with this statement: Political parties with nominees running for the presidency file lists of candidates to be electors in each state. If a state has five electoral votes, all political parties contesting the election in the state will submit a slate of five potential electors. The candidates from the winning party, whether receiving a majority or plurality of the popular vote, then become the electors. On the Monday after the second Wednesday in December after a presidential election, the electors meet in the respective state capitals and cast their votes for a president and vice president. The electoral votes are then sealed and sent to Washington, DC, where they are opened and read on January 6 to both houses of Congress. If the candidates for president and vice president have majorities of the electoral votes, they are sworn into office on January 20. If no one has a majority of the electoral votes, the Jackson 3 House decides who is president from the top three contenders, with each state getting one vote regardless of population. Similarly, the Senate decides who is vice president from the top two candidates, with each state getting a single vote. In both cases, the winning candidate must have a majority of the states voting in their favor. (102) Webster observed that the Founding Fathers also discussed of the different ways the electoral college should be conducted just as modern voices are still doing so: One idea was to have the Congress select the president, but this option was rejected for several a second option was to allow state legislatures to select the the direct election of the president was also considered, but there was insufficient support for its selection. (101) Just as Webster said the direct national solution was considered by the (101) and many, primarily those are against the current electoral college system, still believe it should be the primary voting system that should replace the current electoral college system, but it never gained enough support within Congress during the early years of this country and it still most likely will not win, Kefauver, just like our Founding Fathers and Webster, said this: The most frequent argument made against direct national election in the Congress is that it would be futile for Congress to submit such an amendment to the states; that it would have no chance of ramification by three-fourths of the states because thirty-six of them have added weight in the election of the President by reason of the electoral college system. (195) The electoral college voting system is the tool the United States of America has been using to elect the president and vice president for many generations, so when you understand how critical Jackson 4 this political device has been within this deeply rooted foundation for so long, it is easy to see why this conversation has been so heavily debated by so many different well established voices that have appeared throughout the conversation over the past decades. Those who strongly oppose the established electoral college system believe the system needs to be radically amended or it needs to be abolished entirely and a voting process needs to take its place. Benjamin Bollinger, the author of an article that has been peer reviewed and that was written in 2007, and Richard Lampert, a professor at the University of Michigan who was one of several authors who wrote an article in 2017, present an effective and logical anti- electoral college stance in multiple ways. Bollinger strongly supports the anti-electoral college stance for he believes it is an unbalanced system that needs to be changed or abolished like other voices on his side of the conversation believe should occur and he supports this stance by using accurate research that he has accumulated and viewed overtime: According to the 2000 census, population was 33,871,648, giving it fifty-five electoral votes. Wyoming, the least populous state, had only 493, 782 residents, earning it three electoral votes. In other words, California gets one electoral vote per 615,848 residents; Wyoming receives one vote per 164, 594 residents. That is nearly a 4:1 ratio in favor of Wyoming. (180) Lampert believes the electoral college needs to be severely amended or abolished altogether so that the majority vote can take precedence on who will become the next president of this country, so he made this powerful statement regarding the current electoral college voting system, democracy means the majority rules, the Electoral College is an undemocratic (18). Just as there has always been those who seek to severely amend the electoral college or abolish it entirely, the electoral college has always had a strong number of supporters who Jackson 5 believe the bulk of the system is fine the way it is. Michael W. McConnell, a professor at Stanford University Law School who was one of several authors who wrote an article in 2017, and Kefauver present a fair, balanced and at times positive stance on the electoral in a variety of ways. Michael W. McConnell seems to believe the debate on whether the electoral college voting system is still necessary in determining who the future president will be will remain the way it is, so he provides a logical stance on the current electoral college system by saying this, Electoral College is not going to be changed, and there are far more urgent and promising topics for reform of our presidential selection (24). McConnell also believes there are other parts of the presidential election system that need to be reformed for he encourages American citizens to hard, and quickly about how to reform three aspects of the presidential nomination process: the debates, the primary elections, and the (26) which is helpful advice both sides of the argument should take into serious consideration because many different factors go into determining who the next president will be-not just the electoral college voting system. Kefauver displays a balanced stance on the electoral college because he discusses the issues with the current electoral college system, but he also talks about the issues that appear within each of the major proposals that people believe should replace the current voting system. The conversation on whether the electoral college should still be used going forward within our presidential elections has been a tense discussion for generations and many of the same theories that have existed since the birth of our nation are still around, but the conversation as a whole has changed in relatively minor manners because new voices like Webster and Kefauver are simply building upon concepts that have already been established. By analyzing the historical and modern context for the electoral college and looking at the pro and anti-electoral Jackson 6 college stances for the debate, you can easily see that the conversation of whether the electoral college is still necessary in determining the president and vice president will continue to thrive. Jackson 7 Works Cited Benjamin, Bollinger. Abolishing The Electoral International Social Science Review. (2007): 182-186. Academic OneFile. Web. January 2017. Kefauver, Estes. Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New Law and Contemporary Problems. 27.2. (Spring 1962): 188-212. JSTOR Journals. Web. January 2017. Lampert, Richard, Michael W. McConnell, et al. Pros and Cons of the Electoral College Congressional Digest. 96.1. (January 2017): 18-31. Web. January 2017. Webster, Gerald. Purpose, Structure and Limitations of the Electoral The Geography Teacher. 13.3 (Jul-Sep 2016): 101-105. Web. January 2017.