McMahon 1 Jennifer McMahon Adam Phillips ENC1102.026 12 March 2017 Standing Up for the Garment Workers The fashion industry has taken a toll recently through the act of fast fashion, in which many retailers will use cheap materials and labor to imitate fashion runway styles (Bhardwaj 165). It not only hinders the planet due to the landfills becoming polluted, but it also hurts the labor force involved. Garment workers from different countries are usually placed in poor conditions or get paid poorly, and Fashion Revolution wants everyone to be aware of this horrid truth. Fashion Revolution is a non-profit organization that spreads awareness through many forms, such as photography, to let people wonder made my In fact, two of the photos shown let people wonder that specific question with not only actual garment workers, but also other figures of the fashion industry such as fashion models. Both images use ethos, pathos, and logos to address the argument that garment workers should receive the respect and working conditions that they deserve. Everyone in the fashion industry, whether they are an Indian garment worker or a fashion model, should be valued equally. As a fairly large organization, Fashion Revolution brainstorms different strategies every year in order to bring their motives to the surface. They believe that can be made in a safe, clean and beautiful way. Where creativity, quality, environment and people are valued One of the main components used in their campaigns is photography, where they use the juxtaposition of the curiosity of who put forth the labor into making clothes with a person that works in the industry. As the annual Revolution McMahon 2 comes near, they want to campaign as effectively as possible in order to spread their thoughts out to consumers of fast fashion. With the photographs, it gives Fashion Revolution an advantage as they strive to achieve equality in the fashion industry. The organization believes that these consumers should be knowledgeable on how much fast fashion not only harms the planet, but the people in it as well. In order for Fashion Revolution to establish their credibility in terms of what they promote about fast fashion, they use people, such as garment workers and models, as the dominant subjects in both photos to present ethos. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, ethos is method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (McKee 27). In this case, Fashion Revolution wants to show their audience how credible their research is through their photographs. In the first photo, they present two cotton farmers in Kasrawad, Madhya Pradesh, India (Fashion Revolution). In their campaign, they ask consumers made your in order to spark curiosity. Since last year, the question sparked interest in people around the world; which created lots of retailers to respond to the curious consumers. heard from over 2,600 producers, garment workers and makers, who used Instagram and Twitter to tell the world #imadeyourclothes, and share their (Fashion Revolution). With garment workers revealing themselves, just like the one in this photo, it gives consumers of fast fashion a reason McMahon 3 to change their perspective when it comes to their clothes. The other photo, although composed of different components, presents ethos in a similar way. The one model that switched her clothes for the words made my written on her body show authority towards the organization because it is the same type of font style that is used in all of the campaign photos. Not only that, but on the screen in the background of the photo has Fashion logo. This indicates that they staged this photo specifically for their campaign. Fashion Revolution wants to persuade consumers not only with photos taken with garment workers, but in others way that will provoke a reason to change clothing habits. As the photo imitates a setting similar to a typical runway fashion show in contrast with the question, it will spark connection between Fashion message and the consumers who can potentially make the change. Another appeal that both photos use to encourage the idea that garment treatment should be improved is pathos. By using this rhetorical appeal, the intention is to to help an audience connect with the argument or (Lee 37). This rhetorical device focuses more so on how the audience connects with the message emotionally instead of with reason, like the previous appeal. Furthermore, the first photo uses the garment workers as a way to lead the audience into connecting with the overall message. It presents an example of who could be making clothes, which makes the audience feel McMahon 4 sympathetic for the garment workers. According to Andrew Dlugan, concrete visual element opens many more emotional pathways than abstract words Consequently, when Fashion Revolution presents a visual of the two garment workers, it gives the audience more emotion in comparison to words about the garment workers by itself. Through sympathy, the audience will realize that everyone is human alike and will give the garment workers acknowledgement, which is partially Fashion mission. The second photo works in a similar way. Although it does not use a garment worker for sympathy, it uses an instance where the audience could have gotten too involved with the materialism of fashion week. Typically, when one is watching a fashion show, she does not usually think about how much work it took to create the outfit that the model is wearing. In Rhetoric Really Matters, Julie Gerdes mentions theory is based on the simple maxim that the sum of the whole is greater than its parts, and it is fundamental to visual (334). When taking this theory into consideration when analyzing the second photo, it proves how the overall setting of the photo connects the audience to the overall message. Fashion goal is to show how the consumers of fast fashion are creating the fad of fast fashion bigger, which leads the garment workers not getting rewarded as much as they should. Simultaneously, both photos use logos to give the logic of the following issue to the audience which leads them into thinking of the unstated assumption that references the garment workers under appreciation. According to Rhetoric Really Matters, logos applies enthymemes, which is a three-part device that is provided for the audience. The last part is known to be the unstated assumption, which holds the underlying value that the photography wants the audience to assume (Lane 34). For instance, the logic within the first photo is that one should wonder who made their clothes because it could possibly be these two garment workers. The photo, however, McMahon 5 does not promote that all garment workers are not treated as well as they should be. This is the underlying meaning because that is the main argument Fashion Revolution is campaigning for. The organization wants this question to spread more and more, so that brands and retailers will share information about their garment workers. This strategy will not only present the consumers information about the following retailers, but it will open their eyes as to why fast fashion is becoming out of hand. The second photo reads the same way as the first, in which there is an underlying meaning through the visual rhetoric. In this case, the photographer wants the audience to assume that the models are just as curious as they are when it comes to who made their clothes. It emphasizes the fact that even the model who walks down the runway to give the retailer recognition does not even know who originally created the pieces. Logos plays an important role in both of these photos because it forces the audience to understand the negative consequences that fast fashion brings to the labor force in the fashion industry, which is what Fashion Revolution opposes. Overall, Fashion Revolution believes that equality, whether it is for the people working in the fashion industry or the environment, should be valued. The organization uses ethos, pathos, and logos to promote that the garment workers who put forth physical labor to make clothes are not getting the accreditation and working conditions that they deserve. Whether it is by showing an example of these workers or giving the audience an underlying realization of how horrid the industry is, fast fashion is pushing the garment workers to live poorly compared to everyone else in the industry. Everyone should take a moment to consider how equality, a common word used in world, is not accompanying the garment workers who get placed in poor conditions. They work diligently just for the clothes on backs and all of that hard work should be paid off. McMahon 6 Works Cited Bhardwaj, Vertica, and Ann Fairhurst. Fashion: Response to Changes in the Fashion The International Review of Retail, Distribution and Consumer Research, vol. 20, no. 1, February 2010, pp. 165-173. Accessed 26 February 2017. 2016 Impact, Fashion Revolution, fashionrevolution.org/about/2016-impact/. Accessed 26 February 2017. Dlugan, Andrew. Paths to Pathos: How to Connect with Your Speaking and Presentation Skills, Six Minutes, 15 Mar. 2010, Accessed 11 Mar. 2017. Gerdes, Julie, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, 2016, pp.331-337, E-text. Accessed 11 March 2017. Lane, Emily, et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, 2016, pp.32-36, E-text. Accessed 11 March 2017. Lee, Kendra G., et al. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, 2016, pp.37-40, E-text. Accessed 11 March 2017. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation, 2016, pp.27-31, E-text. Accessed 11 March 2017. Our Team, Fashion Revolution, fashionrevolution.org/about/our-team/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Made My Brands, Wholesalers, Retailers and Distributors, Fashion Revolution, fashionrevolution.org/get-involved/brands/. Accessed 26 February 2017. McMahon 7