Mouro 1 Mary Mouro Phillips Adam ENC1102.026 12 March 2017 Same Sex Adoption Adoption is transferring all rights and responsibilities of a child or baby permanently from biological parents to new parents. Some people say that children need both a mother and a father to raise them. But there are others who believes that gender does not matter when parenting. Actually we have number of organizations fight and support both ideas to prove wrong the other side where their main purpose to help the community and prepare the best environment for children from their own perspectives. One of the organizations that agrees on same sex parents to adopt is the Family Equality Council (FEC). FEC fights for same sex rights for adoption and to have family and children to share and communicate their value. Their goal is to guarantee equality and fairness for same sex couples to be happy and to have the right to raise children. The FEC also connects other local families with same sex parents to provide a supporting educational environment. FEC continuously developed many and different ways and options to support families and spread the word of peace and awareness; one of these method is advertising and outreach new communities. One of their visual advertising tool is including four images of successful family pictures involving at least a parent and a child that are loving, happy and smiling. In another advertisement they used an image that has in big bold writing Both images are supporting for spreading a happy family possibilities and right with no discrimination. The first image used logos, ethos, and pathos; while the second Mouro 2 image used ethos, pathos, and kairos. FEC uses two advertisement produces awareness for adoptive family and amplifying of family and love comes together despite of gender. Family Equality Council works highly for same sex family and serve them to choose happiness over hurt, their specialty to provide comprehensive environment for all children who have same sex parents. FEC implants on linking other local families with same sex parents with each other where it is a great idea and system to provide family network to support educational environment learn experience and even more healthy. There is no proof for lesbian and gay parents to be unfit for the parenting roles. Family Equality Council work hard on connecting LGBTQ people all around in the same area that they live in so they can have support. The FEC organization aims and works toward achieving their moto which is love, justice, family, equality as stated in their website Equality Council FEC advertisements are oriented toward connecting to the audience through emotion. First Image Mouro 3 Secound Image Logos is appeal to logic, where the importance of the argument is making it clear and logical so that the audience can follow the argument (Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs 32). We can see it in the first image they use the words: love, justice, family, and equality. This logo contains the most two important idea where love and family are represent emotional connections and justice and equality represent social fairness. These words together are representing what they are offering and confirming in their message. The words family and equality are also included in their organization name so it is emphasizing on having a family without any discrimination. Ethos is the appeal to ethics by convincing the audience of their credibility and their authority (Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs 27). In the first picture we see that they have their website written on the bottom right. This give the advertisement credibility that there is a website to back up their statement. And that gives the audience a chance to go and visit the website and see for themselves the credibility of the source and the work FEC does to spread the work and achieve their goal. As for the second image we can see the logo of the stakeholder on the far right where it is two circles joint together as well as the two colors that are also mixed in middle of the two circles. The evidence of official symbol of organization in way letting the Mouro 4 audience that it is a conformed message. The second image also has a website and a direction in the website to where you can go and read more about it. Pathos is the appeal to emotions, it is mostly used to be able to connect with the audience (Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs 37). It is present in the first image where there are four pictures that all have at least a parent and a child. Also all the people in the picture are close, happy, and smiling. The pictures are clearly showing parents with their children having a good time even though they are from the same sex. It is emphasizing the possibility of having a joyful time in a family atmosphere. Also in the first image the background is filled with light colors that are almost white in the center and graduate to light gray at the edges from left and right. That gives the images sense of clearness and calmness that goes with the rest of pictures. Plus with a light background it cancels out all other noise to bring to the surface the four family pictures. As for the second image it has the word adoption in a large bold font so that it can emphasizes the emotional package that is usually associated with the word adoption. The second image is composed of three colors; dark red and dark orange for the background, and white for the writing. The contrast between the two colors brings out the word more and will be more noticeable to the audience (Hyojin, Lee, et al. 1029). Also, using the color white can help promote a specific feature and bring the consumer focused to it (Hyojin, Lee, et al. 1027). The wording can also play part in the audience emotions. Where they end it in a question mark and leave the answer which is their website underneath the question mark. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness, the propitious moment for their decision or another way of thinking about kairos is to write down the right thing at the right time (Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs 41) and get the abortion rights documented. Kairos is present in the second image where they have the words as in join us now at this moment support the cause of Mouro 5 adoption and help FEC community to reach its goal. Adding the explanation mark at the end is carrying out the sense of urgency. This make the audience contribute to there cause. In conclusion, both of the image where able to deliver the message of the stakeholder. Family is united even if it is from same sex parents, and that it does not have to be a traditional family to be happy, healthy and perfect. The first image had logos present in the words: love. Justice. Family. And ethos that included the website. Lastly, Pathos where the four pictures of family focuses on child cheerfulness to attract the audience. As for the second image ethos was present in the word with a question mark. Also pathos was used with the dramatic white bold and big writing that contrast with dark red orange background. And finally, it included kairos in the words From analyzing both images the stakeholder FEC is able to attract the right audience for their movement. Mouro 6 Works Cited Family Equality Council. Familyequality.org, 3 Feb. 2017. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters : Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, Massachusetts : XanEdu, 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t00847a&AN=usflc.034570613&site=eds-live. Hyojin, Lee, et al. Monochrome Forests and Colorful Trees: The Effect of Black-And-White Versus Color Imagery on Construal  Journal of Consumer Research, vol. 41, no. 4, Dec. 2014, pp. 1015-1032. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1086/678392. Isaacs, Richard C.A. A Relationship Driven Approach to the Identification of a Color Test Protocol for the Presumptive Indication of Synthetic Cannabimimetic Drugs of  Forensic Science International, vol. 242, 01 Sept. 2014, pp. 135-141. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.forsciint.2014.06.027.