Riddley 1 Jacob Riddley Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 26 February 2017 Bullying For years now, bullying has been known to be a world-wide catastrophe. Whether it be at an early age, early adulthood, or even as an elder, it has never been supported by society but always seems to be alright to those committing the acts. When reviewing bullying, the one kind that has always been the most detrimental is bullying at the age of adolescences. Bullying can take a huge toll on a being, physically and mentally. It can cause emotional break downs and even serious self-inflected consequences. Even though bullying does not affect everyone, it can come in all kinds of forms. The question that continuously arises is how bullying truly affects ones being. It is important to know that no matter the circumstances, bullying is never considered acceptable. Bullying can cause damage to emotions and actions, even though 26 % of all teachers believe that little teasing (Juvonen). The consequences of such forms of bullying are evident in extreme circumstances such as school shootings, suicide, etc. The effects of bullying have stayed consistent throughout history, with more recent research demonstrating that cyber bullying is taking on an increasingly large role in the lives of teenagers. As evidenced by various sources the effects of bullying have transformed over time from direct confrontation to bullying in the cyber space. In order to analyze modern cyber bullying, it is essential to look to the beginning of the decade and into traditional bullying. Traditional bullying takes place in the school setting itself and research indicates drastic physical effects. Among the most evident consequences of Riddley 2 traditional bullying are instances of drug and alcohol abuse among victims, specifically men (Riittakerttu). Among girls, those who have been cyber bullied from a young age, have shown frequent symptoms of eating disorders (Riittakerttu). These disorders root from females attempting to display the perfect image and defy the bullying comments they are constantly receiving regarding their physical attributes and whether they fit into the socially accepted image of what is. Evidently in the early bullying in the school setting lead to the abuse of ones physical form, rooting from a direct form of bullying. Furthermore, the victims of traditional bullying have reported symptoms of social anxiety, and stemming from a feeling of isolation from bullies (Juvonen). Although bullying usually occurs between two people rather than a large population against one individual, these individualistic feelings of loneliness are constant among the victim population. In addition, the anxiety rooted from the early stages of bullying can cause young students to be reluctant to interact with other students later in life and have serious social problems. Both researchers indicate the same crucial concept, traditional bullying makes more individualistic damage on the victim. In the modern society that we currently live in we must first analyze bullying in the cyber-world. Social media dominates the lives of students who are constantly searching for the approval of the world around them more than ever. Sites such as Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram have consumed the lives of are youth commencing from grades 6-8, making it crucial that we address the 18 percent of this population that has claimed to face cyber bullying (Kowalski). This research indicates that rather than facing bullying in a traditional setting bullies have chosen to harm their victims through the digital net. Contrary to traditional schoolyard bullying this research indicates that bullying is a of retaliating for bullying that occurred at This victimized population is constantly put under the pressure of bullying in there Riddley 3 own home. Many of these young students view social media as an outlet from the stressed caused from daily schoolyard bullies. In confiscating their cyber sanctuary, bullies can cause internal frustration among a young developing population. The importance of the middle school population is further highlighted in a study done among 1000 students, where students reported facing the most bullying from the ages 12-14 (Jones). This modern study emphasizes the fact that young students are primarily exposed to social media sites between these ages and if exposed to cyber bullying there outlets for cyber recreation are further compromised by the malicious grasp of bullies. In addition, this research adds to Robin Kowalskis results by emphasizing the fact that the modern bullied population tends to join into groups. The accessibility of the Internet has made bullying easier the ever, and both researchers indicate that victims tend to group themselves causing longer lasting psychological effects. The problems demonstrated between both time periods are display that the effects of bullying are timeless. However, in the bullying could be found in the playground, in the classroom, and during lunchtime. In the modern the bullying has changed landscape and escalated to the cyber universe. Although the terrain for bullying has changed, the psychological toll that bullying takes on a human will never grow old. Evident by the various personality effects that are consistent throughout victims, the anxiety bullying brings to a victim can last a lifetime. The research is clear, bullying must be stopped and the effects are more clear than ever- the longer society waits, the more drastic the effects will become. WC: 877 Riddley 4 Works Cited Juvonen, Jaana. the School Grounds?- Bullying Experiences in Journal of School Health 78.9 (2008): 496-505. Print. Kowalski, Robin. Physical, and Academic Correlates of Cyberbullying and Traditional Bullying. of Adolescent Health. Elsevier, July 2013. Web. 8 Mar. 2017. Riittakerttu, Kaltiala-Heino. at school- an indicator of adolescnets at risk for mental Journal of Adolescence 23.6 (2000): 661-674. Print. Sian Emily Jones, Antony S.R. Manstead, Andrew G. Livingstone. and Belonging: Reports of School Frontline Learning Research 2.1 (2014): 67- 77. Print.