Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Causes and treatments for Depression and Anxiety among College Students Throughout the years, researchers and psychiatrists have changed their views on the causes of depression and anxiety. During the years of 2009 and 2010, researchers thought that college students deal with depression and anxiety due to their fear of failure or exams pressure. However, over time, researchers have realized that there are many other reasons such as social media and lifestyle that would cause them to become depressed. The treatment methods have also differed throughout the years. Before the year of 2014, researchers have thought that main treatments for depression and anxiety in general were medication and psychiatry. Even though these treatments were beneficial for many college students, however the number of students suffering from depression and anxiety was increasing over the years. Although, the methods that researchers use to conduct these experiments have not differed throughout the years, but the results differed each time. Though researchers thought that depression and anxiety among college students is school correlated, in more recent years, researchers realized that lifestyle and social media affects them too. The article prevalence and correlates of depression, anxiety, and stress in a sample of college was published in 2009. According to the article, the main causes of college depression and anxiety were academic performance, pressure to succeed, and postgraduate plans. Also, the authors mentioned in the article that the most stressed, anxious, and depressed students were transfers, upperclassmen, and those living (1) (Beiter et al. Student 2 6). During 2009 and 2010, psychologists and researchers linked college depression and anxiety among students to school reasons. The treatment methods researchers tried to develop were all related to school which was probably what caused the increase in the number of students who suffered from depression and anxiety. According to the Suicide and depression among college the main reasons for depression and anxiety among college students were grade problems, relationship problems, loneliness, and financial issues. This article was published in 2010, which shows why the purposed reasons were mainly school issues. However, this article, not only presents the causes, but also purposes some of the solutions that students suggested. Some of the treatment methods students suggested were having a more understanding faculty on college campuses, individual counseling, more college activities, and study groups. (2) (Westefeld and Furr 119) In 2014, the article medicine for was published. This article has showed depression is not only because of school but also lifestyle. Medication and psychiatry are not the only treatment methods for depression and anxiety, but also a healthier lifestyle can affect the level of depression and anxiety. Throughout the previous years the treatment methods for depression and anxiety were not helping much. Also, the the number of students who suffer from depression and anxiety kept on increasing. According to the article, prevalence of depression appears to have increased over the past three (Sarris 2) This has led researchers to discover new treatment methods such as following a healthy diet, exercising, and reducing the amount of nicotine and alcohol intake. Also, this article mentions that being more socially involved can help students reduce their depression and anxiety. The article and depression among college has mentioned that loneliness can be a cause for depression and anxiety. This shows that during the year of 2010, researchers already knew that social Student 3 involvement and loneliness can affect health, however researchers have still not realized that the lifestyle affects students too. The article use, envy, and depression among college students: Is Facebooking have also claimed that loneliness can affect students and cause them to suffer from depression and anxiety. This article, published in 2015, shows that social media can affect students negatively when used excessively. The article shows that Facebook envy convinces the user that everyone is happy except him/her. Facebook envy is the feeling a person receives when he/she believes that all their friends are happy and starts wishing the opposite for them. Although some researchers disagreed with this claim, Facebook can cause students to feel depressed when used excessively. According to Ferrucci, Facebook users tend to feel higher levels of Facebook envy than light Facebook (4) (141). Social media can also cause students to believe that they have many friends, when in reality they are alone. This can also cause students to feel depressed whenever they feel lonely. In conclusion, researchers have developed many causes and treatment methods for depression and anxiety over time. In the beginning, researchers thought that the causes of depression among students are school correlated. However, over time, researchers have realized that not only school affects students, but also their lifestyle and usage for social media affects health. Also, the treatment methods for depression and anxiety have changed over time such as eating healthy and exercising in stead of medication and psychiatry. Hopefully, later on, researchers would find different treatment methods and the number of students suffering from depression and anxiety would decrease. Student 4 Works cited: Beiter, R., R. Nash, M. Mccrady, D. Rhoades, M. Linscomb, M. Clarahan, and S. The prevalence and correlates of depression, anxiety, and stress in a sample of college  Journal of Affective Disorders 173:2 (2009): 90-96. Web. 5 February 2017. Westefeld, John S., and Susan R. Furr. Suicide and depression among college  Professional Psychology 18:2 (2010): 119-23. USF library. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Jerome, Sarris, Adrienne Carolyn Coulson, Isaac Schweitzer, Michael Berk. medicine for BMC Psychiatry 14:1 (2014): 1-28. USF library. Web. 19 February 2017. Tandoc, Edson C., Patrick Ferrucci, and Margaret Duffy. Facebook use, envy, and depression among college students: Is facebooking  Computers in Human Behavior 43:2 (2015):139-146. Web. 2 February 2017.