Thompson 1 Khalani Thompson Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102 2/27/17 Play and Rhetoric in Images Charitable organizations are the source of much good in world. They enrich several lives, and in many cases are responsible for saving lives as well. play is charity that contributes to this paradigm. To achieve their goals Play must convince others there is a problem, and that they themselves are a capable enough organization to handle it. One way they accomplish this is to make an argument for their cause using two images. One image depicts a live charity event in the form of a ping pong tournament. Another image depicts a young child in a wheelchair holding a basket of games smiling. By observing their background and motivations, these two images published by play make an argument that they care about children and that they are capable enough to perform their desired role and the responsibilities that accompany it rhetorical appeals of kairos, ethos, and pathos. Play is a charitable organization that was founded in 2003. Their mission is improve the lives of children in hospitals and domestic violence shelters through the generosity and kindness of the video game industry through the power of Play was founded by two web-comic artists in opposition to the negative stigma that gamers and games had in many lives. Since then they have raised of forty-million dollars in the name of their cause. The primary way that play supports children is organizing with hospitals to send Thompson 2 children or families in need either money or video games to help ease their hospital stay. In image 2 the results of this effort are displayed as the child in the picture enjoys the gifts sent to them b Play. Play raises funds in a variety of different ways. Often times they organize different charity events, like Ping Pong tournaments, charity auctions, or gaming streams. One example of such a charity event is depicted in image 1. In image 1 a ping pong event hosted by Play is depicted. play is using this image to argue that they can unify and bring people together; and that they are qualified to do so. This is an example of the rhetorical appeal of ethos. Ethos is way of establishing trust with his or her (Hoffman and Wiggs 20). One way that they utilize ethos In this image is their inclusion of one of the sponsors, a that represents The sponsor on display is Bungie, a prolific figure in the gaming industry. One of their franchises, Halo, has made over 3 billion dollars in revenue (Taven). Another one of their franchises, Destiny has had over 30 million registered users since its release in 2013 (Briers). Much of audience are gamers that would recognize a company like banner immediately. Seeing that Bungie is involved provides much credibility to the operations of Play to their audience, as opposed to a company fewer would know about such as a smaller game independent studio. Using Bungie as well provides more with respect to convincing their audience than using a group from a less related field such as Publix, a grocery market chain. Another example of ethos Thompson 3 incorporated in this image is Play banner displayed form the ceiling, this communicates that they are responsible for the event to viewers of the photograph. The elements of ethos in this photograph help to reinforce the argument that Play is capable and qualified to take on the moral responsibility of their mission statement by displaying their ability to acquire a prime sponsor and to have that sponsor displayed under their own banner. The utilization of presence in image 1 is not only an example of ethos, but an example of kairos as well. Kairos is an to and additionally, relevance in this case. In both images Play utilizes this rhetorical element (Hoffman and Wiggs 41). They use Kairos to make the argument that they are both modern and with their audience. Bungie on top of being a very credible and prolific company is very relevant. With an upcoming sequel in Destiny 2 on the horizon, their inclusion has much more impact to their audience than that of a defunct or less relevant company such as THQ games. In image 2 kairos is also employed. In the image a girl is holding a basket full of games sent to her by Play. In the basket are games like Super Mario Bros for the Nintendo Wii and Nintendo DS platforms. But in addition to those, there are many games based on movies included. Among the titles are movies such as Toy Story 3, Tangled and Ice Age. All of these movies are ones published within 2 years of the publication of this photo in 2012. In addition to being relatively new titles, they are ones that would be most relevant to a preteen child. By showing this selection Thompson 4 of games it indicates to viewers and their audience that know how to connect with children, the subject of their charitable efforts. A movie review of Tangled written by Richard Corliss in TIME Magazine describes the movie as to young girls and praised the heroine as a role model. If the child was holding copies of The Godfather: The Video Game and Rambo, the smile on their face might not be as pronounced. If play had included those games they run the risk of coming across as uninvolved or out of touch with their audience. Another example of kairos would be in the platforms. The games all perform on what would be modern gaming platforms at the time, as opposed to an Atari console from the Image 2 also incorporates another rhetorical appeal as well to appeal to its audience. Play utilizes pathos, appeal to and can be used in order to an audience connect with an argument or (Hoffman and Wiggs 37). Play utilizes pathos in this image in order to argue that they are providing a morally ethical and good service to others. They also hope to inspire their audience to participate by contributing to their cause. In the image a girl is sitting in a wheel chair with bandages tubes on her arm. These elements indicate that she is in a hospital receiving medical care. It is natural to feel innate sympathy towards others in less fortunate circumstances. In an article, by C. Taylor published in The Journal of Ethics entitled Taylor claims sympathy is essential element of a moral The emotion of sympathy is what Play attempts to illicit from its audience viewing this image. To see a child, those that are considered the most innocent of all peoples in this circumstance can be vexing. Taylor also communicates that sympathy is not just an emotion but more of a motivation that compels one to act (Taylor 77). Play hopes that from this feeling its audience will feel compelled to act and contribute to their cause. Thompson 5 Image 2 also utilizes Pathos in different way, the girl in the expression contrasts what one might think of when they think of a patient under hospital care. Her expression is happy, accompanied by a With the basket of games on her lap, her happiness is meant to communicate that play is responsible for her happiness despite her situation. This image utilizes pathos to illicit a response from their audience and to be seen as a force of good. When viewers see this image they have feel both sympathy towards the patient and gratitude towards Play for alleviating her discomfort. Gratitude can be interpreted as a form of happiness. An article on the website for Harvard Health Publications titled Thanks Can Make You noted that in psychology research, gratitude is strongly and consistently associated with greater The conflicting emotions of both sympathy and gratitude are incorporated in image 2 by Play to elicit a strong emotional response from its audience. Play is a charitable organization that has proven its dedication to its cause. They utilize the imagery present in order to convince others to join and help. They want to appear a capable and attractive charity to its audience in order to gain more support for its cause of helping and improving the lives of children in less fortunate circumstances. Using rhetorical appeals is one way to connect others to a cause using images. The goal of a charity cannot be accomplished alone and it takes cooperation and participation from many people to achieve a larger goal. Play has been a force for good and will continue to be in the future as long as people feel that their cause is one worth supporting. Thompson 6 Works Cited Briers, Michael. Destiny Sales Closing in on 30 Million Registered Players as Activision Posts Better Than   PlayStation LifeStyle.  Play. Play Charity Corliss, Richard. : Ripping  Time. Time Inc., 26 Nov. 2010. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Miller, Craig . Giving thanks can make you  Harvard Health. Harvard Health Publications, Mar. 2011. Taylor, C. The Journal of Ethics, vol. 3, no. 1, 1999, pp. Taven, Miles. Halo: A Sales  VGChartz. VGCHartz, 01 July 2011.