TeMaat 1 Melanie TeMaat Mr. Phillips Composition II 12 March 2017 Rhetorical Analysis on PETA Advertisements PETA is famous for its flashy and sometimes vulgar propaganda to promote advocacy for animal rights and against animal abuse. More specifically, they attest for veganism, and against animal testing, animals for entertainment, and against animals for clothing purposes. Image 1 shows a chicken and says, can live without chicken wings. I Try Similarly, Image 2 says, let your child smoke. Like smoking, eating meat increase the risk of heart disease and while showing a small child smoking a cigar. Both images promote veganism, as PETA stands for the rights of animals and against all types of animals abuse and mistreatment. The images promote message through logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos. PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), is a nonprofit organization to establishing and defending the rights of all (PETA). PETA promotes ethical treatment of animals and believe that animals, much like humans, have rights to lead their TeMaat 2 own lives, free from harm. This group focuses on four main areas of animal cruelty: factory farms, laboratories, clothing trade, and the entertainment industry. Factory farms, often using animals for various reasons, keep animals in dark, cramped cages, hindering them from ever being out in the sun or breathing fresh air. Mainly, these large corporations that use these animals seek to output while minimizing at the (PETA). In addition, animals used for experimentation are often subjected to immense suffering. Being forced to live outside of their natural habitat while also taking part in painful procedures hinders the rights of these animals. Similarly, the clothing trade causes not only suffering, but death. Fur farmers often use different ways to kill the animals, sometimes even skinning them alive in order to use their furs and skins for fashion and other uses. Lastly, animals in the entertainment industry are to perform silly, confusing tricks under the threat of physical (PETA). Thus, PETA acknowledges that these injustices exist, and fights to end animal cruelty. Pathos refers to how well an author appeals to an (Sproat, Ethan, et al.). Both visual representations have some sort of strong emotional appeal that they are trying to convey to their viewers. Image 1, for example, creates a great feeling of empathy. The image says, can live without chicken wings. I Try and shows the picture of a chicken. Almost immediately, the viewer is forced to understand what it must be like to have to TeMaat 3 compromise your appendages for the eating enjoyment of others. This creates a feeling of empathy from the viewer and allows us to feel bad for eating chicken wings and other animal products. In addition, this image also portrays the strategy, which is an advertising strategy used express the benefit of your product or (Wang). The product or strategy in this case would be going vegan. Thus, by going vegan, you save chickens by not eating chicken wings and other animal products. The pathos in Image 2, however, creates a feeling of sympathy. Image 2 says, let your child smoke. Like smoking, eating meat increases the risk of heart disease and and shows a child smoking what seems to be a cigar. As a viewer, the image makes us feel bad for possibly neglecting our health by allowing them eat meat. In addition, seeing a child with a cigar makes the reader feel uncomfortable and draws attention to the subject of the advertisement: that meat eating is harmful to health. This causes the viewer to question not only their eating habits, but also their own, which is the main intention of the advertisement. Ethos is defined as well the authors portray or or (Sproat, Ethan, et al.). Both images equally share the same amount of ethos. Because the logo can be clearly seen in both images, viewers are likely to understand that the information presented will be both credible and trustworthy. In both images, the authors message of going vegan is clear to the viewer and easily understood. It is clear from both images that the author is very much sure of their opinions on eating animal products and that they very strongly promote veganism and see any other diet as inferior. Logos is defined as strong the logic or reasoning of the text (Sproat, Ethan, et al.). Image 1 includes a logical statement that makes it more likely for the viewer to take its TeMaat 4 advice. The statement on the poster states that a chicken cannot live without its wings, which is a completely logical statement that cannot be argued. This idea causes the reader to be forced to see the simple and unarguable logic of the matter. Thus, PETA is effectively promoting their stance on animal-eating by producing a simple logic that also supports their mission. Image 2, similarly, uses logos to convey their message on veganism. This image includes a statistic on meat-eating and how it can lead to heart disease and cancer. A factual statement such as this increases the likelihood of others believing the message. In addition, the author compares this habit to smoking. Because it is widely known that smoking is harmful, the viewer is more likely to view meat eating as harmful, as compared to smoking. Both statements are simply unarguable and/or sensible, making it easier for the viewer to take into consideration veganism and mission. The factual statement, in addition, increases the trustworthiness, making it more likely for the viewer to consider veganism. Lastly, kairos and support from the particular setting, time, and place that a speech (Sproat, Ethan, et al.). Though limited, both images include aspects of kairos to convey their ideas. For instance, in image 1, the sense of urgency that comes from feeling bad for taking away something from a chicken that also takes away their life may cause the viewer to want to act now, in order to save other chickens. Image 2 also creates a sense of urgency to act fast, or to act now. Seeing a child with a cigar, while also making the comparison between the healthfulness of meat-eating and smoking causes the reader to want to act quickly in order to save others, especially children, from negatively affecting their health and future. Overall, PETA does a good job at promoting their message through ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Using all of these rhetorical appeals will likely increase the chances of others going vegan or removing animal products from their diet. Both images use flashy images and scenarios TeMaat 5 in order to evoke emotion in the viewer while also including logical statements that make the concept of veganism sensible and simple. Without the use of rhetorical appeals, it would be virtually impossible for PETA to gain it supporters and followers that it has today. TeMaat 6 Works Cited for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights PETA, www.peta.org/. Accessed 14 Jan. 2017. Sproat, Ethan, et al. to the Purdue Purdue OWL: The Rhetorical Situation, owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/625/03/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Wang, Ray. Types of Ad Strategies Every Copywriter Should Business 2 Community, 4 Nov. 2014, www.business2community.com/content-marketing/7-types-ad- strategies-every-copywriter-know-01057899#mY2avYMb3jBWgKr1.97. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.