Nolte 1 Logan Nolte Professor Phillips ENC 1102 26 February 2017 With needs regarding environmental help, many different organizations have proven themselves to be worthy of fulfilling those needs; Oceana is one of the biggest contributors to helping our oceans and the marine life within them. Oceana has their hands in many pockets of issues regarding the sea but they are all helpful, runs its campaigns to win policy change proven to increase abundance and biodiversity, such as: stopping overfishing through the establishment of science-based catch limits, reducing bycatch, or the incidental catch of non-targeted animals, and protecting important marine (Oceana) When they are advertising their cause, they make sure to use the appropriate types of rhetorical appeal that best suits their cause. Oceana uses all types of rhetorical appeal in their images to portray different perspectives of marine life and inspires us to change our habits as humans. To begin, Oceana is known for using this type of rhetorical appeal the most because of its strength. Pathos is used heavily in the majority of images and it has the greatest impact. Pathos is defined by, seeks to invoke your emotions and capture your attention because advertisers know people make some decisions based on emotion rather than (Hoffman 190) As the quote states, many people make decisions based on emotion, rather than entirely just off logic. Given the audience that Oceana tends to target as well, which makes up of environmental activists and the general population, pathos is the strongest visual Nolte 2 appeal for their campaigns. When looking at the first image selected, the eyes are directed towards the green wire surrounding the turtle, as it stands out the most in the photo. The amount of wire that the turtle is stuck in is such an abundnant amount that it makes the audience appauled. The second focus that the audience turns their attention to would be the poor marine animal caught in the fishnet, the beloved sea turtle. The sea turtle has been deemed an extremely charismatic and sweet lifeform due to the media and films such as Finding Nemo(2003). When the audience sees this turtle caught in this nest, the emotional part of their brain takes over and they tend to instantly sympathize with the animal. Another key component of this photo that pushes the rhetoric appeal of pathos is how the turtle seems to be biting the wire, or trying to fight its way out of it. Since the amount of wire that it is deadlocked in is so abundant and how the turtle is still trying to fight it, that pushes pathos even further. When looking at the second image from campaign, we see a different side of pathos. The photographer who took this photo had the idea to show the gentle nature of the other beloved marine animal, the manatee. The main focal point of this photo is the manatee itself, showcasing how cute many people perceive it to be. Another minor focal point that the photographer was trying to poise was the gentle nature of the manatee, how the other small fish are able to swim freely around it with no fear that the manatee would try to eat it, because it The reaction Nolte 3 that this photo received was how cute the manatee was and how bad many people felt the creature. This was the exact reacion Oceana was trying to get out of its audience so that people would feel the emotional pain of putting this creature in endangered status. This, in turn, gave people incentive to help the creature; eventually having it removed from the endangered species list. Pathos is the strongest rhetorical element and argument for this stakeholder and its images and it will keep being so given the nature of their campaigns. Moving on to the next rhetorical appeal, logos is the next strongest following pathos for arguments within their images. Logos is defined by, may want to think of logos as because logos appeals to logic and (Hoffman 23). Using sound arguments and logic is a very simplistic way of winning an argument or persuading an audience. When looking at the first image (refer to page 2), the sound argument that comes from Oceana and the images themselves says that this looks and is plain wrong. Wanting that upon any kind of creature is extremely frowned upon by people worldwide and by the establishment. The amount of wire within the photo is an unjustly amount and the common person or the audience would think that the amount of wire needs to be drastically changed so sea life such as the turtle in the photo can swim freely without worry of human waste and intervention. Looking at the second image, logos is not as prevelant but is still used. The logical argument that could be taken from this image could be that would someone harm such an innocent With a statement such as that, the grey area between logos and pathos becomes much more prevelant, which is inherently the beauty of rheoritcal devices and appeals. The argument of saving the ocean and its lifeforms within it is logos while it is still common knowledge for many. The last two but definitely not least rhetorical appeals used within these images would be ethos and kairos. Ethos is defined as, is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or Nolte 4 writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Hoffman 27). Ethos is a vital part of any argument because without it, any audience would have much difficulty listening or even believing the speaker. The other rhetorical device, kairos, is defined as, is an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman 41). Kairos gives the audience a sense of urgency, and definitely is used quite a bit in campaign. Regarding ethos, the image source is directly from Oceana and they are nationally renowned for their charity work and helping the ocean in any way. Without this rhetorical appeal, no one would bother to see these images and would discredit their message. When ethos is paired well with kairos, it creates a drastic change in the views and actions. When viewing the first image, the audience is given a sense of urgency, due to wanting to free the turtle from the wire. Kairos is also somewhat prevalent in the first image by reminding the audience that the manatee is on the endangered species list and to do something about the issue (in which the audience did, now the manatee is off the endangered species list). These two rhetorical appeals appear nearly as much as pathos, but are still included and help with message. So in conclusion, all types of rhetorical appeal are used, but not to the same degree. The rhetorical devices are all used to help message be broadcast all over the world for the good of the ocean and to inspire people to help in any way they can. The last question that can be asked is, can people help to their fullest Nolte 5 Works Cited  Oceana. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Shapiro, Alison. What You Know About Manatees in Honor of Manatee Awareness  Oceana. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Shapiro, Alison. Species Profile: Which Sea Turtles Are Most At-Risk for Fisheries  Oceana. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.