Arroyave 1 Ivan Arroyave Sarah Roth 25 February 2017 Steroids A substance that will turn you into the biggest, the fastest, the strongest, an unbeatable superhero also known as steroids. Many say the drug steroids, are dangerous and when used inappropriately can affect the development of a young body and can have a negative impact on the health. Others argue that if taken properly with post cycle treatments, the side effects can be minimal. The argument that steroid usage has increased in the last 10 years can be made, but a foreseeable future where steroids are accepted in society seems as farfetched as sport committees have continued to toughen testing procedures as well as suspensions and fines for violations. Most users promote its safeness and benefits with no evidence that steroid usage can have essential negative long term effect to prove them wrong, while the medical field and sport organizations are still convinced of its harmfulness and continue to advocate against it. Are Steroids as bad as we have been taught to believe, or is it just our lack of understanding of what they truly do and the effects that they have on our bodies, that society has instead label it as dangerous without knowing much about it. The discussion of whether steroids are dangerous, and should be legalized changed much over the years. The two main arguments relatively have stayed the same. One being that steroids can have significantly negative side effects on a health and should continue to be illegal and have no place in society. The opposing view argues that if taken properly no such negative side effects will occur. Arroyave 2 Anabolic steroids allow your body to hold in more nitrogen which is vital to the production of protein and is essential for muscle growth and recovery time after a workout for athletes; but not the only purpose that Steroids are used for. For some medical patients with inflammatory conditions in the kidneys, brain tumors and other similar illnesses, steroids can reduce the buildup of fluids in the body which can ultimately impede on vital organ functions, possibly saving a live. On the opposing spectrum, The American Brain Tumor Association, funded in 1973 and the only non-profit organization in the United States focused on supporting brain tumor patients and brain tumor research have reported that even though helpful, steroids have also led to patients having to deal with fevers, stomach pains, weight gain, mood swings as well heart arrhythmias, hypertension, liver damage and cancer. All meanwhile the Pro- steroids community argues these can all be prevented if taken properly. Many current users such as Mike Murphy Safe or and Rich Piana from 5% Nutrition, speak out on this issue very frequently via their YouTube channels and agree that if proper research is conducted by the user on the specific steroid and post cycle treatment prior to taking the drug, the chances of serious negative side effects are extremely low. not forget Arnold Schwaneger and Franco Columbo, two of the most prominent bodybuilders in the 1960s and 1970s who are still in perfect health conditions even at their old ages. There is a strong argument that steroid usage has increased in the last 10 years. Many statistics show this, but to have concrete statistics on exactly how many people are using now compared to 10 years ago is very hard because of the illegality of the drug, and the unwillingness of people to admit to using due to the stigma. But we can assume that this is true because we live in a day and age where close to half the population of males are considered gym rats and everyone wants to look like Mark Wahlberg did in his twenties; jacked and swole. Dr. Harrison Arroyave 3 Pope M.D Harvard Medical School Specialist, refers to this community as in an article published by Health, one of the leading subscription companies in the fitness industry around the world. the This culture that used to only be part of underground gyms in the and is now becoming a mainstream concept. We live in a society where Instagram models get paid for being huge, and strongman competitions are televised on ESPN. We worship strength. In a 2016 survey conducted by Bone Talk Science behind Performance Enhancing it was reported that over 20 million people have admitted to using Performance Enhancement Drugs such as Steroids. This new wave of steroid usage has led the list of banned substances by sport committees to continue getting longer as chemist continue to find ways to reorganize the molecules in steroids so that users can pass drug tests and avoid failing drug test. To Sport Organizations fighting to hold a grip on the integrity of their game by stricting testing policies and handing out harsher suspensions and fines for those caught using. But can we see a future where steroids are regularly used by athletes? Shaun Assael states that he believes so in the article published by Big Think The Future of  But only time will be the judge of that. As more people begin to use, movements similar to that as the one started by the Nemours Foundation, dedicated to advocating about the dangers of steroid use and continue to play a role in how society perceives steroids continue to fight back. The discussion of whether steroids are dangerous, and should be legalized changed much over the years. The two main arguments relatively have stayed the same. One being that steroids can have significantly negative side effects on a health and should continue to be illegal and have no place in society. And the opposing view being that if taken properly no such negative side effects will occur. Both sides of the aisle have stayed true to their views and Arroyave 4 have not reached much compromise. But there has been some small change in two aspects. The number of people who have reported using steroids have increased over the years, and to battle this trend, sport committees have rolled out tougher testing policies and suspension and violations for those caught using. So, is it possible to see a future in where steroids are accepted in society and in sports? Only time will tell. References  American Brain Tumor Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Murphy Mike Murphy, Mike. Steroids: Safe or  Bodybuilding.com. N.p., 01 Mar. 2003. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Dowshen, Steven.  Kids Health. The Nemours Foundation, Oct. 2013. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. McDougall, Christopher. Steroid Use: Know the  Health. N.p., 7 Dec. 2007. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.