Graydon Wolfe Professor Sarah Roth ENC 1101.003 26 March 2017 The Information Age The difference between a hero and a traitor is perspective. With the invention of the internet, all the information in the world became readily available for those who know where to look. Governments and private companies alike do everything they can to safeguard their secrets, whether its proof of insider trading or of civilian surveillance. From time to time, individuals take it upon themselves to bring these secrets to light. People who do this for, what they believe would be, the good of the people are called whistleblowers. John Ziriakou and Linda Tripp are prime examples of whistleblowers. People who steal private secrets for personal gain are known as traitors. Benedict Arnold, Julius and Ethel Rosenberg are a few of the most infamous traitors. Sometimes, the line between a traitor and a whistleblower is unclear. own government may see the individual as a traitor but the public could see them as a heroic whistleblower. In the past, own government vilified anyone who spoke against it, the public now determines for themselves whether someone should be seen as an infamous traitor or a courageous whistleblower. In the past, a whistleblower and a traitor were one in the same. When royalty ruled over Europe, there were two levels of treason: high treason and petty treason. Petty treason was defined as a subordinate murdering a superior, such as an apprentice murdering the master. The punishment for petty treason was almost always execution, with the exception of the counterfeiting of gold and silver currency, which had the punishment of life in prison. High treason was criminal disloyalty to own government. Acts of high treason included attempting to overthrow the government, spying on the military or heads of state, and attempting to kill a head of state. The punishment for high treason was almost always execution, unless the execution of the perpetrator was not politically advantageous. Petty treason typically had a trial by peers to determine guilt. Because high treason usually took place in time of war, perpetrators were often summarily executed. According to Article 3, Section 3 of the United States Constitution, against the United States, shall consist only in levying War against them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them Aid and The last person to be formally charged with Treason in the United States was Tomoya Kawakita in 1952. Due to the laws surrounding the crime of treason, the trials for treason are generally quick. By United States law, an individual can only be charged with treason if two different people testify that the individual commit treason or the individual admits in court that they had commit treason. Since George W. Bush signed the USA PATRIOT Act (Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act) into law on the 26 th of October, 2001, suspected terrorists and traitors have been held indefinitely, without trial or legal counsel, in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as the USA PATRIOT Act allows in Section 412. Even with the passing of the USA PATRIOT Act, the public carries out judgement whether an individual is innocent or guilty. While most terrorists or generally considered guilty, a few traitors are considered heroes. Supposed traitors, such as Edward Snowden, are occasionally seen as good people who did something bad with good intentions. Snowden, for example, publicly released evidence that the US government was actively spying on its own citizens through the NSA. Because Snowden released classified information and stole the information directly from NSA computers, he is wanted by the US government. Public opinion of Snowdens actions are a matter of controversy. Should he have released all the information he did? Should he have stayed and faced trial for his actions rather than take up temporary asylum in Russia? Some think his actions are justified while others think he is a traitor to the United States. On the 10 th of April, 1989, Congress passed the Whistleblower Protection Act. According to the Whistleblower Protection Act, the purpose of the act is to and improve protection for the rights of Federal employees, to prevent reprisals, and to help eliminate wrongdoing within the Before the Whistleblower Protection Act, anyone who released any information about governmental illegality, waste, or corruption could have been fired, have all assets frozen, property seized, and generally vilified by the government. Now, if an individual discloses any nefarious acts or dastardly deeds that the US Government has commit, they are legally protected from any physical, financial, or legal harm, provided they follow all necessary procedures and go through all required legal channels. In the past, whistleblowers and traitors were one in the same. Now, there are special laws to protect whistleblowers as well as laws to help the government find and deal with potential traitors. But who decided who is a whistleblower and who is a traitor? The difference is a matter of perspective, whether or not the ends justify the means. Works Cited U.S. Constitution. Art./Amend. III, Sec. 3 103 STAT. . Government Publishing Offices. N.p., 1989. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Government Publishing Offices. N.p, 2001. Web. 14 Mar. 2017 Epstein, Edward Jay. How America Lost Its Secrets. 1st ed. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2017