Ahmed Alashwal Prof. Sarah Roth ENC 1101 March 3, 2017 Forming Relationships through the Internet Through thousands of years, forming friendships and social interactions were strictly happening in real life, or sending mail, if we wanted to be more specific. It would take weeks or even months to get an answer from the one you are writing to. However, in the last two decades, internet and social media have become increasingly more popular with each year passes, as it was efficient, fast and a more reliable to communicate with friends and family in an instant. Texting and calling through voice chat applications, social media websites, internet forums, and playing online games have become the normal way to start new relationships, chatting and socially interacting with others. The thing is, some people still consider it as an unsafe way to make friends through these means, as the internet is a platform that gives the gift of anonymity to its users, and still has questionable and sinister people who would turn on each other in a moment. While being legitimate criticisms, the internet is still a good platform, arguably better, to make friends through than in real life, as people say on multiple social media websites, and from personal experience. So the question stands, did the internet change the way how we make friends? Also, did it change the shape of the scholarly conversation from viewing the internet as a haven of stalking and privacy invasion to a more open minded view on it? As communication technology became cutting-edge, such as internet and telecommunication devices, people got closer and closer than ever before. It enabled loved ones and friends to get in touch easily, as well as start new relationships, especially for teens, and keeping it intact. However, these technological advances also came with a negative side effects that became apparent. As social media websites such as Facebook and MySpace led the trend of social media, the privacy invasion had begun, teens started putting all of their private information like phone numbers, emails, pictures and even their home addresses on their social media accounts, a move that could attract people with sinister intentions to these teens. Private information can also be used as slander or blackmail from previous boyfriends / girlfriends, and spreading false information or leaking messages that has sensitive information, as the internet is a safe haven to spread private data for everything that was previously mentioned (Dangers Of Social Media). According to a survey conducted by Pew Research Center, nearly %57 of American teens between the age of 13 and 17 have met new friends online either through social media or online games (Lenhart). Texting is also another common way for teens to communicate with, as statistics shows that %55 of teens keep in contact with each other mostly by text messaging on a daily basis (Lenhart). Online gaming is also a very popular way for teen online gamers to stay connected with friends and enjoy their times while communicating, as %78 of them say that they feel more related to with their online friends while playing online video games. While all in all, teens meeting in person everyday is now %25 (Lenhart). The point of this information is to show that online interactions have beaten the real life ones, as it is maybe more convenient for them to just tap their phones than walk / drive to meet each other. However, this paper will focus on the other ways to maintain online relationships is formed as well, not only on the negatives of all social media platforms, and will not also focus only on teens. Adults are not excluded from the trend of online communication, as jobs became a requirement in order to have a source of income. People in the work force started to rely on the cell phones, computers, emails, text messaging and so on to get in touch with their kids, significant others, siblings and friends during work hours to make sure that every thing is fine, or just hearing the voice of a loved one to get them through their work day (Broadbent). To conclude, at the inception of the internet, social media and telecommunication, it was only used to relay information, it then evolved to what we use now as an everyday way to get in touch with our relatives and friends. In addition to the changing points of view from different academics from the opinion of the web as a dark place where sinister actions happen, to a place of friendly interactions between people from all over the globe. That being said, it is also a common way to gain, and lose, relationships with other people, as social media, texting, video calling and online gaming became easily obtained, people formed bonds with each others through their screens, not needing to see them face to face. Cited Works Broadbent, Stefana. Digital TED. July. 2009. Lecture. Crawford, Garry. Gaming in Context: The Social and Cultural Significance of Online Eds. Victoria K. Gosling and Ben Light. New York: Routledge 2011. Book. Lenhart, Amanda. technology and Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech, 6 Aug. 2015. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. TMW Media. of Social 2005. Video.