Wu1 Yanfeng Wu ENC1102 Adam Philips 2/26/2017 Air Pollution Air pollution is one of the major concerns for environmental protection in the world. which have already threatened health. Therefore, several organizations have been created to ensure that the environment have been protected and the world are being developed in stainable way. Greenpeace which is an environmental organization have concerned with the environmental protection and the conservation of the forests and endangered, and air pollution, dedicating to work on relevant environmental works. In this paper, by using rhetorical appeals Pathos, Ethos, Logos, and Kairos, those two images try to convince people to protect our air environment. Greenpeace, this organization has many branches around the world. In this paper is for analyzing some of the advertisement pictures posted by the Greenpeace, in order to appeal audiences to realize the seriousness of air pollution and start to clean the air from now on. First of all, this essay is to discuss two chosen pictures and to analyze the ethos, the pathos, the logos and the Kairos. It is good way to attract the public toward air pollution by analyzing those two images. Greenpeace is chosen as a stakeholder organization that is by its effort to conserve the environment in various sectors and using different (Greenpeace). Firstly, this organization is mainly concerned with the climate change. Governments and other big organizations work together and take a step towards remedying climate change which is air pollution. Secondly, organization is concerned about the conservation of trees as a source of clean air and a home of many wild (Greenpeace). Thirdly, this organization also focus on preservation of the oceans. Lastly this organization is fighting with the use of nuclear power Wu2 and the emission of toxic gases into the air and educate people and children some knowledge of the importance of protecting earth, appealing people to be an environmentalist. In this topic, those two images provided are meant to describe the same message of the prevention of air pollution, which is advocated by the Greenpeace USA. The first picture shows there is a young girl with a big mask on the nose is one of the key point of capturing attention, conniving audiences to eliminate air pollution for children. second picture shows happy faces on people and they are holding placard written is over if you want Observing those two image, they try to convey the message that coal should be end even if it still exists, in order to create a good environment. Firstly, both of pictures have ethos and convey the message of ending the air pollution. is frequently translated as some variation of or but it originally referred to the elements of a speech that reflected on the character of the speaker or the (Purdue OWL) Ethos refers to the appeal to ethics or the character or credibility of a piece. In this aspect, both the first and the second pictures have been designed by the Greenpeace organization, which have already made the whole image credible. As the paper described above, the organization has been focusing on climate change, air pollution, forest preservation and ocean preservation for a long time and in many countries. Meanwhile Greenpeace gain many respect and become an authoritative organization on dealing with air pollution. The messages in the picture would be credible and therefore attract the public and other concerned organizations to end air pollution. Secondly, those two pictures also have pathos. Pathos is frequently translated as some variation of (Purdue OWL) Pathos are those elements of a piece of work such as a writing or a picture that tend to evoke the emotional feeling of the audience. It appeals to emotion and has nothing to do with the persuasion. From the first picture, Greenpeace uses the Wu3 child covering her nose with the mask to evoke the feeling that children are suffering the pain from air pollution. From this image, audiences have to consider what reason leads to the girl suffer the pain. The feeling is to evoke emotions and to attract people to come up with solutions. Moreover, the first picture shows the girl child is scared and so nervous. are regarded as being vulnerable to any harsh conditions because of the premature nature and therefore they attract sympathy leading to the rectification of the problem of air pollution 20). The second picture is depicting the smiling faces of the protestors carrying placards. The second brings the hope from the people despite the air pollution. The smiles demonstrate that the people are able to live in their normal life instead of living in bad air pollution environment. For example, from the placards, it is evident that should stop using coal and gasoline. people will enjoy a very happy and normal life. Thirdly, Logos are the rhetorical elements of a story of a picture that try to provoke the reasoning of the audience towards a given situation. is frequently translated as some variation of or (Purdue OWL). Form the first picture, several elements are being shown to evoke the reasoning of the people why hating air pollution. In this picture, a very young girl putting on a PM 3 mask, a Ross flower just dying next to her. Followers stand for our children and our next generation. This rose is dying showing that air pollution is threaten our next generation Additionally, a very serious smog behind her and a very old building in the background provoke the audience the effects of air pollution. The smog provokes the audience to think about that air pollution causes climate change. The broken building makes the audience think that the air pollution has caused acid rain which is harmful to the building and human health. people should primarily solve the problem of air pollution. In the second picture, the protests and the messages on the placards shows that it is the right time to eliminate the coal using and reduce the air pollution. Wu4 (Hg) is a toxic air pollutant, which causes severe harm to human beings and ecosystems. Coal contains trace concentration of Hg. Coal-fired power plants are the major sources of Hg emission into the (Deepak48) Coal is a main element that contribute to the air pollution. Nonetheless, from this image, the smiling faces are a sign of hope that everything is possible if people start to do right now. Lastly, the Kairos of those two pictures is visibly to present. Kairos is a rhetorical element that appeals to timeline. is a term that refers to the elements of a speech that acknowledge and draw support from the particular setting, time, and place that a speech (Purdue OWL). In the first picture for example, it is clear the message being portrayed in now to save the fuel combustion inflicts a multitude of serious health and developmental harms in children through its emissions of toxic particles and gases and carbon dioxide (CO2), a co-pollutant that is a major driver of climate (Frederica 144). Toxic gas has already threatened our next generation, If people do not start to pay attention to it and protect our children, our future might be destroyed by us. In the second picture the message which seems to appear in red color is the coal mines now to eradicate air The two pictures depict that the time to act and stop air pollution is now and do not waste time and that air pollution and smog problem can be resolved if the coal mines are closed. In conclusion, the Greenpeace organization is a very determined organization in the fight against air pollution for a sustainable future. Through the above-mentioned advertisements pictures, the organization successfully appeals to the emotions and feelings to the audience. What is more, the reasoning, the timelines and the credibility of the message on air pollution have waked the public up to declare war against air pollution. The organization gives a solution that it is possible to reduce and win the war of air pollution if the coal is closed. Wu5 Wu6 Work Cited Stern, Arthur. C Fundamentals of air pollution. Elsevier, 2014. Air Pollution in China Reaches Dangerous  Greenpeace USA. 03 July 2015. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. The Incredible Shrinking US Coal  Greenpeace USA. 03 July 2015. Web. 19 Feb. Coal power: air  Union of Concerned Scientists.Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Pudasainee, Deepak, Yong-Chil Seo, Jin-Ho Sung, Ha-Na Jang, and Rajender Gupta. Mercury co-beneficial capture in air pollution control devices of coal-fired power  International Journal of Coal Geology 170 (2017): 48-53. Web. Perera, Frederica P. Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate  Environmental Health Perspectives 125.2 (2016):141. Web.