Bouarfa 1 Hamza Bouarfa ENC 1101 Professor Sarah Roth 3/26/17 A Shifting Battleplan for Emissions The idea of emissions developed so much recently that it grabbed attention. It has become a part of life to the billions of people residing on this planet. Earth is a giant organism, living and breathing as humans do. Recently, it became a goal of many to improve the health of the home planet. It has become increasingly apparent that if mankind were to proceed on its destructive path, Earth would not last long. Thus, humanity decided to think of a way to reduce the atmospheric deterioration and alteration. The first few ideas introduced were spectacular and seemed to be on the right path. The issue was not with the ideas themselves, but the ability to enforce them, either monetarily or legally. The ideas have since evolved to better fit into an ever-changing society. In the beginning, most ideas dealt with cancelling emissions, completely removing them from the picture. Over time, it became clear that this was not possible, at least not in the modern world. Ideas then began focusing on reducing emissions, rather than silencing them entirely. Fighting emissions changed over time from an obliteration plan, to a more consistent, focused effort at maintaining the Earth as it is now. The reality is that humans lack the knowledge to completely cancel emissions, and it may never be attained. Bouarfa 2 The idea of the subject of emissions is relatively new. Looking back, it was the Industrial Revolution that changed the Earth. With the introduction of the combustion engine, emissions skyrocketed. To this day, emissions continue to grow exponentially, to the distress of environmentalists. Specifically, carbon emissions are the highest production factor in emissions. As they increase in quantity, they also diverge into many various sources of emissions that continue to become more complex. The combustion engine was the turning point in history for emissions, but barely in the lead. The idea of reducing emissions through commercially viable ways has taken reign of the movement. In the past, prototypes and ideas were introduced and abandoned very quickly, due to their inflated cost, whether monetarily or otherwise. The idea of a Carbon Scrubber was introduced in 2008 or so, but was lost to history. It has never been mentioned through the media after its introduction. This is where change was initially sparked. If CO2 emissions were so vast that no end could be seen, humanity must reduce their carbon footprint, instead of exhausting themselves trying to erase it. That is where the modern ideas for emissions reductions were introduced such as integrated building insulation. Especially in the colder areas, artificial heating is widely used to achieve results quickly. In Germany, specifically, the code for buildings has become strict for thermal insulation. Builders are required to either demolish and reconstruct an area or upgrade the existing insulation. standards are driven by the commitment to reduce energy consumption in buildings, but are carefully negotiated with the construction industry to take account of its current and future capabilities, so that optimally energy-efficient new buildings can be constructed for reasonable (Galvin 2). This idea is practical and widely available, and cost as much as an idea like the CO 2 scrubber, which David Adam states initially cost around to The Bouarfa 3 practicality of ideas became an integral factor for carbon emissions as they produced the most results using the least cost. Technology has continued to evolve while also rising in price. To the average consumer, the price to performance ratio is of immense importance. The prototypes introduced in the past usually had a hefty price that significantly discouraged people from using it or even supplying any type of funding. Technology behaves in such a way that when an idea is initially introduced, the price for its product skyrockets, way before the product is released. The trend is that the price drops over time and the ideas become available to the public. Take for example, the excellent energy supply that is the sun. Solar panels used to cost an abominable amount of money, but as the idea became more and more average, it also became very widely used. Now, solar panels are common to see on a building, supplying a large portion of energy for the user. The same idea applies to the electric car. When it was initially introduced, the price was so discouraging that even manufacturers saw it as a loss. As time passed, the idea became practical, introducing itself as a great asset. The price to performance ratio significantly decreased, granting a much more pleasing view for consumers. Now, electric cars are growing to be much of the traffic population, including the Tesla vehicles and the different Prius models from Toyota. Technology has and always will be a limiting agent for humanity. This fact is undeniably true for the different emission reduction programs. As technology becomes widely available, it almost always becomes outdated. The next big thing is discovered and all attention is diverted to that new and innovative idea. For emission reduction programs, it is very difficult to proceed and accomplish goals without the latest innovations. This is very clear when looking at the modern discussions pertaining to emission reduction while comparing it to the discussions in past. The ideas in the past dealt with huge ideas that existed usually only as a prototype. The idea of Bouarfa 4 reducing the carbon footprint of vehicles and the like while also implementing public transportation is severely restricted due to the lack of specific technologies. The discussion about biofuels is especially important. best cellulosic-based ethanol, for example, can produce 90 percent fewer global warming emissions, compared to (UCS). Technology is a vital part of emission reduction, and the lack of it provided enormous disadvantages. The core idea of emission reduction itself has evolved from the elimination of emissions, to a more practical reduction of emissions. In the past, the focus was on developing ideas and technologies to completely remove emissions from the world. As factors such as practicality, cost, and the availability of technology set in, the focus was molded to encompass a more efficient course of action. In modern times, the core idea of emissions shifted from the complete removal of emissions, to emission reduction. Completely removing emissions is something that just cannot be done with the state of the world as it is now, so humanity decided to reduce its emission footprint more efficiently. the right course, as instead of focusing the majority of resources on an impractical idea, humanity now focuses its resources on the more efficient form of emission combat. Bouarfa 5 Works Cited: Adam, David. Could US help to slow  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 30 May 2008. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Galvin, Ray. Thermal upgrades of existing homes in Germany: The building code, subsidies, and economic  Energy and Buildings 42.6 (2010): 834-44. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Musk, Elon. The Mission of  Tesla - 19 Nov. 2013. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. UCS. Better  Union of Concerned Scientists - 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.