Williams 1 Ananya Williams Adam Phillips ENC 1102 2 March 2017 The use of Visual Rhetoric by the NRDC The NRDC uses images as visual rhetoric to further advance the position on the topic of global sustainability. Rhetorical appeals are the use of persuasion through images to convey ideas that inspire action. Throughout their website, the NRDC uses photos along with articles to appeal to audiences. The National Resource Defense Council (NRDC) is an organization founded with the primary goal of protecting and preserving natural resources and inhabitants. After analyzing research, they make it their duty to advocate in best interest. The two photos presented by the NRDC are images that are used to advocate for reform. Both of the images presented, play key roles in appealing to a specific audience to invoke action. By using visual rhetoric, audiences feel more compelled to put action behind the emotion to act that overcomes them. The depictions in these images reflect the main goal of preserving the Earth as well as its inhabitants, and relay a sense of urgency and sympathy to readers. The rhetorical appeals present within the photos presented are pathos, logos, Founded in 1970, the Natural Resource Defense Council has aimed to influence government resulting efforts to increase the sustainability of the earth. They have made it their goal to combat the use of fossil fuels and dirty energy in hopes of later replacing these systems with new initiatives in the support of reconstruction. The promotion of clean energy sources, like solar power, is only one of the very many initiatives to be set in place. Initiatives date back to the Williams 2 Clean Water Act of 1972, which was instilled to regulate the discharge of pollution and placing protection over water in the United states. This first step led them to other initiatives while also allowing them to be the only international organization to plan for other countries in terms of energy efficiency. Their role as an enforcer has been crucial for sustainability, and because of their efforts for new reform that will hopefully preserve the planet. The mission is to ensure sustainability primarily to the human race but also to the other inhabitants. Their logo and use of other photos to advance their position on global preservation are effective because they appeal to the eye and emotions. The stance is very clear from their images, and reinforces their mission from the viewpoint of a reader. Image 1 serves as the council logo for the NRDC, it is simply portrayed as a very defined polar bear with the North star above its head. The colors used are minimal and confined to light and dark blue with white filling most of the voids, yet still adding to the depth of the photo. The simplicity of the image still clearly allows the message to get across, and ultimately portrays the main goal of the council. The use of the polar does not confine the NRDC to the protection of that one animal however, the polar bear represents endangered species due to the effect of human consumption of natural resources. Rhetorical appeals most present in this image are and the appeal to credibility or morality, is present in the letters NRDC at the top of the photo. The name at the header represent its support behind Williams 3 the photo and makes the photo seem more credible to a reader due to the fact the name is so bold and visible. the appeal to emotion, is present in the fact that the bear is the center; animals tend to be a soft spot for some audiences. Emotion is evoked by this logo because consumers can directly see that the usage of fossil fuels directly affects other species. By portraying the bear in the center of the logo, people that love animals may feel a bit of obligation to side with any reforms. The Polar bear is one of the endangered species- by using this animal as the face of the organization understood how critical change is. A whole species is now dependent on how people react and influence their environment. That thought prompts many thoughts within a reader and those that Underconsideration, a graphic design firm, launched Brand New (the division of the site that analyzes corporate brands). Their opinion on the transformation between the old and new logos are new logo shifts the focus to more of a climate change concern. The blue color palette and North Star emphasize this. The new bear drawing is really good; abstract yet still very well defined. The mid-stride pose suggests action and it even looks curious as if to say, you fuckers doing to my This statement on the logo goes to show how the audience views the image, and also analyzes the portrayal of the animal a bit further. The personification of the animal also allows the reader to relate and understand that things happening in the environment only affecting people. is defined as the appeal to timeliness, although it is not plainly stated to put forth action it is implied. This appeal is one of the most evident because of the use of an endangered species, audiences can conclude that action needs to be taken quickly because the fate of a species, or multiple species rely their actions. Williams 4 Under an informative tab titled listed a policy solutions with Image 2 being the headliner. In image 2 there is a depiction of the extraction of fossil fuels in natural environments. In the photo, you can see melting glaciers in the back surrounded by open water, this photo is also paired with the a boat, oil drill and a helicopter. The portrayal of the modern technology shows how unbalance of the environment. It is clear to readers that these elements do not necessarily belong in this natural place. This is is very evident. Emily Lane, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre describe the rhetorical appeal as is the appeal to logic. like the formal logic in math, philosophy, or even computer science; it is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and thinking of polar regions it is often a place that is untouched, and natural in many forms. The arctic is a place where very few people live or reside, so in that nature it has a sense of sacredness. However, this photo shows the importance of how the extraction of fossil fuels impact nature more than in direct forms. Of course, plain to see the these devices do not belong in this environment but in other ways by looking at the melting glaciers, there are less immediate dangers they pose. be seen in the fact that these two very different elements do not belong together. The article titled Reduce Fossil Fuels explains the effects of extracting fossil fuels . Their article states, these fuels out of the ground turns backyards and treasured wild places into industrial zones, and burning them causes Williams 5 climate change as well as contributes to asthma, heart disease, and This quote strengthens the effects of readers gain more knowledge after hearing the effects of oil extraction. By looking at the photo there is some obligation do something, emotion is evoked by the lack of nature in this environment. saddening to see the effects that people have on the outside world. The effects of human consumption in the surrounding area are very evident, and there is the urge to remove hands out of this environment. The purpose of this photo is to evoke thought, and later the effect of action. In conclusion, The attempts to appeal to the audience was executed well. The fact that the main logo holds some much content in a simple form it compels audiences to take action. In reference to the first image you see representing the council you immediately know the goal of the organization and understand that they want help animals in some way. The goal of the council is portrayed in more forms than one and by looking at the image 1 that is easily relayed. While image 2, extends a more realistic view to readers allowing them to gain visual behind the reason the NRDC advocates for change. The unbalance presented in the photo allows readers to see that something is not right within the photo. It is clear, certain elements are affecting that environment and causes the reader to take initiative. The rhetorical appeals present in these images have successfully grabbed the audiences and have showed the mission of the National Resource Defense Council. The application of the photos help strengthen the arguments that the organization poses and the audience may feel some obligation to help. Williams 6 Works Cited Bruggink, Ross. New Logo for NRDC: Bear Goes on the  6 Feb. 2015. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily, et al. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and The Rhetorical Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text Greatest Accomplishments Over The , Huffington Post, 11 Jan. 2011. Accessed 13 Mar. 2017. Reduce Fossil  Resource Defense NRDC. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017