Hardman 1 Victoria Hardman Professor Nusspickel ENC1101.901517 March 26, 2017 I) Introduction A) Key Points: 1) Studying the different risk factors children encounter. 2) Comparing the outcomes of the whom were interviewed. 3) Is the will power to succeed enough to overcome their circumstances? B) Thesis: How much of a role does social location, during the developmental early life, play into the outcome of a human being. II) Body A) Poor circumstances during childhood 1) Before 2010 (a) Moore, Wes. The Other Wes Moore: One Name, Two Fates. New York: Spiegel & Grau, 2010 Print everything you told me, both of us did some pretty wrong things stuff when we were younger. And both of us had second chances. But if the situation or the context where you make the decisions change, the second chances font mean too much, Hardman 2 (i) Both of these men grew up very similarly and were both given the chance to change how they were living when they were younger. One did and the other Now one is successful and the other is sitting in jail. 2) After 2010 (a) Ott, Afton and Ott, Bailey (b) Question: is your separation effecting (i) Afton: I realized that my mom and dad were splitting up, and my dad was moving in with his new girlfriend, I what anything to do with him. How could he leave my mom? I began to look at all men differently. I hated them but continued to search for something to fill the void from him leaving, in each relationship that afterword. This caused me to hate myself and turn to cheap bottles of wine and (ii) Bailey: my dad told me he was leaving, I wanted absolutely nothing to do with him. I was disgusted by him. It took me months to be able to speak to him again. But when I did he told me his side of the story and I started to look at my mother differently. He deal with her constant self-loathing anymore, and now I either. Every time I go home I see it in Afton more and more and I am embarrassed by B) Living in a rural area and its impact on health 1) Before and After 2010 (a) Poor education during early life of adolescent results in a higher chance of not going working towards a high education and the chance at a stable job. (b) Not having the ability accessibility to the proper health care. Hardman 3 (c) Not living in a safe community. III) Conclusion Although someone who comes from a more rural area with poor school systems, at or below the poverty line, born to teen parents, etc., will have a harder time not succumbing to their environment, not impossible. Hardman 4 Will You Overcome Your Social Location, or Will You Fall Victim to It? play the most substantial role in the development of a child starting from the early days of adolescence to their adult lives. Children learn emotional cues, language, intuitive thought, nutrition, hygiene and more from the actions their parents exhibit around them. Children who are born to teenage mothers, raised by single parents, and or live in low income to deep poverty are at risk of poor aftereffects. Along with parents, a social and physical environment have an effect on their health. Being able to live in an environment that is safe and where you can participate in healthy social relationships can have a very positive effect on the mental health of a human being, teaches the community to live cohesively, and teaches people how to treat one another. But what is the difference between two separate children who grew up with an equal amount of risk factors who grew up to be completely different members of society? Throughout the research process, multiple interviews were performed. One interview was with identical twins who are in two completely different places in their lives, based on similar circumstances that they chose to deal with differently. My other interview was with another friend of mine who checks off almost every risk factor found on the National Center for Children in Poverty calculator, but succumb to his environment. By performing these interviews answers were found to the question of; much of a role does social location, during the developmental early life, play into the outcome of a human In the book, The Other Wes Moore written by Wes Moore, both boys grew up just a few doors down from each other and experienced very similar life obstacles, but ended up in completely different places as adults. Both did not have a father figure growing up, both boys Hardman 5 lived in very rural neighborhoods filled with crime and drug activity, but one Wes mother sent him to a military school while the other continued being involved in the drug game. During one of their visits in jail, the imprisoned Wes Moore stated everything you told me, both of us did some pretty wrong things when we were younger. And both of us had second chances. But if the situation or the context where you make the decisions change, the second chances mean too much, (The Other Wes Moore) The type of person that one turns out to be is because of the path they choose to take. Even though some have to work harder to become successful, they are the only ones who can get them there. They are also the person can get them into trouble and who allows themselves to become poor products of their environment. People try to constantly remind others that its where you came from and to never forget it when you become successful. But more important to remind yourself where you are and all the hard work you put in to get there. During the interviews with Bailey and Afton Ott, many issues they aware they had come up. The biggest one being the topic of their dad leaving their mother. Before the summer of 2015 all Bailey and Afton knew about their was that they were each-others high school sweethearts. They both acknowledge that they lived in a loving home with who supported each-other and their daughters. Although they agree on many things, they agreed on the fact that they were completely surprised about the ending of their relationship. When they were asked is your separation effecting statement was my dad told me he was leaving, I wanted absolutely nothing to do with him. I was disgusted by him. It took me months until I was able to speak to him again. But when I did he told me his side of the story and I started to look at my mother differently. He deal with her constant self-loathing anymore, and now I either. Every time I go home I Hardman 6 see it in Afton more and more and I am embarrassed by What Bailey consider was the impact of her moving away for college so soon after their dad had left. Now it was only Afton left to take care of their mother. response to the question was I had realized that my mom and dad were splitting up, and my dad was moving in with his new girlfriend, I what anything to do with him. How could he leave my mom? I began to look at all men differently. I hated them but I also continued to search for something to fill the void from him leaving in each relationship afterword. When I would get into a relationship, I put little effort into them because I figured they would leave no matter what. This caused me to hate myself and when I turned to cheap wine and Afton is currently dealing with legal issues which were brought on by a weekend binge of alcohol and drugs that led to blacking out at a casino, and assaulting a police officer. She still remember everything that happened that night. After two years, life for the has gained a new sense of normalcy. Both their mom and dad are in new and healthy relationships, and Bailey has said that she has moved on from the situation. Afton on the other hand has been unable to pull herself out of the lifestyle she has fallen into. Ironically, because of her serious cocaine and Xaniax addiction along with her alcoholism, it has brought her back together in order to help get their child the help she needs. No one can tell you who you are going to become in life. No one can get you where you want to go. You are the sole reason for why you develop into the person who end up being. Although someone who comes from a more rural area with poor school systems, at or below the poverty line, born to teen parents, etc., will have a harder time not succumbing to their environment, not impossible. simply mind over matter. There will always be people who fall in the cracks, but instead of putting them into the growing statistics, more programs should Hardman 7 be put into place, better education should be easily available for all children, and parents should be able to provide stability for their family. Hardman 8 Works Cited Knitzer, Jane; Lefkowitz, Jill. Helping the most Vulnerable Infants, Toddlers, and Their Families. National Center for Children in Poverty, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, 2006. Moore, Wes. The Other Wes Moore: One Name, Two Fates. New York: Spiegel & Grau, 2011. Print Ott, Afton and Ott, Bailey. Interview 1 Feb. 2017 Woolf, Steven H, and Laudan Aron, editors. Health and International Perspective: Shorter Lives, Poorer at NAP.edu. The National Academies Press, National Council and Institute of Medicine, 9, Jan. 2013.