Caskey 1 Cayla Caskey Ms. Theo ENC1102 12 March, 2017 Animals in Captivity Animals are being held in captivity, there are countless people and organizations that support this, and of course ones that do not. Some organizations believe that animals should be in zoos, that it is even beneficial to the animals. PETA is an organization that does not believe that animals belong in zoo, that it is harmful to the health. They have been fighting for the rights of animals since 1981 (PETA). Their mission statement is focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (PETA). Zoos fall under the category of entertainment, what the animals are there to do, entertain the public, nothing about an animal being kept in a cage is beneficial to the animal. The images chosen are both from website and through these imagines they convey the fact that they are against animals being kept in captivity. Viewing the first image a person would think that it would logically make sense to let the animals roam free in their natural habitats, because they are wildlife, they do not belong in captivity. This satisfy logos, the appeal to logic and reason. Animals are not meant to be used for our entertainment, they do not get paid, or benefit in any way from being in a cage the majority of their lives. Along with this it provokes thought of the fact that the tigers kept in captivity are trapped and meant for our entertainment, in the way that Amber Chia is an actress who puts on a Caskey 2 show and entertains her viewers. In the second image to outside the box: close expressed that with the knowledge that people have of the effects on animals in captivity that they should be placed back in the wild where they belong, this seems like a completely reasonable and logical solution. Furthermore, the words Outside the suggests the idea that people should beyond the box animals have been placed in and used for our entertainment. It suggests that we must take away the cages and allow the animals more space and freedom to roam. These images are both made to make the viewer feel like the animal being trapped, showing in both images a person in a small space or cage. These images apply to the appeal of pathos, which is the emotional appeal. The first image showing Amber Chia a Malaysian actress, painted like a tiger and put into a cage. This provokes thoughts and emotions comparing the actress to the Malaysian Tiger that is generally the species of tiger living in captivity in zoos. Making a person feel guilty for allowing zoos to keep these exotic, beautiful creatures in captivity. People do not put actors and actresses in cages, so why animals? This makes a person feel sympathy for the animal that must live its life in a cage. This image is directed towards all people, especially people who go to zoos. In image one we see the actress with her arm in- between the bars, wanting to get out. She looks crammed, clearly not having enough space for her to sit comfortably, with the look of anger and disappointment of humanity on her face. These make the viewer feel sorry for her and want to help her out of the small cage. Along with this reads the words wild animals in orange and black which represents the colors of the tiger, therefore connecting thoughts and emotions back to the fact that this caged animal is stuck in captivity. In the second image the man Diether Ocampo, an actor, is painted like a zebra stuck in a small box, pushing on the sides trying to make room for himself. This shows how animals in Caskey 3 captivity are crammed in small spaces, which makes a person feel angry with the way zoos treat their animals. This image shows the man the same as the background showing that the animals are their environment when in zoos. This evokes feelings of guilt and pity due to the lack of mobility, its ability to move around freely and safely. This image suggests that by closing down zoos animals will live happier more free lives. Along with this people will feel relieved and be happier and more satisfied with themselves knowing that these animals are no longer being kept in cages. The first words wild animals connects the moral and ethical issues behind zoos. If wild animals were kept in the wild then disease, mental health, and sickness would be less than that experienced by the animals in zoos (CAPS). environmental and physical needs cannot be met in manmade unnatural (CAPS). Which gives credibility to the words displayed on the picture, along with this having PETA and its website visible on the image gives it credibility. Credibility is also added to the mix with the fact the PETA uses celebrity endorsements in the majority of their advertisements. These aspects of the image appeal to ethos. There are many moral issues with the fact that of animals among zoos and between zoos and wildlife, and a shift towards smaller (Zoos Tweet). Goes along with the second images idea of saying that exchanging animals is not morally correct, and the fact zoos are shifting towards smaller animals proves that fact that they know the cages are not large enough for the animals being kept there. Again, PETA presents their website across the bottom of the second image giving it credibility. Furthermore, these images show that the issue of keeping animals in captivity needs to be fixed as soon as it can be. This appeals to karios, the appeal to timeliness. That it is urgent and if it is not taken care of in a timely fashion that animals will remain sad, depressed, and trapped. Caskey 4 These animals do not have the same amount of time to live their lives as human does, so why should they live it unhappily in captivity. This pushes people to act and close down zoos and restore animals back into the wild. Conveniently both these images are very similar conveying very similar messages. These images both show a person dressed or painted to be perceived as an animal trapped in a small cage, or box. This symbolizing the fact that zoos do not provide the correct amount of space for an animal to live happily, that they must be uncomfortable and sad. They both have text in the image that forces the viewer to think about that fact that animals that are kept in zoos are in fact wild animals and should live in just that, the wild. Both images get their credibility from PETA who tries to make viewers understand that keeping animals in captivity is not good for their health and well-being. PETA uses celebrities to get their message across on the way that they feel about controversial topics. In conclusion, animals do not belong in zoos. They belong in the wild where they can live freely and be healthy. These images convey many emotions for a person, but guilt and sympathy are the main emotions that should be felt when viewing these images. PETA strategically places people in small spaces with disappointed looks on their faces to make viewers feel uncomfortable. PETA is trying to persuade people into agreeing to close zoos, that it would be what is the most beneficial for these wild animals, stuck in captivity. (wc 1276) Caskey 5 Work Cited Animal Rights Uncompromised:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Keulartz, Jozef. Captivity for Conservation? Zoos at a  Journal of Articles & Environmental Ethics 28.2 (2015): 335-351. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Zoos  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017.