Kaserman 1 James Kaserman Jewell ENC 1101 03/03/17 The Evolution of the Conversation Surrounding Healthcare in America The debate of healthcare has progressed towards increased coverage for more people, but the United system has stagnated. system is heavily gated by the ability to pay exorbitant amounts through insurance because medical pricing systems have caused healthcare costs to increase year after year. Therefore, the conversation surrounding socialized healthcare in America has been gaining traction over recent years through a combination of more industrialized countries adopting the practice, the introduction of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) under the Obama Administration, and the recent presidential election, most notably Senator efforts. Even America immune to the sweeping change that is occurring across the globe. The healthcare industry in America has only recently grown into the juggernaut that currently exists. It represents a huge portion of the economy, but important to analyze the history of how it became the monster that it is today. In the late Justin Ford Kimbalo formed the Blue Cross, the United first medical insurance company (Frezza 1). The organization was created to combat patients not paying their medical bills at the end of their treatment. This was necessary to financially protect the non-profit hospital model that dominated the marketspace. However, it evolved into a much larger when the hospital construction boom of the occurred from an influx of government financial incentives and the Kaserman 2 profitable nature of hospitals, due to the lack of oversight that is inherent to a budding industry (Frezza 1). Prior to the establishments could charge arbitrary amounts due to the lack of competition, but when the market became too saturated with healthcare facilities, hospitals began to fall prey to the competitive nature of capitalism. This led to the consolidation of hospitals into complexes that became more efficient, but became corporate-like in nature, which could be argued that it goes against the philosophies of healthcare. As a result, competition was almost eliminated and hospitals could increase premiums across the board. It is important to remember that it was not a choice for most complexes because of the pressures from the ever-growing health insurance systems, that included malpractice insurance that doctors are forced to obtain. The high costs of malpractice insurance and larger health conglomerates could bully smaller practices into consolidating and forced them to into On a final note, patients were the real victims because they had much fewer choices and many of them found themselves without coverage. However, this changed with expansions to Medicare during the Bush administration, and increased pressure and legislation from the Obama administration. The Obama administration was extremely important in establishing a foundation for increased healthcare coverage in the United States through the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Over the past 80 years, healthcare has become gated by the ability to pay whether through out-of- pocket payments or health insurance coverage. The ACA was enacted to expand coverage to populations of people that did not have access to healthcare because of inabilities to afford it. Estimates from the Nation Health Interview Survey (NHIS) showed a decline of 14.7 million uninsured nonelderly adults (Shartzer et al. 1). The authors of the journal referenced above are researchers at the Urban Institute in Washington D.C. with backgrounds in the healthcare industry. They claim the law was accomplishing its goal of expanding coverage, but it did not Kaserman 3 account for the strain that additional patients would put onto the system. In addition, the law was passed after major changes were made that benefited the already powerful health insurance companies. For example, the legislation made it so that medical insurance became mandatory. This obviously benefits the companies at the expense of underprivileged adults that were seeking for a means of affordable healthcare. Additionally, the ACA failed to ensure that doctors would have an incentive to take new patients covered by the expansion of healthcare. It was common for doctors to reject patients that were younger, female, Hispanic, impoverished, and had poor health problems prior to the implementation of the bill (Shartzer et al. 4). Despite all the setbacks and negative effects that came along with increased coverage, the ACA did setup important groundwork for socialized healthcare in America. Following the ObamaCare era, Senator Bernie Sanders launched a presidential campaign platform that brought many issues to the forefront, including the proposed implementation of single-payer healthcare. Advocates of form of single-payer healthcare argue that while the ACA was integral in advancing the movement towards more accessible healthcare, it did little to help doctors. A study by the Physicians Foundation Survey found that 20,000 doctors cited the legislation exposed them to more regulatory requirements, increased paperwork and overhead, and conflicting rates from different sources (Seegert 1). This led to doctors having to deal with increased administrative paperwork and unable to focus on providing care to patients. In addition, physicians have the additional concern of patients not being able to pay the rapidly increasing premiums that the ACA produced. (Seegert 1). The central argument for single-payer healthcare is that doctors would be able to increase their efficiency to match the increased demand of expanded coverage. Kaserman 4 Following this, the costs of healthcare need to be realized by politicians and the public. The costs for nationwide coverage of a population of the United States can be astronomical, but the benefits outweigh the costs. They can outweigh the costs by placing an emphasize on preventative care over waiting until the condition of the patient worsens until they have no choice but to go to a hospital. Canada is a similar socioeconomic country that shares characteristics with America and has taken the steps to implement socialized healthcare on a national scale, and when faced with increasing costs they conducted themselves through the following: minister, Paul Martin, offered the provinces, which administer Medicare, an additional $2.5 billion over 4 years for health and postsecondary education, raising the annual total transferred to the provinces to $30.8 billion. But the premiers and health-care critics called the rise inadequate and demanded a first ministers meeting to underline the call for an additional $4.2-billion per (Kondro) The Canadian government understood that the industry needed additional funds and were prepared to supply the funds, despite the extraordinary price tag. The credibility of Canada as a source cannot be avoided because of close geographic and economic ties. If the United States could work through the bureaucracy, then it is safe to say that a similar system can be established. To conclude, the healthcare industry grew too quickly, so the growth was unregulated and into an economic and political giant. This was a result of the conversation of healthcare coverage not being a priority among the American populace. However, the argument favoring socialized healthcare in the United States has been gaining favor among the public because of more industrialized countries adopting the practices, the passage of the ACA, and the Kaserman 5 recent presidential election, namely Senator efforts. It is imperative for the incoming generation to keep a watchful eye over new legislation relating to healthcare because of industry leaders that seek to maximize profits over the well-being of patients. Works Cited Adele Shartzer, Sharon K. Long and Nathaniel Anderson Access To Care and Affordability Have Improved Following Affordable Care Act Implementation; Problems Remain Health Affairs 35, no. 1 (2016): 161-168 Doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2015.0755 originally published online December 16, 2015. Eldo E., Frezza. The Six Stages Of The Healthcare Economy-Is Socialized Medicine At The Door? Historical  Journal Of Social Sciences, Vol 1, Iss 4, Pp 197-198 (2005) 4 (2005): 197. Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Kondro, Wayne. budget causes mixed  The Lancet 355.9207 (2000): 908. Web. Seegert, Liz. What Single-Payer Healthcare Would Mean to Doctors: Senator Bernie Sanders Has Revived Debate, But Experts Say It Remains an Unlikely Dream in The United  Medical Economics 10 (2016): 54. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan.