Cuartas 1 Cristhian Cuartas Lorie Jewell Enc1101 30 March 2017 Abortions Transcendence Since the 1970s court case Roe vs Wade,where the legalization of abortion was first established an abundance of political issues have been evoked.People stood up for what they believed was wrong and right, in accordance to the monumental case. They invoked religion and even turned to burnt down abortion clinics and protesters were doing whatever they could to make a change. To illustrate their perspective on the outcome since ironically their voices are not heard. As time passed the topic of abortion has transcended and evolved. Many states are making it nearly impossible to meet the requirements on abortion. More problems arose and the people felt the need to express their opinions.Women fight for their rights and march forward towards equality. Erosion also becomes an issue.Agencies and political parties make their move to gain followers using abortion as their source to winning people over.Some people seek abortions as an easy way out and use it to cheat the system.The only way to even have a shot at being heard is to focus on whose voices they believe are heard, to make a difference by focusing on the political side of the issue at hand.Since 1970 the topic of abortion has been heavily-debated controversial topic that has transcended from radical protest to modern stands for justice in the political world. Cuartas 2 Since the turn of the century, the topic of abortion has made headlines worldwide. Since the strict government laws and result of the major court case that started it all the political climate has changed over time. Over his lifetime accruing up to 6 Distinct awards for publications,a sociology professor at the New York University,Michael Hout,published an article regarding the politics of abortion in the United States from 1972-1974 giving the reader a taste of what it was like to be alive at the time of the legalization of the Supreme decision in the case of Roe v. Wade, many voters chose to vote for or against candidates based on their stand regarding abortion laws (Miller and Shanks, (hout 4). The political climate went on a frenzy when abortion was legalized.Presidents Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan (Hout 3) both advocated for a different perspective on the topic during their campaign for the presidency. During the 1980 election,one supported the law legalizing abortion while the other objected. Political sides on the issue at hand played a key role in the election for the term. To give a glimpse of what the majority favor at the time the conclusion to the election ended with Mr.Reagan winning the race. President Reagan was against abortion due to his beliefs.The majority of the people at the time after the legalization were for a president that was against National Organization for Women (NOW) has taken a leading role in the fight to define the abortion issue in terms of a right to control her own (Hout 13). The author informs the readers about the major organizations that rallied and protested against the legalization of abortion at the time.Women having their own say on the matter spoke their mind on the topic and displayed it in several ways. Laurie Shrage, a professor of philosophy at Florida International University and author of 4 published books, said she believes the reader is given an insight view on how the two Cuartas 3 major political parties exploit the abortion issue to pursue electoral (Shrage 67). Abortion taking its shape in political parties made a huge impact on the outcome of voters due to their believes. use the abortion issue to forge coalitions with right-wing and fundamentalist Christian voters. Democrats use it to attract women (Shrage 67). As one group exploited the religious aspect of the issue the other used sexism to gain followers. Thus being an example of political erosion occurring due to the legalization of abortion. The political parties took this opportunity to portray their ideals in campaign ads as well as buy into many of the other organizations stands on the matter. Such as the democrats advocating female organizations to gain favoritism (Shrage 67). In one of the latest articles published by Clark Forsyth , who has published over twelve titles in his lifetime, focuses on the intertwine of the political and medical premise over the topic of abortion.The article mentions different abortion cases that impacted the political climate. the public knows as v. is really two cases, Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton. The companion case of Doe v. Bolton has been regularly (Forsyth 189) mentions the case that nobody speaks of. In this case abortion was overturned in a state leading to controversy in many other adopting the mantra that is safer than the Justices have operated since Roe with the assumption that concerns are a in favor of access to (Forsyth 199). After the two major cases , many cases on the matter of abortion lead to a very similar repetitive route. The people attending the court case using political erosion to their advantage on the subject. In more recent news the 2016 article by David Rosenthal a Rutgers University graduate and author focuses on the constitutional and government affects on continue to pass regulations burdening Cuartas 4 the abortion (Rosenthal 1) meaning that states pass more laws making it nearly impossible to acquire an approval on an abortion. Prices being blown way out of proportions and rigorous requirements that need fulfilling before even having a shot. Not only does the article mention many of the state regulations on the matter it includes many cases involving the topic of abortion. Many controversial topics that are not heard of but impact the abortion regulations massively. Including cases such as Doe vs Bolton where the law legalizing abortion in georgia was overturned, Stenberg vs Carhart which banned Partial-Birth Abortion, Gonzales vs Carhart where the Partial-Birth Abortion was overturned and many others (Rosenthal 8-10). The topic of abortion has always been heavily debated upon and very controversial. The authors give the readers a view of how abortion has transcended over time. From a time were radicals protested to a more modern outlook where people take a stand using their political assets.Abortion seems to always find a way to affect the political climate in a way and keep itself alive. Abortion will always be a factor adjusting to its time period to assure impact on the political scale. Cuartas 5 Works Cited Forsythe, Clark. The Medical Assumption At The Foundation Of Roe V. Wade & Its Implications For Womenfs  Issues In Law & Medicine 29.2 (2014): 183-230. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Hout, Michael. Abortion Politics In The United States, 1972-1994: From Single Issue To  Gender Issues 17.2 (1999): 3. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 Doe, R. ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit, sed diam nonummy nibh, Print. Rosenthal, David L. Refocusing The Undue Burden Test: Inconsistent Interpretations Pose A Substantial Obstacle To Constitutional  Issues In Law & Medicine 31.1 (2016): 3-27. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Shrage, Laurie et. al Electoral Politics And  Dissent (00123846) 50.4 (2003): 67-80. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. (My laptop would not let me hang indent all of them) (I could not find much on David Rosenthal)