Lopez 1 Manami Lopez Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.021 30 March 2017 Different Sides of the Death Penalty the arguments may be against capital punishment. . . the death penalty has been employed throughout our history, and, in a day when it is still widely accepted, it cannot be said to violate the constitutional concept of which was stated in the Trop v. Dulles court case (Feldman 1317). As the overall crime rate increases in the United States, fewer states are using the death penalty to inflict punishment on the worst of those crimes. Often, criminals get little to no punishment because they are proven as being in court. Even so, does it excuse their crime? Does being excuse a criminal of getting no punishment if they are deserving of the death penalty? These questions have become increasingly asked as the complexity of the issue has increased over the past few decades. While methods to put criminals to death (i.e. electric chair, waterboarding, lethal injection) have been refined over the years, some do not believe those methods are humane. Other communities do not believe that inflicting death upon criminals is morally correct. As the views on the death penalty have changed over the past few years, states that continue to use it have changed their methods as citizens voice their own opinions, many of which are that the death penalty violates human rights. From hanging to electro shock to lethal injection, the methods of the death penalty have improved throughout, the years. Vittorio Bufacchi teaches philosophy at University College, Cork, Ireland and Laura Fairrie, a current-affairs documentary producer and director living and Lopez 2 working in London explain that lethal injection became more popular than hanging or using electroshock therapy to the criminals since it was perceived as a medical procedure (515). James C. Feldman is an attorney with a solo practice in Washington, D.C., specializing in Supreme Court litigation. Feldman agrees that lethal injection is the predominant method of executing death row inmates in America; however, European export began to ban pharmaceutical manufacturers, refusing to supply execution drugs (1313). a drug shortages, several death penalties began considering to reinstate the use of electric chairs, firing squads, and gas raising questions and concerns about whether these methods obey the Eighth prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment (1313). In addition, different communities began to develop different opinions about the death penalty when the methods began to change throughout the years. Kundai Sithole was a research associate in the Department of Politics and International Studies at the University of Cambridge. He discusses the Amnesty (AI) contribution to the abolition of the death penalty. They were considering the need for regional intervention to prevent European states from exposing individuals to the death penalty, this shows how much they are against the death penalty and want to abolish the death penalty practice (Sithole 79). Sithole also mentions, how AI led other actors in efforts to prohibit the member states from exposing individuals to the death penalty, the author believes that they can develop some mutual ideal goals towards the death penalty making an agreement on what would happen with the punishments rather than going for a death sentence (Kundai 80). Douglas L. Simon was in the U.S. Army, he was presently assigned as Chief of Claims, Office of the Staff Judge Advocate, 34 th Infantry Division states that, bail shall not be required, nor excessive Lopez 3 fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishment was created due to act amongst those who were accused and guilty of committing crimes (66). Furthermore, when the commotion of the death penalty practices began to rise up, some though that it was violating human rights. Feldman mentions, suggesting traditional methods of exception now violate the Eighth prohibition on cruel and unusual showing that the author may agree on death penalty as the right punishment for criminals who have committed heinous crimes; however, he does not agree on going back to the methods from the past, because that violates the human rights (1314). Under the court case Gregg V Georgia reaffirming the United States the right to perform death penalty in the states a death sentence is not cruel and unusual punishment if administered in a manner that was not arbitrary, capricious, or discriminatory, saying that it does not violate the constitution or human rights (Feldman 1319). Whereas, Simon mentions that the death penalty is debatable under the Eighth Amendment, Amendment law is an extension of the death penalty debate and the death proper role in a civilized (67), meaning that the death penalty should be debated again and think about how it is affecting the society. Some may have different opinions about death penalty compared to others. For instance, some may be for death penalty practices and others may be against. Past few decades, the crime rates have increased; however, the use of the death penalty as the punishments have decreased. Not only did the methods have changed from hanging in the past to lethal injection currently. In addition, the views as to whether the death penalty is the proper punishment for criminals have changed and some may have thought that it has violated human rights. Some people just commit the crimes and may deserve the death penalty but others may have committed a crime accidentally where they may not deserve an execution as a punishment. Lopez 4 Works cited Bufacchi, Vittorio, and Laura Fairrie. Execution As  Peace Review 13.4 (2001): 511-517. Academic Search Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Feldman, James C. Nothing Less Than the Dignity of Man: The Eighth Amendment and State Efforts to Reinstitute Traditional Methods of  Washington Law Review, vol. 90, 01 Oct. 2015, p. 1313. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Sithole, Kundai. NGO-IGO Relations: Amnesty International, Council Of Europe, And Abolition Of The Death  Global Governance 22.1 (2016): 79-97. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 23 Jan. 2017. Simon, Douglas L. Making Sense Of Cruel And Unusual Punishment: A New Approach To Reconciling Military And Civilian Eighth Amendment  Military Law Review 184. (2005): 66-128. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 2 Feb. 2017.