Kazbour 1 Zachary Kazbour Lorie Jewell ENC 1101 30 March 2017 The Conversation that Surrounds Marijuana Imagine sitting around a campfire smoking marijuana and talking to god. Well that is how many chiefs and priests talked to their religious gods during Native American times. History teaches prior American settlers and us that before the pilgrims settled in the Americas the native population used marijuana in medicines and religious rituals, around the 18th century and natives used it for pleasure but after hundreds of years of recreational use marijuana was made illegal in The United States of America in the mid 1900s. The conversation around marijuana has become very relevant in the past thirty to forty years because many believe marijuana has health and economic benefits but others believe it only comes with risks. An aspect of the conversation surrounding marijuana is that it poses many health benefits that include appetite increase, anxiety relief, and pain relief. A study was conducted in Canada that included HIV positive individuals who were prescribed medicinal marijuana to help them with their disease. The study was conducted by Fuler and then published in a scholarly journal. Many patients gained a new appetite to eat and many-gained weight, which is crucial for the survival with aids, others stated that they had little or no pain since being prescribed marijuana (Fuler). Fuler completely believes in his research and study there for proving that the conversation of medicinal benefits Kazbour 2 from marijuana is true. It does help people who need it and they should not be denied this right to their Marijuana has been proven to contain huge economic benefits in the recent years especially in Colorado. In Colorado the alcohol and tobacco industry has shrunk since the legalization of recreational marijuana, because of this healthier method to get a feeling of euphoria people ask themselves if it is really worth smoking cigarettes or getting drunk. In the article Medicinal Marijuana: Here to Stay and Time to Take Mark Ware, an expert on the subject. Ware states that marijuana is here to stay and that people need to except that fact just like society accepts alcohol and tobacco (3). He supports the legalization of marijuana and how it could be a benefit to society because it allows for another competitor to lessen the use of drugs such as alcohol that are proven to have negative health risks. There is another side to this argument that Joanne Spetz presents in her scholarly article that marijuana being legalized will lessen the street value thus making it easier for the younger generations to acquire this substance and using it. She also states that if the younger generations start using at a younger age their THC tolerance will have built up making the marijuana industry create stronger and more potent strains which could pose health and other risks on the human body (Spetz). Which leads to another main point in the conversation. Marijuana is not only to be proven to have a negative affect on the mental development of young adults, but it comes with societal risks as well. Adi Ronen wrote an article in a scientific journal called Of THC On Driving Performance, Physiological State and Subjective Feelings Relative To which talks about how THC affects the mind and a persons driving while under the influence. Ronen proved and Kazbour 3 supports that marijuana has a negative effect on the motor skills of someone under the influence. Ronen conducted many tests in which response time and the ability to think on the spot was tested and the people who were under the influence scored much lower than those who were sober. not only affects reaction times but motor skills in general which includes clouded (Ronen 926). This means that an individual who is under the influence posts a societal risk not only for themselves but for others also. But what makes this different than being drunk or tipsy asks Ronen? In conclusion the conversation around marijuana has changed from being used by Natives for hundreds of years to being banned from many countries around the world back to being legalized in many states in The United States of America. Marijuana is proven to have health benefits and risks, but also proven to provide an economical benefit to society. Scholars question the idea of marijuana everyday whether for improvement in health for many ill patients or as a menace to society causing more harm then good. But what is the real truth that surrounds marijuana? Kazbour 4 Works Cited Fuler, MD, et al. And Recreational Marijuana Use By Patients Infected With AIDS Patient Care & Stds 18.4 (2004): 215-228. CINAHL. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Ronen, Adi, et al. Of THC On Driving Performance, Physiological State and Subjective Feelings Relative To Accident Analysis And Prevention 40.(2008): 926-934. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Spetz, Joanne, and Laura Schmidt. Impact of Medicinal Marijuana Laws on Youth Attitudes toward and Use of Illicit Health and Healthcare in America: From Economics to Policy, 24 June 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wallace, Mark S., MD, and Mark A. Ware, MD. Medicinal Marijuana: Here to Stay and Time to Take Responsib... : The Clinical Journal of LWW. Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc, Nov.-Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.