Nicole Franze Franze 1 Mr. Phillips ENC 1102- 025 12, March 2017 The Fight For Home The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is a Native American tribe fighting against the production of the Dakota Access Pipeline. The Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL) is an underground pipeline that is being built to transfer hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil from the Bakken shale oil fields in North Dakota to the oil tank farm near Patoka, Illinois. The pipeline is being built by the Bakken Holdings Company. Due to the company having previous issues with their pipelines leaking, the natives predicted that the pipeline will contaminate the natives only water source. To avoid a leakage from the pipeline, the tribe is trying to put an end to the construction of the pipeline all together. In image one, there is a press conference being held in recognition of Standing Rock. The second image is the logo for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe. The logo tells the viewer that the tribe is Native American and have been together since 1873. Both images represent the goals that Standing Rock is fighting for between the construction of the DAPL and the contamination issues with their only water source. Each image demonstrates their own rhetorical appeals, ethos, logos, and kairos, that illustrate the overall image. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is a Native American tribe that lives on the Standing Rock reservation. The members and other devoted native people have been protesting since April 2016, and this project began in December 2014. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and other committed natives are protesting the production of the Dakota Access Pipeline due to the pipeline being built below their only water source and through their sacred burial grounds. The Sioux tribe is asking that we in solidarity with the Indigenous peoples of the world whose Franze 2 rights protect Unci Maka (Grandmother Earth) for the future generations of (Standing Rock Sioux Tribe). The tribes overall goal is to end the construction of the pipeline. Standing Rock uses rhetorical appeals to help the viewer understand the image ethically, logically, and appropriately. The tribe does not want their water to have any chance of being polluted or their sacred burial grounds being destroyed. They cherish their land that they call home, and they are protecting it like we would ours. Standing Rock uses many rhetorical appeals to express their goals in their images. Ethos is known to the credibility of a writer or a speaker and thus they become trustworthy in the eyes of listeners and readers who as a result are persuaded by their (literarydevices). Ethos provides the viewer with confirmation that the writer is credible. In image one, there is a dark, shady effect to it and this effect makes the viewer feel negative or depressed. There is a press conference being held in the picture and if the event is negative or causing an issue, press conferences will usually be held at the scene of the problem. In the image, the press conference is being held at the main problem, the D.C. District court house, so this alone shows the importance of the problem. In image two, the logo has a few colors in it that represent different things. The meaning behind the colors of the logo represent ethos by providing a sort of credibility, causing the viewer to feel what the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe feels. Red is known to represent passion, love, anger, and life. According to a color wheel software program, has very high visibility, which is why stop Image one Franze 3 signs, stoplights, and fire equipment are usually painted red. Red is used to indicate courage. It is a color found in many national (Color Wheel). Yellow is usually recognized as warmth or caution. The color wheel states, pure yellow is an attention getter. Yellow indicates honor and (Color Wheel). Blue represents professionalism, trust, authority, power and loyalty. is the color of the sky and sea. Blue is considered beneficial to the mind and body. You can use blue to promote products and services related to cleanliness (water purification filters, cleaning liquids), air and sky (airlines, airports, air conditioners), water and sea (sea voyages, mineral (Color Wheel). Red, yellow, and blue are important colors because they all describe the situation and what their goal is. Red was chosen because the tribe has so much love and passion for their land and they are angry that they have to fight for the life of them themselves. Yellow was chosen because the natives are warning and informing us of the production of the pipeline and how no one is helping to stop it. This logo is screaming for attention and makes the viewer feel like the problem needs direct attention. Blue was chosen because the natives trusted that their land would remain theirs for forever and they feel as if they are losing power. Those three colors come together to represent the ethos in image two by providing credibility to the logo. Logos is a rhetorical appeal to logic, use logos would be to cite facts and statistics, historical and literal analogies, and citing certain authorities on a (User). Any time there is a number or something that is not common knowledge in an article or picture, it is automatically referred to as logos. In image one, it shows how the natives and other people feel Image two Franze 4 about the pipeline being built. is is written on a lot of protesting signs. It simply means what it says, without water people would not be able to live. Water is not just for drinking, but for everyday activities like bathing, brushing teeth, and using the restroom. The signs in the image are supposed to represent how serious each protestor is about the pipeline. The signs show how much hurt and willing to fight. This image might provide the viewer with new information that they did not know before. For example, the viewer could possibly not have known how serious the problem was to natives or maybe they did not realize the pipeline is contaminating hundreds of water source. Image one is a wakeup call to the outside world. In image two, the logo has 8 tepees in the center. Each tepee represents the eight districts of reservations. Under the tepees, there are names, each name goes with a tepee and the names listed are the names of each reservation. The tepees give the viewer the idea that all the reservations are one big family and they all come together to make one. Also, the logo lets the viewer know that the Standing Rock reservation has been around since 1873. Standing Rock also uses kairos to appeal to the timeliness in their images. According to an article on Writing Commons website, written by Kate Pantelides, Megan McIntyre, and Jessica McKee, is timeliness, appropriateness, decorum, symmetry, of the rhetorical (Pantelides, McIntyre, and McKee). Unlike image two, in image one there is Kairos. In image one, there is a man standing alone, speaking for the natives. By him standing alone, it makes the viewer believe that the natives are fighting alone and not many people are understanding where they are coming from. The people in the image are standing in front of the D.C district court house protesting the Dakota access pipeline production. The protestors are trying to put an end to the production of the pipeline by stating how without water they cannot live and how life is sacred. The image shows how the production of the pipeline does Franze 5 not just affect adults, but elders and children as well. Overall, the lack of clean water will affect life. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe will not back down in this fight and they are determined to protect their land and water. Both images above represent standing rock and the seriousness in this situation. In image one, a press conference was put together to support Standing Rock in their fight. This image signifies how alone the natives are in the fight. In the second image, the logo for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe tells the viewer that the tribe is Native American and they have been together since 1873 supporting one another in all of the reservations. If we, America and all of those supporting the DAPL, continue to derive the natives land, then maybe one day they will no longer exist. That will not only destroy our history, but it will be us hurting our own country, family. Everyone must rise and stand with Standing Rock. Standing Rock has put up a fight that will not end until their once was home, is home again. Franze 6 Work Cited Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Kate Pantelides, Megan McIntyre, and Jessica McKee. Kate Pantelides, Megan McIntyre, and Jessica  Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Standing Rock Sioux Tribe.  Stand With Standing Rock. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Martinez Monsivais, Pablo. Press Conference. 2016. D.C. District Court House, Washington D.C. The Atlantic. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Standing Rock Logo. july 1873. Stand with Standing Rock. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. User, Super. Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and  Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and Examples. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.