Miller 1 Taylor Miller Lorie Jewell ENC 1101 30 March 2017 The Exposure of Syndrome Hopping in a uniformed line or clapping during silent reading are both common tics that a child with Syndrome may experience throughout their elementary days. Syndrome (TS) is very common, yet not much is known about it. People may be clearing their throat or simply blinking and that is what can be. Much is not known unless it is slightly over heard or someone is informed due to a close relative having it. Over the time it has been discovered, has not had its code cracked yet due to the complexity of the variables, the neurological part of it, and the young age it at for being diagnosed. We still do not know much about it and we are slowly learning today. Treatment and diagnosis has not really change over the years. syndrome has been around since the 1800s and was discovered by Gilles hence the name. Due to the young age of the discovery, not much is known compared to others. is disguised neurologically and it comes with many variables that can be complicated to pin point and clearly diagnose. Of what is known is that is a common misperception that people with TS are likely to curse in public or jump awkwardly and cause a scene wherever they go. Yes, they can have severe ticks but it is not likely for them to cause a scene as seen in movies. The age of is very young in relevance to many other disorders and syndromes that we know of today. TS is not known for any physically deforming features to the disorder. With that being said, many times it is not discovered just by looking but by observing over time. Th Andrea E. Cavanna is Honorary Miller 2 Reader in Neuropsychiatry and Consultant in Behavioural Neurology at the Department of Neuropsychiatry i Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health Foundation NHS Trust states that can be simple or complex, are usually suggestible, and may be suppressed (14) Explaining how the late discovery due to the ability to suppress. is not something normally diagnosed like other disorder and it is discovered by and historical (Cavanna, 13). The observations take time and that causes a delay in the complete gathering of data that needs to be discovered. The neurological characteristic of Syndrome causes it to be a more suppressed than other disorders. It is neurological based with therapy and medicine used to treat the syndrome. The treatment over the years have not changed very much since it has been discovered. Kious, whom works at the University of Utah in the Department of Psychiatry, explains that since there is not something specific they use anything from brain simulation (DBS), electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), transcranial magnetic simulation (TMS), and novel pharmacological (227) This explains that they have many forms of treatments like therapy and medicines that are usually used for depressed patients and are not specific to people with TS but they do not have a specifically prove that any of these medications or treatments work. Figuring if it is so new then that would explain the lack of specific and working cure in a sense. is, for many patients, a chronic condition that significantly contributes to disability through social stigma, the physical effects of tics, subtle cognitive dysfunction, and several psychiatric comorbidities. Strategies that are effective for many patients with TS already exist and beneficial approaches for controlling comorbid conditions are also (233) Kious goes on to explain how you can see TS has not changed much with therapy and medicinal treatments for people with Syndrome. Miller 3 is not really just it comes with many variables like ADD, ADHD, OCD, and anxiety. This study that was researched is about the severity of the variables and how they impact the person itself based on the variables. is one of the authors who conducted this observation discussing how they were to several hypotheses involving a range of variables salient to the TS population, including peer attachment, quality of life, severity of tics, comorbidity, and psychological, behavioral and social (563) This further backs up the point that there are so many variables to this syndrome that have not changed and they have been treated the same based on their variables much less the syndrome itself. Kurlan is a credited psychiatric author of many other journals including this one and works in New England still on psychiatrics. There is also discussion on how much of the takes a very long time to pin point the variables that come with the TS because of how this article is still researching about the old boy has a three-year history of hyperactive disorder, distractibility, and (9) The 3-year observation on just one patient shows the small progression of study for treatments on the TS patients. The progression displayed to treat is not very effective and still under huge development. Since the discovery there have not been change in how it is dealt with due to the variables of the syndrome. All in all, over the years has been discovered, there has not been much change with the treatment of TS. The disorder has not changed much in our history in terms of diagnosis and treatment because it is still fairly new to the public, it is neurological, and it is complex with all the variables it has. This condition is rarely publicized if it is and if it is, normally it is in movies and portrayed poorly with the wrong severity. With the Syndrome being only discovered a couple hundred years ago, neurological, and having many variables, it displays the Miller 4 slow progression of the diagnosis and treatment of this syndrome that affects so manylives on a day to day basis. Miller 5 Works Cited Cavanna, Andrea Eugenio. The Behavioral Spectrum of Gilles de la Tourette The Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences 21.1 (2009): 13-23. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Deirdre et al. The Impact of Tic Severity, Comorbidity and Peer Attachment on Quality of Life Outcomes and Functioning in Syndrome: Parental  SpringerLink. N.p., 06 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kious, Brent M. Treatment-refractory Tourette  Science Direct, Volume 70, 3 Oct. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Kurlan, Roger.  ProQuest. N.p., 9 Dec. 2010. Web. 16 Feb. 2017.