Watts, 1 Craig Watts Ms.Ricketts Comp 1 28 February 2017 Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) has caused the suicides of hundreds of professional athletes. CTE is described as a brain disease caused by repetitive brain trauma (McKee et al., 2009). In football, if a player gets too many concussions, it could lead to CTE in the future. This disease has ruined many lives; for example, Ken Stabler, Tyler Sash, Frank Gifford and Mike Webster were professional football players that have committed suicide from the disease CTE (Bellware, 2016). time, the degree of safety to which football should adhere to in order to prevent CTE has changed. In addition, from Dr. discovery of CTE to present day research, perspectives have shifted. After the surge of awareness in CTE, future tests are currently being made to screen for CTE in football players. It appears that perspectives on CTE in athletes have changed over time. Dr. discovery of CTE has shifted the research taking place in the present day. For instance, in 2010 discussed how doctor Bennet Omalu raised awareness to the NFL about CTE after examining the brain tissue of various deceased former NFL players Mike Webster, Terry Long, and Andre Waters. The writer discussed how Dr. Omalu found out that all three of the deceased NFL players had all had repetitive concussions in their NFL career. The symptoms include: slight mental confusion, general slowing in muscular movement, hesitancy in speech, and tremors of the hands (Hanna et al., 2010). In 2016, a research team discussed how the Watts, 2 general understanding of CTE has really advanced since 2002, when Dr. Bennet Omalu first discovered CTE in the brain of former NFL player Mike Webster. They continue to discuss how there is a link between the neurological disease and exposure to repeated traumatic brain injuries. The researchers explain that challenge is no longer the acceptance of CTE as a diagnosis associated with former NFL players who committed suicide, but rather an account of symptoms reported with exposure to identical repetitive head traumas before death, for former and current NFL players and other athletes in collision (Abreu et al., 2016). The degree of safety to which football should adhere to in the order to prevent CTE has changed significantly within the past decade. For instance, in 2010, writer Habib explains how the NFL is starting to cut down on all the helmet to helmet hits. The league has gotten out of hand with the helmet to helmet hits. They even started referring to Sunday game day as and blue The league started suspending and fining players that made an illegal hit like a helmet to helmet hit for the first time to get the message across to the players in the league that illegal hits will not be tolerated anymore. Some of the players wonder if the NFL is getting too soft. Over the years the discussion has changed over the years (Habib, 2010). In 2016, the writer Kubota discusses the recent research that was found. He discusses how concussions may increase the risk of health problems later on in life, such as the fact that getting too many concussions could cause the development of dementia and other mental diseases . Doctors are starting to diagnose sports-related headaches as concussions instead of simple headaches. Currently, physicians are working on creating specific criteria for the accurate diagnosis of concussions. Manufacturers are even working on designing safer helmets in order to lessen the frequency of concussions (Kubota, 2016). Watts, 3 After the surge of awareness in CTE, future tests are currently being made to screen for CTE in football players. Researchers discussed how Olfactory dysfunction is a frequent early sequelae of neurodegenerative disease (Alosco et al., 2016). The Department of Neurology examined NFL players for brain injuries and utilized the Brief Smell Identification Test to analyze their olfaction, as olfactory dysfunction is frequently associated with repetitive head injuries.. Ninety-five former NFL players, ages 46-69, completed a neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric evaluation as part of a National Institutes of Health-Funded study. The results indicated that a poor performance on the olfactory tests correlated with worse neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric functioning. It is therefore not surprising that former NFL players exhibited lower scores on the olfactory tests (Alsoco et al., 2016). Now it is clear that the opinions on the effects of CTE have changed throughout the years. Over time, football has had to adhere to a higher degree of safety in order to prevent CTE. It first started when Dr. research began to increase the awareness of CTE. His research has opened the eyes of many. Now, tests are being created to screen for CTE in current football players and current retired football players. Clearly, as time goes on, the views on CTE are constantly evolving based on new information. Watts, 4 Works Cited Alosco, Michael L., Johnny Jarnagin, Yorghos Tripodis, Michael Platt, Brett Martin, Christine E. Chaisson, Christine M. Baugh, Nathan G. Fritts, Robert C. Cantu, and Robert A. Stern. Olfactory Function and Associated Clinical Correlates in Former National Football League  of (2017): 772-80. Web. Conley, Quincy, and Willi Savenye. Brainbook: An Impact Study Of a Statewide Concussion Awareness Training for High School  N.p., 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Habib, Hal. Is NFL too soft on hard hits? Some think the campaign to curb helmet-to-helmet hits makes the game less  N.p., 20 Oct. 2010. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Kubota, Taylor. 5 Ways Science Makes Football  N.p., 30 Mar. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Mike, Mitka. Reports of Concussions From Youth Sports Rise Along With Awareness of the Problem  The Journal of the American Medical Association (n.d.): 1775-776. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Straus, Lindsey Barton. Coaches Can Play Important Role in Encouraging Athletes To Report Concussions Symptoms, Studies  (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Thomas, Chad . Concussion  N.p., 2017 . Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Watts, 5