Chillura 1 Michael Chillura Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 30 March 2017 Gun Control Is Not the Answer-Education Is. At the University of South Florida, the name Benjamin Knox may serve as a chilling reminder. Knox, a USF Bulls offensive lineman, was arrested in 2015 on charges of possession of discharge of a firearm on campus. This is a problem too close to home for many USF students and faculty. The conversation regarding whether concealed carry should be legal on college campuses is one that has been discussed for many years. Some would argue that their second amendment right to carry a gun but some also argue that it is unsafe for campus and will distract many students. The need to prevent weapons from being allowed on campuses is to decrease violence, the number of accidental shootings from rising, and prevent a mood of fear that disrupts a good learning environment. Whether or not concealed weapons should be allowed on college campuses is a very controversial topic that has gone back and forth for many years now. the wake of several campus shootings, the most deadly being the 2007 shooting at Virginia Tech University, states are considering legislation about whether or not to permit guns on college (Hultin). This brought attention to even consider the choice of allowing guns on campus because of how bad the shooting was and how many got murdered and injured. Before that guns even a topic of interest, it came a big idea due to this shooting. The discussion about allowing guns on college campuses was introduced in 2013 by 19 states to the legislation to allow carry of concealed weapons on campus. 50 states allow citizens to carry concealed weapons if they Chillura 2 meet certain state (Hultin). It all depends on what the state requires and if you are eligible to carry a concealed weapon. As of now, 17 states have banned carrying concealed weapons on college campus, in 24 states the decision to allow or ban is a choice made by the college or university, 8 states now have provisions allowing carry on public postsecondary campuses and not included above, Tennessee allows faculty members to carry with licenses but the law does not extend to students or the public. As you can see, carry of concealed weapons on college campuses was not a trending topic until 2007 when the shooting happened at Virginia Tech. With having states ban guns or allow guns decreases violence that can end up occurring. In 1999, a shooting by two students at Columbine High school in Colorado occurred killing nearly as many as 23 and killed themselves as well during the siege. This is not a college campus but due to the fact that this happened, only now Colorado has a provision to carry on postsecondary campuses due to all the state legislations and court (Hultin). the deadliest school massacre in the history, two young men stormed into a suburban high school here at lunch time today with guns and explosives, killing as many as 23 students and teachers and wounding at least 20 in a five-hour siege, the authorities (Brooke). With Colorado having this provision of allowing carry of concealed weapons on postsecondary campuses, the likelihood of accidental shootings occurring would rise. The more weapons on campus, the greater the likelihood of human error resulting in an accidental discharge. One of the things that came up were the shootings down in Virginia  Richardville said. The professor in that class was a CPL holder. His university did not allow him, because of a no-gun rule, to have his concealed with him. It was in his car, in the parking lot locked up. He was murdered and so were 31 other (Keeping). If he was allowed to have his gun on him he Chillura 3 potentially saved himself and his students as well but due to that time, there was a law that banned guns. They meet the requirements for the college to carry concealed weapons. The need to ban guns from college campuses is to prevent a mood of fear that disrupts a good learning environment. In 2015, a student at the University of South Florida, Benjamin Knox and offensive lineman for USF Bulls was arrested for shooting a gun on campus. faces charges of possessing or discharging a firearm on campus and shooting into an occupied dwelling. Shots were fired into the exterior wall of the Holly D residence hall, where Knox lives, investigators said. Police said they found an open gun case and .45-caliber ammunition in a vehicle that belonged to Knox. The weapon was recovered when Knox was confronted in his dorm (Johhnson). Seeing as he shot his gun into the wall of a residence hall where other students reside made university as a whole very concerned about this and the resident students are very concerned that something like this has (Johhnson). This portrays a mood of fear because the students are concerned as to why this occurred and what was the reason to have this occurring especially with students in that same resident hall. of this nature be tolerated, celebratory or not, especially in this environment where we have seen other (shooting) (Johhnson). Due to incidents like this Florida is a state that bans carry of concealed weapon on campus. does not meet the requirements to allow carry on college (Hultin). College campuses tolerate the abuse of weapons on campus because it concerns other students, faculty and can disrupt a good learning environment. In conclusion, the conversation regarding whether concealed carry should be legal on college campuses is one that has been discussed for many years. It is a very controversial topic that can be discussed back and forth. The need to prevent weapons from being allowed on Chillura 4 campuses is to decrease violence, the number of accidental shootings from rising, and prevent a mood of fear that disrupts a good learning environment. Chillura 5 Works Cited Brooke, James. in Littleton: The overview; 2 students in Colorado school said to gun down as many as 23 and kill themselves in a www.nytimes.com. N.p. 21 April. 1999 Web. 30 March 2017. Hultin, Suzanne. on campus: www.ncsl.org. 24 Jan 2017. Web. 30 March 2017. Johhnson, Joey. football students arrested for gun shooting on www.Tbo.com. 16 Oct. 2015 Web. 30 March. 2017. Keeping, Juliana. universities could allow guns in classrooms, dormitories under new senate www.annarbor.com. N.p. 21 Dec. 2009. Web. 30 March. 2017.