Donovan1 John Donovan Noah Pearlstone Composition 2 3/30/17 Project 3: Intermediate Draft PTSD or Post Traumatic Stress Disorder is a disorder that develops among some people who have experienced a shocking, scary, or dangerous event (National). The most common way PTSD can be found in our society, is in the men and woman who have previously served in the Military. The struggles of trying to adjust back to civilian life can be linked to PTSD and some of its symptoms. The people in the military did their time serving and many walked away with PTSD. So now it is the responsibility of Americans to take the time to serve them back, by being there for them in ways that they need. Although PTSD is an unstoppable effect of war, being there to help those who helped to defend this country, can be your way of serving them and your country back, which is why those suffering with PTSD deserve our full attention and efforts to try and cure them and put them at peace. In 1980, the American Psychiatric Association added PTSD to the list of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (PTSD). Since then, an average of 30% of veterans have returned home from battle to suffer from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). This has led to roughly twenty-two veterans committing suicide every day, which means there is one veteran ending their life every 65 minutes to end their suffering with PTSD. The first step to stopping PTSD is being able to recognize it. The signs and symptoms of PTSD can be broken down into three categories, re-experience, avoidance, and arousal. Re-experiencing symptoms can include aspects such as flashbacks, nightmares, and frightening thoughts. Avoidance symptoms include staying away from places, events or objects that are reminders of a traumatic experience and avoiding thoughts or feelings that are related to a traumatic Donovan2 event. And arousal symptoms can mean certain fast acting feelings such as easily startled, feeling constantly tense, difficulty sleeping, and anger outbursts(National). Being aware of PTSD is only the first step in the right direction for caring for these ill veterans. PTSD is condition that is more common than is recognized. Americans are united and if one of us falls everyone should be there to pick one another up. This is only a more accurate when talking about one who has already risked their life to fight and defend for yours. Going to war and coming back alive is a great achievement, let these veterans return home just to suffer with PTSD and take their own lives. There are many ways to get involved in the fight against PTSD. One particular way that will give you the power to have a great impact is by getting involved with with Their mission statement is, families connect despite but that all starts with your help (Get). If looking to donate, you can set up a reoccurring donation to the with or just make a one-time donation. If you want to do more than donate, the Military with PTSD provides three ways from you to lend your hand to those suffering. These three way are called it from both and of To learn about these methods of getting involved, check out militarywithptsd.org. Another well respected, national organization that will give you many opportunities to get involved is the Foundation of The PTSD foundation of America has set their mission to bring healing, raise awareness, and network, all to aid those suffering from PTSD (Our). The PTSD Foundation of America has the advantage of helping you get involved in ways more than just donating and providing funds. You can also donate your time at which is an organized camp for those who are suffering. let 400,000 service men and woman live with their invisible wounds of war, spread the message and get involved with Camp Hope. To learn more about Camp Hope and the PTSD Foundation of America, check out ptsdusa.org. Donovan3 PTSD is a result of traumatic events often times from serving country in war. PTSD is unstoppable, however, you have to sit back and do nothing. The people who suffer can be helped by your inclusion and participation in the with and the Foundation of This can be your way of serving them and your country back. miss this great opportunity to make a difference. As Gandhi once said, the change you wish to see in the Donovan4 Work Cited: Get  with N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. National Institutes of U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Our  Foundation of America Combat Trauma Support Groups, Camp Hope Houston, Warrior Shield Fort Hood, Shield N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. PTSD: National Center for  History and Overview - PTSD: National Center for N.p., 31 Jan. 2007. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Times, Military. New VA Study Finds 20 Veterans Commit Suicide Each  N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.