Ekaterina Artemyeva Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Euthanasia For Terminally Ill Patients Everyday many terminally ill patients choose to die while suffering from unbearable pain. Even though there might be solution for such patients, some of them still decide to practice assisted suicide with help of physician. Today this topic causes a lot of tension between different groups who has diverse points of view about assisted suicide. A stakeholder known as Euthanasia Prevention Coalition (EPC) is a non-profit organization that opposes assisted suicide and euthanasia. By doing research and media campaigns, they educate people about possible harms and risks related to assisted suicide and euthanasia as well as to retain and apply legal prohibitions barring (EPC). Euthanasia Prevention Coalition promote quality of palliative care and effective methods for controlling suffering due to unbearable pain. In addition, the members of Euthanasia Prevention Coalition think that assisted suicide and euthanasia should be considered as a murder; no matter if the killed has consented to be The organization uses two images, through which Euthanasia Prevention Coalition supports their idea using some rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos, and logos. Using such appeals, EPC is able to catch attention and promote prevention of assisted suicide. Pathos is the rhetorical category corresponding to a style, a manner or a way of expression of feelings, which are characterized by emotions, enthusiasm. Pathos is a way to call elements of the argument, which emotionally influence audience. The first image Ekaterina Artemyeva Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 24 February 2017 shows an old lady sitting on the bench in a very sunny and warm environment. Then there is a text on the left from the lady saying: people. Assisted suicide is not The lady is wearing a red sweater and words is written in exactly same color as her sweater; therefore the lady and might be connected in a way that makes audience feel sorry for the lady. According to Susana Martinez, red color is a very powerful color and it might intensify experience of pain. Moreover, she has a very beautiful look as she is dreaming about her life, which also makes audience feel emotional towards the lady, especially because she is terminally sick and considering death so she can stop suffering. The second image shows an arm of a man that is in a laying position holding medicine; pathos is used here for audience to feel like the patient is seeking for help, also pathos in this picture creates feel of urgency, as medicine and pills are being used in the second image. Moreover, the background is blurry and the focus is on the hand holding medicine. Existence of pathos in both images creates emotional influence on audience; feeling sad and sorry. Ethos is a rhetorical appeal that is used to persuade audience in credibility. In the first image the organization includes the name of the organization (Euthanasia Prevention Coalition), which is adding credibility to the picture. It might not seem like the most legitimate way of showing ethos in the image, however, it allows audience look for similar images that is created by the same organization and promotes their beliefs about assisted suicide. The overall color of the second image is blue, which according to Susana Ekaterina Artemyeva Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Martinez creates sensation of trust and security. Therefore, the existence of ethos in the picture allows audience trust the organization as well as doing more research about the organization and look more into their credibility. Logos refers to the appeal of logic of information. It is used to convince audience by employing logic and reasoning. When looking at the first image, especially at the old lady with the peaceful look on her face, audience would believe she wants to live and she does not have to agree with physicians to end her life with euthanasia. In addition, the words and Not are yellow, and only is in red color. That might make audience feel that to protect people is not safe, because the oppose stakeholder claiming that euthanasia is a way to protect a terminally sick person and let them die. So maybe the creator of this picture is trying to oppose to other opinion using the phrase. Before the words Not there is therefore it might carry double meaning: as stated above, opposing to the other opinion, which is indirect, and the second meaning would be that assisted suicide is not safe, which is very direct. Euthanasia Prevention Coalition is trying to warn people and patients about potential risks of assisted suicide. By producing images, which utilize rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos and logos Euthanasia Prevention Coalition is able to effectively influence on society and their choices towards assisted suicide. Ekaterina Artemyeva Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 24 February 2017 https://www.epcc.ca Ekaterina Artemyeva Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 24 February 2017 https://www.epcc.ca Ekaterina Artemyeva Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Work Cited: Euthanasia Prevention Coalition. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Martinez-Conde, Susana, and Stephen L. Macknik. How the Color Red Influences Our  Scientific American. N.p., 10 Oct. 2014. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Not Dead  Not Dead Yet. Not Dead Yet, 12 Mar. 2016. Web. 14 Mar. 2017.