Embry1 Claire Embry Professor Bennington Composition Two 12 March 2017 Project Two: De Beers & The Diamond Industry For Decades the harsh conditions of the diamond industry were hidden. The devastating civil wars of Sierra Leone in the 1990s highlighted the diamond industry and its corruption onto society. Since the public has been brought to light in some ways about the industry, the major corporations have since practiced deception of the true ethics of the industry to sell their products. The Two distinctly different images show the essence of beauty and death within the De Beers Corporation, and how the corrupt mining sites are not reflected into society with how the company promotes their diamonds. The use of color and text in the De Beers advertisement conveys an essence of class within the brand. De Beers released a statement in 2015 saying strive for innovation in craftsmanship; we have pioneered new techniques and continually explore more intricate designs to raise the bar in the crafting of diamond Beers). This statement alone shows the top of the line products the company produces, and highlights their main image they want to portray in society. The first image has a foundation of all nude colors to emphasize the beauty of the model, as well as the rings. It is important that the image has such soft colors. The use of the nude colors creates a light somewhat complimentary background to highlight the product. By having a light nude color as the background, it pops the models skin color along with the pure white clothing shown. The clean white cloth chosen throughout the image conveys an idea of purity of Embry2 the product, which can be contradicted in the second image. This idea of beauty created by the model through the use of pathos creates an high-class woman. This advertisement makes the viewer want to be that woman, and the only way they can do that is by buying the De Beers product. The visual presented in the second image uses the implication of death through pathos to make the viewer associate the diamond industry with corruption. The whole essence of this image/advertisement is to make a statement. By using such a violent picture of a severed hand presents a start to all of the ongoing problems throughout the diamond industry. The use of a colored hand is very important to the emotional effect brought on throughout this image. Contradictory to the De Beers advertisement, by having a colored hand opposed to a white severed hand shows the race split within the diamond industry. The African hand clearly exemplifies the danger and violence put upon the workers in these sights. war between 1991 and 1999 claimed over 75,000 lives, caused 500,000 Sierra Leoneans to become refugees, and displaced half of the countries 4.5 million Witness). These Outrageous numbers support the on going brutality experienced within that culture, especially in Sierra Leone where this image is targeted. On the other spectrum, in the De beers advertisement the model is very pale, mirroring old traditional values that pale people are higher class. By choosing the colored hand it puts emphasize on the culture that is put into these working conditions. It also highlights the opposite culture that is reaping the benefits, and wearing the product these people get killed over. The use of text within both images plays an important role in establishing the image in a way the producer wants it to look. This is done through ethos, pathos, and Embry3 kiaros as well. The first image of the De Beers advertisement there are several uses of text throughout the image, however the listing of all the major De Beers stores is important. By including the eleven different stores it gives the brand a label of eliteness. All eleven of the stores listed are held in massive, well-developed cities that are often seen as fashion capitals. This limited number of stores gives the brand a prestige that people strive for. The use of text in the second image is used in an opposite manner. The small cursive text reads every hand taken in marriage, another hand is taken This small amount of text has such a large impact on the image. Without the text the image would remain powerful, but not have the same emotional effect it does with that one sentence. This sentence ties the viewer directly to the issue. In this case the viewer feels responsible for these peoples severed limbs, and takes a step back to rethink all they think they know about the diamond industry. The choice of cursive font plays an important role in establishing the tone of the message. Where as the producer of the image could have chosen a rough harsh type of front to send more violence into the message, they did not. They chose this fancy cursive font to spin a slightly sarcastic tone to the image. Cursive is typically received as high class, the style of letters a person would find in a wedding invitation. By associating the classy font to the violent message creates a type of oxymoron in a way to give the sentence a strong quality. By choosing the saying hand also creates the effect of timeliness that is put upon the viewer. This type of kiaros forces the spectator to feel pressure to make a change now or more lives will be lost. The two images presented contradict each other through highlighting the ethics of the diamond industry, and how deception of advertising can sway what a person knows Embry4 about diamond trade. Within the two images rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos and, kiaros are used to strengthen their images. The use of color and text are the main factors in shaping these images. The contradictory nature of beauty and death portrayed separately in these images are shown very clearly when put side by side. Separately both these images make the spectator feels certain emotions, but put together they compliment each other to truly reveal the deception brought upon society about the Diamond trade. Embry5 Bibliography Effie Marino. The De Beers Group Forever-Report to Society October 2015, https://www.debeersgroup.com/content/dam/de- beers/corporate/documents/BuildingForever/Report%20to%20Society%202015.pdf . Accessed 5 March 2017. Eric Johnson. Diamonds: The Conflict in Sierra December 2 2012, http://web.stanford.edu/class/e297a/Conflict%20in%20Sierra%20Leone.ht m, Accessed 5 March 2017. Aaron Richardson. and violence in Africa. Uncovering relationships and April 2011, http://www.anoukrigterink.com/pdf/1314716933.pdf. Accsessed 6 March 2017. Embry6