Schlecker 1 Emily Schlecker Professor Bennington ENC 1102 12 March 2016 Image Perception There are many organizations that are against standardized testing, they have even produced several images to help the audience understand the issues these test give students. The National Education Association is one of these organizations that is against standardized testing, and they want students to know that they are on their side. The NEA is an association that is against the amount of standardized test and the amount of pressure they put on the students. standardized testing, more help for struggling (Jehlen). This was an article they have produced to present their standpoint and help pen the eyes of others. They believe that students should not have to be exploited by standardized test, when they need to be learning in the classrooms. This organizations is has produced several images within their articles, the speeches they have performed, and through the advertisements they have produced. A big issue for them is the Child Left Act. This act led to a frenzy of standardized testing, transforming weeks and even months of learning time into test prep in thousands of schools across the country The NEA wants what is best for the students and is working to get the school system to work with the students and allow them to learn the material needed, rather than allowing the students to move on in school and begin to fail. They are doing this, not only in words but, with images and speeches they have done. The NEA utilizes the similarities and Schlecker 2 differences of Image 1 and Image 2 to have the viewers sympathize with the NEA and the children they are trying to help in the school system. The NEA has produced two different images that have the same purpose but use different aspect in the image to portray it. Like in image 1, the author was using more graphics of photoshoot and human facial expressions to get their point across. In this image, the author took three separate images and combined them into one to tell a story about standardized testing on students. The image consist of a broken pencil, a bubbled in scantron, and a young boy who seems to be upset in the middle of an exam. The pencil, at first, seem to be a red color over the face, which can represent blood, or anger. The expression on the face is very upsetting and uneasy. It represents the misunderstanding students go through when taking standardized test and the amount of stress the school system puts students through. The NEA has launched a campaign to End campaign will among other things seek to end the abuse and overuse of high-stakes standardized tests and reduce the amount of student and instructional time consumed by them (Long and Image one is a byproduct of this campaign movement to show the viewers what testing is doing to students. It is trying to bring reason to other people that exams cause emotion distress to students, along with other types of emotional issues. The images within the images also tell a story based on the campaign, the broken pencil can represent the broken brain from all the test being given to them and how the test are important to their success. Along with the scantron being in front of the child represents that the exam is more important than the students themselves. All the different aspects of this image represent the campaign of ending Toxic Testing and showing how there are people out I the school system/ education world that care for the students physical and mental well-being. Schlecker 3 The mental illnesses that standardized testing have caused would consist of; self- harm, anorexia, anxiety, fear of test, and many other issues. Research from the Exam Factories have shown that per cent of primary teachers and 94 per cent of secondary teachers who responded to a survey conducted as part of a study agreed that pupils were driven towards stress- related conditions during exam periods (Stone This evidence has shown that teachers/ the school system now a days is focusing more on the rather than teaching material students need to learn to succeed in the school system, and life (Stone 2015). However, not all people in the school system are about teaching the test, or only care about students passing the exam and not worrying about them later on. Image 2 is a prime example from the NEA that teachers are there for the students, not just the money from the school system when exams are passed. Image 2 focuses on the Child Left act and how teachers want to end the act and focus on the education and understanding. The Child Left act allows student to move on in grade levels even if they did not pass standardized test given at the end of the year for the grade level they are in. The image produced is expressing how the Child Left act is being taken away and how it is going to be a good thig for the children. In image 2, it states behalf of our students, thank you for ending No Child Left this is expressing that not only do the children not agree with the testing, but that the teachers stand with them and believe they need to be taught material not just how to take an exam. Have the teacher in the image and the young boy (student) looking up to her for her help and guidance. The words, along with the two people in it bring the whole image together and really emphasize the purpose of the campaigns. Having a teacher to look up to and be there for the student shows that the education system completely a testing factory, and that Schlecker 4 the teachers care about teaching their students. What helps emphasizes this in this image is the coloring behind the text. The bright blue and red that fades behind the young boy and women, bring out the words and tell the story with the words. The colors bring out the bolded words and the red and blue represent congress, like the text says. These two images looked as if they were talking about two different stories and had two different audiences, but after analyzing them it is clear to see they were working together. Both images were produced by the NEA in a way to help children overcome standardized testing, by showing all the issues and misunderstandings standardized testing can cause. The images actually pertain to the same audience as well, they are both showing the school system what has happened to children because of standardized testing, and showing them that teachers want to be there for their students. Not just them how to take test, but show them how to find the answers based off knowledge they teach them. The images show how the school system has changed over the years, and how students and teachers want to change it back to better the students. The NEA is for the students, and these images prove that, and prove that people want to help the students and cause less emotional stress on them. Schlecker 5 Work Cited Jehlen, Alain. NEA To Congress: Less Standardized Testing, More Help,  NEA. National Education Association, n.d. Web. 9 Mar. 2017. Long, Cindy and Robertson, Sara. NEA Launches Campaign to End  NEA. National Education Association, n.d. Web. 9 Mar.2017. To Congress: Less Standardized Testing, More Help,  NEA. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Stone, Jon. Over-focus on Exams Causing Mental Health Problems and Self-harm among Pupils, Study  The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media, 06 July 2015. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Schlecker 6 Images Image 1 Image 2