Nguyen 1 Duyen Nguyen ENC 1102 Bennington 12 March 2017 Gender Pay Gap If President John F. Kennedy were still alive, he would be very disappointed to see the Equal Pay Act that he signed into law 54 years ago to prohibit gender discrimination in paychecks has not fully established its purpose (Committee, 2016). been reported recently that women make approximately 24 percent less than men, meaning that women only earn 76 cents for every dollar earned by men (PayScale, 2016). Highly involved in the issue in America is the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), an organization who works to ensure everyone receives the right earning despite his or her gender, age, or racial background while advocating the passage of a new stricter law. The ACLU was founded as a group civil liberties activists in 1920 to ensure that the Bill of Rights will provide justice and protection to every American. The mission to secure equal pay is achieved through the two images provided by the website. Despite the common purpose of informing the audience about the current gender discrimination in paychecks, image two has a more direct approach towards the issue via money, colors, and texts. Images one indirectly symbolizes money through the illustration of two piggy banks. An online website called The Financial Brand refers to piggy banks as tool to teach kids about (Pilcher, 2012). The image of piggy banks is familiar to many people since young age and so is childhood and the sense of enjoyment. Using pathos, piggy banks connect Nguyen 2 the audience back to their childhood memory of owning one while saving up their money to feed the pigs. Varied in size, the piggy bank held by the male figure on the left is clearly bigger than the piggy bank held by the female on the right, representing the 20 percent income difference between men and women Women and the Wage Gap, 2016). Even though the image successfully depicts the gap through comparison in sizes, image one inadequately portrays the inequality as a serious issue via the use of Image two proves to be a more efficient representation of money with its main visuals focused on American currency. Instead of implying money through the piggy banks in image one, image two directly visualizes a dollar bill and coins, making it hard for anyone to not think of money when looking at the image. By displaying a dollar bill in the background, image two can be viewed as a credible source with the U.S. Treasury supporting the ACLU in the back. Out of the five quarters and dimes shown, the three coins at the front have their head side facing up, with all of them saying God We the national motto of the United States. In another word, image two uses ethos through American currency to promote its reliability as a illustration. Moving to a bigger picture, colors play an important role in bringing attention to the gender pay issue. Black and white color are often associated with the past, darkness, or death. The color black to the hidden, the secretive and the unknown, and as a result it creates an air of according to a website called Empowered by Color. Black covers more than half the area of image one, leaving the hands and the piggy banks as the few objects that are white. Using a black background, the image creates darkness to indirectly symbolize the inequality that takes place at workplace. The piggy banks brightly shine in the dark background to show themselves as the unfair products of gender wage discrimination. Despite its lack of colors, Nguyen 3 image one is still managed to showcase the inequality aspect in paychecks that the UCLU avidly advocates against. In the complete opposite with the black and white color of image one is the colored image two. Its colorful representation further establishes the familiarity image two holds for it to appeal to a greater audience. For the longest time, the dollar bill has been as green as anyone could remember along with the silver quarters and cooper pennies. Colors give objects such as the dollar bill an identity to be recognized by people. If image two were in black and white, it would lose its credibility and its familiar sense as one of the most common type of exchange. Between a black and white and a colored illustration, the colored one would be a more popular choice. Color attract attention from people from all ages - the more attention an image gets, the bigger the audience it has. Image two in this case would be more appealing in compare to image one. Not only it can be viewed, both images can also be read. Image one tackles the issue with a short and simple phrase via pathos. Located on the upper left corner of the image, the phrase up indirectly represents the situation that many women are facing. Many American families reply on income to support the family. been reported that out of a total earning, women contribute nearly 40 percent. (Committee, 2016). The image seeks empathy from people who see that inequality or from the people that are going through the same situation. Statistics provided by image two directly introduce the topic with an interesting fact. The line cents for every dollar men is logic evidence known as logos, pointing it that women mathematically get paid less than men. Image two once again proves to be more affective with a more direct approach. Nguyen 4 Both images successfully utilize every detail of the image to fulfill the mission of prohibiting gender pay gap. However, one image proved to be a more effective image after outperforming the other one. With a direct interpretation of money, colors, and a long specific phrase, image two appeals to a broader audience with connections via ethos, pathos and logos, proving to be a credible source. Nguyen 5 Works Cited (n.d.). (2016). Women and the Wage Gap. Washington, DC: National Partnership for Women & Family. Committee, J. E. (2016). Gender Pay Inequality. United States Congress, 3. PayScale, I. (2016, December 8). What is the Gender Pay Gap? Retrieved from PayScale: http://www.payscale.com/data-packages/gender-pay-gap Pilcher, J. (2012, June 4). The Accidental Invention: The Origin Of Piggy Banks. Retrieved from The Financial Brand: https://thefinancialbrand.com/24204/history-of-piggy-banks/ The Color Black. (2017). Retrieved from Empowered by Color: http://www.empower-yourself- with-color-psychology.com/color-black.html Nguyen 6 Image one Image two