Emily Edgington Spencer Bennington English Comp II 12 March 2017 Context is Crucial The National Rifle Association (NRA) is an extremely well-known organization, primarily acknowledged for their efforts to protect the second amendment right to bear arms. However, it is a little known fact that the NRA also has an adamant ambition for educating citizens about gun safety. They have established numerous programs such as NRA School Shield Program and Refuse to be a Victim, both of which aim to protect groups of people particularly susceptible to gun related crimes. While both of these images use persuasive techniques to effectively promote the message of education initiatives to decrease gun violence, out of context the message is not clearly conveyed by the images. When viewed in the context of the website for their Refuse to be a Victim program, image one does a fantastic job of using facial features and colors to create a feeling of confidence. It is important to the NRA that this image portrays courage in the face of danger because they are trying to show viewers that if they are prepared with a safety plan prior to encountering an act of violence then they will not be afraid like the girl in the image. The single most important step toward ensuring your own safety is having a personal safety strategy in place before you need  (Victim). The most noticeable feature of image one is the young woman placed in the center of the image with the camera focused on her. She is in her late teens or early twenties and in a seemingly abandoned building, alone with a dark hooded figure. Most girls in this situation would feel vulnerable or anxious at the very least. However, this woman does not appear agitated at all. One notable observation is the color of her coat. In American culture, purple generally symbolizes bravery. In the military a purple  is the award given for admirable bravery (History of the Medal). The color purple prominently displayed in the center of the image delivers one clue to how the girl is feeling about her situation. Another element that lends to her aura of bravery and confidence is her posture. The way that her head is tilted slightly, with her eyes subtly gazing at the hooded figure portrays a sense of caution and a heightened degree of awareness. She knows the figure is behind her and is aware that this could potentially be a dangerous situation, but she seems like she knows how to handle it safely. If one views this image in the context of the Refuse to be a Victim website, they could assume that the girl has participated in the program and it has greatly benefited her knowledge of handling herself in precarious situations. This image used two very specific techniques to show that the seminars are effective at teaching safety skills when it is viewed in the correct context. If Image one is viewed out of context, the carefully articulated atmosphere of confidence does not convey the message of the safety seminars at all. While text is certainly not a fundamental element of an image, image one lacks any sort of identifying mark that could support the credibility of this image. A photo of this sort will typically have a symbol, logo, or at least the name of the program it is promoting. Image one lacks any of these markers and therefore can not relate the confidence shown in the image to the Refuse to be a Victim program. In the context of the program, image two sufficiently promotes the common goal of education to decrease gun violence. The program that the NRA has established to decrease gun violence is the School Shield Program.  The National School Shield program is committed to addressing the many facets of school security, including best practices in security infrastructure, technology, personnel, training, and  (Shield). Image two portrays a sense of safety in many ways, but perhaps most prominently in the figure of the police officer in the middle of the image. The officer is an older gentleman which implies that he has years of knowledge that he can impart on the children. He is wearing his uniform with his badge and holster on full display which lends to an air of credibility. Society is generally taught to respect and listen to members of the police force which persuades the viewer to believe that the program associated with this image is to be trusted because it focuses on a reputable member of society. Furthermore, The smile that the officer happily wears corresponds with the feeling of safety that the viewer is prompted to feel. The officer would not be smiling if the school was in danger so in the context of the website this means that the program associated with the image is responsible for bringing safety and peace of mind to the children and officer alike. While image two is extremely effective in the correct context, taken out of context, the viewer has no idea that it is supposed to be promoting the School Shield Program. The audience might not even interpret the semblance of safety that it is meant to portray. When not seen in correspondence with the School shield program information, this image could represent anything; a career day, a bulling seminar, etc. There is no indication that would lead the viewer to believe this is to promote a seminar on gun safety. Based on these two images, one might assume that the NRA has pattern of choosing images that work fine in context and accurately accomplish their intended purpose, but taken out of context do not represent the views of the NRA. While this does not necessarily pose a major problem to the NRA they might want to find a way to generate more credibility of their images. One way that they might make their specific images relate to their intended purposes is to include a small logo or caption onto their images. Hopefully after viewing these two images, the reader will realize that the context of an image has a major impact on the way it is interpreted. Works Cited Shield, National School. National School  National School Shield. National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Refuse To Be A. Refuse To Be A  NRA Explore Refuse To Be A Victim. National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. History of the  Military Order of the Purple Heart. United States Military, n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. J