Martes 1 Emmanuel Fernando Martes Professor Adam Carter ENC.1102.034 15 March 2017 The Emotional Appealing of Advertisements Marketing is the practice by which you are able to affect perspective about the world, by using knowledge that would affect the audience ethics, logic, emotions and immediacy. Every single company/organization implements this type of knowledge to convince people about certain ideals and arguments that are or to many; arguments that can extent from deciding what to eat for dinner, until being able to determine if the Concentrated Animals Feeding Operations are the best farming method to maintain population growth. This argument has been portrayed and addressed by the organization PETA; which developed different advertisements in order to affect 5 million people perspective regarding this type of farming, as well as, more issues in which animal rights and life are being defended (N.A, 2017). This approach, has leaded to the development of the organization in itself, as well as, the idea that animals should be treated not but than humans. Furthermore, advertisements portray the belief that animal rights should be defended; developing a persuasive and informative visual aid that approaches the audience in the aspects of: Logos, Ethos, Pathos and Kairos; to show them the impact of our actions, to create a sense of comprehension and understanding on life. P.E.T.A is considered a non-profit multinational organization that defends by the volunteer work of millions of members and supporters. They defend this conflictive argument that has been controversial in history, throughout the development of education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest Leading to a conservative analysis on how animals should be treated and defending that idea that are not (N.A, 2017). Moreover, advertisements and other types of visual aid portray this idea of animal abuse and damage in an impacting and persuasive way, due to the use of colors, images, information, research, credibility Martes 2 and analysis that affects the audience perspective of animals and their place in the world. This is evident in these two official PETA advertisements: is the rest of your (See appendix as: Image I) and cowards abuse (See appendix as: Image II), which portray the idea of in both an informative and impacting way to the audience; making these a unique and efficient way to enforce ideals. Both appeal to which is the appeal to logic and reason due to the development of arguments that should be consistent and clear to different audiences. This analysis is evident on Image I, developing one basic idea to the audience, comprehension. Throughout the development of a simple and concise advertisement, which is showing what a really represents, the audience is able to identify the harsh impact our action has on animals. Portraying the concept with the phrase is your displays imagery in the sense that people feel guilty about their actions and moreover how the audience is responsible for holding on to their desires rather than the life of an animal. Leading to the idea, that this technique is developing one central idea, the logic behind our actions. Perusing this further, Image II portrays the concept of in the content and techniques used. Throughout the development of a more informative and appealing advertisement, they are showing the relationship between animal and human. Yet, they develop this argument by the development of an antithesis and a verbal irony, which is demonstrated by how the image shows a friendly and caring relation; but the words used demonstrate a different meaning. This appeals to the logic of all type of audiences, as it is demonstrating that animals lives depend on our actions and how we can either be the ones saving them or destroying them. is defined as how the development of an advertisement should demonstrate credibility and authority so that the audience is able to trust the information and message. Image I displays this concept by the use of logo, emphasizing the fact that is an advertisement from an official organization, so that the audience is able to belief in the information (This is also sustained by how Peter Shadbolt from BBC defines that: use of a logo will make your company be perceived as trustworthy by the Also, by using the technique (Using famous people to support an argument) with the display of the famous guitarist Martes 3 Jona Weinhofen, the audience feels identified with the message of the advertisement, feeling that it is a problem that we should all be concerned about and for this reason try to solve. Furthermore, the credibility of this advertisement is based on how we are feeling identified with J. Weinhofen, as well as how a multinational organization like PETA is addressing this type of problem. Also, Image II portrays the concept of in the same way, as they display logo on the bottom of the image, as well, as they use the influence of the rapper Wacka Flocka Flame (Bandwagon technique) to demonstrate a sense of union and with this more credibility. The only difference is that this advertisement has more information and research, which makes it more informative and persuasive to the audience; using the example of how was rescued, gives information so that the audience feels that the information is not only more credible (Knowing that is something that actually happen), but also more attainable to everyone. on the other hand, is defined as how the use of rhetoric can help the audience connect with the argument or message of the advertisement. Image I, portrays this aspect on how PETA is appealing to our emotions, in order for us to feel identified with the idea of defending animal and stop the use of By emphasizing the image on the bloody animal, we are relating directly the message of this advertisement with cruelty and inhumanity; developing a sense of sadness, self-conscience and of (Rom. 3:25; Catholic bible), which demonstrates how we should address our actions to fulfill our needs, as well as perusing, the truth for animals life, not their misery. This is also portrayed, on how a human (J. Weinhofen) is holding an animal, due to the fact, that it can be interpreted as a metaphor to how all humans are committing this cruelty, which is just a cause of our decisions and greedy desires. Furthermore, this image is making the audience to feel related and even responsible for the problem, making our emotions affect the rationality of our actions. Image II is appealing to the audience emotions on the opposite way of Image I because they are using a puppy, so that the audience is connected with the message, knowing that humans have been conditioned to always relate a puppy with something happy and adorable. This leads to a sense of self-conscience, as it is inciting people to in any case of animal which we directly relate to the puppy; making us more committed to supporting this statement. Furthermore, by humanizing the puppy by given her a name it is appealing Martes 4 to our morality regarding animals, as it is emphasizing that animals are just like us, reason why we need to treat them in the same way; leading to a direct connection not only with the advertisement but also with purpose. Last but not least, is portrayed as a sense of timeliness and identifying how an action can have a determined result on the audience ideas. On Image I, it is just portrayed on how the animal is dead; evolving a desire for us to be more committed and act with a sense of immediacy so that this action does not happen back again. Also, by stating, killed the prom it is stating that we are the ones responsible for this moral idea that we are which makes the audience realize that people should change their rational perspective of the world so that they do not act like this again. On the other hand, Image II portrays this message with written language rather than with stylistic devices. By stating, lives may depend on it is targeting the audience actions in the moment, by making reference that if another animal suffers any cruelty action, is because the audience able to act properly and on time for the situation. Furthermore, is portrayed as a cause-consequence effect, stating that our actions and what we do at the moment will have repercussions on life. To conclude, it has been identified that advertisements portray the belief that animal rights should be defended; developing a persuasive and informative visual aid that approaches the audience in the aspects of: Logos, Ethos, Pathos and Kairos. Furthermore, the importance of visual aid has been demonstrated, on how the audience is able to interpret the same message from two that use different techniques and devices. Finally, the importance of this type of persuasive format is extensive, showing how it has leaded to millions of people to change their ideals of a conflictive idea, such as: Animal abuse, demonstrating how advertisements are intended to change our perspective and the way we are able to interpret our decisions with rationality. Martes 5 Works cited Websites MCLAREN, WILLIAM M.1. The Death Of The Duty To Apply: Limitations To Cafo Oversight Following Waterkeeper & National Pork  Journal Of Animal Law 11.(2015): 87-113. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Factory Farming: Misery For . PETA. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Shadbolt, Peter. How Important Is It for a Company to Have a Great  BBC News. BBC, 07 May 2015. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Sheldon, Jean. Sacrificial Blood-If a Symbol, What Does It  Sacrificial Blood-If a Symbol, What Does It Mean? Spectrum, Nov.-Dec. 2008. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Rhetoric . Language and argument on context. N.p., 2017. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Images 1. N.A. is the rest of your wool 2015, PETA.com. 2. N.A. Cowards abuse 2010, PETA.com. Martes 6 Appendix Image 1 Martes 7 Image 2