Allowe, 1 Adam Allowe Smith Composition I February 2, 2017 Police Prejudice in the Black Community The police prejudice in the black community targets the civil rights of many, and leads to an imperfect relationship between the African American community and the police sworn to protect them. The relationship between the black community and the police has not changed dramatically since the early but towards the late to early a change in the perspective on how the police interact with the community. Pre-2010 the discrimination of black people was more overlooked, and post-2010 a noticeable difference of how that non-black and non-police communities view the discrimination of African Americans. Police prejudice has always existed, but prior to 2010 is was less mainstream than it is currently. In the early little was known about how bad racial profiling was, but what was known was that is expected that African Americans will be more critical of profiling than will be whites. (Weitzer, Ronald, and Steven A. Tuch The article states that African Americans are 12.3% more likely to get stopped by the police, but the authors focus on anything more than stopping African Americans more, which leads one to believe that is the only problem. Over time there has been increases in the number of African Americans arrested. increasing number of courts have held that the discriminatory impact on African Americans of profiling is likely to render it unconstitutional (Weitzer, Ronald. The quote reflects that the number of racial profiling cases is causing more grief for the African American community. The article argues the result of police acting on their prejudice to profile African Americans is a direct example of discrimination. Allowe, 2 The actions of police on one person can affect the whole community, and an example of this Frank Jude, an African American individual attack by the police. After the attack on him the African American community far less likely to report crime after beating was broadcast.(Desmond, Matthew, Andrew V. Papachristos, and David S. Kirk. After attack there were over 22,000 less calls to 911 and 56% fewer calls from minority communities. The article focuses on how African Americans are affected by police prejudice and is more than just profiling. The Group Threat states that the main cause for the police violence is to minority groups who threaten their economic, political, and public safety interests. (Blalock, 1967; Chambliss, 1969, 2001; Grettenberger, Beatty, & Weathersby, 2014; Quinney, 1973; Spitzer, 1975; Weitzer, This article, like the last one, focuses significantly more on how African Americans are affected by racial discrimination. It is mentioned that the likelihood of violence is decreasing, and the awareness of the issue is increasing. An increasing awareness of the problem it is believed that the violence with slow down significantly. The author emphasizes on how the threat of violent police is a growing matter. Over time it can be seen that authors have began writing more that police prejudice is a bigger problem than just profiling. In the earlier articles profiling was the main topic of concern, but towards the later articles the authors narrowed down to the brutality of the police. The conversation over time has drastically changed and begun noticing more problems with the relationship between the African American community and the police.