Thomas 1 Essence Thomas Alison Missler ENC 1102 14 March 2017 Project 2 Final Fight For 15 is an organization that is fighting for a raise in minimum wages so that a more sustainable lifestyle can be achieved. The fight started with workers striking against their jobs in New York because of their underappreciated and unpaid work, and it has worked its way around the country and gotten the approval from several major cities. The Fight for 15 goal in its media is the to get the public to support the movement and help to make the change that the group is aiming for. The organization has many different posters, signs and banners, and by using the four rhetorical pathos, logos, and organization can create images for its signs and such to convey an effective message to anyone that views the media. In one of the images, it shows a total of fourteen people of unknown genders each holding signs and banners that read some of the main fighting points of the movement. The biggest banner in the center of the photo states the movement title, which is Fight For 15. That and the fact that one of the signs uses the logo of the well-known major corporation such as appeals to this ethos, which establishes credibility within an image. In an appeal to pathos, which deals with emotion, some of the signs contain phrases such as Are Worth and Survive Off These phrases use terms relating to worthiness and survival to evoke the reader to feel concern and sympathy Thomas 2 for the people of this organization. Also, some of the banners in this photo are written in Spanish, which can sway the reader to feel even more concerned because this is showing that this issue does not affect just one group of people, primarily English speakers. The colors used, and the scene in the background, give a sense of hope and victory that is wanted from Fight For 15 group members. When it comes to the appeal of logos in this photo, which is an appeal to logic, the claim A Living is posted. The colors used can also appeal to logos alongside pathos because the general public realizes that those are trademark colors. Phrases used are also kept short and to the point because when it comes to making a campaign poster, less is considerably more (Tips for making eye-catching protest [and signs), and that is what makes the message conveyed most effective and easy to read. When it comes to kairos, the appeal to timeliness, the words and emphasize a call to action type of reaction to each viewer. This organization also possesses another image which was unveiled at a Fight For 15 protest in Chicago It To The The appeal to ethos in this image is the same as the first one, the logo, but in hashtag form. The main rhetorical appeal in action, though, is pathos. The claim that these jobs us makes the reader confused and curious as to how he is being affected in this situation if the claim says so. The use of the globe in the background gives the viewer the impression that it does not us here in just the United States, but worldwide as well. Incorporating the famous prefix in front of the word jobs is for viewers to understand more that this movement stems from the company, and this aspect appeals to logos. Also using the colors give more hint to how the company is part of the issue. In the appeal to kairos, the use of the exclamation point at the end gives the reader a sense of importance and urgency. Also, the use of the Thomas 3 hashtag allows any viewer to electronically catch up on what is going on within the movement and actively join the conversation. Each of the images created by members of the Fight for 15 movement that have been analyzed have similar rhetorical appeals that present a message or goal for the group. Each appeals to ethos, by including the logo, establishing credibility; pathos, by using phrases or strong key words that touch on emotions; logos, by providing the reader with certain claims; and kairos, by giving a sense of urgency or call to action. By using each of the rhetorical appeals, this organization makes eye catching and thought provoking images and signs to draw the attention that it wants and needs. Thomas 4 Works Cited It To The Fox Valley Labor News, (2016). Rubin, Gabriel T. Ferguson and the Fight for Washington University Political Review. Apr 2015. Fight for 15. (2016) http://fightfor15.org/ Augenstein, Neil. For Making Eye-Catching Protest (and Counter-Protest) WTOP, (2017).