Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 4 March 2017 Opponents with Different Methods and Similar Goals All solutions are created through a series of different methods and parties that work to prove that their method is best. One solution that has not been found is the best source of energy for the Earth to use to power everything. One big solution that been proven to be the best is Solar Energy. There are many stakeholders that have done their research and presented their plan to have Solar Energy the main energy source of our generation. One of these stakeholders who has a goal and method to make Solar Energy the popular is Solar Energy Industries Association. The SEIA has done a lot of research regarding solar energy and has supported it as the best source of energy. The other stakeholder who has incompatible goals with the SEIA, but are talking about the same topic, is World Nuclear Association, or the WNA. The WNA is an organization that spreads news about nuclear energy and clearly supports it as the best source of energy for the world. They are a popular renewable energy cite that does a lot of research on energy and is supported by many other big organizations. The Solar Energy Industries Association and the World Nuclear Association are two stakeholders who have incompatible goals but involved in the same issue. There are hundreds of associations that are created and do their own research or use research to prove a point. The Solar Energy Industries Association is one that has had a lot of attention for the work they have done for Solar Energy. Solar Energy is known around the world to be very expensive and the technology behind it advance enough. The SEIA talks Student 2 about the benefits behind solar energy and avoids certain topics. One big idea they have supporting solar energy is that solar panels can be placed anywhere. On their website, they have images showing different locations with solar panels being used. This shows how these panels can be placed anywhere and anyone can use them. The next stakeholder that has done a lot of research to prove their idea is best is the World Nuclear Association. The WNA has a website showing their research behind nuclear energy. They talk about the history of nuclear energy and the dominance it has had since the 1950s. It talks about how most countries rely on nuclear energy and how it has improved over the past couple years. Nuclear Energy has received some bad views because of the damage it does to the earth, but the WNA talks a lot about how nuclear energy is advancing and getting better. One thing these two stakeholders have in common is that they have not reached their goal, which is to prove that their source of energy is better. The two stakeholders have spent a lot of time and effort to support their type of energy. Their websites and works done by each proof that they have a lot of evidence to proof their point but not enough to become the best. Even though nuclear energy is considered the most used in the world, it has lost popularity as technology has advanced. With solar energy, the technology is not advanced enough for it to be the best and it is still too expensive for our world to use it as much as would need to. These two stakeholders have incompatible goals with the same issue but do have a common ground. In the end, these two stakeholders have a lot of supporting facts but none of them have surpassed the other. The issue with nuclear energy is that it is not clean for the earth, but a lot of nations around the world need it desperately. The issue with solar energy is that the technology for it is not there and the cost of installation are too high, but it is one of the cleanest sources of energy. Student 3 The issue is to find the best source of energy and these two stakeholders, along with most stakeholders that do research on energy, are working on their own to prove their source is best. They have separate ideas and separate plans to prove their point but they have lost sight to help improve the best source of energy. One suggestion for both of these stakeholders would be to target their attention and efforts to not proving their source is better through research but actually go out and advance the technology by working together on this issue together. The earth is not in good conditions and while these two stakeholders are competing, they must start to work together to get the world a better place. A compromise that could be found is to agree on a energy type and work on it. The way we retrieve nuclear energy is damaging the earth and with more people working on this energy we could find friendlier ways to extract it. With solar energy, the technology and installation costs are too high. With more people and resources working on this type of energy, the technology could advance quicker and it could become the source of energy quicker. This compromise could be completed with the cooperation of the two stakeholders. Right now, they are competing to win a battle that they both and the earth can could come out as winners. By making this compromise, the two stakeholders can potentially save the earth from being damaged and extend the time humanity will live on this planet by a very long time. The source of energy of the earth has been a debate that has been going on for hundreds of a long time. The work done by each stakeholder has given them a lot of credibility that should one day make a case for them to be the best source. Solar energy is a big contender in this race, but they have some problems they must fix before being considered. Nuclear energy is another contender who is currently being used by most countries, but the damage they do to the earth is a big reason people are working to make solar energy better. In the end, the best source of energy Student 4 will change and will make the earth a cleaner or dirtier place. It is up to the two stakeholders and all other stakeholders researching on types of energy to prove that there is superior to others. These two stakeholders have incompatible goals but do share a common ground, to make the earth a cleaner ad better place. Word Count: 1,242 Student 5 Works Cited Page Hoang, Son and Pu-Xian Gao. Nanowire Array Structures for Photocatalytic Energy Conversion and Utilization: A Review of Design Concepts, Assembly and Integration, and Function  Advanced Energy Materials, vol. 6, no. 23, 07 Dec. 2016. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1002/aenm.201600683. How the World Energy Marketplace Is Changing  InsideSources. N.p., 09 Mar. 2017. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Javascript  Nuclear Power Today Nuclear Energy - World Nuclear Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. A. and N. Installation of Solar Power Generation System on Building of Faculty of Science in  Bulletin of the Chemists & Technologists of Bosnia & Herzegovina, 02 Dec. 2016, p. 153. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=120571473&site=ehost-live. Solar Energy Is Now Cheaper than Fossil  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 26 Dec. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Victor, David G. Analysis The Energy Is Getting Cleaner (and Cheaper) - but Not Quickly  The Washington Post. WP Company, 22 Mar. 2017. Web. 2 Mar. 2017. Wei, Shen and Marcus Power. Africa and the Export of Clean Energy  Third World Quarterly, vol. 38, no. 3, Mar. 2017, pp. 678-697. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/01436597.2016.1199262. World  Welcome - World Energy. N.p., n.d. Web. 3 Mar. 2017.