Alnajdi 1 Sayed Alnajdi Ms. Collins ENC 1102 March 26, 2017 The Misguidance of Poverty Poverty and hunger are two colossal worldwide problems that affect almost one seventh of inhabitants. The deliberation concerning poverty about whom to blame for the suffering of people with no food or safety in the poor countries has taken quite a considerable amount of time, and yet not a single effective solution to the problem. In 2015, the National Administrative Department of Statistics reported that 28% of the population in Colombia was living below the poverty line, of which about 8% in (FXB International 1). This is a one major example of a poor country out of hundreds of other countries that are facing the same dilemma, or perhaps worse. FBX International Ending Poverty, Restoring Dignity, is an international organization that seeks to help and provide all the humanitarian needs, such as food, protection, housing, health and education. Its mission is to provide people living in extreme poverty with tools and support they need to become (FXB International 1). FXB International was established in 1989, and now is present in thirteen countries around the globe and operating with a team of five hundred staff. According to FXB International data that they have helped more than seventeen million people including adults and children out of poverty. Poverty has become a significant problem in the world, which is why FXB International obtains several methods including advertisements to convince and persuade the world that there are people who need your utmost attention. This paper will advocate to analyze two advertisement pictures from FXB International that comprise strong messages towards the Alnajdi 2 audience and the various rhetorical appeals and fallacies that are being applied. FXB International are known for the strong appeals that they include in advertisements such as ethos, pathos, logos and Kairos. The first image is a picture of receipt and a shopping bag, and on the receipt is a picture of a child that is spoon fed. tiny fraction of your express could feed a hungry is written on the picture with a small slogan that says per day is all it The ethos in the image is represented by the FXB logo that says Ending Poverty, Restoring Dignity. This emphasizes that FXB International has the appeal to help end poverty. Furthermore, the logo on the picture also tells the audience the information on the advertisement is authenticated by an organization. Emotions play a major role in reaction, which is why pathos is possibly of the utmost importance in this advertisement. The picture of the child getting fed by another person that is located on a receipt from a fashion store. The emotion that may come to the viewer when looking at the picture is remorse. A person may think that while he/she are spending their money in a fashion store, other people are in need for the money. In other words, a person should stop his prodigal spending and save some to donate to the poor. Likewise, the colors in the advertisement are extremely important because they represent an important idea. In general, the color red represents happiness and grace, but also may mean danger and anger. The first impression the colors may give a person is to make him feel the sadness and sorrow that poor people are facing. Therefore, the pathos in the picture presents several emotions to the viewer in a way the viewer senses the importance of donating to help poor people. Logos is expressed through the quote in the picture tiny of your expenses could feed a hungry This expression is designed as an appeal with the picture to tell the audience that through some of your help could lead to a satisfaction. The logos quote is directly Alnajdi 3 linked to the picture and may help evoke feelings toward the audience. As for the design of the receipt and the picture of the child, it represents the importance and the urgent need for people to donate. Therefore, the purpose of the design is to show the bitter reality the world faces today. Kairos is represented in the advertisement through the slogan per day is all it The Kairos in the picture may convince and urges the audience to donate since the amount tells them that this is all it takes to help someone overcome their poverty. Logical fallacies also play a major role in deciding whether the audience are convicted or not. Hominem Fallacy is represented in the advertisement in such a way that the ad is attacking the rich people by showing them while enjoying your time shopping others are in need of your money to buy food. Appeal to pity is another logical fallacy because they are trying to persuade the audience through emotion rhetorical appeals. Genetic fallacy, someone may donate just because they like the advertisement, and others may not because of Hominem fallacy. As for the second advertisement, it is a picture of a child sitting inside a box and next to it another box. On the advertisement is states children do not have to tidy up their The ethos represented in the advertisement is extremely attractive and attentive for those who care about humanity. This advertisement has a special feature that it does not ask the audience to donate. It presented the idea that children today have their own room to tidy up, others live in the streets which is why poor kids do not have to tidy their room because they do not have one. Therefore, ethos is convincing the audience to help the poor without asking to donate. As for pathos, the advertisement is telling the world that there are children out there living with no houses while your children have rooms that they have to tidy up, while the poor do not because they live on the streets. The related emotion that one may feel when observing the picture is to feel the resentment that children are treated unequally in an unequivocal manner. The visual Alnajdi 4 words evoke a certain feeling relating to the picture, which is the urgency to help the poor in order to guarantee their safety. Logos is shown through the quote in the picture by indirectly comparing poor children who live in the streets and children who live safely in their houses. Based on logos, the image is also referring to the wealthy people. The picture is sending a clear message telling that these poor children have the same right as any other child in the world. Therefore, its main goal is to show how poor people are living and to convince the wealthy to donate to the poor. There is no direct indication of Kairos in the advertisement. However, the emotional appeals that the picture has is enough to convince a person to donate and help end poverty. Genetic fallacy is the main fallacy expressed in the picture. A person may judge the child skin color on the advertisement based on where he come from. Other fallacies such as weak analogy because they are comparing children based on the place they live in. Both advertisements share the same goal with different perspectives and ideas of rhetorical appeals and logical fallacies. FXB international aims to help poor people overcome the various aspects of poverty. They have done a great job using the ads to convince people to donate through different ideas and methods. However, one key thing is that FXB needs to emphasize more on and utilize is the media, so that people can pay attention and have an idea to the general concept behind this organization and its goals, for there is only a limited number of people who know about the organization, even considering excellent accomplishments in aiding the poor . Finally, poverty is a significant worldwide problem that is impossible to solve constantly. Global effects are also limiting recourses, such as water. Therefore, the world needs to act now before the problem reaches a state that is beyond repair. Alnajdi 5 Works cited FXB Center for Health & Human Rights Harvard  FXB Center for Health & Human Rights Harvard University. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Causes of  Global Issues. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. FXB in  FXB English. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Alnajdi 6 https://fxb.org/international/ https://fxb.org/international/