Leon 1 Carlos Leon Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 018 February 26, 2017 MADD: Drink then Die Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) are a well-known and respected non-profit organization. Founded in the by Candace Lighter, a victim of a DUI hit-and-run that killed her daughter, they have fought tooth and nail to sway public opinion in their favor- to great effect. Since their inception, they claim to have successfully reduced the toll by more than (Madd- History of Drunk Driving). An impressive feat no doubt, but a highly suspicious feat as well. Humans are creatures of habits not change and this is a change in grand scale. Such a feat could only be accomplished by a perfect marketing strategy- fear. MADD uses advertainments to manipulate people into fearing drunk driving. MADD has been around for 37 years now. At this point their credibility, their ethos, comes from themselves. MADD make use of the respect people have for them in order to make them implicitly believe what they say. Consider the first image (image1). When the reader read it takes a family of four to stop a drunk and followed by the front half of a car in tatters the reader makes connections. The reader recognizes the well-known organization and thus trusts them. The reader then believes that the car came from an actual drunk driver smashing into a car carrying a family of four. When the reality is that, no one knows. That car could have just as easily come from a junkyard or a sober accident. Yet, a reader, or, since this is a highway side billboard, a driver will believe the assumption. When the Leon 2 driver sees boldly printed in the lower right hand corner as though it is approving the message, they trust. That is because it is from MADD. They know MADD, they trust MADD not to lie to them. After all, MADD fights for safer roads which benefits everyone- why would they lie? The driver does realize that this is an oxymoron; people lie because they will be believed. And because they believe, they take the crashed car at face value and fear for their car and their family. MADD uses themselves as their own ethos in second image (image2) as well. Readers will once again trust what they see due to being printed in the lower right corner approving the message. Image2 shows a girl drinking from a glass bottle while holding her keys in the same hand with the shadow having a gun in placed in her mouth. The reader sees the beer bottle and keys thus assumes drunk driving, and assumes the gun means suicide. The logic taken at face value by a trusting reader means they will believe that drinking and driving is the same as committing suicide. This logic is simply a false dilemma logical fallacy- the author gives two options when there are, in fact, (Hoffman, 54). The girl can drink and drive and get home just fine. Drinking and Driving does not automatically mean suicide- there is a whole spectrum of possible cases. Moreover, not all people who drink and hold keys then go on to drive drunk. Assuming so is a hasty generalization- broad conclusions based on a small (Hoffman, 57). Yet, the driver trusts in MADD and takes the logic in as is. All people have felt fear at some point in their lives. However, people do not relate to fear directly; instead they relate to the things that cause fear. This is appeal to pathos. Image1 makes two appeals to pathos. The first is the of part of the statement. Here a driver is reminded of their own family, their children, their parents, those people who have strong ties with the driver. The fear of losing a precious family member kicks in, and the driver Leon 3 worries for his family; after all, most drivers do not want their family to be the family which the drunk driver. On the other hand, drivers who have driven drunk feel guilt, shame, and fear upon seeing that statement. They recognize that they could be the drunk driver to the of Even though this is an appeal to pity because it relies on the fear produced by the images it does nothing to weaken the persuasive power of the pictures. The second appeal lies in the tattered car itself. Since drivers will likely be the ones who see the advertainment and most drivers do not want their car to end up like the tattered car. Even though this is a hasty generalization fallacy- broad conclusions based on a small (Hoffman, 57). The supposed crashed car might be just get a ding or a small bump instead. They fear for their own car when they recognize that there are cars all around them and one of them could be driven by a drunk driver. The fear for losing someone precious, the fear of dying, and the fear of losing car makes appeal to emotions very powerful. The pathos in image2 is directed towards a specific audience; parents. Image2 implies that drinking and driving is the same as committing suicide. And parents will worry about every aspect of that: their kids drinking, driving, and committing suicide. The parents worry about the future of their children. Parents worry about how, where, why, and with whom their children will drink. Parents worry about what would happen if they hit someone while drunk or, worse, if they are hit by a drunk driver. It natural to worry since most deaths involving alcohol by people under 21 involve motor vehicles (Consequences of Underage Drinking). By making parents fear for their future they become motivated to cause change. Similarly, the parents of teenage children become worry about what their children are doing, whether they drink, and how do they so. Parents do not want their children to commit suicide, thus they become motivated to hate alcohol, hate drunk drivers, and ultimately this is the change that MADD wants. This is a Leon 4 slippery slope- particular argument or course of action will lead to disastrous consequences without offering (Hoffman, 53); specifically, drinking and driving will then yield suicide, though regardless the arguments persuasiveness is strong. The appeal to logos is not the highlight of either image, but it does exist. Image1 explains that your car end in tatters if it was hit by a drunk driver. Any reasonably intelligent adult can tell you actions have consequences. And while a specific car might not end up specifically like image1 portrays, it does not change the fact that it could. Moreover, on the highway a driver has no way to tell if the driver beside them or behind them is drunk. Therefore, image1 explains that there is an inherent uncertainty when driving regarding the state of other drivers. This uncertainty is the basis for fear MADD wants to instill inside the driver. Image2 appeals to the same age old saying have If every action has a consequence, then drinking and driving must have one as well. While logically speaking, suicide is an extreme conclusion it is still a probable conclusion. It is therefore not wrong to assume that the path to suicide can be laid out in a drunk driving. Both are weak arguments that draw on hasty generalizations about a specific case regarding the car in image1 and the girl in image2 but are not altogether removed from reality. The appeal to Kairos in both images is the same- immediate change. Image1 is likely to be seen from the highway where upon being seen the driver will immediately question their boldly state and the state of those around him. If the driver is not drunk, then they will become more aware of those around them; perhaps they will move to the middle lane and watch the traffic around them more carefully. On the other hand, if the drive is drunk they will fear for the possibilities. They have been called upon to not commit a tragedy, and they are if they agree, then they must leave the highway and get out of the car. Either way the call is for immediate Leon 5 action. Image2 is the same. A parent has been called upon to avoid a tragedy. If the parent agrees, then they must locate their teenage children and make sure they are sober. If the parent has no teenage children, then they must now consider how to properly raise their child. In either case if the change is not immediate then the worst-case scenario becomes more likely. Using fear, MADD persuades people to restrict alcohol usage, minimum age drinking laws, and now want every DUI offender to have an ignition interlock on their car (About drunk driving). The argue in the name of public good with logical fallacies, but regardless succeed in acquiring public favor. With the public backing, them up they can become their own source of credibility to the effect of persuading emotions over their logic to push them to act now. To do this they implant a seed of fear inside people using carefully constructed, highly persuasive advertainment. Leon 6 Image1 http://l-oneill0710-dc.blogspot.com/2010/04/billboard-design.html Image2 http://www.9livesdesign.ca/ Leon 7 Works Cited MADD - About Drunk  MADD: No more Victims. MADD, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. MADD- History If Drunk  MADD: No More Victims. MADD, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. 1.7 Logical  Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. N. pag. Print. Stephenson, Steve, and JH Bloomberg School of Public Health. Consequences of Underage  Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. N.p., 08 Oct. 2015. Web. 19 Mar. 2017.