Phillipson 1 Ashley Phillipson Ms. Collins ENC 1102. 017 26 February 2017 Deforestation: Human Benefits, Animal losses It is evident that there is a correlation between Animals and the Forests. A push-pull factor of what happens to one happens to the other. One similarity that they share is that apparently they are both impacted by human interactions. This similarity is shown through two similar advertisements which highlight the human and manufacturing on the environment. Greenpeace, an environmental agency devoted to tackling environmental problems such as deforestation, climate change, toxic pollution, ecological farming, and nuclear energy, is the first stakeholder (Rahmawati). Their history lies in a Canadian activist group dedicated to changing how humans interact with the environment. The do so by appraising denizens of actions committed against the environment, the consequences of actions, and the long term repercussions (Rahmawati). Both advertisements created by Greenpeace highlights some aspect of the environment and human impact on it. Nevertheless, analyzing Aristotelian Kairos, logos, and will shed light on the tactics used to convey the image. Furthermore, looking at logical fallacies will help draw attention to contradictions that exist from the use of the Aristotelian appeals. The first advertisement, which is that of makes use of pathos. According to the Literary Dictionary, pathos is the appeal that up emotions of pity and in a reader or viewer advertisement makes use of pathos by portraying the various species of forest animals as frightened and vulnerable while humans take over their Phillipson 2 home. Furthermore, the position of the animals is essentially epitomized by the hackneyed phrase of between a rock and a hard because they lie on the edge of a cliff while the personified industrial machines creep closer as they deforest more of the land. Will the animals back up as the machines get closer? This thought-provoking question can lead to further inquiries on the fate of the animals due to the precise use of pathos by Greenpeace. Not only did Greenpeace incorporate pathos, but they also integrated the appeal of kairos which refers to the time when conditions are crucial or imperative and there is no better moment than the present (Merriam-Webster). Greenpeace used kairos to exercise a sense of urgency to tell denizens that if the problem is not fixed now then these are the consequences. It is an inherent call to action without explicitly dictating what to do. As mentioned before, the various species of animals lie directly on the edge of a cliff. If viewers procrastinate to repair this problem, it could possibly be too late as the animals might have perished by being displaced from their homes and figuratively have fallen of the cliff as depicted in advertisement. Kairos shows the viewer that procrastination is not an option and only restoring the situation in the present will improve the conditions of this problem. Greenpeace did include a slight appeal of ethos within its advertisement. Ethos demonstrates the appeal of ethics in credibility of which an illustrious character, moral nature, or means are defined (Merriam-Webster). The Greenpeace advertisement contains a small phrase that embodies their overall mission. The phrase for in the upper-right corner demonstrates purpose for creating the advertisement. The purpose was to depict the consequences of harvesting the trees at an exponential rate for commercialization. This action can have a disastrous effect of various forest environments and can directly impact populations of animal species. The concept that all animal species are affected is emphasized in the Phillipson 3 advertisement by the use of various animal species that do not live in the same environment. In the ad, some species have a relation within their select environment, but not all of the species as a whole are present in one environment. Lastly, the use of logos, which highlights an argument used to convince a reader to side or go against a topic through the use of reason and logic has a miniscule presence in the Greenpeace advertisement The advertisement relied on pathos, kairos, and ethos while logos played a small role. Greenpeace uses inductive reasoning by stating the phrase for meanwhile, animals are about to be pushed off a cliff and the surrounding area is filled with dead and dismantled trees on the ground. This leads to the assumption that forests are not for life because the forests are dying from human actions. Forests are meant to be for life, but this advertisement depicts that they are not. The second advertisement created also created by Greenpeace portrays the slaughtering or beheading of an animal that is crucial to the forest. This advertisement could have chosen any animal, but the use of a gorilla draws attention to an animal that most people are familiar with the presence of. Furthermore, the beheaded body of a parent gorilla is accompanied by a much smaller baby gorilla that is clutching the parent gorilla. This hits home to those who have lost a parent or feel alone. This inclusion of the baby gorilla leads to questions such as what will happen next? Will other animals be slaughtered just as the tragic portrayal of the gorilla? use of pathos ultimately illustrates the dangerous implications that humans have on the environment. Greenpeace additionally conjoins kairos into the mix of Aristotelian appeals. The advertisement provokes a sense of urgency among viewers because the death of the gorilla insinuates how little time other animals have. Referring to the question posed in the previous Phillipson 4 paragraph, what will happen to the other animals in this environment? That is why this advertisement discourages a sense of complacency because if humans do not remedy the situation then the death of other animals will be inevitable and many negative repercussions will be produced as the ad highlight in the bottom right corner by highlighting that deforesting the environment will impact the animals that reside in that environment. The cause and effect correlation between the trees and the animals are strengthened by the use of kairos to highlight the actions of deforestation and the resulting impacts on the surrounding wildlife. As if the picture was not enough, Greenpeace explicitly epitomizes the relationship between deforestation and animal survival as the Wood go, wildlife to discourage a sense of complacency and provoke a call to action. The Greenpeace advertisement uses logos also to reinforce the idea of devastating human impacts on the environment. The cause and effect relationship between deforestation and animal survival is highlighted by the blub mentioned previously, the wood go, wildlife This phrase provides a correlation that if one event happens, another event will result. The generalization on the initial stage begins with the deforestation of trees. As a result, this will disturb the habitats of animals in time. The inclusion of ethos in the Greenpeace advertisement is minimal at best. While ethos focuses on ethics, the advertisement includes a blurb about the correlation between deforestation and animal survival in a select environment as a consequence. The website is also not included for reference purposes while the subtitle of Greenpeace named as in bold green letters is the only reference in which it is not sufficient information to determine the credibility. Ultimately, the advertisements of Greenpeace are different in the messages that they are targeting, but they both relate to environmental issues and how humans have negatively impacted Phillipson 5 the environment. Furthermore, both correctly conveys the message of demonstrating the consequences that result from human action by incorporating the Aristotelian appeals of pathos, kairos, ethos, and logos. Although some are more apparent than others, they all play a role in conveying the message to the viewers. Word count: 1272 Phillipson 6 Works Cited LLC, SparkNotes. SparkNotes. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Literary Devices. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Merriam-Webster. Definition of ETHOS. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Merriam-Webster. Definition of KAIROS. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Museum, Peggy Notebaert Nature. Peggy Notebaert nature museum. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Literary Devices. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rahmawati, Annisa.  Greenpeace International. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Phillipson 7 Phillipson 8