Casiana Martinez Adam Phillips ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America: Visual Rhetoric Concealed Carry is the practice of being able to carry a concealed weapon on your person in public and has been a very debated topic, and recently concealed carry on college campuses is being debated. Being able to exercise concealed carry is a fundamental Second Amendment right according to many people and organizations, but only one view of the topic. Demand Action for Gun Sense in America(MDA) is an organization that believes in Second Amendment rights, but is completely opposed to taking them as far as saying concealed carry is a part of those rights, especially going as far as concealed carry on college campuses or schools in general. MDA uses protests, petitions and propaganda to get their messages of preventing very preventable deaths by instilling common sense gun laws. The underlying meaning of these two images calls the audience to stand beside MDA in protecting those shown in Image 2, while empowering minority groups such as women, as shown in Image 1. Propagating its message through depictions such as Image 1 and 2, Demand Action for Gun Sense in America utilize the rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos and kairos in numerous ways like the attempts to gain credibility, use of colors, tone, sense of immediacy, and overall composition of the two images. Demand Action for Gun Sense in America was created in 2012 in response to the shooting that took place at Sandy Hook Elementary School. After the incident the organization Martinez 1 was formed to raise awareness of gun violence in our society and attempt to instill common sense gun laws to prevent that violence. Part of the groups mission statement, Demand Action supports the 2nd Amendment, but we believe common-sense solutions can help decrease the escalating epidemic of gun violence that kills too many of our children and loved ones every encompasses their stance in the gun control debate. This group quickly gained momentum by appealing to minority groups usually overlooked by society through use of propaganda and calling to action of these audiences. Women, children, and ethnic families are depicted throughout a lot of their advertisements in attempts to use the rhetorical appeal pathos. One of the main things that MDA stands for is they believe we should have our Second Amendment rights preserved for us, but protest against concealed carry. MDA uses propaganda to voice their message about not allowing concealed carry through various imagery trying to call to action their audience for their cause. The rhetorical appeal ethos is a very popular way for anybody trying to get some kind of point across to gain credibility with their audience. In an attempt to gain credibility usually they will show a respected name on their advertisements showing that they and/or their point is backed up by that respected organization. Ethos is shown in Image 1 and Image 2 in the same way, just in different parts of the images. MDA attempts to gain credibility through use of their name on their imagery in both Image 1 and 2 on the t-shirts of the woman and the family. Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America is attempting to gain peoples support in the fight for common sense gun laws by using their name to appear more legitimate, along with a couple other rhetorical appeals. Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America uses the rhetorical appeal pathos the most in their advertisements to elicit emotion from their audience. According to Purdue Owl, Martinez 2 is frequently translated as some variation of but it originally referred to the elements of a speech that appealed to any of an to The Purdue Looking at both Image one and two, the color selection and choice of imagery are what make up the visual pathos. Image one features a color palette of red, black, and white. According to Color Psychology, the color red is the most attention seeking color, and is associated with feelings such as energy, passion, strength, and determination. These characteristics of red draw attention to call to action phrase, The black and white colors in Image one have their own purpose in addition to being background colors. The color black, strength and authority; it is considered to be a very formal, elegant, and prestigious according to Color Psychology (Color Psychology). MDA chose these colors and the powerful stance of the girl in the photo as a tactic to give power to those fighting for their cause and those looking to join in. In Image two, they photographed a family at one of their protests, and were very conscious of how they took it. The image has some bright colors to go along with the bright yet serious expressions of those in the photo. As stated by Color Psychology, is a combination of red and yellow. Red is filled with energy and stimulation, and yellow is responsible for the happiness and cheerfulness. It is a more active color because it makes us react by gut feeling, and we feel at that particular moment Color Psychology). Using the combination of orange and putting on display those that the organization is trying to protect through their common-sense gun laws, MDA definitely succeeds in showing what they stand and are fighting for. classical rhetoric, kairos refers to the opportune time and/or place--that is, the right or appropriate time to say or do the right or appropriate according to Nordquist. When looking at a lot of propaganda and imagery, there a lot of this specific Martinez 3 rhetorical appeal being utilized, but in Image 1 they subtly slip it in. Looking at Image 1, after being drawn to the bold red color of her tshirt, the eye travels to the big bold red phrase just covering the figures eyes. is form of a call to action. The organization uses this phrase as a simple yet motivational tool to get you involved in their cause and create a sense of urgency for the matter at hand. Using the color red just further stresses their concern over what concealed carry can mean if taken of advantage of and is supposed to elicit an urgent, anxious feeling inside the people viewing this image. This phrase is a great example of the rhetorical appeal kairos, and it really stresses the immediacy that MDA fights for you to feel against concealed carry. Using rhetorical appeals in support of most arguments will definitely help prove your point and solidify any claims you make. Throughout the advertisements and various other propaganda that Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America put out they strategically use rhetorical appeals. By including images of minority groups such as women, children, and ethnic people they reach out to audiences that need empowerment, and by giving them that they call them to action for their cause. In addition to empowerment, they use children to show who exactly needs our protection, and by using kairos they really stress that the time to go against extreme gun rights is now. Utilizing these three rhetorical appeals really emphasizes why you and any other viewer of their images should stand beside them and fight for those that do it for themselves, or even think they can. Martinez 4 Works Cited  Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense In America. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. <http://momsdemandaction.org/about/>. Nordquist Grammar & Composition Expert, Richard. Kairos: The Right Time and the Right  About.com Education. N.p., 16 Oct. 2015. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. <http://grammar.about.com/od/il/g/kairosterm.htm>. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: The Rhetorical Situation. N.p., 1995. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. <https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/625/03/>.v The Ultimate Guide to Color  Color Psychology. N.p., 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Martinez 5 Image 1: Martinez 6 Image 2: Martinez 7