Megahed 1 Hamad Megahed Adam Phillips English Composition 2 12 March 2017 The Zakat Foundation Everyday in some part of the world there are people suffering. These people sometimes gain the attention they need through the media. Whether it be from the internet, television, or newspaper, people today are exposed to heartbreaking stories about a group of people in the world who need aid. Today there are organizations who are working to bring light to these situations. Often times these organizations use rhetorical appeals in their advertisements to motivate more people to donate. One of these organizations is called The Zakat Foundation. This organization wants to show that they capable of helping the people in these poor communities. To accomplish this they require donations from people around the world. One of their strategies is creating advertisements using rhetorical appeals to persuade the audience to donate. The Zakat Foundation uses their website to publish advertisements to reach out to people, and through the use of the rhetorical appeals and they are able to effectively raise awareness and motivate people to donate/support poor communities around the world. The Zakat foundation is an international charity that provides humanitarian aid to impoverished areas all over the world. Their mission is address immediate needs and ensure the self-reliance of the poorest people around the (Zakat Foundation). Zakat is an Islamic based organization. They use a lot of practices from Islam to appeal to muslims to encourage Megahed 1 them to donate. But their main goal is to reach out to the international community and spread awareness about communities that require assistance. On their website they fill their front page with various images with their goals for certain areas around the world. These two images are examples of what kind of visual rhetoric does Zakat use and how do they use it. These two images heavily rely on in order to encourage donations. But, Zakat knows that they need to establish themselves as a credible charity to attract donors as well so they use in these images. With the goal of wanting to help people Zakat does very well in pathos . The use of relies on bringing out the emotions of the audience, and Zakat effectively uses pathos in both images to stimulate a sense of sympathy for the people in the Pathos is the appeal to the emotions and refers to how well the author can appeal to those emotions rhetoric 2012). The first image depicts two young girls smiling next to each other. Right below them is a text in big white letters 400 The purpose of this is to get people to sympathize with the children who are unable to develop their futures. The Zakat Foundation most likely planned to appeal to parents because parents feel a deeper connection to children than others. According to Lisa Nainggolan, children have a great influence over parents which can impact the behavior (Medscape 2011). This image is effectively appealing to the emotions of parents by making them sympathize with underprivileged children. The portrayal of two young girls was chosen specifically to appeal even more to emotions. According to UMKC, girl is a symbol of innocence and (UMKC 2012). Instead of showing two boys Zakat chose to use the symbol of a young innocence, and combines it with the text to appeal to parents as effectively as possible. This Megahed 1 image evokes a sense of happiness, and a desire to maintain it by supporting children like these two young girls. However, the second image gives a much more contrasting feeling of sadness. The second image uses by showing a family living in horrible conditions in Gaza. There are three young children, and two women shown. The image purposely shows a large area of the house so the audience can get an understanding of how these people are living. The house appears to be half destroyed with limited furniture. There are rough concrete floors with a large opening in the wall behind them. The Zakat Foundation uses this image as an example of what homes look like in Gaza. The dark lighting of the image could also contribute to the meaning of the image as a whole. According to the University of Missouri-Kansas City, dark colors usually show show negativity and despair especially when referencing pictures of war (UMKC 2012). In an analysis done by students from this university, an image from World War II uses low lighting and dark colors to give a feeling of despair to the viewer. Image 2 is similar in that the low lighting and lack of bright colors indicates a negative feeling. In addition of the context of the image it gives a feeling of despair. These feelings are what Zakat is trying to focus on to get people to end the suffering of these families in Gaza. The text Gaza: Home by gives the impression that these homes were destroyed. This is an effective use of text by Zakat because these home were destroyed because of fighting. According to Emily Harris, between Palestinians and Israel leads to widespread damage. Then reconstruction money comes from abroad, leading to limited (Harris 2016). The violence caused by this conflict has affected the residents of Gaza. Their goal here reflects their mission. The text says and their mission statement says they want to develop projects which will help these poor communities become self sustaining. Zakat relies heavily on pathos in these images, but they Megahed 1 know relying on emotions will not establish trust between them and the people. In order to establish themselves as a credible organization they use in their images to gain trust. Zakat establishes ethos in both of these images by offering links to gain a better understanding of the situation, and for the audience to verify that these causes are real. refers to the elements of rhetoric that show credibility or trustworthiness rhetoric 2012). Zakat does very well in establishing credibility in these images. Both of these images have the same links. One leads to a donation page, and one leads to a page where it provides information about the program or the context of the situation. The link establishes more credibility because it provides: what the organization has done, what their program is about, and what will be done with the donations. For the first image Zakat explains how they have helped children in the past sponsored 1,200 orphan and vulnerable children in 2016, alleviating much of their hardship and opening the door to a brighter Foundation). This information gives credibility to Zakat as an organization that can help children and that the donations they receive are solely used for to provide aid. In the second image the link leads to a page where it provides context on the situation in Gaza and how the donations can help rebuild homes. This page establishes a lot of credibility because it provides a chart where it specifically says how much money will go to what. For instance, according to the chart will help reconstruct a home that has sustained major Foundation). If people have an idea of where their money will go and what it can do it can motivate them to donate. Zakat gives itself credibility by showing that they are invested in these situation. While ethos is strong with these two images Zakat also uses kairos to motivate people to donate. Megahed 1 The Zakat foundation resorts to strategically using rhetorical appeals within their advertisements in order to motivate people to support their cause. The effectiveness of these advertisements depends on the proper use of the rhetorical appeals. For Zakat, in order to encourage potential donors their advertisements had to rely heavily on But, in order to gain some credibility they needed to establish some which will assure the audience. The Zakat Foundation uses , and in both of these images to effectively raise awareness about the people in need and to foster donations so they can continue to fulfill their mission. Organizations are doing everything they can to keep people in troubled communities in our thoughts everyday. Zakat is an organization that encourages people to learn more about these situations so they can understand what the people are going through. If more people donate to organizations such as Zakat then they will help end poverty. Megahed 1 Megahed 1 Works Cited America, Zakat Foundation of. Zakat Foundation of  Design, LLC . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Harris, Emily. In Gaza, A Few New, Shiny Homes Rise Amid The  . NPR, 05 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Sproat, Ethan, Dana Lynn Driscoll, and Allen Brizee. Welcome to the Purdue  OWL: The Rhetorical Situation . Purdue Owl, 27 Apr. 2012. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Targeting Children Is Best Way to Influence  . Medscape, 20 Aug. 20111. Web. 12 Mar. 2017 Visual Rhetoric Analysis in WWII  Rhetoric Analysis in WWII Propaganda . University of Missouri- Kansas City, 03 Dec. 2012. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.