Mirzakhalov 1 Jamshidbek Mirzakhalov Kristen Collins ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Life or Pain Amidst everyday stress and emotional problems, some people decide to simply give up and end their lives. This type of practice, known as suicide, is disapproved in many cultures as it shows signs of non-perseverance, cowardice and weakness. However, when a person is in deep physical pain or has a disability to function properly on a daily basis, suicide or suicide becomes a viable and acceptable option. Still, there exist many organizations and individuals that ring the bells and try to help those deciding to end their lives because of an illness or disability. These organizations claim that it is more fair and humane to try to help those people who are deciding to end their lives rather than letting them die. One of among many organizations is HOPE: preventing euthanasia & assisted suicide. This is a coalition of groups and individuals based in Australia, who actively fight against any euthanasia practices and assisted suicide programs. Since it was founded in 2010, it has grown substantially from a group of like-minded individuals into a national organization with worldwide connections Most of advertisements are geared towards advancing their mission and drawing more involvement to the organization. Two of such images as presented and analyzed below are considered to explain the overall message and motive of the organization effectively. Both images use various rhetorical appeals to enhance its effect on the audience in persuading them to discourage assisted suicide programs and euthanasia practices. Mirzakhalov 2 The first picture depicts a disabled man sitting in his wheelchair confused between the doors of the two offices: assisted suicide office and suicide prevention office. The message it is trying to deliver is that assisted suicide program is not the only option for people with disabilities and diseases. In the picture, there is a clear comparison between two offices. Obviously, assisted suicide office is well-equipped and appealing in the functional design with the doors open and an easy-access pathway. Meanwhile, suicide prevention office is depicted to be limited and unwelcoming with a closed door. Also, suicide prevention office has only stairs to reach the doors when a disabled person with a wheelchair cannot use them anyhow. It suggests that these programs are not equally accessible for everyone. The image uses strong appeals to deliver the message successfully. First, it strongly relies on logos. The way it opens the case and clarifies the whole issue and its causes makes the picture meaningfully rich and comprehensively complex. The closed door of the suicide prevention programs, inaccessible stairs, run-down walls, disabled sign pointed to the assisted suicide door all seem to make a statement about the issue. The picture also appeals to pathos. Combined with logos, the design of the first picture makes an expression that people who have no access, comfort or welcome in suicide prevention offices will most likely feel hopeless and vulnerable. They will see no other viable alternative to the suicide assistance program. Eventually, those disabled or diseased will throw themselves into death. One of the most interesting elements of this picture appeals to Kairos, or timeliness. The disabled person in the picture is turning his head towards the closed door of the suicide prevention office while moving to the assisted suicide program door. This is very symbolic in a sense that a person who is deciding to end his or her life will look out for any hope around. This Mirzakhalov 3 sends a message of being around those who need assistance and emotional help, and how this help is immediately necessary. As the picture does not represent solely view on the issue, it has no design elements appealing to ethos. Despite the strong argument, the image has some logical fallacies, which effects its ethos negatively. The first logical fallacy to be noticed is appeal to pity. An appeal to pity attempts to persuade using emotion rather than evidence. Playing on the pity that someone feels for an individual or group can certainly affect what that person thinks about the group; this is a highly effective, and so quite common, fallacy (Hample 76). The picture conveys a lot of emotional messages that it creates an impression that the statement is right because people are being killed. Another logical fallacy observed is appeal to consequences. Appeal to consequences is defined as that a proposition is true because belief in it has good consequences, or that it is false because belief in it has bad consequences is often an (Curtis). It assumes that if people choose to live, they will be happier. In fact, there might be cases when assisted suicide may be necessary i.e. irresistible physical pain. Believing in only good consequences is also not an option. The second picture shows words like the euthanasia in big red font in a centered position. Medical equipment that are used in surgeries are positioned around the words. Image 2 mainly focuses on the process of euthanasia, which is translated from Greek as the practice of ending a life to relieve pain or suffering (Helga 40). Amongst the huge debate over the practicality and ethical implications of euthanasia, HOPE stands and fights against it. In the picture, there are many design elements which individually and collectively convey the stand of HOPE. As a matter of fact, this picture is used as one of the banners of new documentary against euthanasia, which is called Vulnerable (Russel). The choice of color and Mirzakhalov 4 objects was quite interesting. Everything from medical syringes, wet little pod to some surgical and sharper devices, from the faint red font of the words in the middle to the corresponding red lines slightly fading in the background reminding the red veins of a human being is creatively composed and located. Red color is usually associated with aggressiveness but it can also imply importance (Chapman). Choice of red as the main color is not just accidental: red color also matches the color of blood which is essential in reminding the audience about the medical process of assisted suicide. Like the first one, the second picture relies on logos and pathos substantially. It appeals to logos since it is undeniable that the process involves killing someone no matter in what way. Logically, it is a simple reminder of the actual practice behind the curtains. In the same way, the image appeals to pathos. It tries to bring the real idea of killing people behind the words of It calls the euthanasia a deception since the real process of a killing person differs from what people imagine as suicide assistance. By the depiction of blood vessels, syringes and other surgical devices, it appeals to pathos making people think outside the box. Picture does not reveal any elements directly supporting ethos or Kairos, but the overall message HOPE is sending through this picture is clear. Though it is not noticeable immediately, there are small logical fallacies in this image. In fact, they are closely alike the fallacies in the former picture. Image 2 appeals to pathos too much, and consequently creates a fallacy called appeal to pity. The argument of this picture, which uses design elements of physical pain i.e. syringe, blood etc. can be falsifiable on many occasions. For instance, those who are agreeing to end their lives are usually informed about the procedure, and they knowingly agree. Although it is hard to grasp this idea of voluntary suicide and its ethical or religious interpretations among people, these people are not necessarily being Mirzakhalov 5 deceived. Overall, although the picture got across its message to the audience quite well, it has some logical fallacies to overcome. All in all, both images represent the overall mission and concerns of HOPE successfully. As the first image covers concern on Assisted Suicide Programs, the second picture focuses on Euthanasia. These two issues lie at the heart of HOPE and make up its goals. Both images were designed creatively and intelligently to be able to encompass all this information in them. They both actively use tools of persuasion by appealing to logos, ethos, pathos and Kairos. Hopefully, in the future, HOPE will grow even bigger and can become that voice of hope many hopeless would hear and continue to appreciate a precious gift called life. Mirzakhalov 6 Works Cited HOPE: preventing euthanasia & assisted suicide. HOPE. 26 Feb 2017. Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 28 Jan. 2010. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Curtis, Gary. Logical Fallacy: Appeal to  Logical Fallacy: Appeal to Consequences. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Hample, Dale, et al. The Effects of Topic Type and Personalization of Conflict on Assessments of  Communication Reports, vol. 22, no. 2, July 2009, pp. 74-88. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/08934210903008935. Helga Kuhse, BIOETHICS NEWS, July 1992BACKGROUND BRIEFING* (from BIOETHICS NEWS Vol.11 No. 4 July 1992 page 40) Russell, Paul. Euthanasia Deception  ReVision. N.p., 2015. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Mirzakhalov 7 http://www.noeuthanasia.org.au/about-us/issues.html Mirzakhalov 8 http://www.noeuthanasia.org.au/euthanasia-deception-documentary.html