Mohammad 1 Esmaeel Mohammad Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Banning cigarettes Advertisements persuade the people on doing or not doing things. For cigarettes most of the advertisements wants the people to quit smoking, to do that the videos or pictures most of the time would be emotional and facts that the cigarettes will lead to cancer or death. National Health Service (NHS) is the stakeholders that are against smoking so they have lots of advertisements against it. NHS is a public health service in England, they help people with all sort of things for the health and not just smoking. NHS take smoking very seriously, they want people to quit smoking so in their websites they have lots of ways for the people to stop smoking. They also have guide for people who are under 18 to stop smoking. They have an application called smoke free to help the people stop smoking, they also have interviews on how people stopped smoking and the reason behind it so other can relate to the stories. Smoking advertisement is meant for the audience who smoke, not only that but some are specifically meant for the parents. Even though the smokers know the consequences for smoking cigarettes the two pictures will help them open their eyes on this big issue and it may help them quit. Both of the images will appeal to Ethos, Logos, Pathos and Kairos. Both of the images are meant for the parents and showing how serious smoking is affecting the children. Image 1 shows a picture of a baby who is still not born but covered with smoke. NHS made this advertisement for the mothers who smoke while pregnant and how they Mohammad 2 are affecting the children. The image appeal to ethos since it is credible from NHS and it is also trustworthy. When people see big organizations like NHS, they would trust them especially when it comes to health. And it is really affective especially at the top they wrote, you smoke while pregnant so does the Logos appeals to the image. Parents do know that smoking while pregnant is bad, but they may think that it wont effect the unborn baby that much. But the image shows that the baby is covered with smoke, it is showing how serious smoking while pregnant really is. They use emotion so the mother does not smoke while she is pregnant (Pathos). No one wants to see an unborn child dies or when a baby is born they cant breath well. The image has a quote that says, you smoke while pregnant so does the The quote is saying to the pregnant women that she is hurting the child when she is smoking, and showing her the image that when she smokes her baby would be covered in smoke. Emotion has a big part on this advertisement to help the pregnant women to stop smoking. Kairos is also applied at the image; the audience has knowledge of what smoking will lead to. Even though some do smoke while they are pregnant and know the consequences they still do it thinking they will get hurt from smoking more than the baby. With the color of the image and the baby that is cover in smoke it will encourage the people to stop smoking. It also appeals to force, it shows the baby is covered with smoke and the quote saying the baby is also smoking, the image makes them think that they are not only letting the baby smoke they are also killing him. It is also black and white; it shows how serious the tone of the image is. Mohammad 3 For image 2 it also appeals to ethos. At this image, the audience is the parents who smoke cigarettes in front of their children. They want the parents to quit cigarettes, and they know that love children more then anything, why they sent this message in, refer to the health of their children and not them. Appeal to logic, people know that second hand smoke is bad, but some do not know how serious it is and that it is worse then smoking a cigarette. To show how serious it really is, the image does not show that the kid and inhaling the smoke, but the smoke is choking the kid. Pathos is also shown, to make the message powerful they have a young kid and it shows the smoke is like a hand that it is choking the kid. They have to use emotions to make parents stop smoking in front of their children. But not only that, most of the teenagers start smoking cigarettes because their parents influenced them. They would see their parents smoke a cigarette everyday in front of them. So the children will do the same thing and try a cigarette and little do they know, they are addicted to it. Kairos, It will give the parents knowledge on how the children will feel when they inhale the second hand smoke. People hate the smell of the cigarettes, but the children they do not only hate it but they feel like they cannot breathe from it. That is why in the picture it shows the smoke is choking the kid and the second hand smoke will lead to asthma and breathing problems that will not get better when they grow up. This image may also appeal to bandwagon fallacy. Since lots of parents smoke in front of their children, the image shows that it is a bad thing and it should be stopped. And appeal to force, they are trying to persuade the parents to stop smoking in front of their children through a threat. The threat is that the child will get affected, and if the Mohammad 4 parents are not worried about their health, they must be worried on their health. Appeal to pity may also have been included in the image. The image is referring to second hand smoke; smokers do know that second hand affects the people. But in this image they used a kid and the smoke is choking the kid, it feels like they are persuading through emotion more then facts in the image. Slippery slope fallacy appeals to both of the images. For image 1, if the pregnant women will not quite and still smoke she is making her baby smoke as well, smoking during pregnancy will also make the child get born too early, so the child might die. And for image 2, if the parents continued to smoke in front of their children, they will hurt their children. So they need to stop smoking in front of them before their children would get asthma or something else. Both of these images had appealed to Ethos, Logos, Pathos and Kairos. But in the most part, emotion was the key of these pictures. When it comes to health and the people they love, emotion would be the most things that people would be persuaded on. That is why in the first image, they used a smoke that is shaped like a baby and having a quote saying the baby is smoking as well, it makes the pregnant women stop smoking as soon as possible. And for the second image they used a young kid, and the smoke is choking him as if it is the second hand smoke. Even though the image does not persuade the parents to quit cigarettes, they are trying to persuade them to not smoke in front of their children. Mohammad 5 Image one. Mohammad 6 Image two. Mohammad 7 Work cited NHS Choices Home  NHS Choices. NHS, n.d. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. if you smoke when pregnant so does your baby Stop smoking - Live  NHS Choices. NHS, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Logical  26 Mar. 2017. Reading.