Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Education That Educating Itself Special education, or exceptional student education(ESE), is a relatively new form of education in the United States. With it being newer, there are many changes that have occurred. In 1975, Congress enacted Public Law 94-172: The Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975. This act was intended for the purpose that all children with disabilities would then have the right to education and to establish a process by which State and local educational agencies may be held accountable for providing educational services for all handicapped children (Wright). Twenty-nine years later in 2004 that same act was revised and renamed to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act(IDEA) of 2004. The revisions made were to set to create two purposes. These purposes were to provide an education that meets a unique needs and prepares the child for further education, employment, and independent living; and the other purpose is to protect the children with disabilities and their rights. (Wright). One would think that since the act has been modified recently that there would be change in the schooling system, unfortunately though this is not the case. There has been very limited change due to budget cuts in education in general but more specifically special education. The population of students in special education classes has fluctuated throughout the years. The reason for this is the definition of disability has changed now, there are more disabilities being discovered and there are more extensive forms of each disability. This change then means that there is an increase in the amount of students in ESE classes. The more special Student 2 needs students there are, the more special education teachers are needed. This is because of the student to teacher ratio, which can often sway because of the available qualified teachers and the amount of students. In the 2005-2006 school year the student to teacher ratio hit its highest which was 70 teachers to every 1,000 students. Since then it has hit a steady decline that has not risen since. Because of the lack of teachers available, the ones that are available feel tremendous pressure to do well in their classrooms. The pressure continues to increases as the budget continues to decrease. In a 2011 article written by Scull and Winkler, they focus on the spending expenditure of special-education and what goes in to the salaries of teachers, this accounts for 85 percent of the spending budget. The other 15 percent then gets divided by all the teachers. Therefore, each teacher gets a small percentage of the money that can then be spent on various essentials like supplies that include textbooks and other necessary learning aids to help the students. As well as classroom decorations and other miscellaneous items that go into a classroom. Many teachers then are under prepared because of the lack of supplies in their classroom due to the lack of money given each school year. The teachers then must decide whether or not to spend their own money to make their classroom prepared enough, or they decide not to spend the money and be unprepared to teach the required teachings This cycle then continues every year, because there are continuous budget cuts. There is a lack of preparation in the classroom due to many issues that teachers have when it comes to funding and the time commitment that teaching special education requires. If the teachers cannot pay for all of the supplies needed for their class, then not all work can be done. Also with special needs education, a lot of the students cannot provide the basic supplies like paper and pencils, therefore teachers have to use their money that they are allotted and take Student 3 in account for that. This then means that many teachers take their earned money and put it back into the class in some way. Special needs teachers also have to use their planning time and often lunch time to do extra work such as an Individual Education Program(IEP), which is a document that is developed for public school children that sets the goals for that student and addresses any concerns the student or teacher may have. McLeskey and Flippin said in their 2004 journal that when teachers have such a heavy course load, many attempt to leave special education and move in to general education, leaving special. The course load is not the only pressure that teachers have. There is added pressure from other sources. Ingersoll brought the attention up that these other sources can be internal. Such as from other teachers, like general education teachers, the school, and the school board. With constant pressure teachers have a hard time making changes to the course. These changes are sometimes necessary but because of the pacing guide that the school board gives out, teachers have to stay on top of it even if their students are failing. If students are failing then teachers get looked at more closely by the school, this leads to different classroom observations. These observations then cause the stress level to grow which can cause the teacher to alter the way they teach to seem like a more productive teacher. This is not a new thing in special education, which is why the majority of teachers that have worked in special education move to general education. There are many reasons as to why special education or exceptional student education made much improvement. These reasons include the fact that special education is constantly getting extreme budget cuts, and what is available enough, and that there is constant pressure on teachers whenever there are unanticipated circumstances. These problems need to be fixed in order to give students the education they deserve. Student 4 Works Cited Wright, Pete. The History of Special Education Law -  The History of Special Education Law - Wrightslaw. N.p., 29 Nov. 2010. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Scull, Janie, and Amber M. Winkler. Shifting Trends in Special  Shifting Trends in Special Education May.2011 (2011): n. pag. Web. McLeskey J, Tyler NC, Saunders Flippin S. The supply of and demand for special education teachers. The Journal of Special Education. 2004;38(1):5-21. Ingersoll, Richard M. Who Controls Work? Power and Accountability in Schools. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 2006. Print.