Student 1 Student ENC 1011 Prof. Kimber Wiggs 3/5/2016 Homelessness Homelessness, one of the biggest issues the world suffer over the last years. a major issue to many countries and still until now have not find a solution to end it. In the next years, there are expectations that numbers of homeless people would increase to double if the governments start to fight it. In addition, homelessness affected many people of the way they living, and this will affect the future of the for those families who get a good education and live to be raised well and to be effective for the society and his country. Rates of the homeless have changed over history, and sadly numbers are going worse every year, and the world still trying to figure out what to do for homeless people. has this influenced the way homelessness living and could be there way to decrease it ? The last time a global survey was attempted by the United Nations in 2005. In 1996 there was estimation that numbers of homeless people worldwide between 100 million and one billion. The Arthur Graham give an exact number due to his definition of homelessness. For what he is saying basically is we tell someone if he is homeless if he/she had a home or shelter to stay. If we compared the number of homeless people today and 1996, we would see a big gap between the numbers now and before. Thus, although homelessness means lack of privacy and dispossession for both men and women, for men it seems more likely to take the Student 2 form of property lessness, whereas for women it is more likely to mean the disruption of everyday Tipple 340). clearly that women are affected more than men and this way could ruin the way they raising their children which will affect the society. 2005, of adults under 65 in the household population who were not living with spouses, only 23.8% lived alone (American Community Survey). The cost per person of maintaining the same standard of living is probably between 36% and 47% lower in a two-person household than in a one-person Yinghua, 2010). Married homeless is really a dangerous problem and need to be solved right away before it coming be a hard issue to be solved. The writer argues that shared houses between couples and people could be a solution. As the author showed in 2008, if there were two individuals living in New York and have a salary of $1000 a month, and both of them live in a studio apartment, they approximately will pay to almost $1100 per month. They would pay each $550 and save $450. Prices of rents are going high every year, and the salary of many jobs to many people are still the same. Having said that, sharing houses is an effective way of how we can reduce the price of living for short and long term. Gambling is a major issue in the UK, and how it impact the way of the British citizen living way. According to the writer Stephen Sharman, has exploded in popularity over the past 20 years, partly due to changes in legislation but also because of new He is claiming that anyone can gamble for everything from the internet, from matches to celebrity events. More people who are gambling will lead to making this issue harder to solve. As for homeless people in London, he asked 450 homeless on how they reached to this way of living. He was shocked when there was 11.6% who were affected because of gambling. Student 3 Comparing to 0.7% of general people who were affected by gambling. clearly that rates of homeless who are affected by gambling are more than the general population in the UK. Homelessness is a major issue for UK governments, and gambling is one of the main reasons for this problem. Therefore, people and the governments need to work together to try to find a way of how can they decrease of gambling in the UK and make it limited one by one until the people getting used to it. According to the writers, there are over 2 million people in the United States who are experiencing homelessness every year. Homelessness prevention call center ( HPCC) is a program that provides an assistance to people who are facing billing issues for rents so they their homes. a large program who receive almost 15 million calls per year. The assistance could start from $300 and can be reached to $900. The number of people is increasing every year and getting harder to help those people by every year. HPCC is really helpful program but it be a long term solution. From all these four sources, they all talk about every way of homeless life. Comparing between each other, the first sources is talking about how can we define the person who is being homeless. Second sources are arguing a solution for homeless to live in cheaper rooms with other people. Both of these sources are talking about how can we claim if the person is homeless or not and if he/she is, sharing homes are a solution to end it. The third source is claiming that many of homeless people in the UK are in the street because of gambling. The fourth source is talking about a program to help people to prevent from being homeless. It could help those people who lose money from gambling but it can help them every time. Homelessness is a major issue and everyone needs to figure out a way to end it. Student 4 WORK CITED He, Yinghua, Brendan and Robert A. Rosenheck. Shared Housing a Way to Reduce Homelessness? The Effect of Household Arrangements on Formerly Homeless Journal of Housing Economics 19.1 (2010): Web. 22 Jan. 2017. N. Evans, William, James X. Sullivan, and Melanie Wallskog. The impact of homelessness prevention programs on homelessness. 12 Aug. 2016. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Sharman, Stephen. A new study reveals the scale of problem gambling among the homeless population. University of Cambridge, 2 Apr. 2014. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Tipple, Graham, and Suzanne Speak. of Homelessness in Developing Habitat International 29.2 (2005): Web. 21 Jan. 2017.