Patel 1 Darshan Patel Professor Phillips ENC 1102-025 February 26, 2017 Mars: Home of Tomorrow Could you imagine living on a new, completely different planet, like in the space-science fiction movies? Well SpaceX is about to make that a reality. SpaceX is an organization that designs, manufactures and launches advanced rockets and spacecraft (Spacexcmsadmin). This company was founded by Elon Musk in 2002 to revolutionize space technology, with the ultimate goal of enabling people to live on other planets, starting with Mars. To get the general public in favor of their constant missions and the future they promised, they have been strategically marketing concept retrofuture art to make Mars seem like a vacation spot in the future; with the occasional photos of veterans to make the SpaceX seem relatable and in support of the America ideology. These photos effectively promote their mission statement by the rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and sometimes kairos to the public eye. Photo one shows a couple vacationing on planet Mars, while photo two represents SpaceX, a company as a whole, in support of veterans in front of their spaceship hangers and offices. SpaceX was founded by Elon Musk back in 2002 as stated before, with the ultimate goal of revolutionizing space technology and commercial space flights to different Planets in our galaxy. Elon Musk is such a confident and determined man with great passion for space travel that he promised the world a full colony on the planet Mars by year 2030. If Elon Musk promised to solve power network problem in 100 days or its free to everyone, he can definitely get man-kind to Mars. The two photos they have released were released with one goal Patel 2 in mind, and that is to get the public in support of the constant spaceship testing and tremendous spending. Photo one is to get the general public excited for all the possibilities SpaceX is going to revolutionize. The photo shows couple watching a sunset on mars with the glamorized retrofuture art popularized once again from the 80s to hipster culture currently. The second image shows a group of combined images of veterans and their families in front of all the different SpaceX bases and headquarters. With the text saying those who have a very generic image that a lot of companies release to show support of the veterans and wars. Ironic because one of the main problems of colonization of Mars will be the wars that will be fought for land, minerals, and resources by all the different countries of Earth. Pathos is an appeal to emotions in which the speaker, in this case, SpaceX, attempts to persuade/appeal to the emotional aspects of their target audience (Lee 37). The first image that was released by SpaceX is appealing to the aspirations of a better possible future that SpaceX is trying to work towards. The photo shows a couple watching a sunset on Mars. This concept is evoking emotions of the last time anyone saw a sunset and the next time you will but with the possibility of it being on Mars. They are trying to make Mars a vacation spot in the future. With the glamorized retrofuture style of art from the past, and the bright warm palette colors, it creates an emotional tone of possibility. evoking the rhetoric appeal pathos. Even to the smallest detail like the font choice, futura, evokes to the tone of possibility and the future, hence the name futura. Image 2, just like Image 1, is full of the rhetoric appeal, pathos. The organization, SpaceX as a whole are saluting those who have served. This image is putting forth to the viewers that SpaceX is an company based in America working for Americans. With four photos in one, with the title being those who have it gets the message across. Patel 3 Pathos is heavy in this image. With bright vibrant colors, big American and Texas flags, army logos, huge crowds of veterans and wearing specific SpaceX shirts, it appeals to the emotions of many Americans that have respect towards America and veterans. Like stated before, this image is very ironic if the viewer knows a little bit of history and has logic appeals like Logos. A 1967 treaty, popularly known as the Outer Space Treaty, signed by major world powers including the United States, Russia, and China, states that, Outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, is not subject to national appropriation by claim of sovereignty, by means of use or occupation, or by any other (UNOOSA). This means no country can own anything in space including planets. Obviously, this bind private companies like SpaceX, but if, for example, the United States violates this treaty, Russia and China would be likely to as well, potentially leading to armed conflict on the moon. (Williams 4-8). While right now SpaceX supports the veterans and America with this image, the future may hold another tale after colonization caused by SpaceX. Moving right along, another big rhetoric appeal exemplified by both images is ethos. Ethos is the method of persuasion in which the speaker (SpaceX) attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility (McKee 23). In the photo, the audience may just see the veterans and their family being supported by SpaceX but this photo is strategically placed and marketed; a reason why everyone is standing in front of the giant SpaceX logos. Psychologically branding and making the audience associate the logos of SpaceX with friendly support of veterans, the American flag and being an American company every time the logo is seen. That is brilliant marketing by the company. Even the first image of the couple watching the sunset on Mars has small appeals of ethos. SpaceX is trying to persuade the public of the possible future and how amazing it will be, because SpaceX is a Patel 4 American with the quote being front and centered a space-age cruise abroad the moons of The usage of the scientific names of the moons of Mars also helps them with that credibility aspect going for. Both images have at least one example of the rhetorical appeals except kairos and not so much of logos. These images are very similar and accomplish their main target and help the organization in the eye. Both having bright colors, promises, and the emotional appeal aspect, SpaceX lose any attention or appeal from the public anytime soon and as soon as they get a man on Mars, be unstoppable. In conclusion, SpaceX is really smart at marketing and knows how to appeal to the public eye with these strategically placed, rhetorical appeal photos, and garner support for almost anything. Even though they are drastically behind schedule and are wasting tremendous amount of money on failed rocket launches, somehow the public still is in support of them and the awe of the future they promised them. Both photos show examples of rhetorical appeal which was the main point and they both relate to the target mission goal of this organization. When they do colonize Mars and the new 7 Earth-like planets that were recently discovered by NASA, SpaceX will have the full support of the American population and maybe even the worlds. Patel 5 Work Cited UNOOSA. Outer Space Unoosa.org. United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs. 27 Jan. 1967. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Williams, Lynda. Dreams of Space Peace Review: A Journal of Social Justice 22:4-8. WorldCat. Web. 23 Sept. 2014. Spacexcmsadmin, SpaceX. SpaceX, 27 Nov. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 McKee Jessica, Megan McIntyre. Matters: Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. 23. Print Lee, Kendra Gayle, McKee Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Matters: Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. 37. Print Patel 6