Wilson 1 Isaiah Wilson Ms. Collins ENC 1102 26 March 2017 MADD Goes on the Offensive There are several organizations fighting for the reinforcement of the age restriction placed on alcohol in the United States because they strongly believe that this restriction is protecting both society and those that are underage. Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) is one such organization. MADD is the largest non-profit working to protect society from drunk driving, drugged driving, and underage drinking. This organization strongly believes that there is an age of initiation for the consumption of alcohol, which is 21. Enforcing this age restriction decreases the likelihood of the underage posing a threat to themselves or to those around them MADD effectively reinforces the law and discourages underage drinking through two images that successfully manage to incorporate all four rhetorical appeals ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. If we take a look at what these images are trying to accomplish, we can easily identify the elements of logos. Logos the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Lane, Emily et al. 32). The first image (Image A) is trying to encourage the underage to stand tall and not be influenced by peer pressure, which is one of the root causes of underage drinking. According to PBS Kids, peer pressure is many young people experiment with underage drinking. If a popular kid offers you a drink, you might think that become popular if you do what he or she says. When a close friend starts drinking, you Wilson 2 may worry that lose the friendship if you join Peer This image also warns them of the consequences that can occur if they do decide to go along with their friends and engage in alcohol related activities through the statement who start drinking are 7 times more likely to be in an alcoholic related These statistics are used to support the overall purpose of the image and are a clear indication of the reasoning behind the advertisement. Image B urges drivers to be responsible and not drink and drive, but at the same time, it also alerts the audience of the ridiculous amount of times drunk drivers usually drink and drive before getting arrested. can we truly tell if drunk driving has increased or decreased over a period of time? We can only tell the extent of the problem by the number of people who are caught either through being pulled over or involvement in an Driving We attack this problem if we do not truly understand just how serious it is, and this is a highly logical argument. Logos is also seen in the quote average drunks drive 80 times before first because this statement can be seen as evidence that supports the message being sent by the image. MADD clearly wants us to understand how easily drunk drivers can escape the law and this knowledge should instill some sort of fear within the audience. As stated by Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre, is a method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (27). Both images contain the same elements of ethos. The statement work has saved nearly 300,000 lives and is a clear indication that MADD is a credible organization that has been in this line of work for a very long time. In addition, MADD has also placed their logo on these images, which is another indication of credibility Wilson 3 because that logo is known throughout the nation when it comes to the topic of drunk driving or underage drinking. There are clear elements of pathos present within these images as well. appeal to emotion, or pathos, is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help then connect with the (Gayle Lee, Kendra et al. 37). In Image A, the quote who start drinking are 7 times more likely to be in an alcoholic related embodies pathos because it stimulates an emotional response from the audience, shock or sadness for example, and captures their attention. In similar fashion, an emotional response is also drawn from the girl staring blankly with her mouth covered; the image shows how horrifying it can be when a person is pressured by including a girl who seems to be trapped or silenced by peer pressure. As discussed earlier, peer pressure can be detrimental to a ability to think for themselves. In image B, the quote average drunks drive 80 times before first symbolizes pathos because it stimulates an emotional response from the audience, which could take the form of anger or shock for example. How is it possible for such reckless driving to go unpunished for so long? The other element of pathos is the image of the person handcuffed. This also stimulates an emotional response because the audience may become fearful that they (or someone that they are close to) will be placed in that position. The image makes the audience think about the consequences, either consciously or unconsciously, of driving under the influence, and this will keep them from breaking the law. The final rhetorical appeal found within these images is kairos, which is the appeal timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable (Hoffman, Allyson and Alysia Sawchyn 41). Both images have extremely similar elements of kairos. The phrase be in image A and in Wilson 4 image B are calls to action that give the audience a sense of urgency, and the size and color of these phrases strengthen that urgency. Furthermore, both images portray their own message that points to a current crisis occurring in society drunk drinking. Society needs to act now in order to protect its civilians and drivers once they are on the road. It must be noted that there are logical fallacies at work within both images. The first image (image A) is hindered by the appeal to pity. This fallacy to distract from the truth of the conclusion by the use of to It wants the audience to feel emotional about the elements of pathos contained within, but it does not provide much evidence to support its argument. The image wants the audience to avoid the influence of peer pressure, but there is not any solid evidence of the impact of peer pressure on the youth within this advertisement. Instead of evidence, the image incorporates elements of pathos to get its message across. The red herring fallacy can be seen in image B. This fallacy occurs when the author distracts the audience from the main argument by introducing another topic, and although it seems unintentional, it is apparent within this image. The image wants us to but it includes statistics that make it seem as though there is no real harm to driving drunk because 80 times is a considerable amount of times to drive drunk before being caught. Thus, why should the audience really care about being responsible? By including these statistics, MADD may have distracted the audience from the main message they are trying to get across. MADD successfully manages to appeal to the sense of logic, emotions, and awareness by including all four rhetorical appeals in both of their advertisements. Both images address a very serious issue within society and tries its best to address it. However, it is clear that the first image is more effective than the other. Image A manages to keep its message very Wilson 5 focused and precise; it can easily be understood that MADD wants the youth to avoid peer pressure because this can lead to very serious incidents. Image B on the other hand has its message disrupted by a red herring fallacy; it wants the audience to be more responsible when getting behind the wheel, but the statistics it includes can be seen as undermining. Clearly, an effectiveness is determined by far more than just its rhetorical appeals. Wilson 6 Works Cited Peer PBS Kids Go. CastleWorks, Inc. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. to Logically Fallacious. Archieboy Holdings, LLC. Web. 25 March 2017. Driving Stats: Do They Tell The Whole Sobering Up. Sobering Up, Alcohol Monitoring Systems, Inc. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gayle Lee, Kendra, et al.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 41. E-text. Lane, Emily, et al.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32. E-text. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre.  Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27. E-text. Why  MADD. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Wilson 7 http://cargocollective.com/sachiedesigns/MADD-Ad-s Image A Wilson 8 https://www.pinterest.com/burnsgalen28/madd-mothers-against-drunk-driving/ Image B