Byrd 1 Meghan Byrd Janie Gill ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Alternative Energy Alternative energy has been a growing topic. With more people talking about new ways to harness energy, organizations such as Greenpeace have been created to get more people to support this change. Greenpeace is a campaigning organization whose goal is to inform people about becoming more environmentally friendly. Their main mission is described as organization that uses peaceful protest and creative communication to expose global environmental problems and promote solution that are essential to a green and peaceful (Greenpeace). One way they accomplish their goals is through advertising. The first image shows a hand with smoke stacks for fingers which reads The second image is text on an orange background that reads a huge solar energy spill, just called a nice day. Green jobs, not more oil goal in these is to encourage people to use more green energy, such as solar power which is emphasized in the second image. By using rhetorical appeals, such as ethos, kairos, pathos, and logos, Greenpeace is able to get their message across by embedding some other meanings into their advertisements. The first rhetorical appeal would be ethos, which is appeal to ethics and credibility. Neither of the two images seem to pull too much to credibility, except for the Greenpeace logo in the bottom right corner of both images. This may help the overall cause for the advertisement because, if people are able to see that it was Greenpeace who made the image and distributed it, they might be more likely to listen or follow through with what the picture is asking since it is a Byrd 2 well-known company. When people think about Greenpeace as a group, they think about environmental issues and being able to solve some of these issues. Another appeal that can be applied to these two advertisements would be kairos, the appeal to timeliness. The first image uses timeliness by staying These two words put together create a very commanding phrase. Even though they do not say when to stop pollution, just those two words make it seem urgent like something should be done right away. The second image does not use kairos as much as the first, but there is a sense of urgency in the last phrase, jobs, not more oil Not only does Greenpeace make it seem urgent to create more green jobs, but the use of capitalization throughout the whole ad plays into this as well. Pathos is defined as the way an image evokes emotion. The first image might bring out some feelings of regret or worrying. These might be because the smokestacks are connected to the hand as which puts more responsibility for these actions on humans. People might also experience a sense of sadness because of how we are polluting the earth. Seeing the smokestacks come directly from a fingers might sadden some viewers. The pollution going into the air can also make people think about other things that may be happening because of this: all of the smog in China that is giving children respiratory illnesses or the hole forming in the ozone that is causing excess solar radiation to come down to the earth. Both of these things can create a sense of worrying in people, which might even get them to act on their emotions. The second image does not have as many heart-pulling emotions as it does wittier and somewhat funny feelings. There is some sarcasm at the beginning where it states a huge solar energy spill, just called a nice This uses comedy to show people how solar power can be a good source of alternative energy, and not cause pollution like some other forms of energy production. The end of the image, which reads more oil may evoke some kind of Byrd 3 emotion, since oil spills cause many animals to be affected by the slick. Many different types of marine life can be affected and maybe even killed by oil spills, so knowing this may make some people feel sad and want to help put a stop to this type of pollution. The last appeal is logos, which is the appeal to logic. In the first picture, clear logic is that we need to work to stop pollution. Some people may think that it would be impossible to completely eliminate pollution, but making big enough steps in the right direction can help immensely. If pollution does not slow down or stop, our world will not be the same for future generations. Global warming has become a frequently talked about topic since the past election, and pollution, such as air pollution shown in this image, is one of the main causes of global warming. The smokestacks in the image logically relate to this type of pollution, showing that humans are the ones who have created this problem. The second image appeals to logos through the first half of the image, energy It should be known that solar energy causes little to no pollution, so the solar spill is just sarcasm used to get point across. Bringing up the point of solar energy spills and backs up their point that solar energy is an efficient way to harness and use renewable energy. The second part of the image, that talks about oil spills, refers to how Greenpeace would like for there to be more people working on solar farms or making solar panels than there would be people working on oil rigs. This ties in to their overall goal of getting more and more people to work towards a green future. This can be considered very good from an economic aspect since the creation of more jobs will help better the economy and give more people an opportunity to work. Promoting alternative energy sources and using all of these different types of rhetorical appeals is a good way for Greenpeace to be able to advocate for their company and cause. The main target audience for Greenpeace could be almost any American (or people around the world Byrd 4 through their international organization). More specifically, the second image could be angled slightly towards unemployed people. The thought of having more green jobs could be an incentive for these people to join movement. It seems very important, going forward, for people to understand just how urgent it is to be able to use these alternative forms of energy to stop things, such as global warming. As seen by their use of solar energy in the second image, this kind of renewable resource can be a very good alternative when it comes to energy production paired with a lack of pollution. Greenpeace seems to be using all the right appeals when it comes to trying to get more and more people to become greener, whether it be as a community, country, or world as a whole. Byrd 5 Works Cited Greenpeace.  Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Byrd 6