Castro 1 Caleb Castro Janie Gill ENC 1102 02/26/17 Natural Resources Defense Council The Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) is a non-profit organization with 2.4 million members, whose goals are to protect the environment. They have initiatives for clean vehicles and fuel, energy efficiency, and saving the bees (nrdc.org). Of the two ads from the Natural Resources Defense Council the first one is an ad that can be used widely. While the second one has limited use because of the requirements needed for that ad to work. These two ads from the Natural Resources Defense Council use rhetorical appeals such as Ethos, Pathos, and Logos. The Natural Resources Defense Council use these rhetorical appeals to try to supply information to the audience, make the audience feel something, and make the audience feel as though the information that is said is credible. The goal for the NRDC is to increase the amount of clean energy or alternative energy and to reduce the amount of air pollution being produced which is shown in these pictures with rhetorical appeals such as Ethos, Pathos, and Logos. The first image is a picture of someone working on a solar panel with text saying million Americans work in energy efficiency, solar, wind, and alternative vehicles The color of this ad with its blues and white are shown as clean, which further pushes towards their goal for clean energy. The ethos in this picture is the NRDC logo on the lower left of the picture. The logo shows that the ad is from the NRDC and that they endorse the ad, with their logo being like a stamp of approval. The logo of this company is well known and it shows that the company Castro 2 is well known for its goals to end climate change. The logos are the amount of jobs being created by clean or alternative energy. The picture makes the audience think about the amount of jobs created in clean or alternative energy. The amount of jobs in the field can be new information for a lot of people. The information given in the picture allows the audience to see the clean energy or alternative energy jobs as a career path and not just a limited field that is hard to get in. The Pathos is the bolded million which is to make the audience feel shocked that the number is that high. It also makes people feel hopeful in that clean and alternative energy can one day be the top production over fossil fuels, coal, and natural gas. This may also instill a sense of curiosity to look into clean or alternative energy as a career path, which may further expand the clean and alternative energy fields. The blue in the with the white letters pops out the message to the audience that is reading it. The man in the picture also pops out and can instill a sense of can be There is not an aspect of Kairos in this picture because there is no urgency or time limit to the picture. This ad with the blue sky brings up past involvvment of the NRDC like with them in the Clean Air Act (Oren).The picture is only stating that there are a million jobs in clean and alternative energy with no time involved. The target audience for this ad is people in the United States specifically to the working class, and students in school that can possibly go into a career with clean energy. This ad is furthering one of the goals which is collaborate with other countries to promote a global vision an accelerated transition clean energy with this ad they are trying to accelerate the transition to a clean energy. The second image in the picture shows a sign with a gun aimed up with an exhaust pipe that is shooting out smoke into the air acting as its barrel. The goal is to battle climate change and they are doing this by the climate crisis at its source: pollution from Castro 3 fossil which is shown in this image (NRDC.org). The sign seems to be in an industrial area with brick buildings and an overpass beside it. This has limited use as an advertisement, because it can only be put in certain areas. The Ethos of the picture is the NRDC logo on the bottom left corner. The logo on the bottom left corner shows that the Natural Resources Defense Council endorses the ad and this message is from them. In this ad it has the website URL on the bottom along with the logo so people knows where to go if they want more information. On the website they can see the projects and how to get involved with the NRDC. The Pathos of this picture is dread because the gun is being referred to with exhaust from the pipe. The audience in this picture will make them feel a sense of dread, especially for those who are anti-gun. For those who are pro-gun they will also be filled with a sense of dread because the meaning of the ad changed because there is a gun in it. The gun in the ad is not supposed to be an anti-gun ad but for anti-pollution. The goals have nothing to do with firearms, so there goal for the ad has nothing to do with guns. The color of white with the gun makes the gun stand out within the ad, to clearly get the message across. I feel like the color white has nothing else to do with the picture, because white is usually associated with innocence which is not associated with guns. The black words on the bottom are associated with death and grief in this picture. The ad says that pollution kills 60,000 people a with 60,000 being bolded in the ad. Guns are usually seen as deadly objects and this billboard shows that the exhaust is like a smoking gun, therefor bad. This is a good ad because it makes the audience feel a scared, because it makes the exhaust pipe look like a smoking gun. There is also a sense of dread because of the smoke coming out of the exhaust pipe makes it look like a smoking gun. The logos would be that the air pollution is slowly killing our planet through global warming. This ad has Kairos with the smoking gun that creates a sense of urgency within the ad. If there Castro 4 was any Kairos it would probably to try and prevent the eighty-thousand deaths that occur each year from pollution. The two images that I am using for this ad have a lot in common. The most obvious that they both are trying to further the goal of the National Resources Defense Council which is to increase the amount of clean and alternative energy while reducing air pollution created by other energy sources. Both of the pictures have the same Ethos with the logos on the bottom left. There is also a difference between the pictures, and it is that the second picture also contains the website URL. Even though they have a few things in common they also have a lot of differences. The second image has a rhetorical appeal of Kairos, while the first image does not. They have different emotions given to the audience in the rhetorical appeal Pathos and also appeal to different audiences. The first image appeals to the working class and students in the United States. The first image makes the audience feel a sense of calm and pride from the blue and white colors in the picture. The second brings a sense of dread from the smoking gun with an exhaust pipe as the muzzle. Another difference between these two pictures is that they both are delivering different messages. The first image was trying to inform the audience looking at the picture that there are one million jobs in clean and alternative energy in the United States of America. While the second picture talks about the amount of people who die each year from air pollution with it being eighty thousand a year. So each picture has a different message and different emotion that they are trying to reach from the audience. These two pictures from the Natural Resources Defense Council are made to further progress their goal for increasing the amount of clean or alternative energy. Another one of their goals is to reduce the amount of air pollution from fuel sources like fossil fuels, coal, and natural gas. The first image is trying to tell the audience how many jobs in the clean and alternative Castro 5 energy field within the United States of America. The second image is trying to tell you how many people die each year from air pollution and symbolizes that with a gun with an exhaust pipe as the muzzle. Each of these pictures has a similar goal but different purposes and messages. Both of these ads are effective in what they are sought to do and are further bringing across the message that the Natural Resources Defense Council want to be put out. The Natural Resources Defense Council uses ads like these to further their goals, so that one day clean energy will be producing more and be used more than other energy sources such as fossil fuels, coal and natural gas. Image 1 Image 2 Castro 6 Works Cited Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. kkkkkkkWeb. 20 Mar. 2017.  NRDC. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nrdc.org/>. Oren, Craig N. When Must EPA Set Ambient Air Quality Standards? Looking Back at NRDC V.  UCLA Journal of Environmental Law & Policy, vol. 30, 01 Jan. 2012, p. 157. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed slex&AN=edslex970624F4&site=eds-live.