Goubrial 1 Mariam Goubrial Janie Gill ENC1102 20 March 2017 Mass Incarceration on Drug Use In June 1971, President Richard Nixon had declared the official on Today, this proposal has been taken into questioning. The war on drugs has been a debated issue for years now, and organizations such as the Drug Policy Alliance have been fighting to put this war to an end. They believe that the individual should not be judged on what they put into their own bodies. They view mass incarceration on drug use is an unnecessary to solve the issue of drug abuse in society and that drug abusers should be offered therapeutic treatment to help with their addiction. Their mission is advance those policies and attitudes that best reduce the harms of both drug use and drug prohibition, and to promote the sovereignty of individuals over their minds and Policy Alliance) On their website they have two specific advertisements to bring attention to this issue. In their images, they use logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos to convey the message that mass incarceration on drug use is unnecessary and in fact doing more harm than good. The literary device logos implies logic or reason to persuade an audience. In image one, the organization uses logos by stating a statistic credited from the UN Office of Drugs and Crime. The statistic states that in every 50 people that use drugs, only 5.5 of them are problematic drug users. They use this statistic to prove that most drug users are harmless and Goubrial 2 should not be punished for using drugs. It also came to awareness that the organization did not in fact actually state numbers, but rather makes the reader count the bodies. In image 1, they state that whatever the nature of drug use, they should be protected, not This statement portrays that those who use drugs are punished because of their actions rather than being protected from the harms of drugs. This use of pathos forces the audience to sympathize the feeling of wrongdoing when drug users are punished rather than helped. In image 2, the Drug Policy Alliance is stating that the Attorney General is strengthening the war on drugs rather than protecting civilian rights. This only assumes that the Attorney General is not doing his job protecting his rights, and therefore the audience should feel angry or disappointed by this and challenge him. According to the Drug Policy Alliance, Attorney General Jeff Sessions has hardline positions in favor of mass incarceration instead of emphasizing treatment and (Drug Policy Alliance) Sessions decision on this issue will, if have not already, cause intense strains on the organizations reforming against mass incarceration. Ethos is the rhetorical appeal in which credible persuasion is given by the person involved. Usually ethos is identified with a celebrity or with someone/something of great authority. In image 1, the statistic utilized from the UN Office on Drugs and Crime is considered ethos. Since the UNODC is a worldwide organization, this assures their credibility to the audience. Another appeal to ethos is used in image 2 where attorney general Jeff Sessions is credited his authority, and then ironically shamed because he is his authority in the wrong manner. Goubrial 3 Not only is this irony appealed to ethos, but is used as a logical fallacy. According to the website Logical Fallacies and the Art of Debate, the argumentum ad hominem is a logical fallacy that attacks character or motives of a person who has stated an idea, rather than the idea (Logical Fallacies and the Art of Debate) In image 2, the Drug Policy Alliance neatly organizes this fallacy into one large image. The background of the image is black, with a big photograph of Jeff Sessions in black and white. In red, it states Attorney General and under that statements says our The Drug Policy Alliance is briefly stating what the audience should already know; the attorney main job is to protect civilian rights. The color red, according to the website meaning of has a high and therefore attracts attention. The Drug Policy Alliance used the color red for these phrases to capture the attention and let them know that there is an issue concerning the attorney general or furthermore, the government. Again in red, it states and after in white is reinvigorate the drug If the audience pays close attention, all the words bolded white put together state our rights not reinvigorate the drug The image overall is an intrusion to Jeff Sessions authority claiming that he is not doing the job he was honored with by enforcing the drug war. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness. (Rhetoric Really Matters) Advertisers use kairos to lure in the audience into paying or doing something to obtain the desired result. In image 2, the Drug Policy Alliance use kairos by stating that the audience should Jeff every and Meaning that if the audience would like to challenge Jeff Sessions and obtain the change they want in policy and government, they should donate monthly to the Drug Policy Alliance to achieve this. This could also be considered as the False Dilemma fallacy. This Goubrial 4 fallacy, according to the website is the fallacy that gives only one choice. This fallacy usually goes hand in hand with the phrase this or (Logically Fallacious) The Drug Policy Alliance uses this fallacy to make the audience feel like the only way they can truly challenge Jeff Sessions is through financially sourcing them. Overall, the Drug Policy Alliance uses many rhetorical appeals to persuade the audience that incarceration on drug use is unwarranted and detrimental. Their uses of logos persuades the audience with solid facts on how most drug users are harmless and therefore should be treated that same way non-problematic alcohol user is treated. Their use of ethos assures the audience that they are supported by reliable sources such as the UN Office on Drugs and Crime. Pathos also built the feeling of unjust for the audience. This use of rhetorical appeal transmits the message that the unjust use of incarceration is not the solution to drug use. Goubrial 5 Image 1 Image 2 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Alysia Sawchyn. Really N.p.: n.p., n.d. Print. Kairos. Guiding Drug Law Reform &  Policy N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. False  N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Mar. 2017. Goubrial 6 Senate Votes to Confirm Jeff Sessions for U.S. Attorney  Policy N.p., 08 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  Meaning of N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Mar. 2017. Whitman, Glen. Logical Fallacies and the Art of  Fallacies and the Art of N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Mar. 2017.