Mourra 1 Saskia Mourra Ms. Gill ENC 1102 077 26 February 2017 Vaccinate Your Baby Vaccination has intensely merged into modern medicine while helping several generations remain immune to a vast number of diseases and illnesses. Vaccinate Your Baby is an campaign that targets families with messages about the importance of timely vaccination of and pursues to guarantee to make the right choices for their families and others (Vaccinate Your Baby). They were launched by a non-profit organization known as Every Child by Two. This goal is to decrease the distress of vaccine-preventable diseases among families. Vaccinate Your Baby has caused a lot of publicity for Every Child by Two causing ECBT to be of the largest online sources for pro-vaccination (ECBT). Vaccinate Your Baby and Vaccinate Your Family is run by the same organization, but targets different audiences. Vaccinate Your Baby targets parents with young child, such as infants, while Vaccinate Your Family targets an entire family, regardless of the number or relation. By the use of the rhetorical appeals, pathos, logos, and kairos, they have created advertisements on their website to strengthen their message about the importance of vaccinations for children. Pathos is the way that an image stimulates forms of expression or emotion. The first image created by this organization succeeds the use of pathos successfully. As you can see in the first image, the organization is using the baby, Emma, to trigger the emotions. The audience feels sympathy after seeing Emma and reading the statement about her having the Mourra 2 disease known as pneumococcal meningitis. Pneumococcal meningitis is a contagious disease, which if not treated, can spread to the brain which causes the disease to be life-threatening (Meningitis Research Foundation). The fact that Emma has this contagious disease shows parents that if their children is not vaccinated, they can spread and/or get diseases from their classmates and the best way to prevent the spread is by vaccinations. Some may feel sympathy, but others may feel anger or be irritated by the exaggeration of an innocent baby having this serious disease. Parents could feel offended and them the wrong due to this specific disease being chosen for Emma as an ad. On a different note, the color theme of this image is mainly yellow. Studies show that yellow stimulates the nerves and purifies the body. This explains why the audience would feel sad and emotional, and some would even say they got goosebumps, which is caused by a tingling of the nerves. According to Angela Wright, the author of the Guide to Colour Psychology, yellow wavelength is relatively long and essentially stimulating. In this case the stimulus is emotional, therefore yellow is the strongest colour, (Wright). As for the second picture, the color theme is violet and green-ish teal. Wright states that shortest wavelength is violet It takes awareness to a higher level of (Wright). This means that the second theme draws attention of awareness. This main focus is on whooping cough. According to Patrick G. Guilfoile, the author of Whooping Cough, cough is a serious infectious disease characterized by sever coughing fits. These coughing spells can be so prolonged and intense that the afflicted person has difficulty (Guilfoile). Any parent or family member of a young child would be afraid of the child contracting this disease. This image tries to draw the attention by using larger fonts for certain words and phrases such as whooping cough infants under 12 months of not know they have the Mourra 3 and many more within the image. Each statement within this image has its own for example, the bottom image shows a carton family, while the middle image shows a bunch of baby cradles while stating statists about the effects of whooping cough on babies. Logos is the way that an image has logic sense and information. The first image does not show much logical sense because there is not much written on the image, but the image states that there are still vaccine-preventable diseases out there, even after stating the innocent baby has pneumococcal meningitis. Although the first image lacks logos, the second image created by this organization succeeds the use of logos successfully. The majority of this image is specifically logos because of the statistics scattered throughout the image. The above image mentions the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) who a series of 5 whooping cough vaccinations with (Vaccinate Your Family). Right after declaring the aforementioned statement, this image mentions that infants under the age of 12 months that have contracted whooping cough are hospitalized and 1 out of 100 of those hospitalized will die. Although a fact, this statement used the slippery slope fallacy because in other words, it states that if the infant is not vaccinated, it will get whooping cough and risk the possibility of dying. Kairos is the way that an image shows the importance of time and action. The whole topic of vaccinations is based on kairos. If one does not vaccinate within a certain time frame, it may be too late. Vaccinations have a suggested timeline for each individual to receive based on age and disease. The first image uses kairos by stating how to protect your because any parent of family member wants to protect their family in any way possible and as soon as possible. The second image uses kairos excessively in the statistics. The top image states the timeline for an infant to receive their 1st dose at 2 months and their 5th dose between 4-6 years of age. This statement creates a timely reaction from the audience which makes the Mourra 4 audience feel obligated to vaccinate their children within this timeline. Another kairos example is within the bottom image stating, people, including family members, who spread whooping cough may not know they have the disease which is one reason it is important to earn more about whooping cough This statement makes the audience worried about whether they have the disease and not know it, making them do research as soon as possible, in case they have spread the disease unintentionally. Vaccinate Your Baby has successfully used the rhetorical appeals, pathos, logos, and kairos, within both images to help raise awareness to the importance of vaccinations for children, as well as close family members. Both images have an impact on the audience involving emotions, significance, and call to action. Pathos was mainly used in the first image so that the audience feels sympathy for the baby. Logos was mainly used in the second image so that the audience understands more about the disease known as whooping cough. The topic of vaccination is based on kairos. Kairos was used within both images but mostly the second image because there are more written statements that shows the importance of time. Although not mentioned, both images slightly incorporate ethos by stating the website of the organization. The first image draws the attention towards the website by stating how to protect your family right before presenting the website. The second image draws the attention by telling the audience to talk to a healthcare provider about the vaccine right before presenting the website. These two images successfully implicated these rhetorical appeals while supporting the mission to raise awareness for vaccinations. Mourra 5 Work Cited Guilfoile, Patrick G. What Is Whooping  Whooping Cough. N.p.: n.p., n.d. 8-9. ProQuest. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Pisani, Amy, Rich Greenaway, and Jennifer Zavolinsky. Every Child by Two  Every Child by Two. N.p., 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Wright, Angela. Psychological Properties of  Colour Affects. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Vaccinate Your  Vaccinate Your Baby. Every Child by Two (ECBT), 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Vaccinate Your  Vaccinate Your Family. Every Child by Two (ECBT), n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Pneumococcal  Meningitis Research Foundation. N.p., 2017. Web. 10 Mar. 2017.