1 Mitchell ENC 1102 Professor Gill 3/20/2017 Climate Change Greenpeace is an organization that lobbies for the environment. Founded in 1971 in Vancouver, main goal is to help the environment from human created issues like climate change. The definition of climate change is the changing of the climate caused mostly by human errors, whether that be pollution or other reasons. main goal is to stop human caused climate change, and they campaign to stop it. Climate change has caused the world to heat up at rates that are melting the polar ice caps which has led to the sea levels rising throughout the world. This action is known as global warming. Predictions from climate scientists say that it could eventually flood the earth if it continues. Greenpeace uses visual imagery in its ad campaigns to lobby on the behalf of the environment. Two such pictures show what global warming can do to the world if we do not stop it. The first ad is of an elephant nearly drowning due to flooding and the second ad is a baby nearly drowning from the rising sea levels. They relate to each other by showing what will happen with flooding from the rising sea levels. These images have a lot of Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos which are very powerful to the audience. Greenpeace is fighting to stop the results of climate change, and they did it by making the two ads that show the results of climate change if we do not act now. The first picture shows the results of climate change and global warming. It shows what will happen if the rising sea levels continue unchecked making areas that were not occupied by water now occupied due to the rising sea levels from the melted ice. The first thing you see when you look at the picture is the elephants holding onto the tree as the water has risen to a level in which they could no longer live. This 2 picture really goes into the Pathos appeal, because, you immediately feel bad for the elephant and you want to do the best thing to help that animal. They chose darker colors to make the tone of the overall message more gloomy which in turn Greenpeace did this on purpose in order to make a connection with their desired audience who you can assume from the ad the audience is people who love animals and care for them. Greenpeace also used Kairos as one of their appeals which made you feel that you had to act quickly before this would happen to the earth. One of the fallacies made was that only the tall survive which in this cause I would assume that the elephants be in the valley they are in the picture because they would move higher up as water rises unless it was a flash flood. The picture does not really use Logos because it be logical for the elephants to last that long if it were flooded like it is in the picture. Except the bottom text saying that the sea levels are rising 4 degrees celsius which gives some fact and reasoning to the photo to make it more credible as well. It does use logic though to assume flooding could happen with the rise in sea levels. The picture uses Ethos as well because Greenpeace is a reputable organization, and you can assume that the information and facts given are credible.The audience they appeal to would be mostly everyone because everyone has some compassion for innocent animals. Although, I think the ad can be made for kids who are more driven by animals like elephants that are usually kids have more interest in than adults. I also think that the audience would have to be people who believe in climate change since it is an ad based on the idea of climate change. They want to target a specific group as well because it is all of the problem that the climate is changing not just one group. The purpose of the picture was to get people motivated to join the movement to stop climate change. The second picture deals with similar actions happening in the picture. It shows a baby appearing to almost drown from the rising levels in the sea level. This indicates what climate change will do to our environment if we do not stop to fix the problem. The first thing you look at is the picture of a baby, and 3 you can really only see the eyes of the baby above the water. The rest of the infant from the mouth down is covered with water to symbolize that the baby is not able to breath because he is under water. He is underwater because the rising sea levels in the picture have caused the area to flood. The top of the photo says, child is growing. Not as fast as the oceans are This is supposed to be an Pathos appeal to the audience which is intended for mothers and fathers because they are the only able to have children. They use a dark background and a baby with nice blue looking eyes so you become attached to that centerpiece of the ad creating a very emotionally attached tone. The whole idea of the ad is to make the person watching have a connection with having a kid and most people would not want to see their child in that situation. The ad appeals to logos by stating that climate change is basically growing faster than the baby can grow which is a fallacy. It also appeals to kairos as well by trying to say for the audience to act fast so that you can save the baby in the picture. It makes you feel like it is urgent and you need to act fast from the picture. There that much logic in this picture because you doubt that anyone would let their baby just drown slowly like the infant in the picture. Greenpeace made these pictures in order for them to campaign to stop climate change throughout the world. They used both images to show that there will be a rise in the sea levels throughout the world if we act now to stop climate change. In both pictures, they use powerful imagery to represent there will be flooding due to the the rise in sea levels from human caused climate change. They both have life forms in each picture nearly drowning due to this. They share very similar appeals by making Kairos and Pathos the top methods to influence people that they need to act fast and by appealing to the life form in the picture that is suffering from the flooding. These share the same logical appeal as well because it be logical for these situations to happen like they did in the picture from simply a small rise in the sea level every year. According to Psuty Norbert in The Rising Tide: Global Warming and World Sea  , he explains that even though the sea levels are currently rising they are not rising to the 4 extremity of some may think. He explains that climate change has to do with the sea levels Also, Ethos for both pictures would be the Greenpeace brand, which is a reliable source and makes you feel comfortable trusting what they say. The only thing that is different between the two ads is that the elephant picture is directed to a wider audience while the baby picture is for mothers that want this to happen to their children. Overall, they have the same appeals for the most part, and they are trying to attract people to join the movement to stop climate change. This is main goal, which is to help the environment from human caused actions to stop things like climate change. So with these ads and pictures, Greenpeace has achieved success in their marketing and goal. Greenpeace is a well known organization that is fighting to stop climate change. Climate change is the change in the climate and environment on the earth, but Greenpeace refers to it as human caused climate change. They use pictures and ads to reach their audience through rhetorical appeals. Greenpeace used the photo of the elephant and the baby drowning which tapped into a wide ranged audience in order to grow their movement. They mostly show the results of the rising sea levels due to climate change. Greenpeace reached their goal by making people think about what they do when referring to climate change. They did a good job persuading the audience with well done pictures. Greenpeace will continue to spread their movement to new audiences while also fighting to stop climate change. 5 6 Work Cited: Greenpeace  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Doyle, Julie. Picturing the clima (c) tic: Greenpeace and the representational politics of climate change  as 16.2 (2007): 129-150. Psuty, Norbert P. The Rising Tide: Global Warming and World Sea  no. 3, 1993, p. 172. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsg cl.15266390&site=eds-live. Climate  N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Mar. 2017. Leggett, Jeremy. warming: the Greenpeace Oxford University Press, 1990.