Nguyen 1 Peter Huy-Xuan Nguyen Bob Botkin Composition II Section 063 January 26, 2017 Russian Annexation of Crimea The Russian Federation and Ukraine had conflicting claims over the Crimean Peninsula ever since its sovereignty was transferred over to Ukraine during the times of the Soviet Union. However, the 2014 Annexation of Crimea by Russia had caused an international crisis with Ukraine at the forefront. Hence, a compromise over the Crimean issue must be reached in order to restore normalized relations between not only the two nations, but to maintain peace in all of Europe. The Russian Federation claims over the Crimean peninsula persisted through their annexation due to their past historical military links to the region, which lasted centuries earlier. In addition to the Russian President Vladimir action to protect their national interest against their perceived western encroachment on Russia since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, the facilitation of the self-determination of the Crimean people to rejoin Russia further reinforce their claims over Crimea. Nevertheless, the Ukrainian claims over the Crimean peninsula claims from their original status quo administration over the Crimean peninsula since 1954 during Communist Rule. Moreover, the previous acceptance of Ukrainian sovereignty by the Crimean people, the Russian agreement respect of the Ukrainian territory of Crimea before the annexation, the global lack of recognition of Russian control strengths claims. However, the compromise between Russia and Ukraine to resolve the dispute lies on their acknowledgement of their common heritage and their guarantee to respect each sphere of influence in the Eastern European region. Nguyen 2 The Russian Annexation of Crimea in 2014 was the culmination of their existing historical and military claims over the Crimean peninsula that has existed for over hundreds of years in order to serve national and President Vladimir political interest over the region. According to Austin Charron, a PhD candidate with focus and Crimean studies, Vladimir Putin states that graves of Russian soldiers whose bravery brought Crimea into the Russian empire are also in (Charron 232), which significantly emphasize how much Russia values the Crimean peninsula due to their extensive history over the region. Moreover, since Crimean is the only region in Ukraine with an ethnic Russian majority (Charron 226), where Robert P. Hager, Jr, an instructor in the Los Angeles Mission College stated that the Russian President believed can play a unique role in uniting (Hager 216) with the reunification of ethnic Russians with their perceived. As a result of the 2013 Euromaidan Crisis, in which the majority of the Ukrainian people pushed for further ties with the European Union away from Russia, the Russian President Vladimir Putin took further action to protect their national security against their perceiving Western encroachment of the Russian Federation since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. This was further reinforced when Ted Hopf, a Professor of Political Science in the National University of Singapore stated that could not possibly be a hostile NATO (Western Military Alliance) naval base in Crimea, especially given Imperial valiant military struggles over centuries to secure this territory for (Hopf 247) . In addition, the claims of for the self-determination of the Crimean people to rejoin back to Russian with the view that mostly identify with and prefer the Russian Federation to Ukraine has gained wide acceptance, supported by the official results of the March 2014 referendum and subsequent surveys that show continuing support for the annexation among (Charron 239), which ultimately reinforces claim to the Crimean Peninsula. Nguyen 3 On the other hand, Ukraine has been on the receiving end of the Russian annexation of the Crimean Peninsula, which has been Ukrainian territory over multiple generation, which remained the case after Ukrainian independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. The Crimean Peninsula has been linked to the Ukrainian mainland via the Perekop Istmus where the Crimean Oblast has been governed from Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, since it was been controversially by previous Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev in 1954 from the Russian Soviet Federal Socialist Republic to the Ukrainian Soviet Federal Socialist Republic (Charron 234). Ukrainian their original status quo administration over the Crimean Peninsula since 1954 during Communist Rule. Moreover, the Crimean people, according to Erika and Dainius who are Faculty at Vilnius University in Lithuania, believed that they were multi-ethnic who perceives themselves to be a unique community distinct from Russians, Ukrainians, and  (Leonite and Zalimas 17). This shows that they previously lived in peace, demonstrating how they previously they accepted the status quo of Ukrainian control over Crimea before the crisis in Ukraine, which has devastated the still relatively young Eastern European republic caught between Russian and European sphere of influence. Moreover, despite the long control of the Crimea by the Ukrainian government, the allowance of the Russian military to station their Black Sea Fleet on Crimean territory was due to an agreement with Ukraine. Russia had since honored the terms to the sovereignty of Ukraine, observe its legislation and do not allow interference in the internal affairs of before their annexation. (Leonite and Zalimas 17). However, according to Sajjad Bagheria, Hamid Reza Akbarpour, who are PhD student in Islamic Azad University in Iran, President Petro Poroshenko recognize any referendum and he accept occupation and separation from Ukraine under any (Bagheria and Akbarpourb 92), complicating claims over Crimea. Nguyen 4 Despite the two conflicting claims over the Crimean Peninsula by the Russian Federation and Ukraine, a common ground can be reached in order to resolve the dispute and provide a long-term peace between Russia and the Western bloc, which had suffered from growing tensions under Vladimir later presidency of the Russian Federation. According to Hager, origins do go back to Kievan in the 800s. Where mythology was that this state is the common ancestor of Russia and where (the Ukrainian Capital) is the mother of Russian (Hager 214). This demonstrates how the same Slavic heritage of Russia and Ukraine can be the common ground and basis help resolve the dispute over the territory of Crimea and promote further cooperation between the two nations. Furthermore, according to Hopf, even itself and Ukrainians are always referred to as fraternal (brothers) by in the years prior to March 2014, (former President Dimitri) Medvedev referred to the two genetic links, calling them closest nearest where he even cited his own from his (Hopf 245). It is evident that the Russian leadership who currently instigated the crisis, at one point referred to Ukraine as a nation that Russia had once shared a strong relationship with each other. However, with the complicated geopolitics between the Russian and Western bloc, the Western nations backing Ukraine preparing a response in case of a military attack from Russia to  (Bagheria and Akbarpourb 92) are complicating willingness to compromise national security through annexing Crimea in order to seek peace and cooperation with Ukraine. Therefore, the guarantee of the European Union not actively try to encroach on the Russian Federation in exchange for the easing of Russian aggression can serve as a basis for much more cooperation and willingness to discuss the future autonomy of Crimea. Nguyen 5 The dispute between Russia and Crimea over the Annexation of the Crimean Peninsula from had been a source of tension for not only between Russia and Ukraine, but for the Western and Eastern European sphere of influence. Where the Russia has existing claims over Crimea due to historical and military claims to the region, acting due to the protection of national security due to increasing European influence over Ukraine affecting sphere of influence, and the reunification of the Russian-speaking majority with the Russian mainland. Ukraine on the other hand, has claims due to the previous status quo of previous government control of Crimea since it was handed over from Soviet Russia back in 1954 and the previous respect of the Crimean people and Russia for Ukrainian sovereignty over Crimea. However, the common acknowledge of Russia and common heritage, and guarantee security and lack of aggression from both sides can ultimately serve as a basis for negotiating a compromise between the two nations over the control of the Crimean Peninsula. Nguyen 6 Works Cited Hager, Robert P. History and Culture in Russia and Ukraine: How to Complicate a Crisis of European  Democracy and Security 12.3 (2016): 211-18. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Bagheri, Sajjad, and Hamid Reza Akbarpour. Reinvestigation of the Sanctions against Russia in the Crisis of Ukraine and  Procedia Economics and Finance 36 (2016): 89-95. Web. 26 Jan. 2017 Charron, Austin. Whose is Crimea?: Contested Sovereignty and Regional  Region: Regional Studies of Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia 5.2 (2016): 225-56. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Erika, and Dainius The Annexation of Crimea and Attempts to Justify It in the Context of International  Lithuanian Annual Strategic Review 14.1 (2016): 11- 63. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Hopf, T. is ours: A discursive  International Relations 30.2 (2016): 227-55. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.