Nguyen 1 Peter Huy-Xuan Nguyen Bob Botkin Composition II Section 063 26 January 2017 Russian Annexation of Crimea The Russian Federation and Ukraine have had conflicting claims over the Crimean Peninsula ever since its sovereignty was transferred over to Ukraine during the Soviet era. However, the 2014 annexation of Crimea by Russia caused an international crisis with Ukraine at the forefront. Hence, a compromise over the Crimean issue must be reached in order to restore normalized relations between not only the two nations, but to maintain peace in all of Europe. The Russian Federation claims over the Crimean peninsula persisted through their annexation due to their past historical military links to the region, which was centuries old. In addition to the Russian President Vladimir action to protect their national interest against their perceived western encroachment on Russia since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, the facilitation of the self-determination of the Crimean people to rejoin Russia further reinforces their claims over Crimea. Nevertheless, the Ukrainian claims over the Crimean peninsula arise from their original status quo administration over the Crimean peninsula since 1954 during Communist Rule. Moreover, the previous acceptance of Ukrainian sovereignty by the Crimean people, the Russian agreement in respect of the Ukrainian territory of Crimea before the annexation, and the global lack of recognition of Russian control all strengthen claims. However, this essay argues that the compromise between Russia and Ukraine to resolve the dispute can ultimately be reached through the acknowledgement of their common heritage and their guarantee to respect each sphere of influence in the Eastern European region. Nguyen 2 The Russian Annexation of Crimea in 2014 was the culmination of their existing historical and military claims over the Crimean peninsula that has existed for over hundreds of years in order to serve national and President Vladimir political interest over the region. According to Austin Charron, a PhD candidate focusing on Crimean studies, Vladimir Putin states that graves of Russian soldiers whose bravery brought Crimea into the Russian empire are also in (Charron 232). This significantly emphasizes how much Russia values the Crimean peninsula due to their extensive history over the region. Moreover, since Crimea is the only region in Ukraine with an ethnic Russian majority (Charron 226), Robert P. Hager, Jr, an instructor in the Los Angeles Mission College, stated that the Russian President believed that can play a unique role in uniting (Hager 216) with the reunification of ethnic Russians with their perceived motherland. As a result of the 2013 Euromaidan Crisis, where the majority of the Ukrainian people pushed for further ties with the European Union, Russian President Vladimir Putin took further action to protect their national security against their perceiving Western encroachment of the Russian Federation since the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. This was further reinforced when Ted Hopf, a Professor of Political Science in the National University of Singapore mentioned that could not possibly be a hostile NATO naval base in Crimea, especially given Imperial valiant military struggles over centuries to secure this territory for (Hopf 247) . In addition, the claims for the self-determination of the Crimean people to rejoin to Russia serves as a basis for further Russian claims over Crimea. Furthermore, the view that mostly identify with and prefer the Russian Federation to Ukraine has gained wide acceptance, supported by the official results of the March 2014 referendum and subsequent surveys that show continuing Nguyen 3 support for the annexation among (Charron 239), ultimately reinforces claim to the Crimean Peninsula. On the other hand, Ukraine has been on the receiving end of the Russian annexation of the Crimean Peninsula, which was Ukrainian territory over multiple generation, and it remained the case after Ukrainian independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. The Crimean Peninsula has been linked to the Ukrainian mainland via the Perekop Isthmus where the Crimean Oblast has been governed from Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, ever since it had been controversially by previous Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev in 1954 from the Russian Soviet Federal Socialist Republic to the Ukrainian Soviet Federal Socialist Republic (Charron 234). Ukrainian claims stems from their original status quo administration over the Crimean Peninsula since 1954 during Communist Rule. Moreover, the Crimean people, according to Erika and Dainius who are faculty at Vilnius University in Lithuania, believed that they were multi-ethnic who perceive themselves to be a unique community distinct from Russians, Ukrainians, and  (Leonite and Zalimas 17). This shows that they previously lived in peace, demonstrating how they had accepted the status quo of Ukrainian control over Crimea before the crisis in Ukraine, which has devastated the still relatively young Eastern European republic caught between Russian and European spheres of influence. Moreover, despite the longstanding control of the Crimea by the Ukrainian government, the allowance of the Russian military to station their Black Sea Fleet on Crimean territory was due to an agreement with Ukraine. Russia had since honored the terms to the sovereignty of Ukraine, observe its legislation and not allow interference in the internal affairs of before their annexation (Leonite and Zalimas 17). However, according to Sajjad Bagheria, Hamid Reza Akbarpour, who are PhD students in Islamic Azad University in Iran, President Petro Nguyen 4 Poroshenko recognize any referendum and he accept occupation and separation from Ukraine under any (Bagheria and Akbarpourb 92), further complicating claims over Crimea. Despite the two conflicting claims over the Crimean Peninsula by the Russian Federation and Ukraine, common ground can be reached in order to resolve the dispute and provide a long- term peace between Russia and the Western bloc, which had been disrupted due to the growing tensions between Europe and Russia under Vladimir presidency. According to Hager, origins do go back to Kievan in the 800s. Mythology suggests that this state is the common ancestor of Russia and where (the Ukrainian Capital) is the mother of Russian (Hager 214). This demonstrates how the same Slavic heritage of Russia and Ukraine can be the common ground and used as a basis to help resolve the dispute over the territory of Crimea and promote further cooperation between the two nations. Furthermore, according to Hopf, even itself and Ukrainians are always referred to as fraternal (brothers) by in the years prior to March 2014, (former President Dimitri) Medvedev referred to the two genetic links, calling them closest nearest where he even cited his own from his (Hopf 245). It is evident that the Russian leadership who currently instigated the crisis, at one point referred to Ukraine as a nation with whom Russia had once shared a strong relationship. However, the Western nations backing Ukraine, by preparing a response in case of a military attack from Russia to  (Bagheria and Akbarpourb 92), have since complicated the geopolitics between the Russian and Western bloc. This further complicated willingness to compromise its national security in their control over Crimea in order to seek peace and cooperation with Ukraine. Therefore, the guarantee of the Western nations not to encroach the Nguyen 5 former Soviet territory in exchange for the easing of Russian aggression can serve as a basis for much more cooperation and willingness to discuss the future autonomy of Crimea. The dispute between Russia and Ukraine over the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula has had been a source of tension between Russia and Ukraine, as well as the Western nations. The existing Russian claim over Crimea, based on their historical and military history in the region, was emphasized to the protect sphere of influence over their former Soviet territories. This was especially the case as increasing European influence over Ukraine had since called for the reunification of the Russian-speaking majority with the Russian mainland. On the other hand, Ukraine claims was due to the status quo of their previous government control in Crimea ever since it was hand over from Soviet Russia back in 1954. Moreover, their claims was out of the respect of sovereignty over Crimea by the Crimean people and Russia before the annexation. However, the acknowledgement of Russia and common heritage, and guarantee security and lack of aggression from both sides can ultimately serve as a basis for negotiating a compromise between the two nations for a peaceful resolution of the crisis on the Crimean Peninsula. Nguyen 6 Works Cited Bagheri, Sajjad, and Hamid Reza Akbarpour. Reinvestigation of the Sanctions against Russia in the Crisis of Ukraine and  Procedia Economics and Finance 36 (2016): 89-95. Web. 26 Jan. 2017 Charron, Austin. Whose is Crimea?: Contested Sovereignty and Regional  Region: Regional Studies of Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia 5.2 (2016): 225-56. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Hager, Robert P. History and Culture in Russia and Ukraine: How to Complicate a Crisis of European  Democracy and Security 12.3 (2016): 211-18. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Hopf, T. is ours: A discursive  International Relations 30.2 (2016): 227-55. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Erika, and Dainius The Annexation of Crimea and Attempts to Justify It in the Context of International  Lithuanian Annual Strategic Review 14.1 (2016): 11- 63. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.