Pierre 1 Ayrillyn Pierre Bob Botkin ENC1102 01 March 2017 Project 2 The standing rock protesters is a group composed of tribal nations, environmental activists, and concerned citizens. The standing rock protesters value environmental safety, health of the community, and tradition. These values are the basis and main factors when considering the groups goals and overall message in this conflict This group opposes the construction of the Dakota access pipeline and the primary goal of this group is to firstly halt the production of the Dakota access pipeline along its current route, and secondly to either prevent the production and completion of the pipeline altogether, or to have the pipeline rerouted away from tribal lands, sacred spaces, and water sources vital to the surrounding communities. The main arguments against the completion and current route of the pipeline is that firstly possible leakage and oil spills from the pipeline are a risk to the surrounding environment and the main water source that the surrounding communities thrive from. Secondly the current route of the pipeline tramples lands promised to the standing rock Sioux tribe by the Great Sioux Nation signed treaties in 1851 and in 1868 with the United States which are binding documents that established our original boundaries and recognized our rights as a sovereign The protest picture shows the activists holding signs that clearly states the groups values and ultimate goal, while the map picture credibly illustrates why the construction of the pipeline is an issue and how it infringes on the values and rights of the surrounding community. Pierre 2 The first picture is a snap shot of one of the many protests coming from those in opposition to the pipeline. The picture displays elements of the rhetorical appeals logos, pathos, and Kairos. The words the can be seen on one of the signs and it sends a strong message; if an entity makes a formal agreement, then logically that entity should stand by it. The entity should not decide to rescind or back down from the agreement whenever it suits them just because they have an agenda to fulfill. The phrase is can be seen on many boards in the picture as well and is also one of the many mottos for this movement and similar movements. The statement is so straight forward and logical that it almost needs no explanation. Having clean, safe, drinkable water is essential to all forms of life and is especially important to the surrounding communities. A water crisis created by an oil spill would cripple the communities of native Americans and other residents of the state in a way that could cost many lives and be expensive to fix. In the picture people of all ages, across all races, and from many different organizations -even people who live nowhere near the pipeline- are standing together in solidarity against the construction. was really inspiring to see residents taking a stand for the right to water for those so far Flora said. a cause that unifies races, religions, and (Blitchok.) This portrayal sends a powerful emotional message to the viewer by showing that this issue has the potential to affect everyone from an environmental standpoint. Signs say down and end where your profit these words are meant to address the construction workers and the Energy Transfer Partners, which is the company building the pipeline. When the photo was taken, the energy transfer partners had almost completed the pipeline. The statements of the signs and the unity displayed in the photograph shows a sense of urgency. The picture is calling for an end to the construction now before an irreversible problem is created, before a minority with valid claims to the land has Pierre 3 their rights completely trampled, before communities have to struggle through a hazardous and costly water crisis that could have ultimately been avoided. This picture of the protest is meant to call onlookers to action in some way that supports the movement whether that be in donations, letters to congressmen and the president or in some other fashion. The second picture is an illustration of a map that visually outlines and details all of the issues that have been overlooked in the plan for the route of the Dakota Access Pipeline. Firstly, since this picture is meant to be mostly factual and expository it is best to delve into the credibility and source of the information. The bottom of the legend clearly states in an extremely noticeable spot that all of the data for this drawing comes from The Dakota Access Pipeline Project Draft and Environmental Assessment which is a credible authority for this issue because it is coming from the group that is constructing the pipeline. The map also references the public legal document, the 1851 Treaty of Fort Laramie, which gives the standing rock Sioux the rights to the lands that are being taken without their consent. The creator of the map is M. Sack a geographer and cartographer studying at the University of (Revkin.) It can be seen in the map that the pipeline crosses vital water sources and sacred grounds belonging to the Sioux. The pipeline crossing water sources is a large environmental issue because pipelines have been known to have spills or small undetected leaks that negatively impact the surrounding environment. Any sort of leak or spill will affect a large number of people within the immediate area and the surrounding communities further away that depend on the Oahe river as their major source of safe, clean water. A spill will create a costly and time consuming crisis that could possibly destroy or end many lives before it can be properly fixed. Repossessing lands that were signed away is ultimately wrong and goes against one of Americas founding ideals: sovereignty. These points Pierre 4 have been mentioned in the previous paragraph but the fact that two completely different pictures will illustrate the same issue shows how pertinent the problem truly is. This call to action wants the audience to engage with people in opposition of their platform in some way. These images are designed to gain the audiences support of their movement through ethos, logos, pathos, and or Kairos. Development and progress is great presently, but it can come at some future cost that may outweigh the current gains. The message of this organization is that the organization believes their opposition is wrong in their approach on many fronts, but the or message within the message is that there are more important things in this world than profit and so-called such as health, safety, tradition, respect, and honor. Pierre 5 Works Cited Revkin, Andrew C. The Core Issue in the Dakota Pipeline Fight Is Sioux Rights, Not  The New York Times. The New York Times, 07 Nov. 2016. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. Blitchok, Dustin. Protesters Gather at Marathon Oil Refinery in Support of Standing Rock Sioux  Detroit Metro Times. Detroit Metro Times, 20 Mar. 2017. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. Pierre 6 Environmental  Standing Rock. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. Pierre 7