Landvogt 1 Lauren Landvogt Adam Carter ENC 1102 12 March 2017 CAPS and Visual Communication with Rhetoric Appeals For centuries, millions of people have paraded into zoos to view the exotic creatures locked away behind steel bars and shatterproof glass. Countless animals are kept in naturalistic habitats and denied their natural instinct to hunt. There is a debate that questions the existence of zoos in the world and whether or not they satisfy morals. Some argue that zoos contribute to conservation efforts and are beneficial for education purposes. However, some do not agree that the pros outweigh the cons. On one side of this argument is CAPS, or the Captive Protection Society. This stakeholder, CAPS, believe that animals should not be confined to small habitats to serve as a source of entertainment for the public. In one ad created by CAPS, two tigers are shown confined to a small cage space. In a second ad created by CAPS, an ape is displayed behind a chain-linked fence with his fingers curled around the metal and he is shown looking away. Captive Protection Society promotes their mission of the abolishment of zoos through advertisements created using rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, they are able to spread awareness about the dangers of keeping wildlife in captivity. The stakeholder, Captive Protection Society, was formed in 1957 by a woman named Irene Heaton (Zoos Tweet). CAPS have promoted many successful campaigns including Their mission statement reads: believe that wild animals belong in their natural habitat and should not be caged for our (Zoos Tweet). Both of the advertisements created by this organization depict animals behind bars or trapped within small enclosures. These visual Landvogt 2 images and use of rhetorical appeals help to support their mission statement and help to achieve their goal of abolishing the existence of zoos and circuses. The images utilize the rhetorical appeal of ethos. Ethos is when the images show credibility or authority to persuade their audiences. In the lower right corner of the both the images, the official CAPS logo is displayed. Their logo is composed of two elephants linked together, their acronym, and their official name. The logo is always shown in blue and white. By displaying their official logo on the advertisement, it proves to the audience that their organization is directly endorsing and fully supporting the message of this ad. It also allows the audience to do further research on the organization at their own leisure. Another component of the rhetorical appeal of ethos is found on the second ad. The ad displays a green circle that houses a quote from former zoo director, David Hancocks; it reads: visits to zoos throughout history have served only as diversions for the curious. Most zoo animals have traditionally been reduced to caricatures of their wild The circle is colored green to capture the attention and influence their emotion (Panigyrakis and Kyrousi 233). By obtaining a quote that expresses concerns about the quality of life an animal may face in the zoo from a former zoo director, it gives the message of the ad credibility. The message of the advertisement is that animals are not satisfied with their poor living conditions and we should abolish zoos. The former zoo director may be viewed as an expert in the field and what he says is deemed trustworthy because of his career background. Together, the use of ethos from both the logos and the quote from a former zoo director help to establish credibility within the ad. The first image incorporates a large amount of pathos in their advertisement. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that elicits emotion from the audience. The first use of pathos is located at the top of the picture and has the phrase with the phrase directly below it being Landvogt 3 It is important to note that CAPS decided to capitalize the word within the first phrase, but not it the second phrase. This statement can be read as an analogy that illustrates a similarity between the two phrases. This image strives to make the words and synonymous. The word has both a negative connotation and denotation that may provoke an emotion of sympathy or compassion for the tigers pictured below the phrase. Another element in the first ad that uses pathos is the picture of the two tigers laying down inside a small cage. They are close in proximity and it is perceived that they have much space. This is used to make the audience feel pity for the lack of freedom the tigers have. The tigers are shown looking directly at the audience and have their heads tilted almost as if they are asking someone to let them out. One of the tigers is barring one of his teeth and this can be interpreted that is frustrated to be confined to the cage; this may elicit a feeling of anger within the audience towards those who locked up the two animals pictured. At the bottom of the image the words Brutal Training. Constant are provided in yellow font. The color of the font signals the audience to slow down and read the message, while word such as brutal and constant again make the audience feel solicitude. The presence of pathos in the first image helps to evoke emotion from the audience to accomplish their goal. Much like the first image, the second image implements a large amount of pathos in order promote their beliefs. At the top of the page the phrase no place like is displayed. The second part of the phrase insinuates that zoos are not acceptable environments for animals to live in. People generally want to make sure animals have a good home and are happy, and if it is believed that these creatures are not happy in their we feel sympathy for them. The ape pictured is shown close-up behind a chain-link fence. He fingers are intertwined with the metal as if he is waiting for someone to open the gate. Unlike the tigers, the ape is looking away from Landvogt 4 the camera, towards the land beyond the fence. This pose could perhaps imply that the ape is looking toward the metaphorical direction of His expression Both the proximity of the camera lens to the ape and the position he is posing in are a form of pathos in the ad because it compels the audience to feel sorry for the ape and the need to free him. Previously mentioned in the paragraph concerning ethos, the quote in the green circle can arguably be labeled pathos as well. The quote highlights the fact that by taking animals from the wild and locking them away in zoos, we are doing them a disservice to their natural instinct. The piece of the quote that suggests this says zoo animals have been reduced to caricatures of their wild This can be used to make people feel remorse for attending zoos because they are hindering growth of wildlife. The presence of pathos in the second image helps to promote CAPS goal. Although the images rely primarily on their use of pathos to achieve their goal, they also use logos. Logos is the use of logic or facts in the image to convince their audience. In the top right corner of image one is a big red circle that states of the British public are calling for a ban of the use of wild animals and The color of the circle draws the readers eye, while the statistic within the circle uses logos to convince their audience. The audience of this image might follow a though process that includes: 95 percent of the British public believes this way, it might be an issue of importance because of the high In the second image, at the bottom of the page there is a statement that says: and safari parks claim to be centers for conservation and education, but they are little more than tourist attractions holding animals captive for our This phrase found in the image addresses the counterargument for their beliefs and refutes it. The presence of logos in both images help CAPS convey their message. Landvogt 5 Although there is no individual phrase or image on either of the images that display kairos, the images as a whole work together to display it. Kairos is a rhetorical appeal that deals with timeliness and urgency. Both images convey a sense of urgency to join the movement CAPS has created and to fight the existence of zoos. Both images urge people to understand the dangers of keeping these creatures captive and to take actions to help the animals pictured. The overall presence of kairos helps to emphasize CAPS mission of abolishing zoos and to emphasize the importance of the involvement in the movement against zoos. Captive Protection Society utilizes the rhetorical appeal of ethos, pathos, logos and kairos in order to promote the abolishment of zoos and spread awareness of the dangers of confining wildlife. All of the elements combined create persuasive ads that help to persuade the public to get involved and to support their movement. The rhetorical appeals found within the advertisement work together to strengthen the advertisement as a whole and ensure its effectiveness. Landvogt 6 Landvogt 7 Works Cited Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Panigyrakis, George G. and Antigone G. Kyrousi. Color Effects in Print Advertising: A Research Update  Corporate Communications: An International Journal, vol. 20, no. 3, July 2015, p. 233. Zoos  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Landvogt 8