Velez 1 Luis Velez ENC1102.034 Adam Carter 12 March 2017 The Effects of Propaganda for Nonsmokers Imagine walking through Busch Gardens with your family or best friends for the first time, enjoying the pleasant weather and hearing the excitement in the air. With a huge smile on your face, you take a deep breath of fresh air, and then it is ruined by the smell of tobacco. Nonsmokers did not travel all the way to Busch Gardens and pay over sixty dollars to have to deal with that dilemma for a few minutes out of their day. Rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos are utilized in many images from the Americans for Rights (ANR), which is an organization has been taking the initiative to stop the exposure of secondhand smoke to nonsmokers since 1976. They will utilize propaganda in order to prevent anyone from using and abusing tobacco products (Americans for Rights, 2016). The main reason why I selected these images is due to the direct impact that they have on an individual, using rhetorical appeals that affect the mind, the brain, and the heart. Looking at the two images that support the ANR, there is a variety of pathos elements that strongly suggests audiences of all types (current smokers, people who want to smoke, and young adolescents who may be unaware of the effects of smoking) to stop smoking. To start off, pathos is a quality of writing that appeals to a emotions. The first image that supports the Americans for Nonsmokers Rights has various elements of pathos. The primary example is a man loading a revolver with cigarettes. Having a revolver within the first picture would invoke fear into any audience that views it, since any weapon with ammunition can be lethal. Cigarettes Velez 2 can lead to death through a potential stroke, heart attack, cancer, etc., and they replace ammunition in the image. That instills fear into an individual, as well as symbolically telling someone to stop smoking or from starting to smoke. The same way that a weapon would strike fear into anyone is why cigarettes are used instead of ammunition. It makes people uncomfortable about smoking because it is lethal. The second picture that supports the organization has a high appeal to the element of pathos. It consists of an unborn child who is defenseless and small, but surrounded by smoke while within the fetus. Below the image is a caption that states, will seriously damage the health of your unborn child. For their sake stop Automatically, most people would feel obligated by nature to care for things that are small and defenseless, like a newborn baby or puppy. Going on to that extent, this picture captivates pregnant attention, evoking a sense of sadness or anger because smoking while pregnant is a selfish and harmful act. Both the smoker and the unborn child are affected negatively; because the child is affected, many would feel uncomfortable emotionally and would want to speak out against someone who would do such a selfish act. Besides that, having the words, in bold red text invokes the urgency to the audience. Not only does it send the main goal of the image across to the audience, but it immediately evokes a state of urgency text that appeal to the element of pathos; if the words were not red, then the message to stop smoking would not be conveyed as clearly. Going on to the next element, ethos is an appeal to how credible something is in writing. Credibility is always known to be in the form of an signature, an logo, or a seal of approval (especially in government documents). In regards to the first picture, there is no logo of a nonsmoking organization; the only thing that can be listed as credible is the facts Velez 3 that are provided to the left of the revolver. It is well known that smoking usually leads to death in users by bodily complications; because of this, there are side effects listed that support the main message (that smoking kills). Some former smokers, like Kristy, smoked for twenty years. Based on her personal testimony from the webpage From Former it caused her to currently have shortness of breath and had COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease), which is a lung disease that makes regular breathing difficult Story, 2017). Along with that, the other potential effects of smoking, such as fatal heart attacks, emphysema, and cancer are all potential consequences of smoking, and that can be found through statistical research online. The second picture with the unborn fetus is deemed more credible to an audience due to the known facts regarding smoking. The logo of NHS (National Health Service) in the United Kingdom verifies that the picture is sponsored and supported by another organization, which goes hand in hand with ANR. Credibility is a key factor in people trusting propaganda, so ethos is showed clearly in both images. Logos, which is the appeal to logic, is evident throughout both pictures and supports the objective, which is to stop all audiences from smoking. Going on to the first picture, there is a revolver, which may not make sense as to why it is included in the picture unless one were to further analyze it. No one would recklessly get into a car accident or jump off the tenth floor of a building, because death would be certain, and it would not make sense to do so. Using a revolver to symbolize death for smokers who overlook the effects of smoking, it would not make sense for a new smoker or nonsmokers to be interested in smoking; it would slowly kill them over time (hence the side effects listed alongside the revolver). As for the other picture with the unborn baby, smoking is not permissible by any means. If a couple wanted to ensure that the health of their baby is at the greatest level, the pregnant mother would not drink, smoke, go on Velez 4 rollercoasters, avoid unhealthy foods, and do anything that would boost a health as well as the health. It does not make any sense for a woman to expect a healthy baby if she were to choose to smoke; it would only cause pregnancy complications such as stillbirths, placenta abruption, premature birth, and birth defects (Carlson, 2016). These two pictures in regards to logos directly promotes the overall message of the ANR because for a fetus (as well as nonsmokers), they are affected by smoking, and either group did not wish to be dealing with the side effects of smoking, whether it is on a short term basis or lifelong. As for the last element, kairos is the appeal to timeliness, and there are two main points in both images that incorporate the use of kairos. In regards to the first picture, the main thing that stands out is the last part of the picture, with a piece of text that says, Kills so why bother It directly tells the audience that the continued use of smoking will result in death; since it was blatantly stated, the next thing that is seen is the question to why even start smoking. Other than that, the rest of the text within the picture has yellow text, which can be understood in a timely context as a warning, since yellow is used as a color of warning (for example, when you see a yellow streetlight, you are advised to slow down). In the second picture, the biggest element of kairos is the words, in red bolded letters. The red words convey a sense of urgency, seeking out immediate attention from the audience, which calls all smokers to stop. The last two words would not contribute to the use of kairos as effectively if it did not say to stop today. Since the overall message of the ANR is to prevent all groups of people from using tobacco products, both pictures utilize the element of kairos to convey that message in each picture Within the analysis of these two images, the Americans for Nonsmokers Rights (ANR) main goal is to defend nonsmokers from secondhand smoke by utilizing the rhetorical appeals of Velez 5 writing (pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos). The deeper understanding can be conveyed to all audiences if one were to read over this analysis. No one would look at smoking the same way after analyzing these images and fully understanding the message portrayed. Figure 1: Smoking Kills Figure 2: Stop Today Velez 6 Works Cited Carlson, Jessica. Dangers of Smoking While Healthline. 7 Oct 2016. Web. 27 Feb 2017. and Americans for Rights. American Rights Foundation, 31 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017 Sandu, Bogdan. Smoking Kills. n/a. Remarkable Anti-Smoking Advertising Campaigns 53 Examples. www.designyourway.net/blog/inspiration/remarcable-anti-smoking- advertising-campaigns-53-examples/. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Sophi. Stop Today. n/a. Visual Communication: NHS- Stop Smoking. http://shardingvcom.blogspot.com/2010/04/nhs-stop-smoking.html?m=1. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. From Former Story. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 20 Jan 2017. Web. 27 Feb 2017.