Thorpe 1 Khamisi Thorpe Professor Phillips ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Depiction of Prostitution Through Visual Images and Their Rhetoric The depiction of grief and despair in prostitution through visual images and rhetoric help the Breaking Free organization create an empathetic mood in website viewers. Founded by Vednita Carter, the organization believes the decriminalization of prostitution does not promote (Raymond) and is empowered by the United Nations Declaration on the elimination of violence against women. The women of this organization all have personal or close relation to prostitution and have seen the destruction of people and their communities. By implementation of photos with ethos, logo, and pathos, such as the Breaking Free logo and Image 2, the Breaking Free organization evokes credibility, emotion, and timeliness to highlight the immoral, unethical, and unhealthy effects of prostitution. When Vednita Carter established the Breaking Free organization, she took the personal route by constructing her committee of women who have felt the effects of prostitution through personal experience, communal damage, or destruction of their families. These personal experiences help the committee have an empathetic attitude when dealing with victims. The commonality in the committee and victims makes the two groups of women related, and this Image 1 Image 2 Thorpe 2 mindset influences the idea of helping sisters break The main goal of the Breaking Free organization is to eradicate all form of slavery against women, this include sex working, and human trafficking. Another goal that the Breaking Free organization has adopted is the education of prostitution and its effects on the community and it inhabitants. The logo of the Breaking Free organization depicts a bird elegantly flying over the cursive font that reads In the logo, there is a cage whence the bird flew, this is a symbolic representation of freedom from oppression, more specifically the oppression found in prostitution. Assuming the influence of the logo came from Maya Autobiography, this an appeal to ethos because the Breaking Free organization has credibility in their movement making their logo synonymous to strife. In Maya autobiography Know Why the Caged Birded Angelou discusses the many incidents that oppressed her. One of those incidences involved being raped by Mr. Freeman, her current sugar daddy, and this atrocity is dictated as: breaking and entering when even the senses are torn apart. The act of rape on an eight-year-old body is a matter of the needle giving because the camel The child gives, because the body can, and the mind of the violator (Angelou 12.8). Maya intended to keep the occasion a secret, so when Mr. Freeman was found kicked to death, Maya felt responsible for the death of Mr. Freeman thus silencing herself for a while. Although this a case of pure rape and wickedness done onto a child, women in prostitution are often raped and they feel helpless and responsible because they chose the field in which they work. With this information, it is appropriate to assume that literary works of Maya Angelou inspired the Logo for the Breaking Free organization. This is an appeal to ethos because the education the masses gained from the literary experience of life gained a depth of credibility that permeates in the Breaking Free logo. Thorpe 3 Apart from the ethos of the Breaking Free logo, there is logos also. Logos is an appeal to logic by using scientifically proven research and stats. In Alan for dharma life is described to be the to our instinct for freedom, the natural urge of the heart to know itself and seek liberations from all obstacles, real or Consider obstacles such as slavery, which can be defined as any line of work where the pay out or lack thereof does not accommodate the labor, mental distress, or health declinations and while developing the idea that freedom is a human instinct, the Breaking Free organization has adopted this definition of slavery. In Image 1, the logos created by the bird breaking free is reflective of human desire to be free, 92% of women in prostitution say they would leave the field of prostitution if they had other means of food and money. This reinforces the logic that if prostitutes had enough strength and temerity to utilize the built-up, negative energy as an outwards explosion towards freedom they would all be free of sexual oppression. Unfortunately, within the framework of most minds, the mental brainwash from pimps that instill obedience is what causes women in prostitution to become complacent. And women who continue to involve themselves with pimps can expect to be subjected to controlling practices and suffer violent treatment that has been described as frequent, pervasive, and (Williamson). These violent acts and crimes against the women are a part of what causes the Breaking Free organizations to make an appeal to the logos that freedom is an immediate instinct. The counseling session that takes place in Image 2 creates a warm and inviting environment for women in the field of prostitution. This is an appeal to pathos because while the audience cannot be empathetic, they can be sympathetic, and to some measurable degree understand the strife of prostitution. In image 2 the Breaking Free organization is pictured providing comfort through the means of a family-like gathering that serves to incite faith. Thorpe 4 of the shame and social stigma associated with prostitution, survivors and those involved feel a greater trust for those who have had similar this quote reinforces the power of having women who have escaped the shackles of prostitution apart of the committee that aids prostitutes, this undeniable trust between these women permeates throughout Image 2 (Hotaling). Although these women are not related through blood; they share an aghast commonality that binds them together as an inseparable unit. This unbreakable bond is what the Breaking Organization sets out to make in women. Moreover, the pathos in the Breaking Free logo is slightly less captivating but purposeful nonetheless. The confinement of the once caged bird is symbolic of a spirit and depression. The elegance of the bird serves to represent the eloquence of all women no matter the field they work in. The sight of the bird flying over the font to freedom creates a satisfying image that resonates and influences the audience to act and feel the emotions of women in prostitution. In summation, the Breaking Free Logo and Image 2 reflected the strategies and themes of the organization as, a promotion for health and safety, intervention and counseling, love and unity, and freedom from sexual oppression. These strategies form the platform of the organization to overcome the destruction of prostitution. With the ethos that reflected the trials of Maya Angelou in relation to the sexual abuse of women in prostitution, the logos of dharma life and human pursuit of instinctual freedom, the pathos presented in the counseling photo that encouraged unity and commonality to fight the long-term effects of sex work and abuse. Aside from the rhetoric devices explicitly expounded on, consider elements such as the kairos, in image two the counseling session depicts the harshness of winter that cause togetherness for comfort, the winter season serves to symbolize the antagonizing reality of prostitution or the color contrast that create the theme of somber atmospheres and other Thorpe 5 impressionable moods. The pictures go a long way to describe the detriments of prostitution on the victims, the community, and the families involved Thorpe 6 Work Cited Angelou, Maya. I Know Why the Caged Bird . Harlow: Penguin, 2008. Print. Breaking Free Sisters of  Breaking Free Sisters of Survival. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Clements, Alan. Instinct for Freedom: A Guide to Spiritual Revolution. Navato, CA: New World Library, 2002. Print. Norma Hotaling HED , Autumn Burris AA , B. Julie Johnson PhD , Yoshi M. Bird JD & Kirsten A. Melbye MHS (2004) Been There Done That, Journal of Trauma Practice, Williamson, Celia, and Terry Cluse-Tolar. Pimp-Controlled  Violence Against Women 8.9 (2002): 1074-092. Web. Sex Crimes. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.