Quinones 1 Alesia Quinones Professor Drugan ENC 1101-114 October 14, 2016 The Progression of Ellen Career The conversation on Ellen DeGeneres role in the LGBTQ community has changed as the acceptance of the community and career has evolved. Since Ellen has come out on her television show Ellen, her presences have changed in the LGBTQ community. When DeGeneres first came out it brought attention to the LGBTQ community but as her career grew, her role in the community grew as well. Her stardom shed light on the community and changed the view point of the others on the community toward one that was more accepting. Perspectives of DeGeneres and the LGBTQ community has changed in a positive way over time. When DeGeneres first came out it brought a lot of attention to her seeing as she was the first celebrity to come out on television. While her career took a rise during the airing for the episode in which DeGeneres came out, the stardom last for long and her career took a fall because of it. It until she scored a role in Finding Nemo did her career begin to skyrocket again bringing her back into the spotlight. Back in 1997, Ellen DeGeneres was playing the lead role in the sitcom Ellen. It was then that DeGeneres decided to come out to the world in her personal life while also having her character on the sitcom come out as well. It was the first time that an actress had come out on national television, it was a huge step for the LGBTQ Quinones 2 community in that it was the first time they were ever really represented on national television. The episode was hyped up everyone was interested to see DeGeneres come out on television. estimated 42 million viewers watched April special hour- long episode, which featured cameo appearances by Laura Dern (as the woman Ellen falls for), Oprah Winfrey (as the therapist to whom she makes her revelation), K.D. Lang, Demi Moore, Billy Bob Thornton and Dwight (History.com staff 2009). career was in the spotlight due to the episode being the first in which a leading actress has come out on the show itself. But after the episode aired career began to fall. She began to get publically scrutinized by the media, companies began to drop her, and networks canceled her shows due to poor Unable to bring in the ratings, Ellen was canceled at the end of season (Lo). It was during this time that the conversation of Ellen and the LGBTQ community positive. The perspective of the LBGTQ changed and still understood or respected. career took a bad fall for a couple of years, her television sitcom Ellen was canceled, companies did not continue business with her, and she began to get backlash from the media. It until her debut as the character in 2003 film Finding Nemo did her career began to pick back up again. well documented that Ellen took a huge hit for her coming out episode after it aired. Her sitcom was cancelled. She get acting parts on other shows and admitted that she went through a period of depression. But when she lent her easily-distinguishable voice to the adorable Dory in Finding Nemo, the comic-turned-TV personality saw her career turn (Bendix). After her role in Finding Nemo, she began her own talk show called The Ellen DeGeneres Show. The Ellen DeGeneres show skyrocketed Quinones 3 career. Ellen DeGeneres Show has won 13 Emmys and 14 Choice Awards, and for its entire run has consistently delivered excellent (Bendix). With her career explosion, DeGeneres helped change the view point of the LGBTQ community. The Ellen DeGeneres show gave people more insight to Ellen personally, with Ellen always promoting love for everyone, it brought positive attention to the LGBTQ community helping change the way people perceive members of the community. Ellen DeGeneres helped bring attention to the LGBTQ community and changed the conversation of it from negative to positive. Ellen was the first ever to come out on national television, without even knowing the effect that this would have on America, she is now a major reason that there are gay roles being played in movies and on television shows today. coming-out episode, several TV shows have featured coming-out storylines, including All My Children, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, ER, Once and Again, and most recently, The O.C. arguable that without Ellen setting the taking a blow for the team in the of those shows would have been the (Lo 2005). Now not only has Ellen been the first to come out on nation television, she continues to make changes for the LGBTQ community and hosted the Emmy Awards and the Oscars, has been a judge on American Idol, and is even a spokeswoman for companies like J.C. Penney and (Neary). Ellen is constantly breaking barriers for the LGBTQ community. She has already changed so many perspectives about the community and continues to do so on a daily basis. She is a true inspiration and a good role model to many. Her closing statement on her talk show is always, kind to one (DeGeneres). The statement shows who DeGeneres is as a person and what she stands for. Quinones 4 As Ellen DeGeneres career has evolved and grown, her stance for the LGBTQ community has as well. It is noted by others that career has brought attention to the community and has changed others view on the community in a positive way. DeGeneres overcame obstacles in her career as a women coming out on national television in a society where that common, especially for a celebrity to do so on national television. Her doing so has brought attention on the LGBTQ community, allowing individuals to see first-hand a member of the LGBTQ community giving them a view point on a situation that maybe they have without Ellen. Quinones 5 Works Cited Networks, A & E. Episode of History.com, A&E Television Networks, 2009, https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/coming- out-episode-of-ellen. Lo, By Malinda. in the Day: Coming Out With Ellen - AfterEllen Back in the Day Coming Out With Ellen Comments, AfterEllen, 13 July 2008, http://www.afterellen.com/tv/34682-back-in-the-day-coming-out-with- ellen. Bendix, Trish. Ellen DeGeneres Changed TV Forever - AfterEllen How Ellen DeGeneres Changed TV Forever Comments, NBC , 16 Mar. 2015, http://www.afterellen.com/tv/420767-how-ellen-degeneres-changed- tv-forever. Neary, Lynn. Ellen DeGeneres Helped Change The Conversation About NPR, NPR, 2013, http://www.npr.org/2013/03/25/175265720/how-ellen- degeneres-helped-change-the-conversation-about-gays.