Perez 1 Patricia Perez H. Professor Philips ENC1102.025S17 24 February 2017 Parent Teacher Association Goals success in school depends on many different factors, one of them being a strong support system. The Parent Teacher Association focuses on finding ways to support students and help them reach their full potential. Image number one and image number two speak on behalf of the association representing goals and advertising their ideas to the public. Image one, an advertisement, encourages students to bring their families to school. Image two, a quote, demonstrates the experience the association has and how long they have been around. Both images use rhetorical appeals to persuade the audience towards a specific path. The Parent Teacher Association creates advertisements, such as these images, using rhetorical appeals, for the purpose of encouraging the support of families in school life and helping students reach their full potential. Just like a mentor, students need a support system to motivate and encourage them to be the best they can be. The Parent Teacher (PTA) mission is to every potential a reality by engaging and empowering families and communities to advocate for all (PTA). This association values collaboration, commitment, diversity, respect, and accountability. They focus on improving the school system by offering support; giving kids time and attention when it comes to school is crucial. A parent attending a parent teacher conference, Perez 2 a teacher helping a student one on one, parents and teachers being able to contact each other and keep updated about how the student is doing both at home and school, is very important. This kind of attention is essential coming from the people the students look up to. If they feel like school matters, they will understand how important it is to get a good education, and they will only understand this when everyone around them is giving school importance and attention. First and foremost, rhetorical appeals are described as the way engage their (Hoffman, and Wiggs, 20). Image one and two use all four types of rhetorical appeals to portray a message to the audience. Ethos is the first appeal, defined as appeal to (Hoffman, and Wiggs, 20). This appeal is used to create a form of trust between the audience and the message. The second appeal is pathos, appeal to (Hoffman, and Wiggs 22), used to formulate specific feelings from the audience towards the message that it is being advertised. The third appeal logos, is defined as appeal of (Hoffman, and Wiggs, 23), which serves to persuade the audience using reasoning. Kairos is the fourth and last appeal, appeal to (Hoffman, and Wiggs, 25). This appeal is used in order to create a call to action and encourage people to act at a specific time, in a specific way. Image one uses ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in order to portray their message and advertise the Take Your Family To School Week. By conveying information about the website, the advertisement is using ethos. It directly states where more information can be found about the subject creating a sense of credibility and trust between the audience and the advertisement. The quote the changing faces of supports the idea that they have celebrated the Take Your Family To School Week many times before, and have a lot of experience with it, also using ethos. The use of ethos allows the audience to trust the fact that the PTA is helping students and should therefore be supported. The representation of happiness, Perez 3 between the families and all the smiling faces shows the use of pathos. Pathos is a way for the organization to connect with the audience allowing them to feel a type of emotion towards the message being stated. Using logos, the image encourages kids to take their families to school, an event created by the PTA for of course families. The use of logos allows the advertisement to clearly target a specific audience with a simple message that can be easily interpreted. The announcement shows many families and their students on a car as if on the way to school ready to celebrate the week. Lastly using kairos the image urges kids to bring their families on a specific time of the year. The use of kairos creates a sense of urgency in the message. By the use of rhetorical appeals the image illustrates how families being part of the school life is a good event that positively affects success. In the same way, image number two uses rhetorical appeals to get across a specific message to the audience. By using ethos, showing diplomas, medals, and notes, the image proves that the organization has been around for a very long time and is very experienced at what they do. The diplomas are a brownish color, the medals gold color looks faded, and the lettering of the notes are cursive, representing the idea that they are very old. Using pathos, with the representation of the founding pictures, the image appeals to the sense of nostalgia. Once again, these images look old making the audience think about grandparents, family, trust, nostalgia upbringing all types of different emotions. By the use of logos, it is clear that the association is dedicated to success, and it is composed of parents and teachers that focus on the well-being of students and want what is best for education. The association had to wait until one hundred anniversaries in order to use kairos to appeal to the audience, the sense of time. Using such a long time as proof of experience gives the audience trust towards what the association stands for, and create a call to action. If people support the association now Perez 4 in another century their accomplishments would be unstoppable. By the use of these rhetorical appeals the Parent Teacher Association is able to make a representation of their association, portraying a message that proves the fact that they know what they are doing. Looking out for students and helping them reach their full potential is what they do best. Ultimately these images are not the only ones that have something to say about the PTA. The article Teacher states that the association was formed in 1897, about one hundred and twenty years ago, proving the of The article also says, modern PTA involves itself in a wide range of social, economic, and moral issues, while working for laws for the care and protection of children and youth and fostering cooperation among the home, school, and supporting the PTA website and the mission and goals stated in it. The association focuses on helping students be the best they can be, and the images are a way of spreading the knowledge about the association, encouraging more people to be a part of it. The article proves the idea that the advertisements are portraying, PTA supports school life and are very experienced at what they do. For the purpose of encouraging the support of families in school life and the academic success of students, the Parent Teacher Association uses rhetorical appeals to create advertisements. Using these appeals gives the association the power to persuade the audience and portray the importance of families being a part of schools. Ethos, pathos, logos and kairos, allow the association to engage the audience in their message. Spreading the word about what the Parent Teacher Association is dedicated to and what they stand for is key to making the association bigger, stronger, and accomplishing its goals. Perez 5 Perez 6 Works Cited Parent Teacher Association. http://www.pta.org. n.d. February 2017. Hoffman, Allyson; and Wiggs, Kimber. Rhetoric (really) Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 20-25. Print Parent Teacher  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=ers&AN=102082358&site=eds-live.