Tkach !1 Daria Tkach Adam Phillips ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Horror and Dark Fantasy as a Competent Form of Art Tkach !2 Beliefs in supernatural forces originated from the beginning of the human formation. The feelings of anxiety and fright were commonly applied in folktales and ballades as sermons and admonitions. However, in the middle of the twentieth century, the genre of horror became especially popular. Nowadays, horror and dark fantasy are considered to be an important part of the pop culture. Creators of somber materials claimed that horror and dark fantasy should be perceived as an art form that is respected by the public. One of the most influential organizations which supports this position is the Horror Writers Association (HWA). As it is claimed on the s official website, the association protects the rights of horror and grim fantasy writers, provides access to qualitative literature, and promotes the idea of scary content being a competent form of self-expression. To grab the attention, the association presents expressive posters which depend on an accurate application of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. As an example, two presented images are bright reflections of the activity. The first picture shows a recognizable figure of a half-rotted man in a fancy costume; the second one depicts a gory image of a heart created from two human skulls looking in opposite directions. These pictures immediately cause associations with horror and grim atmosphere. Suchlike reaction corresponds the direction of the activity. As it was said above, the Horror Writers Association is an international organization which unites the horror and dark fantasy writers and protects their rights and freedoms as the representatives of art world. To gain the attention, the HWA holds a huge variety of events for writers and horror fans to support the interest in the genre and the ideas. However, the content which the HWA promotes is shocking and gloomy and requires corresponding imagery to astonish the audience and deliver the main goals of the help events. Tkach !3 Naturally, the visual material provided by the association should provoke a strong emotional response. As it is indicated in the is Horror article on the official website of the HWA, grim horrific literature not a kind of fiction, meant to be confined to the ghetto of a special shelf in libraries or bookstores. Horror is an Additionally, both of the posters induce a wide range of emotions from disgust to fascination. The imagery provides necessary information about related events as short text references to the goals of occasions, fitting art style of posters, and links to the HWA website. The first rhetorical appeal that can be noticed in the pictures is ethos , the reference of credibility (Hoffman and Wiggs 20). Both of the pictures possess some evidences of the credibility of presented material. The viewer could see the official logo of the Horror Writers Association in all pictures. While carefully observing the label of the HWA the viewer could notice few obvious references to the activity of the organization that supplied both posters. First of all, the name of the association gives a direct designation to the content that is offered by the HWA and related images. Moreover, the logo contains symbolical representations of horror and literature (a raven and a stack of books) which are connected to the speciality of the society and helps to associate imaged material with the institution that supplies it. Reliability of posters could also be proven by the ability of the viewer to logically connect the tag and the images. The possibility to see a bond between the content and the source helps to convince the viewer in authenticity of the material. Additionally, the credibility of the imagery appeals to logos. At the same time, while the second poster contains only the doubled logo of the HWA, the first one comprises a link to the official website of the organization (Horror Writers Association). Tkach !4 Furthermore, the images highly rely on pathos, the appeal to sensitivity and emotions, to attract the attention of the audience (Hoffman and Wiggs 22). Both of the pictures are very grotesque and expressive, yet they contain some famed details. The first poster presents a gruesome imagery of a semi-decomposed man in a fancy suit portrayed on a white background. The use of a blank background makes the viewer to focus on a disturbing figure on the foreground. The picture immediately makes clear that it is related to the genre of horror. The art style in which the depiction is performed clarifies the accessory of the poster to comic convention. Generally, the image grabs attention of the viewers of different demographics and causes either aversion and reluctance or curiosity and a desire to learn more about the activity which is promoted by the image. The second image is performed in a simpler way, but the coloration is brighter and more disturbing. The other poster shows a heart made up of two human skulls. The imagery on the foreground is red and is associated with blood, danger, and anxiety. The repeated use of the white background produces gloomy contrast which attracts attention. As does the first picture, the second depiction causes a wide range of feelings and emotions but lures a corresponding auditory successfully. Humans possess a constant interest in dark and violent imagery which provokes repulsive associations and immerses them to the deepest fright. This curiosity is nothing more than a natural desire to experience unknown and/or thrilling situation to expand the vision of the world. Regardless personal preferences, fearsome material appears instinctively. The long-time observations of scaring events, places, and objects naturally led to the formation of a set of templates of what is considered to be unconditionally disturbing, for example, corpses, detached body parts, the depiction of decay, and several shades of red which are usually referred to blood and gore (Jamil 1-30). Tkach !5 Application of logos, which is an appeal to logic and reason, in these images is always combined with other rhetorical appeals (Hoffman and Wiggs 23). The first picture is a parody of a famous call-to-action poster. The use of a well-known base causes necessary association in the mind. What is more, the comic art style creates a logically based bond between the image and the related convention. Additionally, as the mentioned convention is held with the purpose of a competition among the horror and dark fantasy comic authors, the representation of the previous victorious works on the background of the poster serves as a straight designation on the adversary aspect of the promoted activity. Symbolic art style of the second poster shows a straight connection between a theme of the message and the attitude towards the genre of horror by the using of a popular I  base. The use of popularized symbols in the first picture, however, plays an important role as a reference to kairos, the call-to-action motivation (Hoffman and Wiggs 25). There is a direct utilization of the concrete rhetorical appeal. The imagery itself is a parody of a recognized poster which also had a goal to encourage the audience and called for a specific action. Moreover, the link to an official website of the association is accompanied by a straightforward call to action Please ask us how, or visit www.horror.org for more  The exhortation is formulated friendly and politely, what helps to make the viewer to associate themselves with the activity of the association. Finally, coming back to logos, there is a strong logical reference to the message of the poster since the only figure that is portrayed in the picture is pointing on the viewer as if they are supposed to do a particular thing. The second image, however, displays no noticeable attempts to apply kairos. Tkach !6 As it could be seen, the Horror Writers Association applies the whole range of rhetorical appeals in their posters to cause a strong emotional response within the viewer. The major part of the significance is based on the shock effect of the promoted material. Nevertheless, both of the pictures are an attempt to attract the attention of the audience to the activity of the Horror Writers Association. Imagery of the two posters is frightening and intriguing at the same time. The HWA concentrated on the report of the main idea to the viewer. Promoted activities have a emulative or collaborating basis and focus the interest on the artistic side of horror and dark fantasy fiction. Tkach !7 Works cited Eskine, Kendall J., et al. images: Fear, not happiness or arousal, makes art more American Psychological Association, vol. 12, no.5, October 2012, pp. 1071-1074. Jamil, Mustafa. good horror has its place in gothic strategy in Tess of the Studies in the Humanities, vol. 32, no. 2, December 2005, pp. 23-95. Horror Writers Association. Horror Writers Association, horror.org/about/. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters. University of South Florida, 2016. Horror Writers Association, horror.org/chapters/chapters.htm. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. (Heart) Horror Writers Association, horror.org/chapters/chapters.htm. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. is Horror Horror Writers Association, horror.org/horror-is.htm. Accessed 12 March 2017.