Edouard 1 Carlie Edouard Mr. Fennell ENC 1102 039 10 February, 2017 Animal Agriculture The meat, dairy, and egg industries want to let their consumers know that although their business entails them using up natural resources, they are working to reduce their carbon footprint and greenhouse gasses. The animal rights groups want everyone to just eliminate the option of meat altogether due to the fact that it is all unnecessarily using up land, water, and energy, while destructing wildlife, rainforests, and the oceans Environmental ). PETA has been around for years spreading the message and informing citizens about where their food comes from and how the production of it affects the planet, health, and the animals involved. Therefore, they are credible and so their logo on the bottom corner of the ad adds trust and reliability. PETA is known for being very extreme, dark, oversexualizing, and not being afraid to be vulgar, harsh, or aggressive. This image is just another one of their work. Nothing unusual or out of place for them. PETA seem to have embraced this way of expression and it is now a signature style. What they stand for and how they do it is now world-renowned that they can have a t-shirt that says People Eating Tasty and the joke would not be taking literally nor seriously. Edouard 2 The image is trying to capture the attention of the viewer by making the picture very gruesome. They purposely used human arms and legs that have been cut off so that the viewer They almost want to scare and disgust the audience out of eating meat by showing blood and associating it with dinner. They probably were not trying to scare people into a nightmare or anything but they definitely did want to help people stop being so disconnected from what is on their table and going in their mouth with what it was initially. A living, breathing, and sentient being. This image was going for an ethical based argument. There are three main angles that they use to spread the vegan message. Health, environment, and ethics. The logos of the image are not that apparent because there are no statistics, facts, or graphs to indicate that they are appealing to logos. The statement gnawing on flesh turns your stomach, why not go gives a sense of urgency. The line cost an arm and a also has a timeliness to it because when the viewer sees it, they will think of their previous meal and if they did eat meat, they will most likely plan to not do so for their future meal. The other image is of a T-shirt with the saying are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, or use for They wrote the statement in a relatively big font. However, the was much bigger and in a different color than the rest of the words. The rationale for this emphasis might be because if they do not bold it, people might quickly read the shirt but completely miss the NOT and they might get the idea that PETA supports the exploitation of animals. It is just like when a student Edouard 3 takes a test, they read everything in the question and they skip right over the NOT. The test makers, knowing that the students will make this mistake, put the answer that is the opposite of NOT and most of the students fall right into their trap and go for that answer since it was one of the choices. This is why nowadays, many tests and exams have the NOT bolded or capitalized to emphasize and to help the students catch it. NOT is such a subtle change in a sentence but it makes a huge difference in the context of whatever the subject may be. Works Cited Long Shadow: Environmental Issues and  Long Shadow: Environmental Issues and Options. FAO Agriculture and Consumer Protection, 2006. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.