Al lawati 1 Ahmed Al Lawati ENC1102 Mr.Fennell January 29 th 2017 Integration of Technology In Education Classrooms Technology could be the base reason of why our generation is the most successful generation of all time as it had an enormous influence on the people and organizations all around the world. Technology proved to play a huge role in advancing this generation into a better prospective. Due to this, the integration of technology is taking over lives in their daily basis and day to day work. As education is considered the core of our generation or any generation there was. Therefore, merging technology to education might improve the chances of our society to become more successful and wealthy. On the other hand the must recognize the holdups it will cause. Thus, will education actually help college students access education or is it going to add more issues during this process? Technology is recognized that it could improve different aspects of life as it also can increase benefits. On the other hand, we also know and cannot ignore the setbacks or disadvantages that integration of technology to our education could have. Organizations that revolve round education always tend to want to introduce the technologies to their systems to make the process much more compassionate. To explain, paper files could cause a huge mess, it also has a huge effect to our environment. Not only that but papers could be damaged at any second and cannot be recovered. A solution for this issue is that organizations will be better off having an online record of every Al lawati 2 students as the chances of them getting lost or being damaged are minor. Due to this many stakeholders could be in effect such as the teacher, students and board members are all in risk. As it is clear, students in this generation would not have any problems adjusting to the technology as they are using it on daily basis, this means adapting to the technology introduction will not be hard on them. Students will also have some minor setbacks as they might not be used to the huge shift from books to everything being online. Students will need to adapt as they are moving from high school which was all book based to universities that are all technologically enchanced. On the other hand, teachers would not mind integrating technology as long as they can provide decent education. Jung Won, Shannon & Wolf mentioned and Lowther (2010) surveyed 1,382 public school teachers and found that teachers who believed that technology positively affected learning were more likely to use technology in quote explains that students would not have any problems adjusting to the new technological integration it could even be much more beneficial to them. Students would be more productive in this way as they would be more excited to have a new way of learning especially the integration includes new stirring features. The other side is the teachers as it mentions that teachers will be more motivated to present the students to the new methods of learning. The concern is not in the students; it is actually between the teachers and board members. Those two stakeholders strive to give their students a better way of learning and both stakeholders have the same goal, but there are restrictions that are pushing them away from each other. Board members are the ones with the ultimate decision; whether the introduction of technology would benefit the students or no. This brings up several points that the Al lawati 3 board members would have to take into consideration before having to make the decision. The cost and installation is a key factor in making this decision. Board members would also expect that the system would have no issues, would not break down and for it to start working from the first day it was installed but teachers are the ones who will be using those new installed technology the most. Donald G. Knezek mentions results of their work -- be it new proposals, new knowledge or solutions, persuasive advocacy (in a variety of interactive media formats), or creative ideas and expression -- in ways that previous generations could only (1). The point that is being brought up here is that teachers work better at their own pace as long as they studnets get the information. Sometimes when board members try to hard to make the teacher work under a specific celling is where it all goes wrong. Teachers will always find out methods to deliver their information and will make students get it when it should be done. To mention, teachers and board members both have a similar prospective. It is to give their students a better education in a much better way. On the other hand board members the people who would want any postponements, which could affect the way the students learn and at the pace they are in. Board members have the idea that installation by itself is a really long process and they would not want any delays. This installation could effect the whole flow of education in the board members point of view. A solution to this issue will be that board members could offer workshops. For example while installing all the systems, teachers should go on a course or workshop that could last from days to weeks. In this they can learn every aspect of this new system that is being installed and how it actually works. Those workshops should help the teacher over go any issues they might face in future. For example if they system gets stuck or Al lawati 4 broken down what should be done to restart it. At the end of this workshop teachers should take a test to prove they have learned from this course and could effectively use it. Khambari, Luan, Nida & Ayub said, had used their laptops to structure their resources on their own. The results showed that laptop is a powerful tool that could enable teachers to create teaching resources that are geared to the (558). Teachers will then be able to find out numerous ways to deliver what needs to be delivered, this is what the quote explains. Teachers will also find a way to make everything simpler in a way that their students could understand depending on their levels of understanding or the grade they are in. To conclude, education is the most important key factor to develop any generation. purpose was to make our life easier and in education is should make us work in a faster pace and make it easier. Education has many ways that could be done in. Benjamin mentioned that it is an exchange. For this exchange to be effective both parties should participate actively. This is how learning is defined as he mentioned (Benjamin, 1). For any goal to be achieved there will many obstacles to go through. There is nobody who is successful who gone through some circumstances. In the issue both stakeholders the board members and the teachers should work is a great aid in my learning. Not only does much of it allow the professor or students to communicate knowledge and ideas in new and exciting ways, it also eases the ability to then access that information for later (1). This proves that that teachers and students could use those technologies in their benefit. This will make it easier for students to back for it incase they forgot something or they lost a papers that could easily be found on the system. Students are the ones that the technology is being Al lawati 5 tested on. Therefore, the two stakeholders should work together to make it easier for the students to pass whatever they are taking. Al lawati 6 Work Cited Boss, Suzie. Technology Integration: What Experts N.p., 2011. Web. 10 Sept. for for Teaching. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Sept. Hur, Jung Won, David Shannon, and Sara Wolf. An Investigation of Relationships Between Internal and External Factors Affecting Technology Integration in  of Digital Learning in Teacher Education 32.3 (2016): 105-14. Khambari, Mas Nida Md., Wong Su Luan, and Ahmad Fauzi Mohd Ayub. Technology in Mathematics Teaching: The Pros and Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences 8 (2010): 555-60. Weber, Scott. Addressing Technology Pros and Journal of the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners J Amer Acad Nurse Practitioners 17.11 (2005): n. pag.