Go to Top Arterberry1 Jordan Arterberry Jarad Fennell ENC 1102: English Composition II February 12, 2017 Public Defense, or Brutality? In recent years the American preception of public defense has shifted tremendously. Due to the excessive media coverage of killings such as those of Alton Sterling, Trevon Martin, Philando Castile, and Micheal Brown, movements in protest of police brutality such as the Black Lives Matter movement, have risen. It seems that the resentment for law enforcement that has been building for years, has finally bubbled over and has had historical and epic results. Naturally, there has been a defensive response from those in law enforcement, in the form of the Blue Lives Matter movement. With these two very different sides, arguments, and viewpoint an overlying question arises: who is right? Most importantly we are left to question if the men and women that we trust to protect our communities are abusing their power and how can we fix it? Some would say the best way would be disarming our police force. Black Lives Matter is a relatively new but large in scale movement. It was started as, and continues to be, an online forum intended to build connections between Black people and our allies to fight anti-Black racism, to spark dialogue among Black people, and to facilitate the types of connections necessary to encourage social action and  (blacklivesmatter.com). Although Black Lives Matter is most closely associated with preventing, stopping, and changing the law enforcement system from abusing its power, it also focuses on other matters that are often looked over. For instance, Black Lives Matter affirms the lives of Black queer and trans Arterberry2 folks, disabled folks, black-undocumented folks, folks with records, women and all Black lives along the gender spectrum. It centers those that have been marginalized within Black liberation movements. It is a tactic to (re)build the Black liberation  (blacklivesmatter.com). BLM classifies itself as a human rights movent not a civil rights movement. It requires its supporters to realize that even although some elses struggles were different from theirs, they are struggles nonetheless and are caused by the same racist, bigoted, homophobic institutions. Black Lives Matter is most importantly an empathy movement. One aspect that this movement is infamous for, is its lack of leadership or guidance. BLM has an overall unapologetic message for change. It uses trigger words in its Guiding Principals such as   and  that has subsequently resulted in individual agents functioning on their own, agents that have caused BLM to be casted in a negative light. Black Lives Matter is to big to uniformally come to a compromise with apposing agents. It seems that one of their biggest goals, to bring light to issues that have been covered for far to long, has caused followers to get distracted by opposers, a distraction that has failed in finding a solution to those serious issues. The Blue Lives Matter movement was created in almost a direct response to the killing of Micheal Brown by police officer Darren Wilson. It was founded based on the need of law hopes that it could prevent more officers from being  (bluelivesmatter.blue). Blue Live Matters primary goal os to publicate the story and perspective of active law enforcement and those in similar lines of duty. The founders of Blue Lives Matter feel that police officers were unfairly represented in the news in incidences such as the Furgeson riots, which in turn caused those who they were defending to turn and hate them. This Arterberry3 organization also supports families of fallen comrades by donating and helping them with their financial needs. Blue Lives Matter has a very take matters into our own  type of message, claiming that Both the political leadership and mass media are failing to stand for truth, so we proudly take on this  Overall Blue Lives Matter wants the voices and perspective of active, retired and families of police officers heard. its an effort to bring reality to a romanticized line of work. A goal that they very clearly communicate. Blue Lives Matter has the goal of voicing the opinions of police officers around the country. They claim that criminals are criminals and deserve to be put into the justice system, or basically they have no tolerance for those who break the law. This very militant approach is very dangerous, because Blue Lives Matter uses propaganda vices to communicate with its audience, due to the fact that it does not feel that they are supported by the government or media. This method of reporting may lead to its members hating those that they perceive to be their opposers, specifically, members of the Black Lives Matter movement. With this said, Blue Lives matter seem to be open to compromise. It is to focused on their  to begin to think about a way to fix the problems that they find concerning. These stakeholders share the same goal of shedding light on issus that may not have been seen as an issue for the American public. They call for the American people to not only be sympathetic, but empathetic to their strife. The agenda is to spark the interest of viewers and gather more people to their cause. Both causes make extremest claims, and use trigger words to spark the feelings in their audience that may benefit their causes. The most reasonable compromise that Black Lives Matter and Blue Lives Matter can start to consider is the disarming of police officers aswell as American citizens. With that said, Arterberry4 the most important blockades that hinder this compromise, is the fear that Americans have of those that stray from the American ideal of  and of police officers. In order for the compromise to even be considered, there needs to be a mutual trust between individuals as well as trust between citizens and law enforcement. This compromise can seem impossible because of the many repeated instances of police misconduct and citizen violence in the media. To aid in easing this fear Laurence Miller suggested that Certain features of selection, education, training, discipline, and supervision of police officers can help weed out bad cops, improve police-citizen communication, and further reduce the incidence of use of force, including deadly force, (Why cops kill: The psychology of police deadly force encounters, abstract). Once this positive reform of law enforcement institutions is put into action, American citizens will start to see police officers as public service aids and not as enemies. Unfortunately in America, we have a lopsided prereption of what is . We list drugs as more dangerous than weapons that can kill hundreds of people in just a few seconds (guns). The push to prevent police violence that Black Lives Matter is famous for, should also include dismantling the misuse and glorification of guns in America. The result of a nonviolent society would lend itself to the police saving energy that they normally use to protect themselves. They would inturn put this energy into protecting others in extreme situations, such as state emergencies and violent situations. Overall, the positions that these two stakeholders claim could be calmly and easily resolved with the right communication. Black Lives Matter and Blue Lives Matter both stive for the empathy of others, a trait that, if executed correctly, can solve important issues and achieve the compromise that was proposed. Arterberry5 Works Cited Guiding  Black Live Matter. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Miller, Laurence. Why Cops Kill: The Psychology Of Police Deadly Force  Aggression And Violent Behavior 22.(2015): 97-111. PsycINFO. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Police  Blue Lives Matter. N.p., 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Swarns, Christina. I : A Century Old Call For  Seton Hall Law Review 46.4 (2016): 1021. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Troka, Donna, and Dorcas Adedoja. The Challenges Of Teaching About The Black Lives Matter Movement: A  Radical Teacher 106 (2016): 47-56. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017.