Ceballos 1 Eric Ceballos ENC 1102 01/26/2017 Jarad Fennel Animal Agriculture and Vegan Societies Whether we want to admit it or not, the globe is warming, and human activity is the leading cause of this global problem. The current lifestyle of the average human being has been known to leave a harmful footprint in the environment. Whether it is the use of unlimited energy at the flick of a switch, or buying meat from a factory farm that mistreats their livestock, animal agriculture poses a larger threat to global warming than most people might think. Animal agriculture, also known as factory farming, produces large amounts of methane molecules. These molecules are stronger than carbon molecules and take up substantial amounts of land and water. There are many people who continue to eat large amounts of meat and poultry that are not educated on the consequences that comes from this issue. There are others that are vegan and believe that putting a stop to factory farming would be an ideal solution. Meat and Poultry when eaten moderately provide large amounts of nutrients which could be beneficial to health. A balance of consuming meats and poultry would result in both factory farms, and vegan societies to be content. A tax on all livestock will reduce the amount of meat and poultry these farms raise and as a result in smaller amounts of meat and poultry being consumed. Factory farms are large operational factories that produce immense amounts of meat. There are many flaws in the animal agriculture industry such as water wastage, land usage, and methane emissions. The amount of water used on growing, maintaining, and transporting animals is extremely inefficient. According to the article Arguments for a Greener Ceballos 2 published by the Center for Science in the Public Interest, feed crops for livestock produces 56% of the water in the (Jacobson). That does not include the water needed to keep the animals alive. The amount of water humans drink does not even reach half the amount we use for livestock. Looking deeper into water waste, Oxford University posted a journal titled Resources: Agricultural and Environmental In this journal scholars discussed the issues that caused water wastage. One fact that stood above others was that hundred gallons of water are needed to produce 1 pound of (Pimentel). An average twenty- one-foot pool contains thirteen thousand five hundred gallons of water, according to reference.com. Six pounds of meat, or one swimming pool. Animal agriculture is so destructive it produces more carbon dioxide emissions than all transportation exhaust in the world (Steinfeld). It is responsible for 18% of all greenhouse gasses according to long written by Henning Seinfeld a writer for the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Think of every car, bus, train, boat and plane, all of the carbon those machines produce does not even match the carbon that animal agriculture produces. Talk about land, covers 45% of the earths total (Thornton). Almost half of earths entire terrain is used to raise livestock. Giving power to factory farms by consuming large amounts of meat is detrimental to the environment. Many vegan societies have been spreading their movement of a meat free nation. Amanda, the senior advocacy and policy officer for the first ever vegan society has a vision for the future. cover three main areas advocating on behalf of vegans in vulnerable situations; lobbying policy-makers and elected politicians to consider plant-based, vegan-friendly solutions; and getting vegan-friendly policies into practice in organizations including hospitals, care homes and (Amanda). Amanda, along with other vegan followers want to see the world turn Ceballos 3 livestock free. However, consuming meat and poultry in moderations proves to be healthy as stated in Choosemyplate.gov which has a section named and health This page serves to give the benefits of eating certain foods poultry, fish, dry beans and peas, eggs, nuts, and seeds supply many nutrients. These include protein, B vitamins (niacin, thiamin, riboflavin, and B6), vitamin E, iron, zinc, and Lean Meat and poultry, fish, eggs, tofu, nuts and seeds and ). Vitamin B helps in the functioning of the nervous system, repair tissues, and produce red blood cells. Iron is used to carry oxygen through the blood, Magnesium is used in building bones and releasing energy from muscles Lean Meat and poultry, fish, eggs, tofu, nuts and seeds and ). Meat and poultry can be of great aid when it comes to health. It is equally important to acknowledge surpassing per day of red meat, which is more than double the recommended amount, is associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer and renal Lean Meat and poultry, fish, eggs, tofu, nuts and seeds and ). Another nutrient that is extremely important in red meat is B12. B12 is vital for the body to produce healthy red blood cells. It also is needed for proper nerve function and DNA (Antinoro). Meat and poultry pack a healthy nutritional punch. If consumed properly, animal protein can be very beneficial. No one likes taxes, especially if it is things they buy often. But to please both factory farms and vegan societies, it is necessary to bring both stakeholders to compromise. A tax would balance both factory farms and vegan societies. Factory farms want to produce meat, and vegan societies want to reduce meat. Peta (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) posted an article on taxing meat. 10-cent tax on every pound of chicken, turkey, pig, cow, fish, and other animal flesh sold in grocery stores and restaurants could help reduce skyrocketing annual health-care costs by encouraging people to eat less (PETA). Peta also Ceballos 4 recognizes animal agriculture is a leading cause of climate change. Supply and demand is a simple business strategy used for many years and can be easily applied to the meat industry. Factory farms would have to be willing to sacrifice profits in order to sustain a healthy world. The choices we make in our everyday lifestyle could have disastrous effects to the environment. Educating yourself on what you put in your body is the number one step in saving the environment. But creating a compromise between factory farms that produce inefficient amounts of meat and vegan societies is only possible with a tax on meats. Animal agriculture is a global problem we face every day, and is a problem that continues to grow because it is a result of our lifestyle. Ceballos 5 Work Cited Amanda. What we  The Vegan Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Antinoro, Linda Health. Getting Enough Vitamin  Harvard Health. N.p., Apr. 20115. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Jacobson, Michael F. Six Arguments for a Greener  Center for Science in the Public Interest. N.p., 1 Aug. 2006. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Lean Meat and poultry, fish, eggs, tofu, nuts and seeds and  Eatforhealth. N.p., 28 Sept. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Nutrients and health  Choose MyPlate. N.p., 21 Jan. 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Steinfeld, Henning. Long Stock . Rome: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 2006. Print. Pimentel, David, and Bonnie Berger. Water Resources: Agricultural and Environmental  BioScience Oxford Academic. Oxford University Press, 01 Oct. 2004. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Tax  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Thornton , Philip.  International Livestock Research Institute 2011: 1- 3Print.