Hedderman 1 Michaela Hedderman Professor Townsend ENC 1102 26 February 2017 NCAA Visual Rhetorical Analysis The NCAA is a membership driven organization dedicated to safeguarding the wellbeing of student-athletes and equipping them with the skills to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and throughout life. The NCAA functions as a general legislative and administrative authority for and intercollegiate formulates and enforces the rules of play for various sports and the eligibility criteria for athletes. The images portray that the NCAA is a reputable organization that represents sports and can create opportunities for anyone who joins. The image of the national championship trophy sitting on the beach, shows that opportunities can be found through the NCAA, which can give the viewer of this photo hope and excitement, making them want to join a sport. The second photo is more generic and primarily shows the NCAA logo along with some of the organizations most profitable sports. Through the utilization of rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, the NCAA is able to promote and advertise their organization while at the same time adverting their most profitable sports. Ethos is one of the four rhetorical appeals, which credibility or an ethical appeal which involves (Ethos). Ethos is used in literature, writing, and in this case to create credibility within an ad or photograph that appeals to its viewers. Within the first photo, a viewer would know that this specific photo is credible because of the trademarked NCAA logo, which is placed on top of the national championship trophy. The trophy itself, which is a well known object in the collegiate sports realm, creates credibility since it is an actual Hedderman 2 trophy that is used in collegiate sporting events. Even if the viewer was not familiar with this championship trophy, or even with the NCAA itself, the creators of this photo rely on the ethos in this photo to create the credibility of visual success. Given its broad sports televised scope the NCAA is an extremely well known organization across the U.S. It would be peculiar for one to not have any knowledge of this organization, unless a viewer watched collegiate sports. This would explain why every single ad or photo I found for the NCAA was very simple and bare. The creators of this photo expect the viewers to already have knowledge of the credibility the NCAA. Therefore no wording or creativity is needed in their visual appeals, since the ethos for these photos comes from the prior knowledge and brand association. in white lettering on the left hand side of the photo, which creates a subliminal suggestion and establishes credibility as an advertisement for the NCAA. The viewer connects that through this reliable organization, opportunities are in reach. In the second photo, the NCAA logo is much larger, and ethos may seem to be more present here than in the first picture since this logo is specifically a logo, and does not present itself as an advertisement like the first photo. This logo specifically shows the NCAA logo and a basketball, football, and a baseball behind it, showing that the NCAA represents these sports. Pathos, is the second of the four rhetorical appeals, whic attempts to evoke an emotional response through persuasion. Pathos is introduced in work to create sensations of sympathy, sorrow and, consequently, to develop an emotional connection with (Pathos). Within this first photo, pathos can be seen here more than any of the other rhetorical appeals. The logo states eliciting a hopeful connection for anyone that views this photo that opportunities are available though the NCAA and these opportunities are attainable through this specific organization. This hopeful message in addition to the national Hedderman 3 championship trophy image provokes excitement and a longing in any viewer, no matter what sport they play or watch. Pathos in this photo attempts to create a longing in the viewer to join or support a collegiate sport since an opportunity to win the national championship is possible for anyone who joins a sport through the NCAA. Additionally, since the photo shows a beach volleyball and sand, one can infer that the national championship in this photo is for volleyball, meaning the photo was intended to appeal to volleyball players and supporters. Given recent excitement with Olympic volleyball, This could create feelings of possibilities within a volleyball player of any age, and that the national championship is in their reach and motivate them to possibly join a collegiate team. In the second photo, the three sports that are represented in the back of the photo would create positive feelings within a viewer since it represents the most popular and competitive collegiate televised sports. The pathos in this photo, attempts to connect to the viewer through their familiarity with these sports, and through the feelings that the colors evoke. Furthermore, while this ad creates a familiarity with athletes playing these sports, it can also create a nostalgia within parents, coaches, ad agencies and other sports enthusiasts. Parents and family members who had previously played these sports could try and involve their children in these sports since they remember how much they enjoyed them when they played. Additionally, the blue colors represented by the NCAA logo and by the background, elicit, and inviting comfortable, relaxed feel for the viewer since the color blue a sense of calm and (Cousins). Logos, the third of four rhetorical appeals, attempts to or persuade the targeted audience by employing reason or (Logos). Logos is different from ethos and pathos since logos primarily the utilization of inductive and deductive reasoning methods of be (Logos). Within logos, inductive reasoning a specific representative case or Hedderman 4 facts then draws generalizations or conclusions from them...and must be based on a sufficient amount of reliable (Purdue). While deductive reasoning, with a generalization then applies it to a specific case...the generalization with must have been based on a sufficient amount of reliable (Purdue). Even though logos is present in this photo, not much inductive or deductive reasoning is needed for, since it is incredibly simple. However, one could infer through the utilization of inductive reasoning, that the photo without explicitly stating it, is trying to appeal to volleyball players and viewers. The use of the volleyball and sand in the background, as well as the use of the national championship trophy is proof that the creators of the photo are trying to appeal to a certain demographic. Yet, the photo may not only be attempting to appeal to strictly volleyball players, the photo could also be trying to appeal to lovers of the beach, who are big supporters and speciation. Avid beach goers may view this photo and immediately became intrigued. This ad could persuade a beach lover to join a beach volleyball NCAA team since it incorporates one of their favorite places and the fact that there are achievable opportunities through this sport, other than the mainstream sports. In the second photo, I recognized that the three sports that are represented behind the NCAA logo are the three highest profitable sports in the NCAA, which all happen to be sports. This logo subtlety shows the NCAA is male dominated, without having to state it directly. Even though basketball is played by both men and women, basketball is one of the three highest promoted and therefore highest grossing sports in the NCAA, while basketball is less promoted and profitable. Around 81% of NCAA revenue, from media rights, mostly from a $10.8 billion, 14-year agreement with CBS Sports and Turner Broadcasting for rights to the Division I Basketball (Jcoram). The NCAA survives based Hedderman 5 up on its television sales so it makes perfect sense why the NCAA would want to promote their most profitable sport by any means necessary and wherever they possibly can. This would also explain why the basketball is the largest out of all three sports, illustrating it is the most popular. While the simplicity of just showing the balls gives the illusion the NCAA is promoting men and women sports equally. The marketing in meant to appeal to the boys and men who play the sports, the spectators that watch, and the advertisers that raise the most amount of money for this organization. Kairos, the last of the four rhetorical appeals, refers to the of an an ad or an argument to successful, it needs appropriate tone and structure and come at the right (Louisville). In the first photo, there seems to be double meaning between Kairos and the other rhetorical appeals. The beach in the background, evokes a calming, relaxing feeling which through Kairos, can be inferred that there is no sense of urgency through this photo. The sand and the umbrella add to this feeling, proving that even though there are available, but these are more fun. While this photo may specifically be targeting volleyball players, it is ambitious in that it attempts to evoke a calming, fun feeling at the same time. On the contrary, the second photo does not hold any presence of Kairos, since it seems to be a fairly basic logo. There is no extra wording or any other subtle background objects that would hint that the creators wanted there to be a timeliness within it. In addition, the simplicity of the logo is more timeless than quotes, in that it lends itself to multiple marketing campaigns, and easily for appeals, t-shirts, and other money making options. In conclusion, the creators of these logos for the NCAA effectively created two ads that promoted and advertised their organization through the four rhetorical appeals. Though the first logo was targeted for a new demographic of volleyball players, spectators, and marketers and the Hedderman 6 second logo was a more traditional, recognizable logo, appealing to male sports. Each advertises the credibility, evokes an emotional response and attempts to persuade the viewers to join an intercollegiate sport, or participator as a viewer, spectator or another supporter. through the NCAA. Work Cited Cousins, Carrie. Color and Emotion: What Does Each Hue  Codrops. N.p., 03 Apr. 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://tympanus.net/codrops/2012/04/03/color-and-emotion- what-does-each-hue-mean/>.  Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://literarydevices.net/ethos/>. Jcoram.  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 22 Nov. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/about/resources/finances/revenue>.  Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://literarydevices.net/logos/>. Hedderman 7 Logos, Pathos, Ethos,  University of Louisville. University Writing Center, n.d. Web. <https://louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/handouts-and-resources/handouts- 1/logos-ethos-pathos-kairos>.  Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://literarydevices.net/pathos/>. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: Establishing Arguments. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/588/04/>. Hedderman 8