Tribble 1 Justyce Tribble Professor Gill ENC 1102 26 February 2017 The Sierra Club Climate change is the change in global or climate patterns. The topic of climate change has been a popular topic for many as scientists, economists, environmentalists, and others are trying to find the cause of it. Climate change stakeholders like the Sierra Club use their platforms to inform citizens of the United States and those outside of the country of the one of the largest culprits of climate change: the use of fossil fuels as energy sources. The Sierra Club is an environmental organization in the United States and part of its mission is to and promote the responsible use of the ecosystems and while and enlisting humanity to protect and restore the quality of the natural and human (Club, Policies). This organization stresses the importance of why the use of fossil fuels like natural gas, coal, and oil as energy sources needs to end because the harm it has on the environment. The Sierra Club uses its campaign advertisements to spread awareness of climate change and how we can possibly save the environment by using less fossil fuels and more alternative energy sources. In all of its advertisements, the Sierra Club displays images and text that further support its main arguments in regards to fossil fuel use and climate change. These advertisements appeal to the audience with the use of visual rhetoric, ethos, pathos, and logos. The Sierra Club endorses these advertisements on their website to provide an outlet for people to learn more about fossil fuels, greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, renewable energy sources, and more. Tribble 2 Part of the Sierra mission is the educate and enlist humanity to protect and restore the quality of the natural and human environment; they do this by displaying honest advertisements and campaigns that portray fossil fuels as one of the main culprits in the process of climate change while urging the increased use of alternative energy sources nation and worldwide. For example, this organization uses these tactics in two advertisements that use images and text to display how fossil fuels are causing harm to the environment. The first advertisement is a collage that has an image of a coal burning power plant and next to the picture is an image of a young boy using his inhaler. The second advertisement is land that has been damaged due to fossil fuels being dug up for energy use. In both of these advertisements, there is evidence of ethos because the Sierra Club includes its website link and logo at the bottom and in the second advertisements there is an actual representative. The links are provided so that the intended audience has the source to reference to in order to find out more information on the issues and what can be done to stop them. Ethos represents credibility or an ethical appeal which involves persuasion by the character or characters involved. In rhetoric, pathos is referred to as the emotional appeal of a piece of work that is used to persuade the intended audience. The first image evokes an emotional appeal because of the young boy using his inhaler while photographed next to a coal burning power plant; the organization wants the audience to feel sadness while looking at this image. The young boy himself looks sad as he is taking a breath from his image says that he is the for the local coal burning power plant. The smoke in the image is there to show that smoke is getting into the young boys lungs which will in turn cause health issues. The Sierra Club made this advertisement a bit more personal by giving the young boy a name; the organization is essentially saying that he matters too. The Sierra use of these images Tribble 3 explains that burning coal releases dangerous metals like mercury, lead, and arsenic into the air increases air pollution and health dangers. The organization is trying to get its audience to realize that coal burning power plants are bad for the environment as it does pollute the air; in the advertisement it states that from coal-fired power plants is making our kids The child in the advertisement is used as a trigger to get the attention of those who are parents in general, provided that all parents care for their children and show concern when it comes to their or health. This image is saying not only do coal burning power plants contribute to greenhouse gas emissions into the environment, but it also puts innocent children at a higher risk of having specific health issues. The second advertisement uses the image of damaged ground as a scare tactic to seek an emotional appeal on the audience. In this advertisement, the audience will see a stern looking Michael Brune staring at them; this is because he is being used to make the audience feel guilty for not fighting against fossil fuels being dug up from the ground. The image is saying that whoever is viewing it is also to be held accountable for the continuation of fossil fuel use. The display shows just how much harm digging up fossil fuels has on the land. In the second advertisement, colors are also being used to evoke an emotional appeal with the use of dark and gloomy colors with a bright sky blue. The ground is dark gray and ruined because fossil fuels have been dug up; this part of the advertisement is showing the audience that fossil fuels not only cause harm that we cannot see, but also harm that is physical and triggering. It can be said that the blue in this image is used to almost allude to a world where fossil fuels are no longer used for energy sources and the atmosphere is crisp and clear. The advertisement is targeting everyone because everyone lives on Earth and is experiencing the effect of fossil fuel usage. Tribble 4 Another rhetorical device that the Sierra Club used is logos which is an appeal to logic and is known as a way of persuading an audience by reason. The first advertisement shows the obvious correlation between coal burning power plants, the environmental damage, and health issues like asthma. The Sierra Club uses this advertisement as a way of showing what it being released into the air because of power plants. In the advertisement itself the image displays literal smoke coming from the power plant and into the air as a way for the audience to see how harmful chemicals get into the atmosphere when fossil fuels are burned. The text in the advertisement blatantly tells the audience that from coal-fired power plants is making our kids the organization is getting everyone to know that not only are coal burning power plants bad for the environment, but they also cause serious health issues. Also, the image of Danny and the implication that he is the new filter for power plants means that children are more likely to suffer from health issues like asthma because their lungs are not fully developed yet. Furthermore, under the image the text states that 1 in 10 children already suffer from asthma, which is also an appeal to logos as it is a statistic. According to the Sierra Club official website, is our dirtiest energy source, from mining to burning to disposing of coal The organization urges the United States to move beyond coal (Club, Beyond Coal). Coal burning is responsible for one third of US carbon emissions, the main contributor to climate disruption, and is also making us sick (Club, Beyond Coal). The Sierra Club states in its Beyond Coal campaign that burning coal has led to as many as 13,000 premature deaths every year (Club, Beyond Coal); in fact, according to Michael Grunwald in his article titled the War on he states that the Beyond Coal campaign is the Sierra most extensive, expensive, and effective campaign throughout its time (Grunwald). The same can be said for the second advertisement in regards to the use of logos. In the article executive Tribble 5 director Michael Brune talks about how it should be in our best interest to keep fossil fuel in the ground. He says that this is a move because oil and gas have more in common as climate polluters than most people (Brune). The Sierra Club is essentially saying that the damage of fossil fuels is there, we see it, so time to act on it. Kairos is a rhetorical device that appeals to timeliness. In both advertisements the Sierra Club uses certain phrases that will get the audience to understand that now is the time to act and fight against the use of fossil fuels as the main sources of energy. The first image actively tells the audience to get involved by providing a number to text with the text COAL to 69866 to take action for cleaner The first advertisement also states for everyone to President Obama to stand up to Actions sentences like the ones the Sierra Club provided on the advertisement are used to get the audience to understand that it is their job to fight for cleaner energy sources and that if no one speaks up, children like Danny will suffer the consequences. The fact that the advertisement displays an innocent child also appeals to Kairos because have a stronger urge to get out and fight against coal burning power plants. The second advertisement appeals to Kairos because of the text time to hold all fossil fuels accountable for the damage they are This sentence is used as a wakeup call for the audience assuming that many people do not know what physical harm digging up fossil fuels causes to the environment. The stern looking man in this advertisement is Michael Brune and he is the first thing that people will notice when looking at the advertisement for the first time. His presence is a Kairos appeal because he is looking at the audience in a way that will get them to take action right away. The Sierra Club is an environmental organization that uses its platform to inform citizens of the negative effects that comes with fossil fueled energy sources. The organization wants its Tribble 6 audience to know that climate change is real and fossil fuels are one of the main causes of it. Advertisements are used to further support their claims and to get people to realize how serious and harmful fossil fuels are. The Sierra Club produces advertisements that utilize rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos to inform and persuade people to join the fight in seizing all use of fossil fuels as energy sources. The Sierra Coal Burning Power and all Fossil Fuels advertisements effectively use these rhetorical devices to get the audience to take action. Tribble 7 Work Cited Brune, Michael. Join the Fight Protect Our Planet From Trump. 19 November 2015. 26 February 2017. Club, Sierra. Beyond Coal. 2017. 26 February 2017. Policies. 2017. 25 February 2017. Grunwald, Michael. Inside the War on Coal. 26 May 2015. 20 March 2017. Tribble 8