Busaidi 1 Abdulrahim Al Busaidi Ms. Collins ENC1102 March 26, 2017 Homelessness The National Coalition for the Homeless, also known as The NCH, is a not-for-profit small company. This company is a national network of people who are currently experiencing or who have experienced homelessness, and they have been working for almost 30 years (Projects - National Coalition for the Homeless para. 1). They have been working really hard to prevent and end homelessness. In addition, they call for civil rights and equality in order to protect homeless families. There are located in Miami, Houston and New York, and their programs are set to assist the homeless for education or healthcare. As they mention on their official website, National Coalition for the Homeless offers four educational programs that enable groups and individuals to learn firsthand from someone who has experienced homelessness. From sharing personal narratives to explaining effective advocacy practices, these individuals are the true experts on homelessness and they always deliver memorable (Projects - National Coalition for the Homeless para. 3). Moreover, images are included in this discussion to present the relationship between the goals and the visual rhetoric moves/elements employed in the images. This paper will analyze the images in terms of ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. The two images were Busaidi 2 chosen from the website so that it is easier to reflect the goals. Although The National Coalition for the Homeless announced their concerns regarding Busaidi 3 homelessness by providing proper educational programs, it was necessary to refer to those two images from real scenes in order to make people feel bad and guilty for not helping the homeless, and due to that, more people will help the company by donating. Homelessness is a major issue that is occurring in the United States of America. It has negative effects on the society, environment, and homeless people themselves. Many homeless children grow up to be criminals or unsuccessful (Taylor 67). Therefore, it is necessary to find proper solutions to prevent people from growing up on the streets. If the community leaders work together, more effective actions will occur to prevent homelessness. In 2014, studies indicated that almost 700,000 people were found homeless in the United States (Taylor 69). This is an issue that the society needs to fix, and it is the responsibility to make sure that all people are treated equally. Considering this issue, it was important to include a stakeholder that has serious interests in ending homelessness. In addition, it was important to include those two images that were published by the stakeholder to make people realize the importance of saving homeless lives. However, it is clear that the main goal is to educate homeless people. They believe that if they give proper education, the homeless people will find their ways out of the streets. In other words, education is the path for a bright and pleasant future. The words of Jamie Taylor, one of the staff members, support this idea when he says, most important factors influencing preschool enrollment are housing stability, social networks and attitudes about preschool (322). However, the first image states facts and studies that were taken by different organizations. The image shows how it is more likely for homeless students to score poorly on standardized tests in math and reading compared to their housed peers. In the words of Stephanie Hinton, another member of the organization, families reported not feeling as and Busaidi 4 in their environment as compared to housed (459). As a result, it agrees with the main goal which is to help developing proper educational programs to help homeless families be settled. On the other hand, the second image represents how the society reacts to the homelessness issue. The image shows a black shadow trying to prevent the wealthy man from looking at the homeless man on the street. This image represents how most people feel, and that is it is not duty to stop homelessness, and so what they do is just ignore the homeless people on the streets. Anyway, ethos is the appeal to credibility or morality. Considering this idea, images were chosen carefully to force the audience to believe that they are truthful and accurate. The first image listed the sources of the facts and studies that were taken regarding the homeless students. It helps by strengthening the main goal which is the need of educating homeless students. The second image represented a scene from our daily lives. Meaning, when we walk in the streets we find homeless people and sometimes avoid giving them attention as if none of our business, so choosing a real scene helps make the image accurate as does, including a source or the organization name in the corner of the image. It gives some sort of trust to the audience. In addition, pathos is the appeal to the emotions. It is what the audience feels when they look at the images and therefore, it is important to use certain elements that are designed to help people feel guilty for not being involved enough with the homeless issue. The first image uses a little child who seem to be learning in a school. Usually people feel bad and emotional when they see children and as a result, people will feel bad for homeless children and that will lead to people help donating and ending homelessness. In the second image, the way that wealthy man ignored the existence of the homeless man made him look mean and careless, as well as the black shadow who was a bad influence will make people avoid being in his position. Busaidi 5 Moreover, logos is the appeal to logic and reason. It is what makes the audience think about information that they were unaware of, or understand a new aspect of the homeless issue. The first image listed several facts that are worth considering. Many people are unaware of what happens in schools regarding homeless students. Therefore, after looking at this image, they will feel the need to get involved in providing better educational programs. In the second image, the way that wealthy man care about the homeless man will make people feel bad for not helping homeless people, as a result, the audience will realize the importance of helping homeless people from looking at the image. They will ensure it is their responsibility as well. Finally, kairos is the appeal to timeliness. It is the elements used to give the audience the sense of urgency. In the first image, the facts show how homeless students are going through troubles to get a decent educational system. When people look at the image, they will realize that homeless students are currently enrolled in schools and therefore, it is necessary to help them achieve better grades and performance. On the other hand, when people look at the second image, they will realize that homeless people go through diseases and unhealthy conditions which can affect their health negatively. Therefore, they will be aware of how urgent it is to help homeless people. To conclude, homelessness will have negative impacts on both the society and the homeless families themselves. It has destroyed many families as well as resulted in people committing suicide because of depression. Therefore, organizations had to be made to stop and end this issue, because helping homeless families is the issue as well. The National Coalition for the Homeless provides a proper educational system but needs the help of people by donating money, or by volunteering to work in the company. Finally, using the different Busaidi 6 elements in an image can make a difference to the audience. Considering these elements can definitely make an image be more effective. Busaidi 7 Works Cited Hinton, Stephanie, and Darlinda Cassel. Exploring the Lived Experiences of Homeless Families with Young  Early Childhood Education Journal 41.6 (2013): 457-63. Academic Search Premier. Web. 14 March. 2017. Petrovich, James C. and Courtney Cronley. in the Heart of Texas: A Phenomenological Exploration of Unsheltered American Journal of Orthopsychiatry 85.4 (2015): 315-23. PsycARTICLES. Web. 3 March 2017. Projects - National Coalition for the  National Coalition for the Homeless. N.p., n.d. Web. 4 March. 2017. Taylor, Jamie, Britton Gibson, and Kate Hurd. Parental Preschool Choices and Challenges When Young Children and their Families Experience  Children and Youth Services Review 56.1 (2015): 68-75. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 March. 2016. Busaidi 8