Espinola 1 Michael Espinola Professor Jarad Fennell English 41 26 January 2017 Should US Churches Pay Property and Income Taxes For over two hundred years, churches in the United States have been tax-exempt to ensure that free exercise of religion remains safe from the invisible hand, although recently there has been much debate on whether this exemption is justifiable. The clergy as well as regular church goers are at odds with government officials who say that the country is losing billions of dollars every year in just property taxes. Some say that requiring all churches to pay property and income tax would kill many small churches that have poor and disadvantaged people relying on them. Super churches are churches that have an average weekend attendance of 2,000 or more and an average yearly income of 6.5 million dollars. These churches can more than afford to take the tax burden and should be the only ones required to pay property and income tax to ensure the safety of the smaller churches that cannot afford it. According to the Alliance Defending Freedom website, churches provide a to the community through their good works. They state that minister to the poor and needy in the community, provide numerous social services for the downtrodden among us, and reach out to the of in thousands of different (ADFL). This is how churches earn their tax exemption and aid the community they are in. The Alliance Defending Freedom website claims that churches also help to lower crime rates although there is no physical evidence of this. Furthermore, Vincent Becker, Monsignor of the immaculate Conception Church in Wellsville, NY, the food and clothing programs that are provided by his Espinola 2 church would be threatened by a tax burden, further proving that it would leave many helpless and abandoned. He says that of a sudden, we would be hit with something we had to face in the We base all the things that we do on the fact that we do not have to pay taxes on the (Becker). Services that are considered crucial to some would then be eliminated. Churches provide crucial social services to the community that may be considered more valuable than the money they would pay in taxes. However, in tough economic times, maybe paying taxes is the best thing churches can do for society. For example, a study conducted by the University of Tampa states that taxing churches is taking an estimated $71 billion from our economy every (UT) Churches have never paid taxes and therefore it would be so hard to begin doing so. This is the way things have always been and so we do not question it. Included in the University of Tampa study, fall into the category of charitable Although the Mormon church, for example, only spends .7% of its income on charity. The study included 271 churches around the country and found that 71% of revenues go towards and the other 29% to help the poor. for instance, gives about 1.75 billion in food aids to charity each year, or twenty- eight times all of the money allotted for charity by the United Methodist Church and almost double what the LDS Church has given in the last twenty-five (University of Tampa). Government officials are even starting to question the fact that churches are granted automatic income tax exemption without even having to file a tax return. William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the US Supreme Court, stated on behalf of the unanimous court in 1983 that tax exemptions and tax deductibility are a form of subsidy that is administered through the tax system. A tax exemption has much the same effect as a cash grant to the organization of the amount of tax it would have to pay on its This would make the 200 year tax exemption Espinola 3 unconstitutional and wrong. The middle class is struggling more than ever in tough economic times and an extra $71 billion dollars a year would do a lot. Granted, it would do little to the $17.8 trillion worth of debt that the United States has accumulated but it would sure take a lot of pressure off the backs of working class Americans. Although, taxing churches would kill a lot of the small congregations that are already struggling to stay afloat in their community. Therefore, churches with an average weekend attendance of at least 2,000 people should be required to pay federal income and property tax. These churches can almost be economies unto themselves. They can include gyms, bookstores, coffee shops, daycare centers, and plenty of other amenities. Megachurch pastors earn an average of $147,000 annually, with some earning as much as $400,000 according to Chron.com. Over 50 churches in the US have an attendance ranging from 10,000 to 47,000. These properties are the sizes of stadiums and they are not taxed a single dollar. The Hartford Institute for Religion Research concluded that there are over 1,667 mega churches in the US. They would be providing a huge social service to the community by contributing to the economy and taking some pressure off the middle class. Congress has not taken a case on taxing churches since 1970 but it is time to look at the case again from a different angle. In conclusion, the United States must address the problem that has been overlooked by congress for 40 years. Government officials are starting to question whether the churches tax exemption is justifiable and constitutional. They say that the churches own over $600 billion in property across the nation and they do not pay a single penny in taxes. Our country needs it more than ever. Although, the clergy and other church goers with strong religious faith say that churches provide a huge social service that justifies their 200-year tax exemption. Taxing churches would technically enable the government to control the church and therefor joining the Espinola 4 church and state which would go against the free exercise clause of the first amendment of the United States of America. Ultimately, the United States has had an extremely tough time coming out of its recession and we could use the money. Although some churches simply cannot afford the tax burden and do have people relying on them for things like food and shelter, these megachurches have an un-justified tax exemption. They bring in millions of dollars every year and own properties the size of football stadiums. They sell anything from t-shirts, books, beverages and food to gym memberships. They are businesses that run under the tax- exempt radar that is religion. The biggest things they could do to help serve the community is to pay their taxes. Again, churches with an average weekend attendance of 2,000 people or more should be required to pay federal income and property taxes. It is what this country needs. Espinola 5 Sources Beres, David to make $71 billion a year: tax the Web. 29 January. 2017, www.bigthink.com/21st-century-spirituality/how-to-make-71-billion-a-year Livingston, A. Elizabeth. Bright Line Toward Legal Compromise: IRS Condoned Lobbying Activities for Religious Entities and Rutgers Journal of Law and Religion. Vol. 9, no. 1, 2008, http://lawandreligion.com/sites/lawandreligion.com/files/livingston.pdf. Accessed 29 January 2017. churches be tax Web. 29 January. 2017, www.adflegal.org/detailspages/commentary-details/should-churches-be-tax- exempt