Dong 1 Yongfeng Dong Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 3/26/2017 The World Needs Love, Not Violence Women Against Gun Violence (WAGV) is an organization which is a national center that mainly focuses on the provision of comprehensive legal expertise that supports the prevention of gun violence. It promotes control on gun usage, especially in schools by publishing information on gun laws. Its mission is to encourage advocacy for sensible firearms legislation and reach out to diverse communities to persuade them to reduce gun violence. They hope to achieve that by presenting accurate and current data while at the same time sharing personal stories so that policymakers can enact sensible gun legislation. To meet its objectives, the organization utilizes two images that depict how a world free of gun violence would be safer for children and urges everyone to take up a role in the fight against gun violence. Background on WAGV WAGV was created over 20 years ago by Ann Reiss Lane. She had been approached by a renowned feminist, Betty Friedan, to take up reasonable action to eradicate gun violence in the community. The organization started partnering with numerous stakeholders to enact laws that curb gun violence (Women Against Gun Violence). By taking an active role in the enactment of such laws, the WAGV has committed to keep children, families, and the community as a whole safe and healthy. Often, the art of convincing other stakeholders to accept an opinion and call to action can be a daunting task. WAGV incorporates the use of static images to reflect the goals. Image one and two that were found in website are key examples Dong 2 of how static images can be utilized to appeal to the relevant parties to support a course. An analysis of the visual rhetoric of the two images illustrates how rhetorical appeals can be employed to persuade the target audience to accept the goals and objectives of a certain stakeholder that is WAGV. Rhetorical Strategies in Image One Image one advocates for the setting up of policies ensuring the world is a safer place for children. On the image, a child is sitting down carrying the map of the world on his laps and feeling content and safe. Carrying the world map signifies that the child is in charge of their future and the fact that he places his head and sleeps on the map shows that this child is feeling secure. The child has a smile on his face that signifies happiness and contentment with the environment. The hashtag #end gun violence asserts that it is possible to achieve such a world only if people resolve to take an active role to the fight against gun violence. Elements of ethos in image 1 are the child and the world map image. It is the moral obligation of everyone to ensure children are protected from insecuity. WAGV uses the image to appeal to the moral standing of human beings where they need to care for the young in society. Adults should strive to provide a safe environment for children by ending gun violence (McQuarrie). Pathos in image one takes the form of the child hugging the map of the world while sleeping on it. It shows that he is safe and happy thus appealing to emotions of the audience. A lot of people love children, and they would not want a situation where children are always threatened by the environment they live in. The audience would relate well to the image because the child smiles while embracing the world they find themselves in. It is an emotional picture Dong 3 that challenges the audience to take up an active role in the fight against gun violence for their children to live happily. Also, the emotion is associated with the color of the picture that the background is black but the little boy and the earth on his arm is blue. The color shows that banning guns the earth and little boy will be safe in the world who will bring colors to the earth and make the earth bright and hopeful. Elements of logos in image 1 are the child hugging and sleeping on the map of the world. It is logical that if gun violence is eradicated, then children will be safer and happier and their future is guaranteed. Currently, children are not happy, and they are not safe because of the insecurity in schools and other recreational facilities. Logic dictates that when there is a lot of violence in society, then the calamities that follow would have adverse effects on the livelihood of children. Alternatively, it appeals to the audience to end gun violence, and the logical sequence would be a society where children are happier and free to pursue greatness (Webster). An element of kairos in image one is on the writing gun to achieve the perfect world for children. The symbol is used commonly on social media such as Facebook, Twitter, and Snapchat to create a topic. People can search and the keywords to find out the information on social media which be post in different days or platforms, which means it connects different posts and creators together. If that is not addressed urgently the world will be insecure for children due to an upsurge of gun violence. The call to action is quite urgent and if not given the priority that it requires then a formidable future for the world might not be achieved. When violence prevails in society and there appears to be no peace then it could threaten peaceful coexistence among people in the future. Rhetorical Strategies in Image 2 Dong 4 Image two is meant to challenge the audience to take up active roles in the fight against gun violence and to arouse guilt if one chooses not to take part. The image contained several hands that are painted red that signified blood. The hands are displayed with palms held out for everybody to see meaning the individuals are working together to achieve a certain objective. The hands are covered in red paint suggesting that they are soiled by blood, and this would mean that they play a direct role in the volatile state of the world where gun violence is prevalent. The image intends to advocate for more active roles in the fight against gun violence because when people do not take up such roles, then they have a hand in the violence orchestrated by guns (Webster). Elements of logos in image 2 are hands with blood on them that signifies that if nobody fights against gun violence, then they are responsible for the bloodshed that takes place and that is immoral. It is immoral for anybody to sit back and watch the society degrade to a level where anybody is allowed to carry guns and use them as they deem fit. The image appeals to the moral obligation of the society as a whole to talk about the dangers of gun violence and support legislation that discourages it. A popular adage states that silence means consent. If the audience remains silent on the gun violence in the society then they saliently approve of it. Logic dictates that people should shun the vice in society and demand that proper legislation be passed to curb it. Elements of pathos in image 2 are hands with blood that appeals to the emotions of the audience that if they do nothing, then they are responsible for the deaths that arise from gun violence. People often look down upon themselves stating that they are not in a position to influence policy. Thus, they end up doing nothing and yet they would have taken up roles to convince relevant decision makers to act. The image, therefore, is an appeal to the emotions of Dong 5 the audience to actively engage in the fight against gun violence (McQuarrie). Furthermore, the color on hands is red as well as the color of blood, which also give an emotions to readers that holding guns equals to holding blood which means violence and reduce the safety of the school and the society. The uncomfortable emotion of seeing blood will strengthen mind to ban guns and reduce gun violence, which can help more innocents avoid being shoot and being bloody. An element of kairos in image 2 is in the blood tainted hands where people do not fight against violence and are directly responsible for the deaths that arise from their inactivity. It is a call to action for people to wash off the blood from their hands by urgently taking up an active role in the fight against gun violence (Webster). Both Image 1 and 2 use various elements of visual rhetorical strategies to urge the audience to take up active roles in the fight against gun violence. Various elements of ethos, pathos, logos and kairos are utilized in the two images effectively to convince the audience to take up roles against gun violence. Both pictures work so well to support the stakeholder, WAGV, that the gun violence should be reduced. Readers can have strong feelings that they have the responsibility to protect young generation and make sure they have a safe environment to grow up. Moreover, they can understand holding guns is not only a personal choice, but also a social duty that the guns on their hand might cause different troubles which hurt others and their families. If readers would like the world keeps smiles and obtains a safe living environment, they need to work together and against gun violence. Dong 6 Works Cited Daniel W. Webster, Jon S. Vernick. Reducing Gun Violence in America: Informing Policy with Evidence and Analysis. Research. Baltimore, Maryland: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 2013. Print. Edward F McQuarrie, Barbara J Phillips. Visual branding : a rhetorical and historical analysis. Cheltenham, England: Edward Elgar Publishing, 2016. Print. Women Against Gun Violence. About Us. 2017. Web. 20 February 2017. <http://wagv.org/about-wagv/>. Image 1 Dong 7 Image 2