Trent 1 Henry Trent Instructor Gill ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Amnesty International The death penalty has been a long standing practice within the United States, and until recently there has been little to no opposition to its use. However, recently people have begun to question its effectiveness, and whether or not it is beneficial to society. One organization in particular calls for its total abolition, Amnesty International. Amnesty International is an organization devoted to protecting human rights. According to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, all humans are entitled to life (United Nations Human Rights). Therefore, Amnesty International fundamentally opposes the the death penalty. Amnesty International uses images to spread awareness of its opposition to capital punishment and to gain support from the general population. Seeing as the goal of the advertisements is to gain support against the death penalty, the images targeted audience is anyone who cares about the human rights of others but more specifically anyone that can do something about said human rights. For example, those who are old enough to vote. The images created by Amnesty International utilize the rhetorical appeals effectively. Both images use pathos well. They use pathos well because pathos appeals to human emotion and Amnesty International takes advantage of the fact that humans are empathetic creatures. Both images also appeal to logos. This is done through the fact that they both offer logical reasons why the death penalty should be abolished. Amnesty Trent 2 International aims to abolish the death penalty. They do this by creating advertisements that appeal to ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. The rhetorical appeal ethos is used to show credibility of the organization. This is often achieved by having a celebrity or other influential endorsement in the advertisement. Amnesty International does this by having Archbishop Desmond Tutu in one of the images. Having Archbishop endorsement is effective for Amnesty International on two levels. The first being that they are being supported by a high ranking official within the Catholic Church, arguably the highest moral authority in the world. The second is only understood with prior knowledge of Archbishop Tutu. Tutu is a human rights activist and nobel prize winner (Desmond Tutu). Meaning that he has received the highest honor in the realm of human rights thus further establishing his credibility. E thos is also evident in both images in the presence of the Amnesty International logo. Amnesty International places the logo within a bright yellow square, which immediately draws the eyes. Their logo is a perfect case of ethos because the organization is one of the most well known human rights organizations. Pathos, another rhetorical appeal used by Amnesty International, appeals to human emotion. The intention is to make the viewers of the images feel sad for whatever is portrayed in the image. Before even examining quote the eyes are drawn to the colors used by Amnesty International. Tutu is dressed in dark colors, such as dark purples and blacks. Then the background is set in a dark room, setting a gloomy mood to the image. In the lower right of the image is the bright yellow logo for Amnesty International, in this case the bright yellow gives the viewer a sense of hope. Hope that represents the gloom that is the death penalty can be put to an end. This is a fairly easy appeal to use in the case of being anti death penalty. The first image Trent 3 also uses pathos in the quote from Archbishop Tutu, is no justice in killing in the name of (Tutu). This quote makes the viewer feel pity for those who face the death penalty, and it makes the audience question whether or not capital punishment is actually a form of justice. Also the quote appeals to the emotion in that it is stating that two human lives are being taken in this scenario, which further draws pity from the viewer as a human. The second image portrays a group of armed men assembling a gallows, or the structure that people are hanged from. This towering figure strikes in the viewer a sense of pity for whoever faces death by hanging. The striking nature of the gallows is due to the colors used. The pitch black background brings attention to the stark white gallows. Pathos works so well in both images because humans are very empathetic towards one another. Therefore when one person faces the death penalty, as humans, we feel a strong sense of pity toward that person. Logos is also prevalent in both images, The quote in the first image is a prime example of logos. Tutu states that is no justice in killing in the name of (Tutu). This is a purely logical statement. What Tutu means is that murder is murder, and is never justified, and that murder in the name of justice is still murder. At the bottom of the second image Amnesty International claims that 139 countries have abolished the death penalty, and that only 58 more need to be convinced to follow (Amnesty International). The use of logos in this one is purely logical. The statement is an example of logos because it is a statistic, which is using numbers to prove a point. A statistic is used to logically convince the audience that the death penalty is wrong, and should be abolished. Both images also attempt to convince their audiences that the death penalty has no place in society through the use of kairos. The rhetorical appeal kairos uses timeliness, for example if Trent 4 an advertisement mentions that an offer is available only for a limited time. The intent therefore is to establish a sense of urgency in the viewer. In the first image kairos is more implied and less explicit as it is in the second image. The first image calls for the immediate abolition of the death penalty. The image does this by inserting the sentence The (Amnesty International) The sooner the death penalty is abolished the more lives will be saved, which is the goal of abolishing the death penalty. Although they put the hashtag in the quote it is not an attempt to start a social media trend. However, it is something that Amnesty International could do to further their cause. As for the second image, the use of kairos is significantly more direct. Again the text at the bottom of the image is evokes kairos. countries have wiped out the death penalty. Only 58 are left to (Amnesty International), the text makes the viewer see how far that the organization has come, and that it is only a matter of time before they have achieved total abolition of the death penalty. Kairos is also evident in the use of the word convince. The use of evokes kairos because it implies that it is only a matter of time before it is abolished everywhere. Amnesty International is an organization devoted to safeguarding human rights on an international scale. This organization is fundamentally opposed to the death penalty. This is due to the fact that according to the United Nations the death penalty infringes on our most basic human right, the right to life. In order to spread awareness, Amnesty International releases advertisements on why the death penalty is bad. The target audience for these images is anyone willing to give political support against the infringement of basic human rights. Both images wonderfully use ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, to convince their viewers that something needs to be done about the death penalty. Trent 5 Trent 6 Trent 7 Works Cited Admin. Desmond  Wordpress, 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Amnesty International. Death row on a deadline - Reporting Amnesty death penalty  Amnesty International, 2 Apr. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. The United Nations Human Rights. Universal Declaration of Human  The United Nations, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.