Al Maamari 1 Mohammed Almaamari Professor Collins ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Free-smoke Campus Policies Smoking has remained an extreme threat to public health. Moreover, smoking has many types like cigars and smokeless tobacco, using these types causes various health issues and diseases. 22% of United States adults who are between 18 to 24 are current smokers (Seo 1). For instance, it has been detected that the rates of secondhand smoking, which is smoking from others cigars, and passive smoking, which is breathing others tobacco smoke, over United States citizens have raised. Therefore, many organizations have been established in order to stand against the danger of smoking. The American Lung Association is a voluntary health organization that was founded in 1904 by contributions from individual donors, foundations, and government (American Lung Association). The main purpose of this organization is to save lives by improving and ensuring the health knowledge to the public through the programs that are held by this organization. According to the American Lung Association main website, the association focuses on five vital goals: defeat lung cancer, improve breathing air, reduce the burden of lung diseases on individuals and their families, eliminate the diseases caused by tobacco and related products and finally they try to accelerate and enhance the effectiveness of their efforts. The main goal of this association is to persuade smokers around the world whether males or females to quit smoking since it has been an extreme Al Maamari 2 danger to public health. Therefore, one of the ways that this association used is publishing educating posters. The American Lung Association published the first image in 1983 titled as as an elephant on your This image has targeted every smoker in the world. Through this poster, they showed that smoking is an elephant on a chest like a heavy load. The blue color takes a large space in this poster, and according to studies, the color blue represents power and seriousness and it associated with depth. Therefore, the American Lung Association tried to make a serious situation through this poster and try to say that quit from smoking is a matter that should be considered and kept in mind seriously and deeply (Color and Meaning in Advertising). In addition, for an advertiser to persuade audience, it should follow certain rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. In this poster, the American Lung Association attempted to make the audience feel certain emotions. Since using pathos is important because it reflects emotions, in this figure, they included an image of a large elephant stands on a chest of a smoker in a scary way and they tried to make a smoker feel guilty about this situation and then encourage him self to quit smoking. Moreover, an advertiser should provide logical arguments to persuade the targeted audience. In this figure, they provided information such as: more than 35 million Americans have quit smoking and therefore they have removed a heavy load from their lives. In terms of honesty and making credibility to the evidences provided, they appealed to ethos by including the logo of the American Lung Association. In this figure, there is no timeliness, so there is no appealing to kairos in this figure. In terms of fallacies, the first figure has come into some fallacies. First, the Al Maamari 3 goal is to convince smokers to quit. However, the advertisement did not include any evidence or fact that smoking is harmful. They did not explain why smoking is harmful and why smokers should quit! So this might be considered an appeal to Pity since the advertisement made smoking look like a heavy load on a life and persuading through emotions without evidence to prove that. Moreover, they chose the fact of that more than 35 million Americans quit smoking so, they have judged that smoking is harmful as a result of this fact. This might be considered an aspect of Post Hoc fallacy since they brought the fact of smoking is a heavy load in life as a result of that 35 million people quit which is not logic. The American Lung Association has published another poster in series of posters that attempt to educate people about how harmful smoking is. This advertisement has intended to target a wide and important layer of the society, which are women. Women are an important part of any society so, it is extremely important to educate women and ensure their knowledge about smoking. They included an image of a number of female celebrities in order to specify the intended audience of this advertisement. this figure, they used a light blue color, which according to studies represents nature, health, healing, and softness (Color and Meaning in Advertising). As it was mentioned previously, it is important to appeal to pathos in order to persuade audience through making them feel emotionally. In this poster, they tried to put emotional slogans such as we can help save and lung cancer in Moreover, the advertisement appealed to ethos through the two logos that were included. The first logo is the association main logo and the other is a logo of a program founded by the association called Lung Force in order to fight lung cancer and also they included the Al Maamari 4 website of the program. In terms of logos, which is providing the poster with facts and logical arguments, they provided information such as lung cancer is the #1 cancer killer of women. In terms of kairos or timeliness, they used it to invite women to participate in the Lung Force program through the phrase that says: THE The second advertisement also had some fallacies. In this advertisement, they tried to persuade the audience with threat because they included a fact that lung cancer is the number one killer of women and this might be considered an appeal to force. Moreover, they proposed a supposed truth that lung cancer is the number one killer of women because there is no other killer detected. So, this might be considered arguing from ignorance. Also, the advertisement assumes that if women smoke, they will eventually die and this might be a type of slippery slope fallacy. Moreover, they used statements like we fight lung as speak to emotions which might be considered an appeal to pity. In addition, they used appeal to authority by using images of some female celebrities such as Kellie Pickler and Jewel. In conclusion, advertising and marketing is a very important step for any organization and individual to achieve an intended goal. The American Lung Association is an old organization that stood against smoking for many years. This organization has established many programs in order to ensure the health knowledge of people like Lung Force program. They intended each layer in the society such as men and women because everyone in the society is an important part of it. Therefore, in order for this association to achieve this goal, they had to choose an effective way to acknowledge people. One of these ways was publishing posters. Two posters were selected in this paper to be Al Maamari 5 analyzed since they have different audience but the same goal, which is having a free smoke world. Al Maamari 6 Al Maamari 7 Works Cited COLOR & MEANING IN  Color Wheel Pro. N.p., n.d. Web. Department of facilities managements. Tobacco  University of South Florida. Department of facilities managements, 04 Jan. 2016. Web. <http://www.usf.edu/administrative- services/environmental-health- safety/tobacco-free/faqs.aspx>. Introduction to the American Lung Association and the Fight against  University of Virginia (2007): n. pag. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://exhibits.hsl.virginia.edu/alav/>. Lung  American Lung Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <http://www.lung.org/>. Seo, Dong, Jonathan Macy, Mohammed Torabi, and Susan Middlestdt. The effect of a smoke- free campus policy on college smoking behaviors and  Science Direct 53.4-5 (2011): 347-52. USF. Web.