Polk 1 Andre Polk Anastasia Khawaja ENC 1101.903 9 March 2017 Minimum Legal Drinking Age Scholars of the United States debate on whether or not the drinking age should be lowered from the age of 21 or stay the same. This is a question that cannot be answered definitively, it is just a decision that has to be made. No matter what research has shown, any decision made will not satisfy every American. There are pros and cons from both sides of this argument, and scholars have published many articles from both sides of the topic. In older articles, scholars who believe that the drinking age should be lowered, argue that by introducing people to drinking at an earlier age, it reduces crime and injuries that occur while people are drinking. They believe that if drinking at an early age is hidden, it will do nothing but heighten the risk for fatal actions to occur. From the other side, highlighted in many recent articles, scholars who believe that the drinking age should be raised, argue that by not drinking at an early age, this also reduces crime and drunk driving from the ages of 21 and under. This topic has been debated about over a great deal of years. It is a great concern today because of the consequences behind the drinking age. Over the years, the debate among academics as well as the general public has changed somewhat and different arguments have been highlighted, but a single consensus has not been reached. In the first article, presidents seek debate on drinking published in 2008, there was a great call to lower the drinking age from 21 to 18 years old. This thought provoking Polk 2 movement was instituted by presidents from top, high profile colleges, who complained that the law encouraged dangerous underage drinking habits amongst college students. is a law that is routinely  said John McCardell, former president of Middlebury College in Vermont who started the organization. It is a law that the people at whom it is directed believe is unjust and unfair and  (Modern Brewery). The article also highlights that the maturity level between 18 years old and 21 years old is not very significant. As a result, lowering the drinking age would be beneficial because when the child is exposed to alcohol earlier, they are less likely to experiment as much when they get to college, a place where alcohol abuse is very common. Another article, written in 2010, entitled Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering the Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking and Related Consequences Among by Henry Wechsler and Toben Nelson, endorses the idea of lowering the minimum drinking age, and is in agreement with the article written by McCardell. Commenting on the Amethyst Initiative, that was instituted by the previous college officials/presidents, Weschler and Nelson state, suggest that the current minimum legal drinking age of 21 years is not working to prevent youths from using alcohol and experiencing the negative consequences of (Wechsler 987). Though they imply that underage drinking is mostly a problem in colleges, the age group with which this issue generally are college students. On the contrary, there are more current articles that are against lowering the drinking age. These articles delve into the serious consequences of underage alcohol abuse with in-depth research studies. The article Minimum Drinking Age and published in 2015 speaks against lowering the drinking age. In its research, it is evident that the arrest rate is higher in people aged 21 and over; this is linked to the availability of alcohol. When describing their Polk 3 research, the authors explain that, used the discontinuous change in access to alcohol associated with turning 21 (the MLDA in the United States) to identify the causal effect of easier access to alcohol on crime. We found increases in arrest rates for many types of crime, including drunkenness, driving under the reckless driving, weapons offenses, assault, and (Carpenter and Dobkin 521). With all of these negative effects associated with the availability of alcohol it is obvious that they would not want these to affect people of a younger age. The last article written in 2016, entitled alcohol policy environment, enforcement and consumption in the United also speaks against the lowering of the minimum drinking age. The article describes how the strict enforcement of alcohol consumption policies actually helps to control alcohol intake, abuse and underage drinking: states with stronger policies, particularly underage use policies, tended to have less alcohol consumption, and the relatively small numbers of states in these classes suggests opportunities for policy-makers in other states to address longstanding and continued high levels of alcohol consumption and related (Erikson Et al 12). Therefore, they are confident that the drinking age should not be lowered to avoid the negative effects of drinking on the younger population, and strict enforcement of alcohol consumption policies can actually help to eliminate the problems of underage drinking and binge drinking. These articles show a shift in the perspective on the minimum drinking age. It seems easier to find articles supporting lowering the drinking age between the years 2000-2010. Articles in that period were fighting to lower the drinking age because of the effects of underage drinking. They argued based on the fact that people, especially college students, will still drink whether or not the minimum drinking age is 21, and they feel that it will be safer if the age is Polk 4 lowered to lessen the knowledge of drinking, which often causes children to go overboard. The more recent articles argue that the minimum drinking age should not be lowered because of the crimes committed by those legally able to drink and strict alcohol policy enforcement can actually solve the majority of current problems with underage drinking. Overall, it seems that older articles, particularly those written between 2000 and 2010, are for lowering the drinking age. They believe that the current drinking age encourages unhealthy underage drinking and binge drinking at 21 due to the novelty. On the other hand, more recent articles, particularly those written from 2011 to present seem to be more for keeping the drinking age intact to lower crime rates and unhealthy drinking habits from younger people. The conversation has changed drastically over time without a doubt, but one single consensus that everyone agrees on has not been reached. Polk 5 Works Cited Carpenter, Christopher and Carlos Dobkin. The Minimum Legal Drinking Age and  Review of Economics and Statistics, no. 2, 2015, p. 521. EBSCOhost, College presidents seek debate on drinking  Modern Brewery Age, 25 Aug. 2008, p. 1. General OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=ITOF&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&it=r&id=GALE%7C A209904006&asid=a1b3e36a4c49da430a09d81a5de989ef. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Erickson, Darin J., et al. The Alcohol Policy Environment, Enforcement and Consumption in the United  Drug & Alcohol Review, vol. 35, no. 1, Jan. 2016, pp. 6-12. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.ed u/login.aspx?direct=true&db=sph&AN=112334205&site=eds-live. Ponicki, William R., Paul J. Gruenewald, and Elizabeth A. LaScala. Joint Impacts Of Minimum Legal Drinking Age And Beer Taxes On US Youth Traffic Fatalities, 1975 To  Alcoholism: Clinical And Experimental Research 5 (2007): 804. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Toomey, Traci L., Toben F. Nelson, and Kathleen M. Lenk. The Age-21 Minimum Legal Drinking Age: A Case Study Linking Past And Current  Addiction 12 (2009): 1958. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Wechsler, Henry, and Toben F. Nelson. Will Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering The Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking And Related Consequences Among Polk 6  The American Journal Of Public Health 6 (2010): 986. Academic OneFile. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.