ALRASBI 1 Alnaser Alrasbi Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC 1101 04/02/2017 Cosmetic Surgery Cosmetic surgery gives people the chance to improve their physical defects and look more beautiful. Cosmetic surgery has positive and adverse effects, and the most negative effect is probably unsuccessful surgeries that can result from the disfigurement of features. However, plastic surgery is still improving, and new ways are being discovered on its way to improvement. The positive effect is, of course, the success of the operations. Initially, cosmetic surgery raised to fame after WWI, when some men soldiers had deformities in their bodies after the battlefield. Plastic surgery for these people was more of a necessity than the personal will to change something in their appearance. Nowadays, there are many reasons make people do cosmetic surgery the first reason is due to congenital disabilities, for example, Polydactyly, which means that humans might have a body part that is extra on their bodies like toe, finger or tail. Moreover, skin distortion is one of the reason make people do cosmetic surgery, and there are many reasons cause this distortion like a car accident, burning, chemicals, and allergy. plus, people started doing surgeries to look more attractive and get closer to the idealistic look they want. Most individuals who do this surgery want to model, and they want to look as close to magazine cover picture as possible. So the question is how the perception of cosmetic surgery has shifted over the past 20 years? Cosmetic surgery has been used for ALRASBI 2 treatment benefits. Also, cosmetic surgery is very useful and, has a positive and negative impact on people. After WWI, researchers found out that plastic surgery had been used during WWI. Cosmetic surgery had been shifted during WWI, and it was the first shift of Cosmetic surgery because some men soldiers had deformities in their bodies during battlefield. According to Michael Mosley, Research results have shown there were a lot of men soldiers got injured in WWI million British soldiers died in World War One, and double that amount came home injured. For many of those lucky enough to return, the wounds they had suffered in Europe would leave them permanently (Mosley 1). Some soldiers lost their noses, and leg, and the body portion, also had some Walter Yeo, a British sailor during World War I, is often cited as the first known person to have benefited from plastic (Telegraph 85). Telegraph notes the first cosmetic surgery during WWI was skin repair a form of skin grafting called tubed  After WWI cosmetics surgery technique has been improving because people started got knowledge about cosmetic surgery. Some university has been teaching plastic surgery science like Harvard University in Cambridge, Yale University in New Haven, and Stanford University in Stanford. In 21th century cosmetic surgery has increased significantly in the word over the past 20 years, and some people are using cosmetic surgery to look more attractive. For example, weight loss surgery, and improve body attraction portion. Also, hair grows for individuals who lost their hair. Ostrzenski points out is surprised that the number of people having cosmetic surgery continues to (Ostrzenski 12). For instance, 90% of individuals who do cosmetic surgery, they want to look more beauty ALRASBI 3 and improve attraction body part. Also, there are many types of cosmetic surgery make people look more beauty like labiaplasty (liposuction), breast implants, face lifts, and nose jobs. Dittmann find out number of cosmetic procedures increased by 44 percent from 2003 to 2004, according to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic (Dittmann 32). The research results have shown the number of plastic surgery has been increasing, also the plastic surgeons achieved around 11.9 million procedures in 2004. Moreover, 22% is the percentage of unsuccessful plastic surgery, so the other hand, ending up in the hands of an inexperienced surgeon increases your chances of having poor results which lead to additional costs, time, and (Ostrzenski 18). Ostrzenski focused on plastic surgery quality because the high quality in cosmetic surgery is the necessary things to get a good result. Cosmetic surgery makes a big different in how people look since WWI until now. Cosmetic surgery has been shifted throw three shift, the first shift is during WWI, the second shift is after WWI, and the thirst shift is at the age of technology. In each turn, people have been using many different ways to do cosmetic surgery, and the technique has been improving. ALRASBI 4 Works Cited Mosley, Michael. BBC Wonder - How do you fix a face been blown off by  BBC News. BBC, n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Telegraph, Daily. Walter Ernest Yeo - One of the first people to undergo Plastic  First Plastic Surgeries (n.d.): 83-97. Web. 28 August. 2008. Ostrzenski, Adam. Transition from cosmetic gynecology to modern cosmetic-plastic gynecology: Progress, new discovery and  Surgery: Current Research (2013): 1-19. Web. Dittmann, Melissa. Plastic surgery: Beauty or  (n.d.): 22-43. Web. Sept. 2005