Munim 1 Student: Bader Munim Instructor: Anastasia J. Khawaja Class: Composition I Date: April 2, 2017 Impacts of Immigration on the United States Immigration can be defined as a process to settle down in a new country permanently. The motivation behind immigration to any country can be anything, but it will still be called immigration. Discussion on the topic of immigration started back before 1776 when Englishmen brought black people from the African continent for the purpose of slavery. This was the first form of immigration. The project will focus on the change in the trend of migration throughout history with the help of evidence by different scholars. Different phases had different motivation and different numbers of people immigrating to the United States. Starting the change of immigration study from the era before Ellis Island. In the book a better life: new immigrants in their own words: from Ellis Island to the the author Coan M Peter has elaborated the process of immigration in two parts. First one is about the era of Ellis Island when most of the immigrations entered the United States and this time is known to be the busiest immigration time in the history of the United States. As Peter wrote in his book over 12 million people came to the United States from 1892 to 1954 (Coan 43- 45). Before the immigration through Ellis Island immigrants have to fight for their independence, especially black. after Ellis Island slavery end in the United States and no slave motivation remains behind the process of immigration and People from all over the world migrated to the United States after the opening of Ellis Island. Munim 2 The second phase of change, moving from the 19th century, the academic discussion and writing of researchers and scholars turned at the start of the 20th century as in the start of 20th- century immigrants came to the US in high numbers. The difference between old time immigration and immigration in the 20th century was the motive. Discussion proves that unlike slavery people were now coming to the US in search of work and opportunities. Experiences from the book of Peter shows that some people even bring their families with them and some who were mainly from England saved their wages and went back to their families after some time. Talking about the next phase of change, it was during half period of the new Policy of immigration started from 1954, according to an article written by Charles Hirschman Impact of Immigration on the US Society: Looking Backward to the Future Asians came to the United States after the 1960s. This includes a high number of immigrants from India, Philippines, Korea, etc. An interesting twist in this time happened when United States due to ongoing Cold War with USSR, preferred professional people as immigrants, which includes Doctors, nurses, scientists, etc. These things show that America has her own interests in accepting the immigrants. This was the immigration of the 20th century as presented by Charles in his article (Charles 2-3). After all the evidence about the change throughout time, have a look at the recent development of immigration and the reasons behind it legal immigration to the United States has fluctuated from 700,000 to 1,000,000 new permanent residents in the past few years, but with an upward drift that is evident from a decade perspective (U.S. Department of Homeland Security Charles explained the shift of motivation here and added a new motive i.e. educational opportunities that are given by US government to the students of Munim 3 developing countries like Asian or African regions. He wrote that these permanent immigrants in the 21st century gain the status of permanent residency by changing family status or work status (4-5). Studying the change in immigration throughout history it shows two things, first how immigration takes a different turn throughout history and how researchers perceive it. The second one is the change of motivation throughout history as mentioned in different years. Slavery, economic conditions, political motives of the United States like the need of professionals in the wake of Cold War, accepting refugees after wars or to gain international support against USSR by allowing immigrants from different countries. Students were moving to the United States for free education, immigration and gaining permanent residence for the purpose of supporting family. There are many reasons behind the process of immigration, and these reasons convert the academic discussion time by time. Robert Shapiro in his article Impact of Immigration and Immigration Reform on the Wages of American he wrote a careful study shows the high levels of immigration have not slowed overall wage increases by average, native-born American workers. Most studies suggest that recent waves of new immigrants are associated with increases in the average wage of native-born Americans in the short-run and with even larger increases in the long term as capital investment rises to take account of a significant number of (Shapiro 1). The other impacts were that immigrants provide a labor force to American countries, they start a new business So, according to researchers, throughout the history, economically immigrants had a real impact on the US. Portes Alejandro in his book America: A beautifully explained different aspects of immigrants in the United States, he specifically concentrated on the concept Munim 4 of cultural, religious and social impacts and this describes the conversion of academic discussion in different aspects of immigration. People from all over the world come to the United States and live their new lives in a significant change in numbers of immigrants occurred in the 21st century Munim 4 as explained above, so the United States is a land of diversity and free will. Religious harmony can be seen in most parts. Intercultural marriages are a part of this positivity in American society as elaborated by Alejandro it by saying that is what makes (Portes 2014). The US government have to review the recent policies on the issue of immigration. This is the need of time that scholars and researchers must compare the positive and negative aspects of immigration in light of American history, motivations behind the immigration acceptance of immigrants by the United States, then device a moderate policy from which the United States and immigrants both can get benefits. That is how the future of immigration can be determined. Because this is a land of immigrants and people of the world will always look up to the United States as the land of opportunities. Works Cited Munim 5 Coan, M, Peter. a Better Life: New Immigrants in Their Own Words from Ellis Island to the Prometheus Books, 2011, pp. 43-45. Charles, Hirschman. Impact of Immigration on American Society: Looking Backward to the Future Europaische Revue, 2007, pp. 2-5. Portes, Alejandro. Rumbaut. America: A University of California Press, 4TH edition 2014. Shapiro, Robert. Impact of Immigration and Immigration Reform on the Wages of American New Policy Institute. 2010, pp. 1. U.S. Department of Homeland Security Immigration yearbook 2006.