Bryan 1 Erin Bryan Instructor Brenden Jackson Composition 1 2/27/17 In light of recent years, the topic of human trafficking has gained a significant amount of relevancy. As more research is focused on the subject, it can be noted that research in human trafficking is not only focused dominantly on women, but now men as well as victim identification. One aspect that stands out is the focus of gender within victims, which has made a slow but steady turn-about over time. Preceding 2010, most studies focused on female victims and the mental and physical issues they may have suffered; there was little to no research done on trafficked males. In more recent years, male victims have gained recognition and are now studied and analyzed in depth. Another large change that has taken place throughout the years are the technological advances to gather information on trafficking cases. In earlier times, specifically before 2010, there were limited ways in which traffickers could be caught online. With technological advances, resources online have been created for victims to reach out when in captivity. A further factor that has been altered throughout the years is the difficulty of victim identification. Years before 2010, victims were difficult to identify or reach out to for various reasons. Now, with more light shed on the topic and awareness raised, authorities and health care professionals are now often trained to spot victims. This advancement assists greatly is victims being rescued. Overall, the growth in the topic of human trafficking has resulted in significant changes. As time progresses, the focus of gender within trafficking victims has changed greatly. Human trafficking has been a long-time researched topic, but Bryan 2 before 2010, female victims and their mental/physical health have been the main focus. As more light is being shed on the tragedy, male victims are being recognized and studied more frequently and in depth. A large factor in female victims being the main focus in the past was that sex trafficking was the most commonly explored field of trafficking. 87% of slaves trafficked to another country are women forced into prostitution (Tran 23). With such a large percentage being women, it is quite apparent as to why they were they main concern when the topic of trafficking was brought to the table. After 2010, more exposure was given to male victims and affects they suffer. According to the UNODC, males were the most common victims of forced labor, which is less common in comparison to sex trafficking (Vejar). Since the topic of trafficking has become gender, many researches have been conducting further research on trafficked men in attempt to remove the stigma that trafficking is a issue (Omole 6). In order to influence social change and bring more awareness to the issue, the focus on trafficked men is essential. Another prominent aspect that has shifted as the years passed is the technological advances to gather information on trafficking cases. In earlier times, there were limited ways in which traffickers could be caught online, and law enforcement struggled to keep up with constant advances (Omole 34). Because resources such as time and income are at a limit, law enforcement struggled to catch and prosecute traffickers, especially online. Traffickers were, and still are, able to make many advancements online. As the internet becomes more accessible worldwide, traffickers are able to reel in unknowing victims via false advertisements of employment. When this ploy first arose, it was difficult for investigators to catch on or decipher which advertisements were legitimate (Omole 35). In more recent times, this has changed resources online have been created for victims to reach out when in captivity. In a 2013 speech on human trafficking, Bryan 3 former U.S. president Barack Obama encouraged law officials, technology companies, and American citizens to work on the development of tools that assist in promoting online safety. Thus, the same year, the National Human Trafficking Resource Center (NHRTC) created a 24-hour texting hotline that trafficking victims could call for help (Omole 36). Seeing as that victims may not want to call for help in fear of being heard by their captors, the texting option was a much more discreet route to safety. Overall, technological advancements have made it easier for victims to be saved and offenders to be prosecuted. Furthermore, the difficulty of victim identification has drastically changed from earlier times to present day. In past times, before advancements were made, trafficking victims were difficult to identify or reach out to for varying reasons, which resulted in inability to remove them from the cycle. More times than not, victims are brutally beaten, abused (mentally and physically), and threatened into submission. These victims are also threatened into keeping quiet in the case that they are approached or questioned by authorities (Omole, 36). A tactic often used to silence victims is threats of abusing or even killing their families. In fear of their safety, they are forced to deny being a victim if questioned. If the victim was trafficked in hopes to flee their home country, they may even be threatened to be deported. On top of this, it is noted that in labor trafficking, raids are often not preformed like they are within sex trafficking, which is an efficient way in identifying victims (Omole 37). In recent years, this has taken a turn; law authorities and health care professionals are now often trained to spot victims. If a victim seeks medical care and the care-provider notices that something may be off, they are trained to ask a series of questions determining their safety (Shelley 83). They are also encouraged to look out for a person seeming to be in control of them, possibly a pimp, or someone posing as a translator. Other indicating factors may be an unusual sense of submission in the victim, or a lack of knowledge of their Bryan 4 surroundings or current situation (Shelley 84). If officials are able to look out for these factors, the chance of spotting victims is heightened significantly, as are the chances of authorities being notified. To conclude, research in human trafficking is not only focused dominantly on women, but now men as well as victim identification. Many aspects have been applied to create this change, but notably, the focus of gender within victims, the technological advances to gather information of trafficking cases, and the difficulty of victim identification. Seeing as human trafficking is still alive worldwide, there are still significant amounts of research to be done. With the changes being made now, it is apparent that steps are being taken to lessen the phenomenon. Bryan 5 Works Cited Omole, Christina. Human Trafficking: The Health of Men Forced into Labor Trafficking in the United  Thesis. ProQuest Information & Learning, n.d. Dissertation Abstracts International: Section B: The Sciences and Engineering 77.6-B(E) (2016): n. pag. PsycINFO. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Shelley, Louise I. Human Trafficking : A Global Perspective.. Cambridge ; New York : Cambridge UP, 2010., 2010. Cat00847a. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Tran, Cat Ngac Jonathan. Sold into Slavery: The Scourge of Human  The Christian Century 124.24 (2007): 22-26. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Vejar, Cynthia. Human  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition). N.p.: Salem, 2015. N. pag. Ers. Web. Accessed 25 January 2017.