Alomar1 Bander Alomar Anastasia Khawaja 04/02/2017 Equality and rights Equality has become more essential to those who has suffered from segregations, lack of rights, and other social issues that made their lives more difficult. It has become important also to human activists from all genders. equality is not a concept. not something we should be striving for. a necessity. Equality is like gravity. We need it to stand on this earth as men and (Whedon) Gender equality is still an issue in many countries. For instance, The United States has suffered from gender equality for many years. A long time ago, Females were not a major part of the society as males were. They have lacked rights in many areas. Nowadays women have more accesses to equality than before. How this fascinating shift has happened over time, and how the injustice between genders can affect their creativity and productivity. Therefore, this paper will be focused on the change of time that occurred during liberation. Women have much progress to liberate themselves to earn equality with men. Many women activists have sacrificed the most to move their gender into a better level in societies. According to Lind, looking at the efforts of females to share in governing the American society despite the objections of ruling groups, we can better judge what the women of the last two centuries accomplished by focusing on the voting right as their path to A long time ago, women did not have the right to vote. Later on, 1920 was one of the greatest shifts Alomar2 for women where they earned the right to vote. In addition, Women during wars were effective mostly in the medical field. War slowed the campaign but helped them advance their argument nonetheless: work on behalf of the war effort, activists pointed out, proved that they were just as patriotic and deserving of citizenship as men, and on August 26, 1920, the to the Constitution was finally (History.com) It was a huge shift for women gender toward their rights. Moreover, women have faced many obstacles for demanding their freedom. However, they were allowed to join the military just before the WWI ending. Thousands of women served as nurses. Furthermore, in the 1960s women have earned more rights inside homes or even in business fields. According to T. Walsh, of the most profound changes was happening in the bedroom. By the end of the Sixties, more than 80 percent of wives of childbearing age were using contraception after the federal government in 1960 approved a birth control That could illustrate how females suffered from the limited rights. Moreover, during the 1960s women had more access to many jobs such as nursing and teaching. In addition, nowadays women gender in the United States are in a better position in the society than decades ago. According Manuela barriers to advancement to and success in leadership positions are a major focus; for example, women are regularly recruited for upper-level positions that are associated with a high risk of failure, and female managers are stereotyped as either competent or warm--but not That could illustrate movements and the huge shifts toward their rights. Furthermore, for a long time has given women the motivations to be creatives to provide a better society. According to Chu and Posner, are also stepping up to lead the country; a record number of women Alomar3 ran for public office in 2012, and a record-high percentage of women are serving in This might clear the idea of women gender has earned more rights. Interesting how individuals from various race, colors, and sexual orientations have earned their rights when we contrast the past and the present. How the United States constitution moved extra minutes to give rights and balance to every individual citizen. Amazingly those domestics who pushes laws to ensure their rights and the concept of equality. Besides men, women suffered the most regarding their rights in many areas in their society. But they were able to manage by going through many obstacles toward their freedom. Alomar4 Work Cited Barreto, Manuela C, Michelle K. Ryan, and Michael T. Schmitt. Glass Ceiling in the 21st Century: Understanding Barriers to Gender Washington, DC: American Psychological Association, 2009. Print. Lind, JoEllen. Dominance and Democracy: the Legacy of Woman Suffrage for the Voting  By JoEllen Lind :: N.p., 15 Aug. 2009. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Posner, Anna Chu and Charles. The State of Women in  for American N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. History.com Staff. The Fight for  A&E Television Networks, 2009. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Walsh, Kenneth T. The 1960s: A Decade of Change for  News & World U.S. News & World Report, 12 Mar. 2010. Web. 10 Mar. 2017.