Abdulrahman Alharbi Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101 3/8/2017 Human and the environment People concerned about the environment has shifted through the history. Before 2000, lots of people concerned about the changes that were happening to the environment. While after 2000 people, governments, and companies are where more concern than before. Despite the fact that that people become more aware of these changes, it still existing and considered a major problem. Before 2000, people trying to limit their effects on their environment properly because it considered a problem to people at that time but what they know at that time that these changes take sometimes to appear. Since scientist discovers global warming and what cussed it people were trying to limit their effects on the environment by protecting or limiting their use of chemical products. During the world war 2, the amount of chemical that has been released in the air was huge (T Colborn). Also in the 1940s, the industrial revolution has affected the environment but back than noun knows how their action will cause environmental change. Scientists noticed what is happening to the environment and did research for it and found that the amount of chemical that released in the air during 1940 was one of the reasons for the environmental change that happened in. According to David Tilman, extinction would happen if the environmental changes were not solved (6). People aware of the environmental changes that happened and the problem is going to shift to worse, not just for the people but also for the other living creatures if noun act. David Tilman tried explaining in his article that this changes that happened in the environment until 2001 are because of human and happen by itself. The meaning of batter environment has changed from time to time. Before 2010, scientist has discovered that the causes of global warming were the gasses that were emission to the atmosphere. Since then, the meaning of better environment was to make the air clean but after 2010, making the air cleaner solve the problem, so meaning of better environment has extended to include clean and green energy. The other thing that has shifted is how people and governments are interested in making the environment better. During the 1994s, numbers and large quantities of endocrine-disrupting chemicals have been released into the (Vom Saal). During the industrial revolution and war world 2, the only thing that people and the governments are interested in is development and winning the war regardless of the harm that was caused to the environment. Maybe they did not care about environment or they did not know the consequences of their action, whatever it was, our children or grandchildren will suffer but there some hope. After 2010, people, the government, and companies were more aware of the environmental change. Cars, homes and industries are becoming less polluted. In 2015 195 countries committed to help to limit the global warming by reducing deforestation and of forest carbon stocks in developing Davenport). Before 2000 not a lot of people were concerned about the environmental changes but now people are aware of it and trying to make changes. The thing that also shifted during times is how people are aware of the dangers of the environmental changes. Before 2000, no one knew how harmful missing with the environment could be but after time people were noticing some changes in the environment and start to investigate about it. After 2000 people knew how dangerous these changes could be after the notes some animals and plants were extended because of global warming. According to Tilman, the humans are causing environmental changes and started to warning the people that if these changes stop, it well lead to The rate of awareness has risen after 2000 and people knew that these changes are going to take some time to appear. Before 2000, the production was the number one reasons for polluted the atmosphere but after 2010 the production way has shifted to better and becoming more environmentally helpful. The rate of awareness to the environmental changes has increased through the years. How harmful these changes are and how long it will take to appear are becoming more knowledge to the people and start to be aware of the mess that the war caused during that time. Even government and companies are becoming more active about the problem than before and start to working together to reduce the problem. that time In conclusion. It starts at 1960. Lots of chemicals have been released in the air in that time. Then the environment started to change because of the chemicals. Then people and the government start to be more aware of these changes and start work together to save the environment by creating less polluted home, cars, and decreasing deforestation. Work cited Colborn, T, F S vom Saal, and A M Soto. Effects of Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals in Wildlife and Health 101.5 (1993): Print. Coral Davenport, Justin Gillis, Sewell Chan and Melissa Eddy. Inside the Paris Climate  New York The New York Times, 12 Dec. 2015. Web. 08 Mar. 2017. Sharpe, Richard M., and D. Stewart Irvine. How strong is the evidence of a link between environmental chemicals and adverse effects on human reproductive  British Medical 328.7437 (2004): 447. Tilman, David, and Clarence Lehman. Human-caused environmental change: impacts on plant diversity and  of the National Academy of 98.10 (2001): 5433-5440.