Nipper 1 Taylor Nipper Brendan Jackson ENC 1101 3-26-17 Dissociation and its Disorders Being a disorder that is becoming more and more well-known each day, dissociative type disorders have conversation surrounding them that is ever-changing. Many people are not aware of the realizations of Dissociative Disorders (DD) because of the rarity (only 1% of the population is said to have or have had it) and the several illnesses that are included in the encompassing title. The three major disorders defined in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) include: dissociative amnesia, dissociative identity disorder, and depersonalization-derealization disorder, which will be touched on later. Symptoms of these illnesses can include detachment from self and emotions, memory loss and amnesia, perception of people and things around you as distorted and unreal, anxiety, depression, suicidal thoughts, and the inability to cope with daily stressors. One of the strongest predictors of dissociation is trauma, particularly in childhood. Because of the idea of having multiple completely separate personalities and the inability to gather hard, definite, numeric data, the research on this topic often has holes in it. Dissociative disorders are a naturally occurring phenomena and have been documented in numerous parts of the world, and in Nipper 2 patients with a variety of symptoms and previous traumas. Over the course of the last 10 years alone with increased research, both doctors and the public community have shifted from viewing dissociative disorders as an iatrogenic disorder with little validity to a more widely accepted disorder thus making people more socially aware of its legitimacy. The way of approaching treatment for Dissociative Disorders has shifted from something vague that many people know how to approach or handle to something more manageable and goal oriented. An article titled Dissociative Disorders: an Overview of Assessment, Phenomenology, and Treatment, the was vague and new. It is stated that there are no randomized clinical trials to date and only 1 controlled case study relating to any of the dissociative disorders (Brand and Lowenstein 62). Standard of care involves basic trauma-focused psychotherapy over a long period of time with the expectance of improved symptoms relating to depression, general distress, PTSD and anxiety (Brand and Lowenstein 62). By 2014, clinical research shifted from very general treatment to more specialized in which more research paved the way for real experiments that provided hard, quantitative data. In a clinical research article by the Department of Psychology at Towson University, the researchers attempted to treat patients using a The participants for this study included the patients and their therapists, upon agreeing to participate, the patient was given a series of confidential online surveys adapted from a study of borderline personality disorder (Cronin el al. 4). By using this affective bond and focusing on agreement of goals and tasks between the therapist and the patient, the researchers found that the therapeutic alliance was significantly correlated with fewer symptoms and better overall function (Cronin et al. 9). Nipper 3 Another significant change found in research has been the discovery of the significance of pervasive maternal dysfunction and its relevancy to the disease in the sense that it is the only trigger of Dissociative Disorders that shows up for the first time during adult life. It is a general fact in the world of dissociative disorders that they are begun during childhood and may or may not resurface in later years (Spring 44). However, in a 2014 article written by Harold Blum, M.D. and winner of the prestigious Sigourney Award, he discusses that maternal dysfunction or post- partum depression are one of the few cases where dissociative disorders can be developed as an adult. Harold Blum stated in his 2014 article that research indicates that maternal dysfunction, e.g., communication difficulty, contradictory cognitive, and affective messages, and maternal role confusion are likely to be associated with dissociative Lyons-Ruth concluded that such maternal dysfunction, rather than traumatic abuse, was the most predictive pathogenic determinant of later dissociative disorder. A mother may feel that the baby has a lack of protection or is subject to vulnerability; the reasons to develop this disorder continue with the idea that a mother may be also very deeply troubled by their inability to learn to read, write, or respond to her communications (Blum 432). This is different from the other articles that I have read such as guide working with dissociative identity Prior to 2014, all research suggested that started in early childhood due to overwhelming experiences, sexual abuse, disturbed caretaker-child relationships, and disruptions in the attachment system (Spring 46). 86% of dissociative identity disorder patients reported a history of sexual abuse (Spring 44). The article includes a lot of information about childhood development of this disorder, but never suggests the post-partum aspect of it. Nipper 4 Due to the nature of dissociative disorders, they are often overlooked, misdiagnosed and misunderstood. It is important that people know about diseases such as these in order to further their knowledge be more socially aware. Over the time period being researched, two specific example of a change over time in the way dissociative disorders are thought about and cared for are listed. These include the new research stating that post pregnancy, females can develop dissociative type symptoms for the first time during adult life and also the way that years of research enabled doctors to organize clinical trials that are more specialized for dissociative disorders rather than the general treatment that was previously used in attempt to treat this. Through more research and further testing, researchers will soon be able to understand dissociative disorders to a tee and know the most effective ways of treating them. Awareness of this topic has improved both throughout the world globally and over the last 20 years academically, in addition to dissociation recently becoming a prevalent topic of research for psychologists and psychiatrists. The talk around this topic is continually changing and evolving just as our knowledge of how to help it. Nipper 5 Works Cited Blum, Harold. and Its Psychoanalytic Inquiry, Issue 5, Vol. 33 Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Sep/Oct2013, p427-438. 12p. doi: 10.1080/07351690.2013.815058. Accessed 2 Feb. 2017 Brand, Bethany, Loewenstein, Richard J. Disorders: An Overview of Assessment, Phenomonology, and Academic Search Alumni Edition. Vol. 27, no. 10, Oct. 2010, pp. 62. eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Accessed 2 Feb. 2017 Cronin, Elisabeth, Brand, Bethany L., Mattanah, Jonathan F. impact of the therapeutic alliance on treatment outcome in patients with dissociative European Journal of Psychotraumatology, Vol. 5, p1-9, 2014, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds. Accessed 15 Feb 2017. Spring, Carolyn. guide with dissociative identity Healthcare Counselling & Psychotherapy Journal, Vol. 11, Issue 4, Oct. 2010, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017 Nipper 6