Barroso Campos 1 Alberto Barroso Campos Professor Jackson ENC 1101 3/28/2017 Project 2 Final Draft: should college athletes get paid? Being an athlete, has so many benefits because universites pay for their tuition, scholarship, meals, free tutoring, etc. But also they have a main issue that is the money that they do not receive for playing, and this money goes to the coaches, sponsors or the Universities. Over the years, money was a big issue for athletes and cause a lot of problems in the teams, there are being little changes such as: money for advertising or video games. According to the NCAA, college athletic programs are big money makers for colleges. Ticket sales, television, radio, alumni donations, royalties and NCAA distributions, combined bring in over $6.1 billion in annual revenue to colleges. This is big money for the schools. It also is a wonderful marketing tool for colleges. Throughout the years, researchers found many different for athletes get paid. Before 2014, Money seems to be a very important part for the athletes. Researchers found that nowadays there are more of a chance to college athletes get paid (Majerol). . In August, a federal judge decided that players in top college football and basketball programs (the big-money sports) are entitled to receive payment if their images, and are used in video games or TV broadcasts. (Majerol) According with Veronica Majerol football and basketball are the main sports in all the universities, these sports generate many profits to universities, sponsors, coaches. For example, television networks are also generating huge amounts of money thanks to the athletes. It is difficult for athletes to charge for playing, since the universities are based Barroso Campos 2 on the same speech, as they are being paid for their tuition, school and other things(Sulmasy). The change is proving better , since many years have been talking about the same topic and things seem to improve, since universities say that athletes are amateur and therefore should not receive any benefits, but they can receive for advertising and video games. In my earlier research in 2013, college athletes were not allowed to receive any benefits because the NCCA said that these athletes are amateur and the universities paid their tuition and scholarship and this is enough(Sulmasy). In my later research 2016, athletes are receiving money if they appear in a advertising or in a video games, also athletes in top football and basketball programs may receive a limited share of licensing revenues (a minimum of $5,000 per athlete per year, with a cap to be set by the NCAA). The money would be placed in trust funds, which players could access following their college sports careers. (Majerol) This conversation has been a topic during a long time ago. The NCAA getting a lot of benefits from the athletes and sometimes they get a little cut. In my earlier research in 2001, the system was the same as nowadays but with a little change ahtletes without full scholarship, they had to work part-time job to pay his tuition, meals, etc.( Lyon). How an athtlete is supposed to go to class, then practice and also work at a part-time job?. According with Bill Lyon the NCAA will permit jobs to be arranged by the athletic department and by boosters, which sounds suspiciously like holding open the hen-house door for the salivating fox. In my later research in 2014, athletes have full scholarship, so they do not have to worried about anything else, just school and sport (Schultz). According with Jeff Schultz the NCAA being a not-for-profit enterprise was a cute idea. It just never has been real. a multibillion-dollar enterprise that morphed from petty crimes to over- the-top corruption. The NCAA long denied profiting off an likeness until Barroso Campos 3 somebody discovered that typing the name of a famous player into a search window on the website brought you to an online store for that jersey. In conclusion, reserachers have shifted their focus and found different reason why a college athlete should get paid. The areas that have changed over the time are college atheltes getting benefits for adversting or for using his name in a video game, also athletes in top football and basketball programs may receive a limited share of licensing revenues (a minimum of $5,000 per athlete per year, with a cap to be set by the NCAA). Also, how the NCCA receives a lot benefits from the atheltes job. In the future, there should be more cases were college ahtletes are going to get paid for the games, TV, advertising or video games because this is could be a big step for college sports. Getting ahtletes paid is going to increase the interest for college sports. Barroso Campos 4 Work Cited MAJEROL, VERONICA, et al. Should College Athletes BE  New York Times Upfront, vol. 147, no. 2, 15 Sept. 2014, pp. 14-15. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/log in.aspx?direct=true&db=eue&AN=98041132&site=eds-live. PR, Newswire. March Madness - Should College Athletes Get  FL- PR Newswire US, 26 Mar. 2013. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=bwh&AN=201303261743PR.NEWS.USPR.CG83694&site=eds-live. Should College Athletes Be  American Teacher, vol. 86, no. 1, Sept. 2001, p. 4. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=eft&AN=507707534&site=eds-live. Schultz, Jeff. COLLEGE ATHLETICS: NCAA Needs to Take a Hint: At Very Least, Push to Unionize Athletics Will Lead to Paying  The Atlanta Journal-Constitution (Atlanta, GA), 2014. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=edsggo&AN=edsgcl.363086567&site=eds-live.