Smoking has been around for as long as people can remember and it use to be a social norm. Smoking is used to look cool, relieve stress, and get the daily dose of nicotine in an system. The traditional style of smoking is from a conventional cigarette, but since the year 2000 e-cigarettes and vaping trends have skyrocketed. Within the past 20 conventional cigarettes have been criticized for causing harm to human health on many different levels including damage to the lungs, heart, and other body organs. Before 2000 cigarettes had no comparison when it came to smoking but since e- cigarettes became popular there has become a research question; how cigarettes and e-cigarettes are different and similar? Due to health concerns, researchers have analyzed all aspects of both types of cigarettes and used the data to make conclusions of how much damage both conventional cigarettes and e-cigarettes can cause to the human body. Smoking in school bathrooms back in the 80s used to be a normal thing, but since then there have been may regulations placed on cigarettes by the FDA, like where people can smoke them, what can go on the package labels, and advertisement restrictions (Elliot 1). Debbie Elliot wrote an article about how the FDA has changed regulations as well as how regulations should be changed and she has a large background when it comes to cigarettes and analyzing them. When e-cigarettes first started around 2000 they could be used in public places, but since the studies were held, they are now banned to be used in places other than smoking sections (Elliot 1). Humans are in both types of cigarettes use because we use to not know the health effects until someone has been smoking for decades and they already have the health effects that are unknown (Elliot 1). From the research, Elliot still believes that cigarettes need to be regulated even more because there are still way too many health concerns. purpose is to get readers and companies to realized that all cigarettes are harmful and the FDA needs to regulate them even more than they have done in the past. The second change throughout the years of smoking has been the characteristics of the types of cigarettes and how they affect human body. Trtchounian, Williams, and Talbot did a research study on the characteristics of smoking including how strong of a vacuum is required to produce smoke and release aerosols in e-cigarettes (55). These researchers have been studying smoking in terms of how they are used and how they work. The study showed that conventional cigarettes required a lower vacuum to produce smoke, which is easier on the lungs, compared to e-cigarettes. The study also showed that e-cigarettes are inconsistent when it comes to nicotine levels because they start out strong but tend to die out around the 10 th trial (Trtchounian, Williams, and Talbot 55). Before 2000, this study have been relevant because e-cigarettes have been around and the new technology that goes with them have been created. Also, it have been relevant because cigarette health is a new upcoming trend and people did not care as much for cigarettes health back in the 80s. Along with nicotine levels, the ingredients in cigarettes has become a new trend in health because we now know the ingredients in e-cigarettes and how they are better for the human body than conventional cigarettes (Alawsi, Nour, Prabh 30). Alawsi, Nour, and Prabh compared e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes in terms of emission and their ingredients. All the researchers have a strong background when studying smoking and they have been working together on their studies for years. Researchers Alawsi, Nour, and Prabh found that e-cigarettes contain fewer carcinogens than conventional cigarettes, which means that secondhand smoke, atherosclerosis, lung, and heart problems are less likely to be found in people who use e-cigarettes compared to conventional smokers (30). This means that the new technology has reinvented the cigarette over the years to make it safer and healthier for people to smoke and the focus of smoking has changed to human health rather than how cigarettes and e-cigarettes differ in usage. Another huge breakthrough in cigarette research is the oral health effects. Sherry, Blackstad, and Wheatley created a study on conventional cigarettes users and e-cigarette users and how smoking has effected the mouth. All the researchers have a history in both oral health and smoking making them qualified to compare the two. This is the latest research in e-cigarettes and the conclusion is that e- cigarettes are extremely harmful to the mouth, but they do not have physical effects like conventional cigarettes (Sherry, Blackstad, and Wheatley 45-54). Sherry says that a smile is the very first thing a person notices about someone else and if they look at a conventional mouth, they can easily see the brownish/yellow color on their teeth and the decay of the tooth itself (50). When researchers looked deeper into the mouths of e-cigarette smokers, they saw damage to the epithelial cells in the mouth cavity and broken DNA in many of the cells (Sherry, Blackstad, and Wheatley 45-54). Sherry, Blackstad, and Wheatley also concluded that e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes both can cause mouth ulcers, mutations, and possibly cancer (45-54). In conclusion, conventional cigarettes have been the base of smoking for as long as people have been around and recently new technology introduced e-cigarettes and vaping for a healthier, but still effective way to get nicotine. They differ because conventional cigarettes are more consistent with nicotine, but they also contain more carcinogens which can lead to major health problems down the road. They also are similar because they both can have health damages and they both produce nicotine. Researchers have concluded that not one type of smoking is better than the other because they both have positive and negative aspects that differ from the other type. So, when it comes to smoking, ask yourself if you should smoke a conventional cigarette, e-cigarette, or if you should even smoke at all.