Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Phone and Online Therapy for Treatment of Depression Depression is a normal human emotion as a mental response to losing a loved one, feeling inadequate in everyday life scenarios, or failure. Depression in these scenarios are mostly temporary and may not have a detrimental effect on our lives. However, as mentioned by Klein and Wender, there are types of depression that can lead to the destruction of families, loss of a job, and end relationships (1). THIS WAY UP and Bare Soul are two stakeholders who have a strong interest in the subject of depression and strive to provide relief to those who suffer. Although it may seem that these two organizations may be very alike they differ in their approach to proving treatment to their clients. THIS WAY UP is one organization that holds the position that using internet-delivered therapy as the remedy to treat depression. On the other hand, Bare Soul is another organization who has a different method by providing secured phone chat sessions to treat depression. They both may differ in their methods used when moving towards a solution. But, there are opportunities for these organization to join forces and enhance their efforts in unity toward the treatment of depression. While phone based therapy may be the solution to some, this is not the case for all. Hence, THIS WAY method is giving additional options for those who would prefer to find treatment online. The treatment of depression is a concern for both THIS WAY UP and Bare Soul. Despite their opposing views of treatment, both stakeholders share the same perspective on the effects of depressions in lives. Since both organization share a desire to provide relief those who suffer from depression, a compromise that would benefit both organization is incorporating their ideas that Student 2 are already working. THIS WAY UP would benefit by securing their phone services and Bare Soul would benefit by providing their client with 24 access to online treatment for depression. Home is also where much of the predisposed symptoms of depression originate. As mentioned by Schwartz and Petersen in their book, Depression: Treatment Strategies and Management, risk of depression in relatives of depressed probands has been substantially and significantly higher than the risk in relatives of normal This is also sustained by THIS WAY UP when they state that 30% of the predisposition for depression is due to genetic influences. (THIS WAY UP, This is also supported by Constance L. Hammen in her book that talks about children of depressed mothers and how depression runs deep in the family (Depression Runs in Families). This leads to the need for a solution which is why there are many different types of methods to solve the issue of depression. The method used by THIS WAY UP is the internet because many individuals use the internet for just about everything in their life; From personal enjoyment to work and school. THIS WAY UP saw this as an opportunity and created an online interactive course for those who prefer not to visit with a therapist in person and could also receive treatment at any given time. generation is immersed in online content and most believe the internet to be a bad influence due to the large amount of content that is unpleasant. However, THIS WAY UP is one organization that promotes healthy living via their website. Although times have evolved around technology and being online, there are still those that do not feel that online course work to treat depression will work for them. Therefore, Bare Soul took a different approach and offers their clients secured phone conversations with therapists. Their slogan on their logo states, up, Let go, Start (Bare Student 3 Soul, From time to time, everyone could use a fresh start. Individuals who suffer from anxiety and depression can schedule appointments to speak with a certified therapist and open up about their issues so they may be able to let go and have that fresh start. They provide their clients with a counselor who also lives in the same state as their clients and provide them with the relief that are seeking. To some it is easier to open up to and speak to people who do not know you personally and does not cast judgement right away. Again, there are always more than one way to achieve one goal. Different methods work for different people. Since both THIS WAY UP and Bare Soul differ in the methodology that they use to help their clients who suffer from anxiety and depression, the compromise for these two organizations would be for them to collaborate and implement what is working for each of them. They both already focus their efforts on providing their services to client within their home. A compromise would be to interview each client and understand the needs of the client. If they are not computer savvy and would prefer a voice conversation with a certified counselor, then THIS WAY UP would receive a referral commission for referring that client over to Bare Soul. The same would go for those would do not prefer phone conversations and would like the convivence on working in an online environment. Another compromise would also be working together and find additional solutions to help solve depression. This may include mailing CDs with therapy sessions on a regular basis for the client to use while they are driving to work or at home. Additionally, since both organizations have already proven to solve the business problem in the area of treatment for depression, they both could collaborate and take their expertise to identify more possibilities and solutions to treating the mental disorder in the comfort of their home. Student 4 Both organizations are similar in more ways than one. The goal for each stakeholder is to provide relief to those who need help professional with their depression. They both also claim that their clients can receive the help they need from the comfort of their own homes. The two organizations could work together and create a middle party website that provides users a questionnaire about their preferences on the delivery of their treatment. They might work together by sharing their ideas and expertise in the area in which they can create one powerful company that incorporates both methods of treatment. The use of the middle website would benefit both stakeholders since they would be splitting the profits made from it, plus the clients that are directed toward them. Both organizations would then own a greater share of the market in that space. In conclusion, the two stakeholders mentioned both have the passion to help their clients with the mental disorder of depression. Despite having separate views on the delivery of the treatment, both stakeholders share the concern of the disorder and understand the impact of depression and anxiety in the lives of families, friends, and everyone around us. Depression leads to stress which leads to anger which results in an unhappy environment. The two stakeholders support the same cause and ideally would work together to promote a healthier lifestyle for everyone around us by joining forces and working as a team to provide treatment for depression. Although these two stakeholders differ in the methods used to treat depression, they both have common ground in providing relief for their clients, creating happiness in the family, and building strength in relationships. (WC: 1238) Student 5 Works Cited Hammen, Constance L. Depression Runs in Families : The Social Context of Risk and Resilience in Children of Depressed Mothers. New York : Springer-Verlag, c1991., 1991. Series in psychopathology. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=c t00847a&AN=usflc.022052384&site=eds-live. How It  Get a phone counseling session. Web. https://bareonessoul.com/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Klein, Donald F. and Paul H. Wender. Understanding Depression. [Electronic : A Complete Guide to Its Diagnosis and Treatment. New York : Oxford University Press, c2005., 2005. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=cat00847a&AN=usflc.020285424&site=eds-live.  How To Deal With Depression and Sadness. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. https://thiswayup.org.au/how-do-you-feel/sad/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Schwartz, Thomas L. and Timothy Petersen. Depression. [Electronic : Treatment Strategies and Management. Boca Raton, Fla. : CRC Press, 2010., 2010. Medical psychiatry. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=c t00847a&AN=usflc.034699932&site=eds-live.