Wijaya 1 Jescelyn Wijaya Robert Ryan ENC 1102.057S17 February 25, 2017 Gun Control in America America is one of the countries that legalized the right to keep and bear arms. This poses a problem as it causes the country to have higher crime rates than other countries due to the availability of guns to civilians. The debate over gun control has been discussed repeatedly globally due to the repeated incidents of gun death that often occur in the country. Brady Campaign, a non-profit organization that advocates for gun control, was implemented to make a safer America for both the citizens as well as immigrants that will lead to a reduction in gun deaths and injuries. mission is to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (bradycampaign) by creating a policy which focuses on background checks to all gun sales, to stop the gun dealers that supply all crime guns, as well as to change social norms of guns at homes, to prevent homicides and suicides that happen in daily life (bradycampaign). The Brady Campaign often creates advertisements to bring awareness of the topic gun control to citizens. These advertisements use many different appeals such as visual and rhetorical appeals that are able to persuade and capture sympathy on the topic. Through these advertisements, the Brady Campaign is able to persuade and convince people to agree with their view on the need to have stricter gun control in America by using appeals such as kairos, logos, pathos, and ethos. The first advertisement (image 1 shown below), uses appeals such as logos, kairos, and pathos in the advertisement in order to capture and convince the audiences on the goal and belief. Firstly, logos is seen where the advertisement uses numbers or statistics to convince the audiences that gun control is very much needed as death due to gun violence is very Wijaya 2 high each year in America. It says NRG Super Bowl Stadium seating capacity 33,800 Gun Deaths per It uses the scale of a stadium, which we all know that a stadium can usually fit a large capacity of people, as a comparison to the number of gun deaths that happen in America per year. The statement is powerful and effective as it is able to successfully persuade the audiences that gun control needs to be reinforced more as large number of deaths is caused per year from gun. The second appeal, kairos, can also be seen in the advertisement, which talks about the timeliness of the advertisement. This advertisement is published in 2016, which is only a year ago. This shows that the number of gun deaths is still very high to this day and is still going on, therefore, action needs to be taken as soon as possible as the number of gun deaths each year is not decreasing. The advertisement shows the statistic of gun deaths rate that happens per year, which gives us a sense of urgency to start taking action and to support Brady mission which is gun deaths in half by Lastly, the advertisement uses pathos in both the rhetorical and visual appeals to draw the audiences and make them sympathize with the argument. The background of the advertisement is red in color with the picture of a full stadium. The stadium looks really full and the fact that gun deaths per year is estimated to be half of a full stadium, it allows the audiences to sympathize and think that gun violence is very serious and action needs to be taken as soon as possible. The colour of red in the background symbolizes the colour of blood and danger, which evokes the emotions. It also convinces them on the need of having gun control as it shows the danger and consequences that guns carry. Therefore, these appeals used in the advertisements are able to successfully convince and persuade the audiences to agree and support Brady view on gun control. The second advertisement (image 2 below) also uses many appeals such as pathos, logos, well as ethos. Firstly, pathos is used to capture the emotion by providing statistics. The statistics show the number of gun deaths and lives taken each year due to gun violence. In the advertisement, it shows that America has the highest number of gun deaths per year, which is Wijaya 3 9,484. This suggests that America is in as death rate is unbelievably high due to the availability of guns in the country and gun violence threatening civilians that are caused by other civilians (Kocsis, 2015). Secondly, logos is present which convinces people that guns are indeed dangerous and the consequences that they carry, such as causing America to be one of the countries with the highest death rate. Since America is one of the countries that legalized firearms, it has the highest gun death rate compared to other countries. This shows that gun crimes have a huge impact of the death rate in America. The advertisement also uses the statistics of other countries as a comparison, which emphasizes and convinces the audiences that gun death is serious in the country and action needs to be taken as soon as possible. Therefore, convincing us that there should be reinforcement of background checks prior to any gun sales, which is the mission of Brady Lastly, ethos is also seen in the advertisement where it shows the credibility of the advertisement. The advertisement contains the logo of Brady Campaign which proves to the audiences the credibility of the advertisement and it is therefore, trustable as it comes from the Brady campaign website itself. This serves a very important purpose as the audiences can be assured with data and facts stated in the advertisement as well as the organization is able to gain trust. This advertisement also contains visual appeal, which evokes emotion. The picture of gun is designed in flag which as if shows that America is defined and symbolized by gun. This proves to the audiences that guns in America are very common that guns could symbolize the country. There are now more guns than people in America as demand for guns keep increasing each year (washingtonpost). A research done by the Harvard School of Public Health stated that when comparisons made between states and countries, places with more guns have more gun homicides. Therefore, there should be push for tighter restrictions on gun ownership where gun control should be taken further and stricter, which relates back to mission and goal. Wijaya 4 Both the advertisements use many appeals that are able to effectively capture emotions and sympathy, which cause them to support and agree with the goal and mission. The advertisements are also able to successfully urge the audiences to take actions themselves by supporting gun control, which helps in achieving its goal. Both the advertisements use statistics, as their main strategy in convincing to support their view that guns are dangerous and are the biggest cause of death rate. Both the advertisements also have the Brady Campaign logo attached, which assures the audiences on the credibility of the advertisements. Since both the advertisements use statistics that show huge number of deaths, they are able to capture the sympathy, to take action as soon as possible as gun violence is still happening everyday and causing deaths each day. In conclusion, both the advertisements used rhetorical and visual appeals to capture and evoke feelings and emotions. By doing this, many audiences would see the need to support for gun control and bring awareness to gun violence, as well as supporting the organization in fulfilling their goal, which is to a safer America by cutting gun deaths in half by (bradycampaign) by focusing on background checks on all gun sales and to change the norm of guns in the society. Wijaya 5 References: 1. Campaign to Prevent Gun Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 2. Kocsis, M. (2015). Gun Ownership and Gun Culture in the United States of America. Essays In Philosophy, 16(2), 154. Doi:10.7710/1526-0569.1530 3. Thoughts and Ramblings of a Mad Activist Mama. N.p., 21 Jan. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. 4. Ingraham, Christopher. are now mmore guns thatn people in the United The Washington Post. WP Company, 05 Oct. 2015. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. 5. Harvard Injury Control Research Center. N.p., 30 June 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017 Image 1 Image 2