Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Ending Homelessness through Education Homelessness is a clearly rampant issue in the United States. Currently, there are over 564,708 people in this country who can be considered to be homeless (socialsolutions.com). People who are faced with the issue and possibility of homelessness are forced to make many decisions about their everyday lives that most people should not have to make. As stated in Jonathan book, and her children: Homeless families in explains why they cannot get out. tells you how much you can spend monthly for an apartment. The limit for our family is $366. You live in Boston. Try to find a place for seven people $366 in New York City. You do it. been looking for two (2, Kozol) There are hundreds of organizations in this country luckily that can help people overcome these situations. An organization that helps with legal rights of those who are homeless is the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty. This law center was established in 1989 by Maria Foscarinis. Her main goal by creating this group was to help put an end to homelessness in America (Who are we). An additional organization that seeks to aid those who are homeless is the House the Homeless project. This is a nonprofit organization that seeks to also help end homelessness in the United States but through education and advocacy (about). While these groups have incompatible methods in respect to ending homelessness, the combination of the two in the form of an educational fair would prove to be most valuable to those who are homeless and to the public as well. This coming together may seem incompatible Student 2 due to their contrasting approaches to attacking this issue. What is often failed to be recognized is that each organization has some advantages that can benefit the other, allow for this fair to successfully educate the public and the homeless and actually make a difference in many lives. The National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty is comprised of a board of members who are all attorneys. They are constantly fighting for the rights of those who are homeless or are facing the possibility of becoming homeless. As stated on their about page, will continue to use legal innovations in our groundbreaking cases and policy advocacy to transform fundamentally the landscape of homelessness and poverty is this (Who we are) This means that this law center is constantly utilizing their legal capabilities in order to help their cause. They believe that everybody deserves a right to housing and that our youth deserve access to an education no matter their living circumstances, and the law center also advocates for the civil rights of those who are homeless as this is an item that is often ignored by the general public. Some civil rights that can be ignored is the health care and treatment of those who are homeless. Often, hospitals and offices deny treatment due to them being homeless with knowledge that they will not be able to pay their bill. Deaths of those who are homeless are at an all-time high is this is something that has not changed throughout the past decade. In a study completed in Boston, it became apparent that HIV was the old main cause of death of homeless people, while currently, drug usage seems to be the culprit (Baggett et al). Without access to facilities which can help treat those with drug addictions, this pattern of death will continue to prosper. With the National Law Center on Homeless and hard work and efforts, there is a possibility that the homeless could have basic rights of access to various items like this that can assist them. Student 3 Similarly, to the NLCHP, the House the Homeless project is another organization that seeks to assist the homeless community in America. This group finds itself more physically involved with the homeless while the NLCHP deals with more of the legal aspect. They host events such as their 16th annual thermal underwear drive to help provide for those less fortunate, especially in the cold winter months. This organization provides more physical aid to those in need. The board members for this organization are also homeless, no less than 60 percent of them are homeless (about). This allows for them to have real firsthand experience with what homeless people need and where they can really be assisted for the best. James D. Wright stated, the homeless themselves, however, homelessness is a fact, a way of life that is relentless and nearly unfathomable in its humiliation of flesh and Although the homeless find themselves often begging for money to be able eat anything, they are still human beings and deserve to be treated with compassion and respect, and that is exactly what House the Homeless is centered around. They additionally advocate for creating livable minimum wage as this is an issue that affect millions of families in America as well, and many people that live on minimum wage are actually homeless or facing the possibility as well. This helps with contributing to the cause of possibly ending homelessness in the future. With their different methods of helping the homelessness, the combination of these two organizations would prove to actually be more beneficial to themselves, the general public, and most important, the homeless themselves. What is proposed as a compromise for these two organizations to work together is to create an educational event fair for those who are homeless, experiencing the possibility, or those that simply just want to help. The fair would be located in a densely populated city such as New York City, Boston, or Chicago, to help reach as many people as possible. It would be advertised throughout the cities through posters posted throughout areas Student 4 where homeless people tend to congregate most. In order to reach those who are not homeless, ample advertising of the fair would be completed through social media sites such as Twitter and Facebook. Included in this fair would be members representing each organization (the NLCHP and House the Homeless). Members of both would collaborate in order to present an interactive information session about what it really means to be homeless, share some personal stories, advertise resources for people specific to each city, and also hold a question and answer session for those in the general public that would wish to help but sure where to start. Some resources they can provide could be information on rehabilitation facilities, free clinics, shelters, or any sites where they are able to attain food. There would also be a section dedicated to educating the population on the rights of the homeless, in this way, they know when they are being violated. Since the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty is comprised of mostly lawyers, they know exactly what laws are in favor for the homeless and which ones can actually harm them, so this would be beneficial to everyone in attendance of the fair and additionally the House the Homeless group. The House the Homeless representatives are mostly homeless, and this would allow for those attending the event that are homeless to feel more comfortable speaking and interacting with them. Tony Sparks elaborates, 2001, President Bush announced his intention to chronic homeless by the year as part of his broad While chronic homelessness obviously has not come to a halt, an event like this could add to diminishing numbers of those who are homeless. Either way, both organizations would benefit from this event in that they would be assisting the homeless while also educating the public. It may not be the approach either of them expected to implement, but at the end of the day, the two organizations would be positively impacting thousands of Student 5 lives. If the event did work out well for both groups, this would also allow for them to desire to continue to this partnership in the future to help educate people possibly all around the United States. (Word Count: 1343) Student 6 Works Cited Baggett TP, Hwang SW, JJ, Porneala BC, Stringfellow EJ, Orav EJ, Singer DE, Rigotti NA. Mortality Among Homeless Adults in BostonShifts in Causes of Death Over a 15- Year Period. JAMA Intern Med. 2013;173(3):189-195. doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.1604. Accessed 26 February 2017 House The  House The Homeless. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. <http://www.housethehomeless.org/>. Kozol, Jonathan. Rachel and her children: homeless families in America. New York: Three Rivers Press, 2006. Print. Accessed 26 February 2017 National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty - Home  National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty - Home Page. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. <https://www.nlchp.org/>. Phelan, Jo, et al. Social Liberalism, and Economic Conservatism: Attitudes Toward Homeless American Sociological Review, vol. 60, no. 1, 1995, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/2096349. Accessed 26 February 2017 Sparks, T. (2012), Governing the Homeless in an Age of Compassion: Homelessness, Citizenship, and the 10-Year Plan to End Homelessness in King County Washington. Antipode, 44: doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8330.2011.00957.x. Accessed 26 February 2017 Wright, James D. Address unknown: the homeless in America. New Brunswick, NJ: AldineTransaction, 2009. Print. Accessed 26 February 2017 Shocking Homelessness  Social Solutions. N.p., 09 Jan. 2017. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.socialsolutions.com/blog/2016-homelessness-statistics/>. Student 7