Williamson 1 Camila Williamson Robert Ryan ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Advertisement in Euthanasia Life and death are both interpreted differently by everyone. Sometimes opinions are solely based on religion, culture, or other external beliefs that influence how these two things are seen upon. Therefore, euthanasia and other forms of assisted suicide are so harshly debated within society, creating opposing groups that fight against each other to be the popular vote. Compassion and Choices is a non-profit organization that fights to improve end of life treatment, expand education about assisted suicide, and ultimately, works towards the legalization of euthanasia throughout the country. The organizations views and mission statements work directly with the education of the masses in order to create a more educated view of assisted suicide. the nation, we work to ensure healthcare providers honor and enable decisions about their (Compassion and Choices). These two images that work to represent Compassion and Choices values and mission, appeal to the publics pathos, logos, ethos, and Kairos, to portray the urgency of euthanasia, to convey a stronger message and to create more reciprocity from the advertisement. Compassion and Choices advertises mostly by providing captivating messages that attract the attention of the reader with its colorful and big font, and by using images of ill and old people. In this case, the organization gives logos as a simple message with a big meaning that everyone understands and relates to. Understanding how to implement logic within an emotional advertisement is important to create liability. a good argument is about using logic to prove a conclusion based on some given (Kiersz) This shows how without logos in the Williamson 2 advertisement, the add would communicate a sad story without creating awareness or urgency. By making the center of attention in this advertisement the message in the words life, death and choice, they are automatically aiming at the pathos. This makes the viewer consider their own life and death, or maybe the life and death of a close relative or friend that may be terminally ill or suffering. Although pathos is usually the most used rhetorical device in advertisement, sometimes too much emotion can make the information seem unreliable and fake. A combination between pathos and logos is crucial to create an action from the viewers. Image number one also uses ethos and kairos that give the message more credibility and timelessness. Ethos is seen in this advertisement in the small Compassion and Choices logo on the bottom right hand corner, and the Brittany Fund link on the bottom left hand corner. These things give the advertisement reliability, and it also incentives the viewer to research more about the topic. This is a key rhetorical appeal because an advertisement without any type of organization name or link become more of empty word without meaning than a strong message with a cause. Since Brittany Maynard was a woman that fought the system to be allowed access to assisted suicide in 2014, the support her cause is still relevant and the use of the hashtag at the end of the message shows that this advertisement is relatively recent, and therefore it implements Kairos in the ad. This message appeals to everyone and communicates a strong message by utilizing all rhetorical appeals, creating a strong balance by focusing more strongly on logos and pathos. Other types of advertisement that Compassion and Choices utilizes are strong imagery, such as old people in wheelchairs protesting for euthanasia, to appeal mostly to pathos. Although sometimes these advertisements that focus mostly of pathos can be considered rhetorical fallacies, the message they convey can be even stronger than any words they could Williamson 3 possibly use. In the case of this ad, the organization decided to show the core of what they are, and use the add to convey a more family oriented aspect to a harsh subject such as assisted suicide. By Including families supporting the elderly in the picture, they are appealing directly to the pathos. They do this so that people can picture their family and imagine how it would be like if they were in their situation. They also utilize logos in the form of the supporters pictured in the image. This is a strong appeal in this advertisement because it shows how the supporters of the cause are not the ones that are alienated from the problem, but the ones who need it to change the most. It becomes important to portray the urgency of the topic so that it conveys an message to act promptly, and that is perfectly executed in this image by the use of logos. Having Compassion and Choices as a logo in their poster boards shows ethos, giving the advertisement more reliability and showing how a real cause that needs supporters. Dr. Omega Silva pictured giving her speech fall 2016 gives the advertisement Kairos, expressing the timelessness of the cause and its urgency. Ethos is seen in this image in the poster boars that the supporters are holding with the Compassion and Choices logo, and by the speaker standing in front of the podium with the District of Columbia symbol on it. This type of advertisement is sometimes more appealing to the eye of the viewer and it helps to convey the message better than words. The image of the elderly people having the support of the younger ones beside them is a way to show how assisted suicide is not a punishment or a sentence, but instead is a way to get rid of all the pain and suffering some people are going through. of euthanasia argue that people have a right to make their own decisions regarding death, and that euthanasia is intended to alleviate pain and suffering, hence being ascribed the term (Ebrahimi). In this advertisement, elderly people are fighting for a cause that applies mostly to Williamson 4 them, showing how it is a burden to know that regardless of all the pain and suffering, there is nothing they can do right now to alleviate it. Advertisement in euthanasia and assisted suicide is tricky. Sometimes people agree with it because of religious or cultural reasons, and the only way to show people what they are trying to convey is by making the viewers feel the pain and understand the suffering that they want to show. Its important to not only incorporate pathos in the advertisement, but also other types of rhetoric, such as ethos and logos, in order to make it more reliable and supported. Kairos is extremely important, especially if the topic is recent and continuous, and if it is directed towards a younger audience. The fresher the information, the more appealing it will be for the younger generations, and the easier it will be to make them understand and agree with everything the message is saying. Pathos is clearly the most effective way to use rhetoric in advertising, especially when it comes to nonprofit controversial topics such as euthanasia. The use of Rhetorical appeals in advertisement is clearly see, and without the use of all the appeals, the message loses meaning and credibility, making it completely ineffective. Williamson 5 Williamson 6 Works Cited Digital image. About Compassion & Choices Compassion & Choices. Oct.- Nov. 2016. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Digital image. The Brittany Fund. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. About Compassion and  Compassion & Choices. Comn and Choices. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Ebrahim, Nargus. The Ethics of  Australian Medical Student Journal. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Kiersz, Andy. Fallacies That Keep Showing Up In Bad Biasness Insider. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.