Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 26 March 2017 With More Funding Veterans Can Conquer the Side Effects of PTSD There is a lot of argument surrounding the treatment of military veterans and servicemen and women in this country, particularly when dealing with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Some people and organizations say that veterans receive enough funding or receive the best support that can be offered for dealing with PTSD. On the other hand, some say that veterans receive nearly enough funding or support for PTSD treatment. The treatment of veterans touches the lives of many Americans because it deals with the spending of tax-payer dollars for the health care costs of those who are effected by PTSD. There are also a lot of stakeholders that are concerned with military-related PTSD. Two such stakeholders are Military Connection and the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (USDVA), although they have differing perspectives on the treatment and support of military-related PTSD. Military Connection is an advocate for more military PTSD support while the USDVA claims there is sufficient PTSD support, given their funding. To provide comprehensive treatment for veterans, both parties need to focus on collaborating. A possible solution to this problem is for both stakeholders to advocate in Congress to gain more funding. By working together to gain funding, the USDVA can expand their service areas to treat more veterans and Military Connection can gain the PTSD treatment they desire for veterans and military personnel. According to Military Connection, there is not enough support offered to veterans and military personnel to treat PTSD (Gregory, 1). Unfortunately, most trauma-based PTSD services Student 2 are unable to reach military veterans and personnel because there are no primary care clinics near them (Cigrang et al., 110). According to Wierwille and her research team, there are as many as 5.3 million veterans living in rural communities and 57% of them rely on the VA for medical care. As a result, many go without proper PTSD support and care (373). Another claim made by Military Connection is that the more psychological support veterans and military personnel receive, the more likely they will make a full recovery (Gregory, 1). Research done by a team of psychologist from the Journal of Psychiatric Research found that building social and psychological support for soldiers mitigate PTSD severity by reducing negative posttraumatic which include feelings of incompetence, self-blame, and lack of trust in others (Zang, et al., 19). If high levels of support are given to military veterans and personnel, they may make a full recovery from the cognitive side-effects of PTSD. Also, when more information about PTSD is provided to a family the quality of life is improved for both the veteran and the family (Zwanziger et al., 47). As reported by Blow and his research team, martial relationships can also be improved by couples PTSD therapy (261). Military Connection provides information about PTSD and treatment options, but if VA clinics are not accessible to veterans and their families, they will be unable to access the psychological services they need. By working with the USDVA to gain more funding to expand veteran services, the mental health support that Military Connection desires could become a reality. Another stakeholder in this important issue, the USDVA, maintains a different view of military PTSD treatment and support. The USDVA is a government organization that deals with providing benefits and support to military veterans and personnel. Since the USDVA is a government organization it relies on the tax dollars rationed to it by the United States federal government. Given this information, the claim that the USDVA makes regarding military-related Student 3 PTSD is that they provide the best PTSD support that they can, considering its funding of 1). This is supported by the research of Carl Blake, Associate Executive Director of Government Relations at the Paralyzed Veterans of America. According the findings, the USDVA has developed an Enrollee Health Care Projection Model to help manage their given funds to provide all the services military veterans and personnel need (31). By developing this model, the USDVA proves that it is attempting to provide all veterans with the necessary PTSD treatment services and support. But to reach all veterans, especially those in rural areas, the USDVA needs more funding. Both Military Connection and the USDVA care about veterans and want to provide the best treatment possible for all military personnel. Even though the situation surrounding the treatment of military-related PTSD and USDVA funding has been tense, there is still the possibility of a successful compromise. In the past, there have been efforts to expand the USDVA federal budget. In fact, the USDVA has receive record federal funding from Congress during the past decade (Blake, 31). Unfortunately, the organization never seems to have enough funds and receive its funding on time, so the money is never there when needed. As reported by Blake, the USDVA usually receives its funding three months after the start of the fiscal year (31). For a compromise to work, both stakeholders need to collaborate in order to achieve their goals. Because Military Connection wants more treatment options for veterans, a possible compromise is for the organization to work with the USDVA to form a lobby group to pressure congress for more money. Both stakeholders also need to persuade congress to give the USDVA its funding on time. Unfortunately, this solution is not short term. It can take years before an effective lobby group can be formed and years before it yields results, so a short term solution may be needed. A possible starting point to implement this compromise is to promote a Student 4 letter writing campaign. Both stakeholders can request that Americans who view their respective websites write to their local congresspersons to demand more funding for the USDVA so it can provide more PTSD-related services. Lobbying Congress and organizing a letter-writing campaign are compromises that will have definite benefits for both stakeholders. The formation of a new lobby group will benefit the USDVA because the organization will receive more funding so it can offer better services, over a wider area, to treat military-related PTSD. Until the lobby group gains the power it needs to become effective, the letter-writing campaign will encourage congresspersons to push for more money to be budgeted for the USDVA. The reason these compromises will work is because both stakeholders, while their claims are different, have similar interests and goals. Both of the stakeholders are interested in providing medical treatment and psychological services to military personnel and veterans and both are concerned about combat-related PTSD that effects our military personnel and veterans. Both the USDVA and Military Connection also believe that there is a need to provide more information and compensation to those effected by combat- related PTSD of 1) (Gregory, 1). In conclusion, there is strength in numbers when making change. This issue relates to anyone who is, or who knows, someone suffering from PTSD related to military service. Imagine if you were promised medical care only to be denied support and treatment when you need it the most. That is the situation some military veterans and personnel face when it comes to getting necessary treatments from the hospitals run by the Department of Affairs. If Military Connection, and other veteran advocates, can successfully lobby Congress for more funding, the USDVA will be able to reach out to and treat more people who suffer from combat- Student 5 related PTSD. If all stakeholders work together, they could end the unnecessary waiting and denial of military PTSD treatment. (Word Count: 1242) Student 6 Work Cited Blake, Carl.  Target: sufficient, timely, & predictable: veterans groups push for real VA healthcare funding  Paralyzed Veterans of America (2009): n. pag. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Blow, Adrian J., Ansley Franser Curtis, Andrea K. Wittenborn, and Lisa Gormen. Relationship Problems and Military Related PTSD: The Case for Using Emotionally Focused Therapy for  Contemporary Family Therapy 37.3 (2015): n. pag. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cigrang, Jeffrey A., Sheila A M Rauch, Jim Mintz, Antoinette Brundige, Laura L. Avila, Craig J. Bryan, Jeffrey L. Goodie, and Alan L. Peterson. Treatment of active duty military with PTSD in primary care: A follow-up  Journal of Anxiety Disorders 36 (2015): 110- 14. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gregory, Debbie. for PTSD Awareness and Treatment: Military Military Connection, Gregory Media Inc., 20 June 2015, www.militaryconnection.com/blog/6040/resources-for-ptsd-awareness-and-treatment- military-connection/. Accessed 21 Jan 2017. Department of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs , U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs , www.va.gov/. Accessed 19 Feb 2017. Wierwille, Jena L., Nicole D. Pukay-Martin, Kathleen M. Chard, and Meredith C. Klump. Effectiveness of PTSD Telehealth Treatment in a VA Clinical  Psychological Services 13.4 (2016): 373-79. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Student 7 Zang, Yinyin , Thea Gallagher, Carmen P. McLean, Hallie S. Tannahill, Jeffrey S. Yarvis, and Edna B. Foa. The impact of social support, unit cohesion, and trait resilience on PTSD in treatment-seeking military personnel with PTSD: The role of posttraumatic  Journal of Psychiatric Research 86 (2017): 18-25. University of South Florida. Web. 26 February 2017. Zwanziger,, Tona, Colleen Anderson, Jennifer Lewis, Regardt Ferreira, and Charles Figley. Resilience and Knowledge of PTSD Symptoms in Military  Traumatology (2016): n. pag. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.