Carr 1 Brandy Carr Robert Ryan ENC 1102 13 March 2017 The DARK Act On July, 29th 2016 President Barack Obama signed a bill commonly referred to as the DARK (GMOInside.org) which stands for Denying Americans the Right to Know (GMOInside.org). This bill allows companies to use toll-free numbers, or scanable codes to label products that use genetically modified organisms in their products. At GMO Inside it is their mission to getting genetically modified organisms and toxins out of food. The subject of labeling foods that contain genetically modified organisms has been a highly debated topic ever since President Barack Obama made a statement to the media in 2007 stating should know what (GMOInside.org). The stakeholder uses the relevancy of the bill signed by president Obama and Monsanto (A company that benefits from the DARK act) in both of the images from their website. The two images work together, successfully implementing kairos to shine a bad light on Monsanto and the use of GMOs, to convey the goals that Americans have the right to know what is in their food. This organizations goal is to eventually have all food to be clearly labeled whether or not they have genetically modified organisms. In the first image the overall tone is libelous; the stakeholder uses a picture of President Obama and words such as  and  (GMOInside.org) which give the images a negative tone and imply that the DARK Act is a setback. In the background of the image is a picture of a cornfield and in the foreground there is an image of Obama holding the Monsanto logo accompanied by text. A direct quote from Obama Carr 2 is used in the image stating should know what (GMOInside.org) which iterates the message that the stakeholder is trying to convey. This quote from Obama ads to the overall negative tone of the image because although he stated this, he also signed a bill which will do just the opposite. stakeholder states the hypocrisy of signing the bill, appealing to logic and reason. The use of Obama in this image is well timed, due to the recent election and all the recent news he has been involved in. The president is a very recognizable citizen which allows the message to capture a larger audience. The image is neat, straight forward and uses a logo of a well-known company involved. This image is accompanied by a well-known face and it states facts about the claim. Overall the author has clearly and effectively conveyed the message and his stance on the subject. Figure 2 is stylistically very different from the first. It is an illustration depicting both points of view about the topic. Both bag items in the picture are similar in color and size but their labels differ. One label is just text stating that the product contains genetically modified organisms while the other is a bar code which can be scanned using an application on your smart phone. Putting these contrasting images side by side now shows how much simpler it is to tell if a product has genetically modified organisms in it when the label is in text rather than the code which is only accessible by smart phone. The logos appeal of the image would be how the stakeholder makes it evident that most companies are going to use the scan-able labels, the logic behind this reasoning is that a consumer is more likely to buy the product with the scan label on the chance it might not have genetically modified organisms rather than buying the package that clearly states it does. This tactic, while used in an attempt to gain the consumers vote will also have the effect of clearly displaying why the company audience would choose the latter. Carr 3 While these two images are drastically different in imagery and diction, they both use kairos, by depicting the then president and recent changes to food labeling which add to the timeliness and relevancy of the ads. Both images on the website have a strong use of logos which contain a great deal of text to convey the message that they are against this bill. By using a picture of Obama the stakeholder effectively connects the issues at hand with their specific goals choice of what products to buy and what labels to display is often politically The first image appeals more to ethos by using a picture of President Obama and the Monsanto company logo. The second image compares both sides of the argument at hand, using logic and reason in their text captions. This stakeholder has taken the time to create numerous types of imagery to convey the fact that they vehemently believe that all food items containing genetically modified organisms should be clearly labeled so consumers may make an informed decision about the food items they are putting in their body. Overall the stakeholder effectively conveys his or her goals to get foods containing GMOs labeled clearly, by the relevancy and credibility of the images. Using numerous types of imagery allowed this stakeholder to rhetorically appeal to many different fashions while still conveying the same message of his or her beliefs. This strategy allows the stakeholder to appeal to a much broader audience than images with one type of rhetorical appeal. In the end these are perfect examples of how this technique can be effectively used in marketing materials to persuade the consumer to side with the stakeholders cause and take action. Carr 4 Works Cited Fig. 1. Gmoinside.org, 9 Sept. 2016, Fig. 2. Gmoinside.org, 9 Sept. 2016, Gmoinside.org Getting GMOs and Toxins out of our food. 9 Sep. 2016, http://gmoinside.org/ Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Adler, Johnathan H. There Is No Consumer To Cato Institute. 2016 Kendra, Gayle Lee, McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber, Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. Carr 5 http://livingmaxwell-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/obama2.jpg Carr 6 https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CnVSrPVUAAEVh2B.jpg