Zapata 1 Melanie Zapata Instructor: Robert Ryan ENC 1102 3/11/17 Peta and Factory Farming The fight for animal rights has been a long struggle, especially for those that want complete freedom from involving them in any activity for human profit that is not a part of their natural way of life. PETA has been fighting a constant battle with society and industries that use animals for production by promoting the end of all use of animal products. PETA believes in the wellbeing of all animals and getting rid of them in all industries; factory farming being one. PETA is an organization with a strong belief that it should be the responsibility of humans to prevent and end animal cruelty in factory farms. Their method of endorsing their mission statements through advertisements uses rhetorical visuals and appeals to effectively convey their principles. choice to advertise against the unethical treatment of animals in factory farms was designed in a specific manner to get their message across by using rhetorical elements. The ad that includes American actress, comedian, singer, and animal rights activist Bea Arthur supports mission statement and does so through visual rhetoric. The placement of Bea Arthur as the main subject positions her as the first thing viewers will notice. Since she was an animal activist and did leave PETA money in her will, using a celebrity in their ad is a visual element that was done with a purpose. Arthur was known for her appearance in The Golden Girls, a television show which sparked her career even more and continues to be popular Zapata 2 today. Celebrities have been the face of advertisements for decades. According to Use Of Dead Celebrities In Advertising And celebrities have the advantage of being both less expensive and less likely to suddenly lose This allows PETA to gain popularity through someone that can no longer change their views of factory farming, thus allowing PETA to gain more attention and spread their message. The picture of the chickens suffering in the corner seems like a tiny detail compared to the big celebrity shown. However, the celebrity allows for initial interest in the ad, leading to the observation of the chickens by the audience, and ending with an understanding of values. Also, because is the largest fast food chain is brought up in the text, integrating this popular fast food logo would also improve the visual rhetoric of this ad because it is eye catching. The usage of rhetorical appeals in the Bea Arthur ad by PETA is also effective in expressing mission statement- and perhaps has an even greater effect than the visual elements themselves. The appeal to logic and reasoning is used throughout the text shown in the ad. PETA provides statistics of how many chickens would be saved if were to switch to a less violent way of handle chicken-slaughtering. Including the text helps emphasize the large number of chickens that could be saved if discontinued their animal handling methods. This triggers the awareness of the issue and may provoke some to take action immediately (something PETA aims for in their ad): an element of kairos. Also, giving an alternative to the current method of slaughtering provides an ethical appeal because one can distinguish between wrong (which would be the current methods as described by PETA) and right or essentially more humane (the suggested method). Ethos is the strongest appeal used in this ad which can be accredited to including not just a person that is known worldwide for acting and singing- but also an advocate for animal rights and the discontinuation Zapata 3 of animal abuse in factory farms. PETA states role as a former campaigner and her impact, which establishes the credibility and results in more awareness of the issues with factory farming. The second ad that youth organization has from their famous video Acres to communicate their message uses more effective visual elements than the Bea Arthur ad. This is due to the fact that this ad uses a more graphic image- free of any text at all yet describing the treatment of factory farm animals so accurately. The depiction of humans instead of animals in tiny cages is disturbing and eye opening- something PETA intentionally does. On their article titled Stands on Animal PETA states afraid to make the difficult comparisons, say the unpopular thing, or point out the uncomfortable truth, if it means that animals will (PETA.COM) Therefore, although the bizarre picture may at first make one who views it uneasy, it allows one to visually analyze what the animals must go through. Also, the facial expressions of the naked people in the cages is another visual element specifically chosen to highlight the importance of why people should neglect factory farms. Their bruises and frightened faces also increase the realism of the picture. This ad also uses several rhetorical appeals to get their message across and combat factory farming. The facial expressions speak for themselves- that is they show true fear and despair to escape from those prison like cages. It might even remind people of the horrors of the Holocaust and possibly appeal to pathos. It is normal for viewers to watch an ASPCA animal commercial and automatically feel a sense of pity and guilt. Placing pictures of animals on the screen persuades the audience to feel bad for the animals, and makes them want to donate to help save them, according to the online article Cruelty However, placing humans instead of animals in cages for a better perspective on what they go through on a daily Zapata 4 basis can target emotions because one might feel like those animals deserve to go through those treatments. This achieves mission of raising animal awareness and stopping the inhumane treatment of animals on factory farms. Both ads that PETA presents use several visual elements in order to spread their message of the importance of stopping animal cruelty on factory farms. PETA takes advantage of having a celebrity as a campaigner in their first ad as an attention-getter and use an out of the ordinary image in their second ad to make their mission known. These ads allow for an increase in supporters of PETA and may even prompt audiences to change their perspective of animal cruelty on factory farms. Every aspect of the ads serves its purpose: to raise awareness of what is really going on in factory farms. With the increase in awareness caused by the use of rhetorical appeals, PETA takes a step forward to combat animal cruelty. Although PETA has often been harshly criticized and often labeled outrageous for the tactics they use to make their values well known and understood- they do skillfully use visual and rhetorical appeals in their ads. The Bea Arthur ad effectively uses visual elements as well as rhetorical appeals such as ethos to express their mission statement. The second ad from Sonny Acres video has stronger visual elements and uses rhetorical appeals- mostly pathos- to convey their message. Though PETA does have a scandalous reputation, their methods of conveying their beliefs have led them to be the largest animal rights organization in the world. Zapata 5 WORKS CITED Stands on Animal Petty , Ross D; Denver. Balancing Interests in the Right of Publicity Use Of Dead Celebrities In Advertising And vol 38, 2009, p1, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=154ed7b0- 8164-404e-acdd-1abef792d357@sessionmgr101&vid=5&hid=103 Cruelty http://animalsafetyawareness.weebly.com/analysis-of-peta- website.html Zapata 6 Ad 2: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SyivyZoFM4c