Rahman 1 Ali Rahman Instructor Martha Heiser ENC 1102 Section 068 5 April 2017 Lowering the Legal Drinking Age in the US Drinking has been termed quite differently through time in the United States. Before 1984, there was more lenience with the accepted drinking age; it was normalized in society for a young adult to enjoy a beer with a group of friends, or even parents. Today, however, paints a dissimilar image when it comes to young people and alcohol consumption. One might envision loud music, dim lights, overcrowded areas, out of control kids, and lots of heavy drinking. What happened between these time frames that created such a difference in drinking behavior among the young is questionable, and in part brings great controversy to the topic of the legal minimum drinking age in the US. With this, there is constant debate of whether the legal age of consumption should remain the same or be lowered to 18 to resolve the growing issue. Some work to maintain the legal age of 21 because they believe restricting access to alcohol will decrease usage. However, the real problem in the US is the normalization of young adults participating in binge drinking. As the culture stimulates this behavior, restriction laws become incapable of terminating the issue alone. Because of the knowledge of the negative effects of large quantities of alcohol on young health, especially to undeveloped brains, it is necessary to develop a system that works with the cultural values of the society, which includes altering the current legal drinking age to 18 and implementing corresponding policies. Rahman 2 Drinking has had a long history in regards to law enforcement. Before 1984, states had their own laws regarding alcohol sales, purchases, and consumption. This was on its way to change when President Reagan created the Presidential Commission Against Drunk Driving (PCDD) in 1982. The intention of this commission was to decrease the number of deaths caused by drunk driving. In addition, there was an inclusion of a recommendation to increase the legal purchasing age, as well as the minimum legal drinking age to 21. With this suggestion, focus strayed from drunk driving to the drinking quickly correlated drunk driving to young adults and alcohol consumption, including organizations like MADD (McCardel). It is important to recognize that correlation does not equal causation, and even if this is not the case in the information being relied during the time, there are other possible barriers to accurate results, such as external and internal validity and possible confounds. Nevertheless, Once the idea of increasing the age to 21 was out, there was no going back; campaigns, education programs, and organizations badgered at it until Reagan signed the National Minimum Drinking Age Act in 1984. This proposed that all states enforce the legal age of 21, or penalties would be applied. As this appeared to be the imposition of a threat, all 50 states eventually adopted the law by 1987. The way of living has changed dramatically in the United States over time. Today, there are standards that are expected to be met as a normal way of living, and to reach this standard way of living, college has become more and more necessary. This change in culture has opened an entirely new world for young adults that is filled with independence and self-decision making. Unfortunately, high levels of alcohol consumption in college have become normalized in the society and the laws have not been formatted to accommodate for this change in culture. Scholars from the Institute for Social Research, Justin Jager, Katherine M. Keyes, and John E. Schulenberg recognize this difference in culture, stating that course of health and well- Rahman 3 being during this transition has changed in concert with these shifts in social role (Jager et al.). They have further researched and reviewed it in Variation in Young Adult Binge Drinking Trajectories and its Link to Historical Variation in Social Roles and minimum Legal Drinking where they found levels of binge drinking typically follows an inverted-U shaped pattern across the ages of 18 to 26: increasing across the ages of 18 to 22 and then, after peaking around the age of 22, decreasing through the age of 26, after which levels of binge drinking begin to (Jager et al.). Jager and his teammates include Figure 3 to display this increase in binge drinking from 1976 to 2003 in males and females aged 18-26. Corresponding with this, research published by the World Health Organization found that in many European countries where the drinking age is 18 or younger (and often not enforced), 15 and 16-year-old teens have more drinking occasions per month, but fewer occasions of dangerous intoxication than their American (McCardel). The research acknowledges the changes in behavior among college students and supports the identification of growing negative influence of binge drinking in college. Ending the issue begins with considering all factors involved in the issue itself. To begin, it is known that college kids party and American society just simply accepts it. In an article called Why America Should Lower the Legal Drinking Karis Rogerson, a college graduate describes her experience with alcohol as a young adult, revealing, the time I turned 21 and was allowed to legally drink in America, I had been drinking for (Rogerson). This demonstrates that Rogerson had many alcoholic drinks before she legally could and this can be generalized to the majority of the college population. According to Senior Research Scientist Paul J. Gruenewald, an advocate for maintaining the current law, in Availability: How Access to Alcohol Affects Drinking and Problems in Youth and Rahman 4 effects would suggest that higher MLDAs should be preferred to prevent use but lower MLDAs should be preferred to prevent (Gruenewald 253). Because alcohol use is not being stopped in college settings, it make more sense to target the prevention of the problem? Accessing alcohol is not a hard task for young adults, especially at a university where half the population can legally drink. This showcases that the current system does not inhibit anything. So, eliminating the restriction and focusing on other problematic contributors to the situation, such as the attitude toward alcohol should be the next step taken. Many scholars agree that the drinking age is not the only factor involved when diminishing the negative effect of alcohol consumption in young adults. Seddon Savage, director of the Dartmouth Center of Addiction Recovery and Education, discusses the intricacy of the problem in Drinking Age? a Complex Issue: The Forces Driving the Global Epidemic of Harmful Youth Drinking Run Far Deeper Than the Age of Majority for  where he informs that report also identifies corporate marketing of alcohol to youth as likely the major force driving the global epidemic of unhealthy alcohol use by young (Savage). This kind of advertising gives the wrong impression for young adults because it glorifies is contradicting the beliefs and values. Also, because this kind of advertisement continues to be used, despite the knowledge of how psychologically altering it can be on people, it seems profit is of greater importance than the well-being of the society. Is this something that a society would flaunt/ be proud of? No, that is why everyone in any given society should care, because each person represents and shares the same values in a culture. This long-living encounter between alcohol and young people is extremely important to every person that is included in the American population because it affects everyone, whether that is directly or indirectly. There is no denying that alcohol is a part of the American culture, so Rahman 5 with that, it is important for this society to have the best-working law to secure and promote safe practices of consumption by young adults. Future generations will be leading the country one day as medical doctors, lawyers, and business managers. Therefore, if the US wants to have succession in the future, then social, mental, and physical health must not be disrupted during such an important developmental time. Health is a serious matter and needs to be dealt with correctly. To ensure the wellness of the individuals for the future of this country, it is crucial for everyone to take ignition immediately. Founded by John McCardel, Choose Responsibility (CR) is an organization that works to lower the drinking age to 18, as they recognize, is a reality in the lives of young Americans. It cannot be denied, ignored, or legislated (McCardel). They believe young adults should simply learn to be responsible, because 18 is the age of adulthood when one gains the rights to smoke cigarettes, go to war, and go to adult prison. These are some serious rights and responsibility comes with them. Keeping the law that is intact now does not make sense in appliance with the other laws; if the age is not lowered perhaps the whole system should be reshaped. This organization has a website designed to provide information related to alcohol use and young people, including: history of policies, current policies, and evidence of current trending problems with binge drinking. In addition, they include their proposal to fix the issue, which complies with their slogan, time has come to address the reality of alcohol in They propose that since federal government has to grant a waiver for the current law, signing a petition for state purposes in the meantime will help move forward the process. To help this society, step forward and sign the petition found on the difference for the future generations! Rahman 6 Works Cited Gruenewald, Paul J. 1. Availability: How Access to Alcohol Affects Drinking and Problems in Youth and Alcohol Research & Health, vol. 34, no. 2, June 2011, pp.248-256. EBSCOhost. Jager, Justin, Katherine M. Keyes, and John E. Schulenberg. Variation in Young Adult Binge Drinking Trajectories and itsLink to Historical Variation in Social Roles and minimum Legal Drinking Developmental Psychology, vol. 51, no. 7, July 2015, pp. 962-974. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/dev0000022. McCardel, John. Choose Responsibility. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 March. 2017. Rogerson, Karis. Why America Should Lower the Legal Drinking USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 17 Nov. 2014. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Savage, Seddon. Lower Drinking Age? a Complex Issue: The Forces Driving the Global Epidemic of Harmful Youth Drinking Run Far Deeper Than the Age of Majority for  New Hampshire Business Review 2008: 19. General OneFile. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.