Student 1 Student Kimberly Wiggs ENC 1101 5 March 2017 Gender Wage Gap Over Time The gender wage gap has existed ever since women have started earning wages. Job opportunities for women started improving since the Victorian era in the 19 th century, where women started playing a more important role in American jobs. Since then, women are becoming more equal to men, due to the growing support and engagement of feminism. Gender equality is converging, and it can be observed by seeing the increase of women in important positions in companies. Nonetheless, Francine Blau and Lawrence Kahn states that the gender wage gap has substantially lowered since the 1980s, meaning that there is a clear trend of where the wage gap is going. The gender pay statistics that Hegewisch provides show that the gap is converging to equality, meaning that there will be equal pay for both genders in the future. Although the rate of convergence has slowed down considerably in this past decade, the direction where it is going is a good one. The gender wage gap has been decreasing as an increasing number of women take prominent positions in companies, therefore hiring more women because of their homophily preference. Even though gender equality is on the rise, conversation about the matter is not changing. Opinion and trend have been continuous since the introduction of this topic since the early 21 st century. The ratio of the wage gap is converging, but has decreased considerably, due to the fact that there is labor market discrimination, and supply and demand shift in jobs. Conversation about this topic has not changed too much but the convergence rate has definitely changed. The Student 2 wage gap difference was decreasing ever since the stereotypical female role was decreasing. Bryant stated in 2012 that gender stereotypes have played a massive role in gender wage differences due to the fact that during the 19 th century Victorian Era. For example, main role was to cook, clean, and the tendency to be a stay at home mom. Modern day feminism is what changed all of this for the better because now women can be considered equal to men. It is colossally important because society accepts this notion now, because half a century ago sexism was at its prime. Therefore, the talk about the topic has not changed much, but the rate of convergence definitely has. Feminism has been on the rise since the 2000s and talk about gender wage gap has been prominently the same, but statistics about the gender wage gap has been converging, as previously stated. Blau, Bryant, Cohen and Hegewisch all span publication dates from 2004 to 2016 and have the same viewpoint. This comes to show that the conversation about the topic has not changed itself, but have promise to change in the future. This has to do with the internal factors in society that is changing as a whole and feminism awareness that is on the rise. Gender equality will lead to gender wage equality. Women have started to hold an increasing number of important positions in companies, meaning that equality is on the horizon. More women in important positions lead to more women getting hired. Phillip Cohen brought up this extremely important point in 2007 about the gender wage gap. He stated that the reason why the gap is so large is due to the fact that women do not hold as many prominent positions in important companies compared to men. This leads to the men hiring more men because there will always be a homophily preference in the hiring process, meaning that their own gender will be preferred when hiring. As an increasing number of women are taking positions of authority, the differences in earnings should noticeably start to decline due to the fact that they will be a crucial part in decision making about salaries, promotions, Student 3 hiring, etc. Equality will truly show when the men who hold said prominent positions retire, there will be a greater chance than before that a woman will replace that job. This conversation has been un-changing and it will take about a generation for the effects to fully equalize in society. Educational success of women has definitely played a colossal role in the closing of the gender wage gap. There is an increased amount of women getting higher education, compared to before. Educational success of women is paramount to success in their professional lives. According to Bryant, there is an increased number of women taking S.T.E.M majors as their career path. S.T.E.M majors is any majors that include science, technology, engineering, and math. Due to this spike in interest in these career fields, there will undoubtedly be an equal work environment in the future. Conversation about this topic has not changed, nonetheless. As said previously, this could take decades for the results to be apparent. Even though the wage gap difference is at an all time low compared to the previous years, there is still a noticeable difference. In the Institute for Policy article by Hegewisch, it states that ratio of and median annual earnings was 79.6 percent for full-time or year- round workers in (Hegewisch 1). The topic has changed over time greatly, but still has a long way to go. In conclusion, many of these journals present the same information, even when they were decades apart. The increase of women holding important positions in companies, more women in STEM research, etc. are completely internal and could take decades to manifest in order for the conversation itself to change. The gender wage cap has had an existing trend of convergence ever since the late 19 th century as women start to become more equal to men. The rate of convergence has slowed considerably, but if the pattern continues in the future, the gender wage Student 4 will be inexistent. The trend of convergence has been around since the late 19 th century, but the activism of modern day feminism will create true equality in the future and therefore spark a new conversation about the gender wage gap. (Word Count: 998) Student 5 Works Cited Blau, Francine, and Lawrence Kahn. The US Gender Pay Gap in the 1990s: Slowing  National Bureau of Economic Research (2004): n. pag. NBER. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Bryant, Molly, Paige Winters, and Jojo Matson. Gender Pay  Uhuru 10th ser. 10.3 (2012): n. pag. Iowa State University. Iowa State University, 24 Jan. 2012. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Cohen, Philip N., and Matt L. Huffman. Working for the Woman? Female Managers and the Gender Wage  American Sociological Review 72.5 (2007): 681-704. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Hegewisch, Ariane, and Asha DuMonthier. IWPR  The Gender Wage Gap: 2015; Annual Earnings Differences by Gender, Race, and Ethnicity IWPR. IWPR, 1 Sept. 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <http://www.iwpr.org/publications/pubs/the-gender-wage-gap- 2015-annual-earnings-differences-by-gender-race-and-ethnicity>.