Student 1 Student Professor Kimber Wiggs, Composition I 25,Fab2017 Homelessness Homelessness is a definition of some people that have no houses or roofs above their heads. The homeless people are most likely to have no abilities to get or obtain a normal, secured, and nonviolent or safe housing. On the other hand, People who live in an institution, shelter, or one of the places that get donations to help people are considered homeless as well. Some authors believe that homelessness has caused troubles over the time and make the people who have experienced sick in some way and do things in another, and they also identify that homelessness significantly changed in too many ways such as increasing the rate of homelessness. The majorities of the homeless people are mentally sick with alcohol addictions, drugs, any other illnesses, or even have had domestic violence. According to article, 2013, 2.5 million children in the United States experienced familial homelessness or were unstably housed, a figure that has increased 38% since 2006 Children who experienced family homelessness face unique challenges when compared to the general (Jetelina, 2016). This quotation explains the huge increasing in the rate of homelessness, and how the children went through a lot of obstacles and difficulties because of their families. That was why later on the children became homeless or experienced it. Jetelina provides some examples after 2010 of the challenges the children faced. She says, children are more likely to have Student 2 behavioral disorders, emotional problems, and an array of other poor health outcomes compared to domiciled She refers to kind of an emotional disease, which is not a chronic disease, and it can be treated in a way or another. However in the past (before 2010) more than the half of the homeless people got a disease that can be chronic. In 2005 David wrote about that in his article, remains a persistent public mental health concern. Between one-fourth and one-third of homeless persons have a serious mental illness such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or major (David 2005). He also indicates that the percentage of men getting homeless is more than women, and with African American than the other ethnic group. In addition, who were older and nonwhite were more likely to have experienced family homelessness before or during fifth grade compared to domiciled 2016). She ensures that the percentage African American who has experienced the homelessness has been more than the others. That shows the one of the rare similarity between the past and now. But that does not mean they are the reasons for every crime. Studies show homeless people have done many things and experienced thousands of problems. For example, in article (2008), prior research in this area has examined past criminal justice involvement of currently homeless people by using data collected from community homeless samples and provides little information beyond prevalence rates of past criminal justice system Greenberg demonstrates the way the homeless people used to deal with some things such as crimes, and in somehow that could impact the economy and their society. In addition, the article identifies how the homelessness could cause some conditions that put people in a position Student 3 to be involved in some cases of crimes such as drug sales or possession, public intoxication, or even violent crime. However, Montgomery shows in her article that, The 100,000 Homes Campaign was a national exertion drove by Community Solutions a philanthropic concentrated on discovering answers for complex social issues to help 186 groups discover homes for 100,000 powerless as well as incessantly destitute Americans from July 2010 through July 2014 (Montgomery, 2016). The difference here is obviously that before 2010 the effort was focused on catching criminals but from 2010 to 2014 solutions are showing up, which of course will help to stop crimes and most importantly find places for homeless and poor people to live in. Moreover, Montgomery also demonstrates that 42.6% of the 350 000 single grown-ups who were homeless in the United States on one day in 2015 were living in unsheltered circumstances, In spite of the fact that this number speaks since 2007, 32.3 percent decrease in unsheltered homelessness. These big numbers demonstrate that unsheltered homelessness is still a worry. This is a really important case that should be taken care of because the more houses and jobs people get the more the economy will increase. In conclusion, according to these four articles, the homelessness has obviously changed over the time and its change is one of the biggest issues in the communities, and it impacts or influences on the factories in order to improve. In spite of that, the lack of assistances and services are the main causes for the homelessness change. Therefore, there would not be as much sick, homeless people, and criminals as there are right now if there were some services that the countries should provide. And they should not be just for rest, it also needs to be for getting them appropriate educations. That would stop the homelessness from increasing and being widespread over the time. (WC: 847) Student 4 Cited Works Folsom, David P. and Risk Factors for Homelessness and Utilization of Mental Health Services Among 10, 340 Patients with Serious Mental Illness in a Large Public Mental Health American Journal of Psychiatry 162.2 (2005): Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Greenberg, Greg A., and Robert A. Rosenheck. Incarceration, Homelessness, and Mental Health: A National Psychiatric Services 59.2 (2008): Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Jetelina, Katelyn K., et al. Association Between Familial Homelessness, Aggression, and Victimization Among Journal of Adolescent Health 59.6 (2016): Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Montgomery, Ann Elizabeth. Unsheltered Status, and Risk Factors for Public Health Reports 131.6 (2016): Web. 22 Jan. 2017.