Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 26 March 2017 Prostitution and Sexual Agency: A Consistent, Ongoing Discourse Within the context of modern feminism, the particular historical division in the movement that is currently being experienced is known as: In contrast to first-wave feminism, which primarily concerned itself with suffrage, and second-wave feminism, which is viewed as having developed between the 1960s and 1970s and contributed to issues such as the third-wave feminism is much closer in scope to the modern-day. Temporally, third-wave feminism is situated between the 1980s and especially the 1990s, to today. As a social issue, prostitution is one that while having been in existence since time immemorial, has only received attention and undergone analysis in the field of modern feminism in the most recent decades. Feminist debate surrounding prostitution and the question of whether or not sexual agency is provided for in the respective working environments of prostitutes has proven to be consistently divided. These divisions have historically distinguished between those that would seek to abolish prostitution entirely, and those that view prostitution as a direct expression of the agency of female sexuality, and in doing so, support those that engage in its practice. Though various theoretical frameworks debating prostitution have since emerged under third-wave period of influence, the overarching conversation in regard to prostitution and sexual autonomy as a whole has remained relatively invariable. Student 2 The documented contrast of opposition from those within modern feminism that critique prostitution, and sex workers themselves, has been prominent since at least 1985 specifically. In her 2002 article entitled, a Feminist Stance in Support of Prostitution Possible? An Exploration of Current Kari Kesler remarks upon a crucial historical turning point in discourse surrounding prostitution that occurred at a conference in Ontario, Canada, where sex workers met with feminists in an effort to reconcile their points of view. Those prostitutes that were in attendance expressed their frustrations that feminists scrutinized their perspectives without a prerequisite, intimate knowledge of their individual experiences (Kesler a similar event, the World Whores held in 1986, while choosing not to identify themselves as feminists on account of significant philosophical differences, prostitutes with feminist values such as independence, financial autonomy, sexual self-determination, personal strength, and female (Kesler 220). Thus, it can be understandably concluded that where modern, third-wave feminist discourse and sexual autonomy and/or agency is concerned, debates between sex workers campaigning for recognition and feminist analysts have been an ongoing process since at least the mid-1980s. For the sake of convenience, those that have been historically opposed to the practice of prostitution can be understood as analysts from the perspective, according to Jacqueline Comte in her 2014 article, of Sex Work: Feminist Discourses in Light of This perspective is opposed to any attempts to exert control over female sexuality, and is often encountered in tandem with a radical feminist theoretical orientation. (Comte 197-198). Furthermore, as a contrary philosophical division, those who are in favor of the holistic rights of sex workers as a social group engage in what is known as Student 3 which champions the removal of any potential stigmas surrounding female sexuality as a whole, and in its application promotes the reversal of designation as a criminal offense (Comte 201). The roots of the prostitution debate may however lie even earlier than the mid-1980s, as Judith Walkowitz, Professor Emerita in the field of History at John Hopkins University recalls, in a 2016 article, Politics of Prostitution and Sexual In the 1970s, Walkowitz describes joining a group of female historians that were at the forefront of the modern debate regarding prostitution. As the division of feminist thought that she describes as began to emerge, with radical feminists at the forefront of organized movements in response to violence, prostitution and pornography. . .in the late distinctions made between those termed and were very loosely constructed (Walkowitz 189). Walkowitz particularly credits radical feminists with having sparked the use of informed activism as a tool for creating tangible change around the issue of sexual autonomy as it pertains to female sexuality as a whole, while socialist and radical feminists equally constructed a newfound female sexual identity, uninfluenced by male subjugation or social propriety (Walkowitz 189-190). However, around the same period of time, Walkowitz significantly recounts that the female historians that she aligned herself with placed prostitution within the framework of other forms of labor, while the practice was stigmatized by other feminists for the commodification that they believed it resulted in (Walkowitz 190-191). Specifically, she mentions that prostitutes aroused a certain degree of suspicion from a feminist perspective, through what was perceived as their commodification of the sexual experience, which feminists were actively working to Student 4 liberate and equalize. (Walkowitz 190). With this juxtaposition of opposing viewpoints in mind, a clearly defined boundary between abolishing prostitution or supporting the practice in order to empower female sexuality is once more established. Though perhaps with credit given to sex workers themselves, such a boundary between prostitutes and particularly radical feminists during the 1970s was not without misunderstandings between both parties involved. After all, in order to truly engage a viewpoint one must have a thorough understanding of outlook, which could be said to be lacking for both radical feminists and prostitutes here. Although, such a fallacy does appear to be slightly more prominent from a radical feminist standpoint. This distinction between the acknowledgement of prostitution as labor of a different kind, and perception of the practice as a detrimental commodity is therefore not a novel occurrence. Because of radical feminists maintaining a historical stance towards an unbridled and liberated female sexual identity as described by Walkowitz, it then becomes understandable how suspicion towards prostitution later developed within one crucial feminist school of thought: radical feminism (Walkowitz 189-190). In other words, though both and feminists may have started with similar goals in mind and even originally encouraged each respective movements, it is quite apparent historically how these various interpretations emerged distinctly in the all-encompassing feminist movement since the 1970s. Strong conceptual divisions between those seeking to abolish prostitution entirely and those that advocate directly for the rights of sex workers continue to exist, and if the adage of history repeating itself rings true, the same polarities will progress unfailingly into future conversations. Student 5 (Word Count: 1,056 words.) Student 6 Works Cited Comte, Jacqueline. of sex work: Feminist discourses in light of Sexuality & Culture: An Interdisciplinary vol. 18, no. 1, 2014, pp. 197-201. Web. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017. Kesler, Kari. a Feminist Stance in Support of Prostitution Possible? An Exploration of Current vol. 5, no. 2, 2002, p. 220. Web. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017. Walkowitz, Judith R. Politics of Prostitution and Sexual Workshop vol. 82, no. 1, 2016, pp. 189-191. Web. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017.