Box !1 Hannah Box Emil Smith Composition 1 - Section 2 3/26/16 The Discussion on Home Education and Academic Success in College American institutionalized education was established to create academic success and prepare students for college, but it is questionable whether formal education is the only way to accomplish this goal. Home education is an alternative form of schooling that began with controversy in the 1960s (Riley 11) and with over two million children being home educated in the United States today (Riley 12), it is considered a popular education option. People have questioned the ability of homeschooling to prepare students to be academically successful in college since it began becoming a popular schooling option in the 1990s. This research on home education and academic success in college began in the early 2000s, which was around the time when homeschooling was beginning to be normalized. It covers recent studies as well, taking advantage of the scholarly data that is available as home education continues to grow as a schooling option. Scholarly discussion on this topic had not necessarily changed, but as research on home success at creating academically successful college students increased, the stigma against it was diminished and informal forms of education became more accepted. This is a relatively new topic of scholarly discussion and continues to grow. In the early 2000s, there was a mix of biased, opinion-based scholarly discussion and research was being conducted to disprove these biased statements. There are multiple articles published during this period that attempt to devalue home educated students as people who are Box !2 unable to be proper citizens or be successful in regular society. An example of one of these biased articles is Rob Civic Perils of (2002). This article reflects a lack of knowledge about homeschooling and is simply a biased opinion without any data to support its claim. may satisfy desire to customize education for their children, but such customization reflects a consumer mentality in education and potentially dilutes active democratic (Reich 56). Reich states that a child must attend a public school to experience enough diversity to be a good citizen, because it is a duty to respect the fact that others may have different opinions or beliefs from their own and still consider them equals (58). Another issue with home education that Reich mentions is that home educated students can often feel like outcasts because they did not have the shared experience of attending a public school that most people have had (58). Published only four years later (in 2006), Michael H. article The Common Myths About  questions statements. Romanowski takes many common myths about homeschooling at that time and uses various studies also published in this period to disprove them. One of the myths that Reich mentions, that homeschooling fails to prepare good citizens (Romanowski 126), is debunked by Romanowski. The author found a study by Brian Ray (who surveyed 7300 homeschooled adults) from 2003, which found that home educated individuals were very active in their communities, with 71% of homeschool graduates actively participating in community service (compared to 37% of US adults) and 88% of homeschool graduates being members of a community organization (compared to 50% of US adults) (127). The other Reich finding, that homeschooling produces social misfits (Romanowski 125), was also debunked by Romanowski. He states that myth from the thought that Box !3 homeschooled lack the social skills needed to function in (Romanowski 125). This is based off of the assumption that school is the only time and place a child socializes, and it ignores the efforts that many homeschool parents put in to ensure that their children are being social through extracurricular activities. (125) Although there was a great deal of biased discussion during this time period, there were also many people debunking those myths and showcasing positive data towards home education and collegiate success. From 2010 to present day, there have been multiple studies specifically focusing on home education and academic success in college that positively reflect homeschooling as a viable form of education to prepare students for college. The first study that specifically tackled this topic was in 2010 by Michael F. Cogan. Exploring Academic Outcomes Of Homeschooled , which revealed that home educated students often score above average in academia. This article sparked the discussion about home education and academic success in college. This study analyzed the academic outcomes of home educated, Catholic school educated, and public school educated students at a doctoral institution in the midwest. It found that the homeschooled students scored highest on all fronts tested - average ACT scores (average of 26.5 for homeschoolers versus 25.6 for private schoolers, 25.1 for Catholic schoolers, and 25.0 for public schoolers), high school GPA (average of 3.74 for homeschoolers, 3.43 for private schoolers, 3.49 for Catholic schoolers, and 3.56 for public schoolers), first-year GPA (average of 3.41 for homeschoolers, 3.13 for private schoolers, and 3.12 for both Catholic schoolers and public schoolers), four-year GPA (average of 3.46 for homeschoolers, 3.18 for private schoolers, 3.13 for Catholic schoolers, and 3.16 for public schoolers), and graduation rate (average of 66.7% for homeschoolers, 51.5% for private schoolers, 54.2% for Catholic schoolers, and 58.6% for public Box !4 schoolers (Cogan 23). This study was the one of the first of its kind, and others have followed suit since. An Evaluative Study Of The Academic Achievement Of Homeschooled Students Versus Traditionally Schooled Students Attending A Catholic  by Marc Snyder (2013) also tested the academic achievement of homeschooled students, but they attended a Catholic university in southern Florida. The study shows that on average, homeschooled students scored higher than both public schooled and Catholic schooled students on all fronts tested - average ACT scores (average of 26 for homeschoolers, 24.53 for Catholic schoolers, and 24.22 for public schoolers), SAT scores (average of 1864.94 for homeschoolers, 1761.04 for Catholic schoolers, and 1706.76 for public schoolers), college GPA (average of 3.14 for homeschoolers, 2.88 for Catholic schoolers, and 2.66 for public schoolers), GPA based on major (average of 3.20 for homeschoolers, 3.12 for Catholic schoolers, and 2.97 for public schoolers), and core GPA (average of 3.11 for homeschoolers, 3.02 for Catholic schoolers, and 2.97 for public schoolers) (Snyder 301). Both of these studies use definitive data to show that homeschooled students are often above average when it comes to academic achievement in college. Even though definitive data on academic success has become more prevalent in recent years, people are still studying whether homeschooled students have the traits of good citizens. Differences In Competence, Autonomy, And Relatedness Between Home Educated And Traditionally Educated Young  by Gina Riley was published in 2015 and compares the world of home educated students and traditionally schooled students. The test found that homeschooled students scored higher than traditionally schooled students when it came to competence (the mental capability to do something successfully): 6.27 versus 5.27 out of 7, and autonomy (independence): 6.02 versus 4.75 out of 7 (Riley 17). Home educated students Box !5 scored around the same as traditionally schooled students when it came to relatedness (ability to work with others) (Riley 18). The combination of study and studies such as the ones by Cogan and Snyder give a comprehensive understanding of homeschooled students and on average, their ability to be academically successful and engaged citizens as adults. Although this topic of scholarly discussion is still relatively new, there does seem to be a trend: as research of home education increases, so does the positive discussion about this form of schooling. The general opinion on homeschooling has become more accepting and there are more studies backed by data (rather than just opinion) in recent years. The positive discussion about homeschooling and academic success is reflected by the millions of people homeschooling in America today - and successfully attending college afterwards. Box !6 Works Cited Cogan, Michael F. Exploring Academic Outcomes Of Homeschooled  Journal Of College Admission 208 (2010) Reich, Rob. The Civic Perils Of  Educational Leadership 7 (2002): 56. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017 Riley, Gina. Differences In Competence, Autonomy, And Relatedness Between Home Educated And Traditionally Educated Young  International Social Science Review 90.2 (2015): 1-27. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Romanowski, Michael H. Revisiting The Common Myths About  Clearing House 79.3 (2006): 125-129. Academic Search Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Snyder, Marc. An Evaluative Study Of The Academic Achievement Of Homeschooled Students Versus Traditionally Schooled Students Attending A Catholic  Catholic Education: A Journal Of Inquiry And Practice 16.2 (2013): 288-308. ERIC. Web. 24 Jan. 2017