Garcia 1 Raquel Garcia Sarah Roth ENC 1101 March 12, 2017 The Changing Discussion of Heroin Addiction Over Time The birth of the heroin addict occured in the late when an enormous opium influx made its way up from Texas. Brought by Chinese immigrants working on the railroads, popularity quickly spread throughout the United States. Physicians prescribed opium in wide ranges to treat patients, from relieving pain in cancer to menstruation cramps. It until later in the 17 th century that physicians became aware of the dangerous and highly addictive effects of opioids. In an attempt to find a non-addictive replacement, heroin arrived, and the substance available but was quickly classified as an illegal drug in the United States when it was discovered that it was just as, if not more, highly addictive. However, that stop its popularity from increasing and since then, the U.S. has faced two major heroin epidemics. Today heroin remains as one of the most abused drugs in the world, and on its way to reaching a third epidemic of abuse. According to the Centers for Disease Control, there has been a five-fold increase in heroin overdose deaths since the year 2000. Efforts for finding better methods of rehabilitation and lowering the abuse of the drug have been made since heroin made its first debut, yet experts place the recovery rate from heroin addiction at 20% with an expected eventual relapse of 80%. Due to the perseverance of the drugs increase in intake, as well as purer and cheaper availability in present time, there is a call for urging matter and change in scholarly conversations from previous years. Comparing and contrasting the scholarly conversations from Garcia 2 the year 2000 to now, can give us a better understanding on the ways heroin has and continues to be one of the greater drug problems in the United States. Hopes that heroin would soon become forgotten after its failure to replace pain relievers were high but soon shattered. The powerful effects of heroin are described as an inexplicable rush of pure pleasure. A euphoric intensity that takes over your whole body, causing the user to feel experiencing heightened feelings of love, happiness, and tranquility. Unlike other drugs, heroin allows the user to be conscious with their decisions. In fact many heroin users report being able to concentrate better while high on the drug. An experiment lead by JNeurosci done in 2006, was done to understand the beginnings of addiction and look for the possibility, inspired by the early true birth of the drug, of using heroin in monitored doses to treat patients suffering from extreme physical or emotional pain. The experiment consisted of using lab rats and separating them into two different categories. Non-dependent rats who were administered low and controlled doses of heroin, and heroin-dependent rats who were given gradually larger doses of heroin and eventually given the option to intake more heroin by spinning on a wheel inside their tanks. The experiment took a close look at the reward-thresholds given by the brain, meaning the rats got the and rewarding experience, while also monitoring the withdrawal symptoms and effects on the brain. The results showed that the rats with the daily restriction experienced stable reward threshold, meaning the minimal amount of heroin was not sufficient to alter their brain reward. However, the rats with escalated doses of heroin had increasing reward thresholds. It was found that part of the reward threshold in the brains of the heroin-dependent rats was mainly stemmed from the uncomfortable and painful memories from the withdrawals. This article from 2006 gives insight at how scientists were still considering the Garcia 3 possibility of using heroin for medicinal purposes, although high addiction was recognized, it was not perceived as big of an issue compared to side effects or withdrawals. In contrast, an article published by the Nations Health in 2010 recognized heroin abuse being so bad at the time, that country officials declared a public health emergency. The Nations Health is an organization of health officials who prioritize in battling the opiate abuse epidemic and concern with the increasing heroin use. They found a strong link between patients who were prescribed opioids and switched then to heroin use. In fact, the organization claims that there has been a 100% transition rate from prescription opioids to injecting heroin within the people in their needle exchange program. However, according to Len Paulozzi, a medical epidemiologist, is no data to suggest that gains made in restricting easy access to prescription painkillers are being voided by a switch to Paulozzi argues that heroin abuse is new problem on top of the old Roberts, another expert in the matter made the opposite claim and urged to all citizens is truly a public health problem and we have the need the treatment side, law enforcement, the drug courts, and we can bring all those together to work as a unified Two sides to the growing issue made the scholarly conversation a difficult one to agree on and cooperate with, as different opinions wanted to make their own decisions. People began to build their own ideas, some thought the problem was doctors overprescribing opioids, while others thought heroin use was the result of lack of education and making bad choices. The real answer remained unclear, and therefore making progress became more difficult and controversial. Moving forward: the National Institution on Drug Abuse (NIDA), is a government organization which publicities current information on drugs in the United States. A particular article by NIDA published in the year 2014 summarized the addicting effects of heroin as well as Garcia 4 the long-term effects of heroin abuse on the brain. Images presented showed the appearance of people before and after a few years of using heroin, and the results were terrifying. The NIDA describes addiction as happening over time, and as the effect of developing a tolerance to the drug. Substance abuse disorder develops when you begin to have health issues, failure to meet responsibilities at work, school, or home. One heroin addict supports that statement by saying $10 dollars of heroin that were able to get you high the first few times soon turn to $100 to be able to get the same Those who become addicted and stop using the drug go through severe withdrawals with many painful symptoms. Some long-term effects of using heroin that studies have shown are: loss of the white matter, which alter the decision-making part of the brain; a great loss of behavior control; and gradually becoming unable to respond to stressful situations. The scholarly conversation at this time period suggested a progress in research on the harmful effects of the drug. Rehabilitation programs became more available to people, and the focus turned towards learning ways to defeat addiction and educate others to prevent further growth of drug abuse. Lastly, the UN Office on Drugs and crime recently released the World Drug Report of 2016. The report contains information on the impact of opiates. In the report it was stated that heroin is still the deadliest and most dangerous worldwide, with over a fivefold increase in deaths and three times the number of users in the U.S. since the year 2000. Theories have been made about why heroin use is going up at such rates. One suggests that the overpresciption on drugs like Vicodin and OxyCotin are encouraging dependence. Despite last decrease on opioids prescription, popularity continues to increase so many believe the theory to be wrong. The UN calls for an urging change of method for rehabilitation to all the rehab houses and prisons. The problem which is world-wide, seems to be more prevalent Garcia 5 in the United States. Especially as newer and purer forms of heroin are becoming more available and at cheaper prices. The scholarly conversation progresses to one of terror in the voices of concerned Americans, as well as to calling for newer and better ways to stop the heroin epidemic. At this point in time, various research has been done, newer and better methods for rehabilitation are being acquired and a state of alarm has spread. In conclusion, as time has progressed from the early to present time, the scholarly conversation on heroin and heroin addiction has changed noticeably. In the earlier years, heroin was a concern but the side effects on the brain and body were still not considered or researched. In fact, according to my first source, some scientists were still looking for ways in which heroin could be used effectively to treat patients as a controlled dose. However, as time goes on, the talk about heroin becomes more urgent and concerning, and studies became more important. Addiction and heroin remained unresolved and misunderstood for a few more years, until later on when research revealed the numerous ways in which heroin was severely harmful. Finally, as we get closer to present time, we begin to see a change in concern from people, new methods for treatment are being investigated and addiction relapses prevented. The importance of understanding addiction in heroin remains as a priority, as heroin continues to expand strongly. Comparing research and studies done throughout different years can help us detect patterns and determine the best solution for top drug problem. Garcia 6 Works Cited 10 Most Abused  The Cabin Chiang Mai. N.p., 15 Sept. 2016. Web. 23 Mar. 2017. Heroin Overview : Origin and History  MethOIDE - methamphetamine and other illicit drug education. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Mar. 2017. Krisberg, Kim. Fatal heroin overdoses on the increase as use skyrockets: Health officials battling opiate  The Health. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Mar. 2017. Suzanne.kunnen. World Drug  World Drug Report 2016. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Mar. 2017.