Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 3 March 2017 The War on Drugs vs. the Black Community The War on Drugs was initially launched to combat the ever-growing drug problem that America faced in the 1970s. Coupled with this fact that there was also a racial tension issue boiling beneath surface. This led to an ongoing event that has lasted almost 40 years and is still affecting the Black community today. At first, the War on Drugs seemed like a genuine attempt to get rid of people who had fallen into the harmful drug selling business. Instead as time went on, it became clear that the target only the drugs, but the Black community as well. Considering new research and further looks into the subject, the scholarly discussion about the War on Drugs has shifted to address how harmful it is to the Black community. In the 1970s and 1980s, a new drug problem started in America. Many poverty stricken places were ridden with crime, drugs, and violence. In 1971, President Nixon first introduced the term, declaring drugs to be public enemy number 1. It progressed when, in 1982, President Reagan officially declared a war on drugs. Since then, there has been an escalating scholarly conversation about how it is harming the Black community. Firstly, it has affected the home life of many Black families. Due to this fact, there was a vicious cycle of incarceration. It was much easier and profitable for a Black man to become involved with the drug business instead of having to develop skills to get a legal job. This only set them up for failure. When they would eventually get caught and arrested, sending them to prison would not only affect them, but their family. Writing for the Cato Institute, John McWhorter noted: It has become a norm for black children to grow up in single-parent homes, their fathers away in prison for long spells and barely knowing them. In poor and working-class black America, a man and a woman raising Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 3 March 2017 their children together is, of all things, an unusual  The drug war plays an oversized role in this (DeRugy) When this event was first started, both Nixon and Reagan believed that it would improve the quality of life in America. Instead, it targeted poor Blacks. There has been an increasing issue with mass incarceration due to the War on Drugs. 1980, for instance, there were fewer than 300,000 people in prison. By 2000, however, that number had risen to over 1 (Bobo 449). This shows that between these times, there was more than a 400 % increase in a drug charge resulting in time in prison. People were being sent to prison for nonviolent, petty drug charges that have raised the rate of people being sent to prison. The amount of minorities in prisons have been raising at alarming rates. for marijuana possession, usually for very small amounts, account for 44 percent of drug arrests nationwide and disproportionately affect African Americans. Although few have been sentenced to long prison terms, most acquire criminal records that will handicap them for (Graff 120) This shows that with the decades moving forward, the government used drugs and drug charges to keep Black people (mostly men) in prison. With the rates increasing by the hundreds. The War on Drugs has also only made the already strained race relations in America worse. With America attempting to move on from the Civil Right Movement of the 1950s and 1960s, this only added fuel to the fire. Stop and frisks were utilized by police in the 90s. Soon, people began to realize that it only happened to minorities. and frisks proliferated in the United States during the War on Drugs, particularly in impoverished predominately Black and Latino  (Cooper 1188) This connects to the present because of all of the recent cases of police brutality towards Black people. Before it was blatant discrimination and now it has become much more subtle and unnoticeable. Alyse Dixon Roth ENC 1101-003 3 March 2017 In conclusion, this topic has changed over time because there has been more research and in result more outrage at what is being done to the Black community. Evidence has shown that it has harmed Black families and created another issue of mass incarceration. It is not being swept under the rug anymore and people are really giving it more thought. It was first began as a way to potentially rein in drug abusers and dealers from wreaking havoc in America. It instead has turned into something deeper that has played into the race relations.