Gott 1 Jordan Gott Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 5 April 2017 Relief is on the way What if the average man/woman had the capability to save a life, not just one life but multiple lives of children? Would they take advantage of this potential? Would they put aside time to utilize this power to the best of their ability? Of course most would answer yes but what if they were told in reality they actually have this power? Here in the States lives are relatively comfortable where food and water are a staple of everyday life that is often taken for granted; however, in Africa these basic commodities are scarce at best. Children are dying everyday throughout the continent due to malnutrition, dehydration, and lack of basic first aid. Luckily there are organizations such as Projects Abroad which provide a life changing trip that volunteers can embark on to stop these atrocities. Poverty in Africa is a problem almost as timeless as the idea of poverty itself. It all begins with the geography of the continent. Africa is renowned for its vast desserts and harsh living conditions, countries such as Ethiopia have a yearly average of 93 degrees and Libya has even been known to hit 136 degrees Fahrenheit (Tesema, New Results on Equatorial Thermospheric Winds and Temperatures from Ethiopia, ). The barren deserts that scower the continent make shade virtually non-existent and with such extreme temperatures water a rare discovery and vegetation even rarer. Because of this life here is among the most challenging, in the world and thus animal populations dwindle. Throughout history Africa has been a war ridden continent for centuries, constantly struggling to break free of oppression from outside powers. Because of Gott 2 this Africa was left behind during ages of industrialization and modernization and the continent is now underdeveloped and made up of third-world countries. Despite this land of lacking 1.216 billion call this place their home (Barnhill, Poverty in ). How can a place so barren harbor 14% of the population? Well it is not without its challenges; the lack of resources in Africa leads to 1,800 child deaths every single day (Doherty, Ending Preventable Child Deaths in South Africa: What Role Can Ward-Based Outreach Teams ). Many organizations such as UNICEF, Peace Corps, Aid for Africa, Save the Children, Children International, Mercy Ships, and Projects Abroad have been formed in order to prevent these needless deaths by providing funds, resources, and many other forms of assistance for these under developed countries. One form of relief that is often overlooked, and is the main focus of Projects Abroad, is the missionary/relief trip (Projects Abroad, Volunteer and Intern Abroad Projects ). These trips gather a group of caring volunteers who wish to make a difference and send them to a country that is in dire need of assistance, such as many African countries. These trips can last anywhere from three years to the more common duration of about a week, known as a short-term missionary trip (STM). This is priceless alternative to simply donating money because many third-world countries have the same education as her in the United States and with the resources supplied to them, they may not know how to properly utilize them. Even if they do they may not have the man power to, for instance, build a well or a school. That is where the volunteers come in can assist in numerous ways from building ways to gather sustainable food and water and even energy, to teaching the children and educating them about how this process works. Having a person there to help these children learn, grow, and survive is extremely impactful on their lives, unfortunately the down side of these trips is the lack of volunteers. Gott 3 The problem with finding volunteers can come from two aspects, one being the lack of awareness about problems in these countries. very easy to forget about the horrid conditions some countries are in because the United culture is so distanced from them. Despite the technologically centered world and increasing globalization attention is only payed to the things society wants to and normally the only thing presented by the media. First-world countries are so sheltered in their world of miniscule affairs such as grocery store deals and political battles that the harsh reality of how difficult life is without our water fountains and deli meat. The life where one has to consistently fight against the forces of nature in order to survive is truly a feat many will never understand. Everyone knows that poverty in Africa and children dying there because of unclean water or lack of food but when thrown out these numbers such as 1,800 children die every day because of these conditions hard for one to really understand that behind every digit is the life of a real human being, a real mother mourning the loss of her baby, a real child fading away because of the lack of nutrients. Imagine seeing a child pass right in front of eyes; can one even imagine the horror, the despair? Now imagine that pain 1,800 times over, and just day one. Think about it this way, a school bus can hold roughly 72 kids so what if 25 school buses full of children crashed every single day? The country would be outraged and change would begin immediately, new braking and seatbelt and airbag system, extra fortification of bus walls, new intensive driving courses that every bus driver would take would be implemented. But simply because these children are on the other side of the ocean the world forgets about them and their daily struggle to survive. The public goes on its everyday business as usual arguing over the amount of Trans fat that should be allowed in a fast food burger while on the other side of the Atlantic, children are dying from drinking from a river of contaminated water and nothing is being done about it. Gott 4 The second reason it is so difficult to find volunteers are simply incorrect assumptions about these trips, one of the biggest being expenses. One to two week trips to Africa can go from 1,000 to even as low as 300 dollars but if that still is too much there are multiple government programs that cover the cost entirely (Save the Children, )! Another reason many steer away from these sort of trips is because of the term which is associated with hardcore religious, generally Christian, groups. This can be the case but there are many other groups that are more than open to any volunteers no matter what religious affiliation. Another common fear is that these trips send participants to parts of Africa portrayed in movies such as Blood Diamond; however, this is also not the case. More times than not the trip destinations are places that have received groups multiple times before and are heavily monitored for their safety. A question that is often asked is, does one have the skills required to go on these trips? And the answer is of course. Many think one needs to be a doctor or engineer in order to be of service and while people of those professions are desired just being a caring volunteer willing to learn is more than sufficient. While over in Africa one may be asked to teach children basic concepts about science or even CPR classes which one would receive a basic training course in such skills that would take only a day. When it comes to building certain projects such as sustainable water, food, or energy there is a project manager who will instruct volunteers with every step needed. Finally many have the preconceived notion that they have the time to go on such a trip. It is true some trips can last up to over year but there are just as many that go for a week or sometimes even less. Depending on the profession one has, most businesses allow more than a week of PTO or vacation time so volunteers would have plenty of time to save lives and be back for their 8 a.m. Monday. common to take this vacation time when one is overly stressed or just simply because they will expire if they are not used but what if instead of spending that time Gott 5 catching up on T.V. series or tanning, people could make an actual impact on lives. How many people can say after a week that they helped prevent the deaths of multiple children by taking time out of their day to irrigate a sustainable farmland? Now, more than ever, the world has the greatest chance of utterly eliminating these awful conditions with the abundance of resources and accessibility to travel that are possessed. This decision truly can make a difference in these lives. They need a doctor or engineer or superhero, they just need someone that cares enough to take one week out of their life and try to change their world for the better. This is one of the most rewarding experiences one can partake on because as opposed to simply donating money on a website, Projects Abroad allows one to see the impact they are making on lives first-hand. Volunteers experience the smiles on faces, wells being dug, and the incredible feeling of a community working together to overcome obstacles. Despite all of these fun and heartwarming aspects one can take away from this trip they must remember this is a trip focusing on preventing the deaths of children who are in dire need of help. So the question is now that men and woman have the ability to save these lives, will they take advantage of this potential? Gott 6 Works Cited  Save the Children. N.p., 2017. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. <http://www.savethechildren.org/site/c.8rKLIXMGIpI4E/b.6149699/k.B848/Africa.htm> . Barnhill, John H., PhD. Poverty in  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=er s&AN=90558431&site=eds-live. Doherty, T., et al. Ending Preventable Child Deaths in South Africa: What Role Can Ward- Based Outreach Teams  South African Medical Journal, no. 7, 2016, p. 672. EBSCOhost, doi:10.7196/SAMJ.2016.v106i7.10790. Volunteer and Intern Abroad Projects  Volunteer Overseas. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. <http://www.projects- U1EandEn9u92QkESioorZyk4iesJEaAopC8P8HAQ>. Tesema, Fasil, et al. New Results on Equatorial Thermospheric Winds and Temperatures from Ethiopia,  Annales Geophysicae (09927689), vol. 35, no. 2, Feb. 2017, pp. 333- 344. EBSCOhost, doi:10.5194/angeo-35-333-2017.