Kulikov 1 Anatoly Kulikov Professor Roth Composition 1 Project 2, Intermediate draft Change of the social class in the era of Information. The beginning of 21 st century arrived with the revolution in communication technology, which expanded the influence of corporations and governments around the world, and this later was called Globalization. In this modernized era, boundaries of social status continue to grow, as high class drifting away from lower classes, which makes them difficult to define. Worldwide societies segregated their privileges into Poor, Middle and Rich classes based on income and wealth, which created new norms of living between them. These can be defined as: establishment of unequal opportunities throughout lifetime, which give certain result. Through long period of time dozens of studies were conducted on this topic from different perspectives political, economic, and sociological. From this, it follows that scholarly conversation about social class has shifted from theories of wealth and money to statistical studies and researches in different areas, such as social media. Social class distribution is the significant topic of discussion in economic and political fields, and can be interpreted from various angles and points. This topic started long before people invented writing, however it is widely discussed in both Industrialization and Informational eras. Karl Marx created great works on social class differentiation in his book where he segregated class into two main groups: (wealthy class, that does not work, but use produced capital) and (the working class that produces capital for higher class) (Marx, 1867). As to differentiate classes in 21 st century, huge study was done to research fractality of wealth and income, the foundation on which social class stands. Kulikov 2 Authors use statistical data, formulas, and graphs to investigate socioeconomic fractality of wealth and make approximations to study hierarchical fractals. Throughout the research to support their data they used materials from researchers of the past. Cohen and Eliazar analyze work of Italian economist Vilfredo Pareto from previous century to calculate important data and conclude the research (Eliazar & Cohen, 2014). In comparison, other research done to question the definition of social class and consensus on division. Authors of the study used statistical data as well as surveys of Bank of Italy in 2002-2004 to conduct their research and answer their thesis. Eisenhauer in his work and intensity used modern methods to conduct research, and as he used materials from Bank of Italy, he used them as a foundation to study the phenomenon of declining poverty during given period (Eisenhauer, 2011). All of the given sources differentiate in time, methods of study and conclusions on topic of social class. Moreover, the all the authors mentioned above were highly biased by philosophers and sociologists from much distant past. Karl Marx, for example, gathered his ideas from Ancient Roman and Ancient Greek Empires as well as other highly known figures; The study on Fractality of the wealth and income were conducted on bases of theory of Italian economist whereas research relied mainly on information from Bank of Italy. The topic of social class remains one of the central to the economy which helps to understand the roots of segregation of societies, so it is important to study the past generations of academic journals as well as present studies. However, there are still studies that been conducted on use of original and modern data. The first study analyzes 27 participants who are transitioning from to environments and their behavior through lenses of social class. Their primary goal is to use the provided information from experiments and surveys to describe challenges in joining different societies. This research was conducted from field of sociology with use of original material to understand and prescribe relationships with people from different economic background (Noonan, Hall & Blustein, 2007). The most original and unique research were conducted to analyze behavior of different social classes on use of Social Kulikov 3 Networking Websites (SNW). The study does not discuss income or wealth, but rather includes different type of measurement of social inequalities, such as tweets, reposts and popularity. The work considers the lenses of social class from modernized data, which changes relatively fast. Instead of using foundation knowledge of important figures of the past, which considered to be basic knowledge nowadays, they look directly at the problem from different perspective (Ruhela, Bagchi, Mahanti & Seth, 2015). The use of independent data and unique research questions builds original ideas to be used in the future for researches to state their opinions or developing new points of view. The academic conversation on the topic of social class has shifted drastically in time, not only in argument, but also in methodological approach to understanding class altogether. Methods to study data of past times have proven to be non-effective in practice in the modern world, however these methods inform the ways in which class is now understood. The original and unique data on the other hand, such as surveys, interviews and experiments clearly answer research questions. Discussions of previous centuries developed the main ideas and settings for topic of social class, moreover by the increase in technology and large spread of education in the era of Information more options are available for researchers to develop new tools in studies of such topic. In the next century we will see the huge shift in academic researches on social class and its development, which will guide to the new questions and answers. Kulikov 4 Work Cited Eliazar, I. & Cohen, M. H. (2014). Hierarchical socioeconomic fractality: the rich, the poor, and the middle-class. In Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 402, 30- 40. 10.1016/j.physa.2014.01.059 Eisenhauer, J. G. (2011). The rich, the poor, and the middle class: thresholds and intensity indices. In Research in Economics, 65 (4), 294-304. 10.1016/j.rie.2011.01.002 Hart, C. L. & Deary, I. J. (2003). Childhood iq, social class, deprivation, and their relationships with mortality and morbidity risk in later life: prospective observational study linking the scottish mental survey 1932 and the midspan studies. Psychosomatic Medicine, 877-883. Noonan, A. E., Hall, G., Blustein, D. L. (2007). Urban experience of social class in relationships at work. In Journal of Vocational Behavior, 542-560. 10.1016/j.jvb.2007.01.005 Marx, K. (2009). Das kapital: a critique of political economy. Regnery Pub, 11-24.