Aviles 1 Saul Aviles Ms. Smith 03/26/17 Composition I Treatment of Diabetes Using Stem Cells Twenty-nine million individuals in the United States (9.3%) have been diagnosed with diabetes. Diabetes is a disease which affects the insulin producing B cells within the body, thus causing an increase in glucose levels. Even with the rapid advancements in technology as well as medicine, a successful and dependable treatment procedure is yet to be created for the 2,000- year-old devastating disease. However, the discovery and understanding of stem cells may provide a definite cure for diabetes. Stem cells are unspecialized cells with the ability to manifest into different cells within the human body, when put in the ideal conditions. In short, stem cells can be placed into the pancreas of a diabetic individual, and the stem cells will develop into B cells, which in turn produce insulin, thus curing diabetes. Easier said than done, there is a lot to understand about stem cells and still much to learn before such a goal can be achieved. The academic discussion on whether stem cells will effectively cure diabetes has changed little over the last two decades, staying rather consistent and optimistic but also molding and advancing. In 2004, Habener discussed the possible advantages, as well as disadvantages of stem cell therapy. Transplantation of islet cells in the liver has proved to be a definite cure for type I diabetes, however the severe shortage of donors limits the impact the procedure can have on diabetes (Habener, 30). One way this can be overcome is through harnessing the rapid cell division of stem cells in order to create an abundance of islet cell clusters. Embryonic stem cells Aviles 2 (ESC) are pluripotent cells, meaning they can virtually become any cell type in the human body when placed in the right conditions. The retrieval process for however, involves the destruction of the blastocyst (early fertilized embryo) which has led to an ethical outcry, which has halted the experimental use of Embryonic stem cells. Somatic stem cells (adult stem cells) (ASC) provide an alternative path because they avoid the ethical restrictions placed on ESC, however ASC are known to be multipotent, meaning they cannot become any cell in the human body such as Embryonic stem cells. Habener states that diabetes may be treated in either of two ways: transplantation of stem/progenitor cells (into the pancreas) to transdifferentiate into B cells or to stimulate stem cells within the pancreas to transdifferentiate into B (34). However, there is still no evidence to say that stem cells exist in the pancreas. Stem cell therapy has moved from a theoretical discussion (talked about in the paragraph) to more experimental over the next few years. In 2010, an article written by Ryan T. Wagner discusses the possible ways that B cells can be created through stem cells. Embryonic stem cells allow for the creation of almost every cell in the human body, however due to their tumorigenic (tumors) properties, as well the ethical barrier, are unlikely to reach future clinical trial phases. Induced pluripotency stem cells (type of Somatic stem cell) (IPSC) are an interesting topic since they can also give rise to any cell within the human body, as well as provide better benefits than ESC. IPSC come from the body, thus there is less likely a chance of immune rejection. The procedure is becoming relatively simple and efficient, and not to mention, it avoids the ethical barrier that halted the progress of (Wagner, 169-179). In a study, IPSC were transdifferentiated into identical ESC which were then able to be differentiated into cardiac, as well as neural cells (Wagner, 169- 179). Compared to the previous article, Wagner discuses studies done by researchers in which Aviles 3 stem cells were transformed into other cells of the human body, overall showing how the discussion has moved from theoretical to reality. As of 2016, much about how stem cells function, as well as their regenerative abilities has been understood. Two articles by El Hossary and Bao-Heng, both discuss the data collected from the transplantation of stem cells into diabetic rats. In El experiment, Umbilical stem cells were transdifferentiated into IPC (Insulin Progenitor Cells) which were inserted into mice either intravenous (vein in the tail) or intraperitoneal (abdominal tissue). After months of data collection, the data showed that the rats injected intravenous had lower glucose levels starting from D7 (172.40 FBG) compared to intraperitoneal (457.60 FBG) and the control group (468.70 FBG) (El Hossary, 102-111). Overall, the rats injected intravenous showed a much lower glucose level, as well as for a longer period than those injected intraperitoneal. Bao-Heng experiment focused on whether Naringenin will catalyze the speed, durability, and efficiency of stem cells in diabetic rats. Overall, Naringenin when injected along with the embryonic stem cells, led to a 4.57 3 insulin increase compared to the control group (Bao-Heng, 93-100). Naringenin was also found to lead to a decrease in oxidative stress (causes cell death) within the stem cells (Bao-Heng, 93-100). Compared to the earlier published articles mentioned earlier, Stem cell research has moved from theoretical talk and simple experimentation to animal testing which have had successful outcomes. Furthermore, the stance on stem cell therapy usage for curing diabetes has remained rather constant and hopeful throughout the years. It is important to note that although the discussion itself has not changed over time, that the idea has developed and proceeded forward along the years. It started as a hopeful theory which over time began to develop into reality in which now there have been preliminary testing and experiments which have developed Aviles 4 successful data. Even more recently clinical trials have begun their first steps in human testing, and the scientific community eagerly awaits the results. Works Cited Aviles 5 El-Hossary, Nancy, et al. Intravenous Vs Intraperitoneal Transplantation Of Umbilical Cord Mesenchymal Stem Cells From Jelly In The Treatment Of Streptozotocin- Induced Diabetic  Diabetes Research & Clinical Practice 121.(2016): 102-111. CINAHL. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Habener, Joel F. A Perspective On Pancreatic Stem/Progenitor  Pediatric Diabetes 5.(2004): 29-37. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Wagner, Ryan T., et al. Review Article: Stem Cell Approaches for the Treatment of Type 1 Diabetes  Translational Research, vol. 156, no. Stem Cells: Medical Promises and Challenges, 01 Jan. 2010, pp. 169-179. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.trsl.2010.06.005. Xing, Bao-heng, Feng-zhen Yang, and Xiao-hua Wu. Full Paper: Naringenin Enhances The Efficacy Of Human Embryonic Stem Cell-Derived Pancreatic Endoderm In Treating Gestational Diabetes Mellitus  Journal Of Pharmacological Sciences 131.(2016): 93-100. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.