The concept of the legalization of marijuana has been a dream for people who have experienced diseases such as asthma, arthritis and many more diseases. Prior to the year 2010, the argument that has surrounded the idea of legalizing marijuana has been about how it can affect adolescents. But due to the attention that has been surrounding the legalization of marijuana through sources such as social media and presidential elections, the attitude has changed substantially, per an article that exhibited the ways that the public feels about the legalization of marijuana. In 2009, the polls were not in favor of legalizing marijuana. However, when the poll was re-administered in 2013, there was a significant change in the attitude of legalizing marijuana (Millhorn 2009). With the new attitude that is contributed to the legalization of marijuana, the argument changed from focusing solely on how heavy usage of marijuana can affect the way that an adolescent will behave later in life (Green, Doherty 2010), to having the argument focus on how the legalization would be able to help the economy and people who have medical issues in which marijuana would aid in either recovery, treatment, or curing their ailment. With the argument constantly changing based on opinions and not facts, the information does not change- just the opinion of legalizing marijuana. Prior to the year 2017, the argument that was centered around the legalization of marijuana was how it could corrupt adolescences who use it. During the time of controversy many believed that teens that used marijuana were doomed to live a life in jail. Those who supported the legalization of marijuana tried showing how the use of marijuana would be able to help people that have medical conditions or how it would be able to help with people who have anxiety and depression. This information was overlooked because many were looking at what marijuana could do to kids that overuse the drug in unsafe and irresponsible methods. There were many studies before the year 2010 that focused mainly on what marijuana could do to adolescents that were abusing the drug. Many stated that the kids would go to jail later in life or that the kids that were heavily using marijuana would become depressed because of their need to constantly be using marijuana. Although there were many claims that were being stated about why the legalization of marijuana would not be ideal there were many people showed their support for the drugs to help with diseases and even to help with the economy. The main argument that was being shown is the amount of money that we could save if the police were not concerned with putting people in jail for the consumption of marijuana. With this there was the other side of the argument of how marijuana leads to people doing harder drugs- some dubbing marijuana a In data that was pooled from samples of over 1,300 U.S. counties (1994-2001) the results showed that marijuana arrests are associated with increases in homicides, burglaries, motor cycle thefts, and larcenies along with subsequent increases in hard drug arrests (Blackley Paul, 2007). With the attention of the legalization of marijuana changing throughout the years, the argument changed too. After the year 2010 people became more vocal about their reasons as to why they justify the legalization of marijuana. One of the big reasons for the shift in argument was the fact that the generation of adolescents that were using marijuana are now the generation of people that vote today. With this the research shifted from how marijuana would be able to hurt society to how marijuana would be able to help because now there is a broader audience that would take a keen interest in the subject. Even with the legalization gaining more and more support, the arguments remain the same. One side opposes the legalization of marijuana because they are against the idea that the drug can alter minds while under its influence, while the other side supports how the drug would be able to help people who have medical conditions. In a study that showed how the attitude of marijuana has changed over the years, it broadcasted how people look at marijuana as a harmful drug. The way in which people view the use of marijuana has changed because of the way that marijuana is portrayed to the public. For example, because of the recent elections where states were legalizing marijuana other people picked up on how the states were impacted through there economy. This also impacted the argument because people saw how states such as California were able to use the money to impact their state in a positive way. Although there have been many arguments based on the opinion of the legalization of marijuana, many of the arguments that are used are based off opinions and not facts. The only difference in the marijuana debate is that prior to 2010, many people were completely against the use of marijuana, but with people becoming more aware of the way that marijuana can help people overcome pain in certain diseases, they have become more accepting of the idea of legalizing marijuana. Since the arguments on both sides mainly are based off opinions, it is fair to say that even though the argument has changed, the base facts have stayed largely the same, even though opinions morph. In the years before 2010 people were largely advocates of not legalizing marijuana, however, with the generation of today being able to put in their input, legalizing marijuana is becoming the popular opinion of today.