Pemberton 1 Michael Pemberton Professor Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 5 April 2017 Post Piracy Revolution Media Piracy is the unauthorized use and reproduction of work; piracy is illegal even whilst not profiting from it. In some of the more extreme cases, individuals and groups access copies of a new article of music or film that they reproduce for sale. Whereas the more common practice of piracy comes in regards to individuals, who pirate the different forms of media for personal use and hardly ever involve the sharing of the content with friends and family. Both of the preceding scenarios are illegal, moreover they are quite difficult to intercept and punish with the exception of large scale reproduction and resale for profits. Large distributors of multimedia, such as Universal Studios, constantly advocate against piracy. Multitudes of claims have been made that piracy accounts for a large portion of revenue lost for any piece of media produced. It must be kept in perspective that media production is generally a means of income; individuals within the profession who are part of producing any type of media are the individuals who feel the direct effects of piracy. Moreover, if an organization no longer considers the production of a type of media, for example films, to be profitable they would cease production. Thus, a vast number of individuals would lose their jobs, if only to lower cost and make continued production profitable again. On the contrary, individuals who pirate the media that they consume make the claim that number of instances of piracy is inconsequential as organizations generally produce millions in net revenue. In addition, since the larger majority of Pemberton 2 cases of piracy are solitary acts, the individuals involved would not have an accurate understanding of how many individuals that do indeed pirate content. Both parties involved should be knowledgeable of the arguments present, being fully aware of the consequences of piracy would allow individuals to better decide on their actions in regard to how they consume media. While being fairly prevalent, Media Piracy falls only a bit short of clandestine. The larger percentage of the general public is completely uninvolved, having quite a few who are entirely unaware of the act. It is easy to be ignorant of this aspect of your favorite type of distribution as there is hardly ever a direct effect to consumers. Although one individual may never feel the negative economic effects of piracy themselves, media production and sales is a large enough industry that its collapse would have international effects on commerce. On the other hand, other members of the populace actively participate or fight against piracy. Notwithstanding the fact that some people do not think much of their minor pirating and never stop to consider the grander scheme of things; others are fully versed in the intricacies of piracy and the how their actions for or against the matter have widespread consequences. Media Pirates are separate, yet united by technology. Colleagues at the Department of Electrical Engineering at the UCLA, Yu Zhand and Mihaela Van Der Schaar worked together to publish an article in the jronal of Signal Processing: Image Communication. In the article, Multimedia Sharing based on Social the authors explain Peer-to-Peer file sharing as the together of resources of many autonomous (Zhang and Van Der Schaar 383). Due to this being the most popular method of piracy, pirates work together anonymously. There are no singular distributors, for any given file a pirate would share data with others after the same file. However, other academics claim that piracy is not always a negative event. As a Professor of Pemberton 3 Economics at Montpellier SupAgro in France, Gilles Grolleau worked with his colleauges Sana El Harbi and Insaf Bekir to write the article, with Pirate: How Companies Can Win the El Harbi and Bekir are a professor and associate professor, respectively, at LaREMFiQ , University of Sousse in Tunisia. In their article, they make the claim that all pirates are not the same, and under some plausible circumstances, it can be a good business decision to let some pirates pirate, even if it goes against the (Grolleau 32). The article went on to explain that in this case pirates are beneficial to entrepreneurial firms that may suffer from limited resources, and that the pirates provide free promotional activity. Large scale change, even in the case of piracy, should be a choice of the masses rather than imposed law. Instead of lawmakers being lobbied to further outlaw piracy and make the act more punishable, there should be first at least an attempt to raise the awareness of the population on the economic effects of piracy. Citizens of any nation should be allowed to choose self- improvement rather than be ordered to change their behavior. Lawmakers should be able to trust the people, that they are here to serve, make their own choices even when it affects the they all live in. Recent case law in Hong Kong, China is a perfect example of why a general consensus is necessary for positive change rather than government impose law. Wan Man Jason Fung who worked in affiliation with the City University of Hong Kong School of Law, alongside his colleague Dr. Avnita Lakhani, wrote the article Peer-to-Peer File Sharing of Copyrighted Material via Anti-Piracy Laws: Issues, Trends, and that was published in 2013. Fung makes the claim that current case law in Hong Kong, makes everyone even remotely involved in piracy liable to criminal prosecution. (Fung 398). With every law, grey areas and discrepancies are present that allow for immoral manipulation of the law and persecution of individuals who are otherwise innocent. Pemberton 4 With a large change in practices involving piracy, there would consequently be vast economic changes that would affect complementary goods and markets. Consequently, this can be seen with the film industry, movies are played in cinema where complementary items such as snacks are sold to moviegoers. All in all, there should be a newfound understanding of just how powerful any choices are even when considering international scale. If the entire world were to get onboard and agree to any major form of change, the sudden shift would have a vast impact to all industries. Pemberton 5 Works Cited Grolleau, Gilles, et al. Playing with Pirates: How Companies Can Win the  Journal of Business Strategy, no. 3, 2016, p. 30. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.455872345&site=eds-live. Wan Man Jason, Fung and Avnita Lakhani. Combatting Peer-To-Peer File Sharing of Copyrighted Material via Anti-Piracy Laws: Issues, Trends, and  Computer Law & Security Review, vol. 29, no. 4, Aug. 2013, pp. 382-402. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.clsr.2013.05.006. Zhang, Yu and Mihaela van der Schaar. Peer-To-Peer Multimedia Sharing Based on Social  Signal Processing: Image Communication, vol. 27, no. ADVANCES IN 2D/3D VIDEO STREAMING OVER P2P NETWORKS, 01 May 2012, pp. 383-400. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.image.2012.02.003.