Jackson 1 Julius Jackson Enc 1101 Sarah Roth March 10, 2017 The Changing Tides of Redlining history of redlining is a topic that many are ignorant of. Redlining was a practice initiated during the industrial era of the United States of America; it is when banks and realtors could dictate where an individual could live by denying them mortgages or not informing their clients of all the available real estate in an area. They would discriminate against ethnic groups by offering them unfavorable real estate and mortgage loans. This was acceptable because this was a time in which the color of your skin predetermined your worth. As the times changed the government created and implemented laws with the hopes of making the housing market fair and further integrate the society. A major law the government established is The Community Reinvestment Act which cut off government support to banks and mortgage loaners who did not give out an established amount of loans to minorities. Did it succeed? Mark Pearcy a Social Studies professor at Rider University writes 2012, the Manhattan Institute released a study that painted a relatively rosy picture of the state of segregation in the U.S. Per the report, cities are now more integrated than been since This outlook is mildly deceptive; while the rise in segregation has faltered, the reality of a racial divide in the U.S. is still very (Pearcy 2015). Meaning that America is the most integrated that it has ever been, but many Americans still live in neighborhoods in which one ethnic group makes up 90% of the community. The term for such communities is Earlier scholarly Jackson 2 publications from the years 2000-2010 have a focus of simply defining what redlining is and how they implemented into society. In the later works the focus has shifted to try to explain the effects that the practice had on these ethnic enclaves. Based on the evidence, the conversation on redlining has changed from proving its existence and how they carried it out to understanding its effects. Redlining was a tactic of the housing market because of the intolerance between whites and minorities. The minority ethnic groups would live together to make life easier and safer. Along with the industrial boom of the 20 th century came the hope of wealth and new opportunity America in the new developing era. This caused the Great Migration and the migration caused a new problem for the government and the housing market. Where will we put all these people? Ghettos. Minorities began to pour into the new developing cities, looking for opportunities and jobs. This gave birth to the practice of redlining. The people would not have a decision of where to settle because the banks would not loan them sufficient funds, or the realtor would not inform them of all the houses available in the market, or the applicant did not have the credentials to receive a loan. These displaced people were put into Ghettos. This practice went on for decades until, around the time of the civil rights movement. Amid sweeping radical change in America, the government quickly set up laws to make the practice illegal and protect all its citizens. Brian Coffey a scholar in the topic of philosophy and sociology, conducted research in light of the legislation. Coffey writes refusal of credit to a large percentage of African Americans denies a considerable number of people the opportunity to improve their standard of living, accumulate capital, and become more fully integrated into the economic mainstream of American (Coffey 1998). He found that the housing market is still not fair to minorities after the many laws; the percentage of whites getting Jackson 3 approved for loans when compared to blacks and other minorities is still significantly different. The area in which the applicant already resides in also affects their approval likeliness. Black applicants who live in a white community are much more likely to receive a loan when compared to someone living in a black community. Stephen L. Ross found evidence along a similar vein-- showing that banks and lenders do not bluntly discriminate against ethnic groups, but rather against entire areas. He found that banks avoid giving out loans to people who live in high risk areas, these areas are always areas where minorities reside. This seems to be an reasonable practice because the banks are trying to find the best deals possible, but one must not forget how would deem these areas high risk and who put the residents there many years ago. This is an indirect way of discriminating against minorities that goes unnoticed because they claim that it is simply a good business. The banks also prefer applicants to have Private Mortgage Insurance which many minorities cannot afford. Hence the reason for going to the bank for a loan; another barrier to deter applicants. More recent studies no longer look at the enforcing of redlining but the effects that it has had on the people. Diane Kuthy a contemporary artist and scholar in social studies writes that the recent riots involving the controversial killings of black people by police officers is a sort of scapegoat for emotions that have they suppressed for years. She argues, policies have a legacy of far reaching effects in both the public and private sectors of Baltimore and its suburbs, for example: racial disparities in health care, access to healthy food, incarceration, resources allotted for schools, and public infrastructure investment such as the privileging of the suburban highway system at the expense of the public (Kuthy 2017). She believes that true culprit behind all the inequalities that minorities deal with today they can be traced back to the practice of redlining. Dara D. Mendez a scholar who focuses her research in the field of Jackson 4 Maternal and Childcare agrees. Mendez believes that residential discrimination could be the cause for the disparities in health care between minorities and whites. That redlining explains why there is a higher infant mortality rate in black neighborhoods than that of white communities specifically. In conclusion, the focus of the conversation has changed from trying to prove redlining to understanding it. Redlining was a used to give whites an advantage over minorities in the housing market, but it also did much more. Communities were built and flourished off of this, but others were destroyed. It also more importantly created a polarized nation with ethnic enclaves. Communities in which its residents barely interact with other ethnic groups outside of its communities. This makes it easier to understand the events that took place in America. The riots, the court cases, the intolerance, and all the injustices committed involving race become easier to understand. One event that will forever give insight into how different these communities were is the case of O.J. Simpson. The reactions that communities had to the verdict were astonishing. One cheered in joy while the other cried in despair. How could they be so different? This lack of agreement leads back to the little interaction between the ethnic groups. Today, it seems we may be more tolerant than ever as a nation. With new social movements gaining support every day, but one cannot ignore the election of Donald Trump and the intolerance and hatred he spumes at his rallies. It makes one ponder how far we have actually come? Jackson 5 Works Cited Pearcy, Mark, : Teaching About Racial Residential  Virginia Social Science Journal 50. (2015): 40-50. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Kuthy, Diane, and Greenlining: Olivia Robinson Investigates Root Causes Of Racial  Art Education 70.1 (2017): 50-57. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mendez, Dara D., Vijaya K. Hogan, and Jennifer Culhane. Institutional Racism And Pregnancy Health: Using Home Mortgage Disclosure Act Data to Develop An Index for Mortgage Discrimination at The Community  Public Health Reports 126. (2011): 102. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Ross, Stephen L., and Geoffrey M.B. Tootell. Redlining, The Community Reinvestment Act, And Private Mortgage  Journal of Urban Economics 55. (2004): 278297. Science Direct. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Coffey, Brian, and J. Clarke Gocker. Racial Disparities in Mortgage Lending: The Example of Urban  Social Justice 1998: 115. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.