Lyford 1 Nate Lyford Professor Roth ENC 1101 2/25/17 Medical Marijuana The use of marijuana has been controversial for years, but especially for medicinal purposes. Over time however, seen a shift in the way marijuana is viewed. For years and years, marijuana was viewed as a harmful drug that does nothing but impair and dull the brain. It is only very recently that the government is recognizing the healing and soothing properties of marijuana. The government and the media have demonized marijuana since it was made illegal in 1937, against the advice of the American Medical Association (Americans for safe access). There are countless health and economic reasons to study marijuana, and because of this been a shift in the way the drug is viewed. California was the first state to make medical marijuana legal in 1996, and since then been legalized in 27 other states. (Forbes) In the 1970s, when hippie culture was big in the United States, marijuana was viewed as a drug for hippies that fried the brain and inhibited brain function. The United States government looked down upon hippies because they were fighting against the war, and because marijuana use was ubiquitous with hippies, the government associated weed with hippies, it was demonized. Toward the end of the nineties, however we saw a shift Lyford 2 to more people researching the medicinal properties of weed. Studies done in 1985 showed that smoking marijuana did not cause any lung complications. In fact, the people who smoked marijuana along with cigarettes had less instances of cancer than people who smoked strictly tobacco. (Time and Health) Studies like this one are what pushed the government of the United States to start further researching the positive effects marijuana can have on the body. The economic implications of legalizing marijuana in America are immense and extensive. Because marijuana is illegal in most places, a very high expenditure on the law enforcement that must be hired to enforce the laws against marijuana, work in prisons, and lawyers to protect the individual being tried for the crime. Studies show that the government would save up to 7.7 billion dollars a year on law enforcement, and make up to 6.2 billion dollars in tax if marijuana were to be taxed like tobacco and alcohol. (Cannabid Commerce) Another way research has shifted over time is in the way in which marijuana can be used. In the eighties and nineties, it was known that marijuana could be used for its medicinal properties, but the extent of those properties was unknown. We now know that marijuana can perform amazing feats like significantly slowing the progression of disease (ACS publications). THC, the active ingredient in marijuana, neutralizes some of the enzymes that cause Upon uncovering information like this, medical marijuana use becomes more and more widespread. Further research on marijuana has been supported because it can help a whole host of problems included but not limited to, glaucoma, cancer, seizures, muscle spasms, anxiety, insomnia, and even multiple sclerosis. Although marijuana is not a cure for any of these, it relieves pain and Lyford 3 helps to give a higher quality of life to those who would otherwise be suffering every day of their lives. In conclusion, there has been a significant shift in the scholarly discussion of medical marijuana in the United States. The way it has shifted is from attitudes about marijuana, then to learning about the healing, medicinal properties of marijuana, to going in depth about what marijuana can do. By exploring new areas of marijuana, researchers have been able to make great strides in treating various ailments. Works Cited Scientific History of Medical  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Scientific History of Medical  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Rubin, Rita. Many States Have Legalized Medical Marijuana, So Why Does DEA Still Say It Has No Therapeutic  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 18 Nov. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Maia Szalavitz. Study: Smoking Marijuana Not Linked with Lung  Time. Time, 10 Jan. 2012. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. A Molecular Link between the Active Component of Marijuana and Disease  ACS Publications. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Miron, Jeffrey A . The Budgetary Implications of Marijuana  N.p., June 2005. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.