Oliveira de Camargo 1 STUDENT: Davi Oliveira de Camargo INSTRUCTOR: Sarah Roth COURSE: Composition 1 DATE: 03-12-2017 Living in a Globalized World Considering the new technology and types of social media created in the past years, the scholarly discussion about the effects of globalization in lives has changed to address how interaction between people have been affected by globalization, instead of focusing in the economy or sense of identity. In the article from 2002 written by the Center for Global Development, Branko Milanovic says that there was little understanding of the ways in which new technologies feature in day to day organization conduct and interaction (Milanovic 8). Milanovic acknowledges that digital and social media were transforming and shaping modern society. But there were not many studies and researches showing how. The focus at this period in time was on the effects of globalization in the economy since there were not relevant support material to cover the effects of globalization in interaction. The scientific journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of attempted in 2009 to cover some of the effects of globalization on lives. But this time the focus was on sense of identity. The article and human presents two main theories, one that focuses on favoring own ethnic, racial or language group and the alternative one that suggested that globalization was weakening the relevance of ethnicity, locality, or nationhood as sources of Oliveira de Camargo 2 identification (Buchan, et al Even though those two articles from 2002 and 2009 ask the same question about how the use of new technologies and the rise of globalization affect our everyday lives, they do not offer a valid answer and they do not focus in how globalization affects the way people interact with each other. The first article, from 2002, changes the focus of the discussion and covers the effects in the economy, since there were little understanding and data available at the time to answer the original question. And the second article, from 2009, only offers hypotheses that focus on the sense of identity of the individual and not so much in the interaction between people. However in the article written by Rebecca Sawyer from the University of Rhode Island in 2011, the discussion takes a different path. Sawyer focuses on the role social media and new types of technologies play in our everyday lives and interactions. social media have become increasingly popular components of our everyday lives in globalizing society, Sawyer writes. provide a context where people across the world can communicate, exchange messages, share knowledge, and interact with each other regardless of the distance that separates (Sawyer 2). In her article, Sawyer claims that new social media are becoming more important and well liked by people as an effect of globalization. Sawyer then explains how new social media have been affecting everyday lives by saying that it is possible now to people to exchange messages, information and conversations from any part of the globe, distance is not a communication issue anymore in a globalized society since it is possible to have a connection with anyone through new social media. Another aspect that it is important and that was taken in consideration by the author Maura Keller in her article from 2013 - is that the style of communication has changed. So even though distance in Oliveira de Camargo 3 communicating with one another is not an issue anymore, because of new social media, the interactions are not face-to-face. Like Rebecca Sawyer, Maura Keller also focuses on the effects of social media in our everyday lives. According to her, the effects of social media in our lives, in the way we interact and communicate with each other is noticeable in all areas of society. Rebecca article and Maura article complement each other. At this period in time, there are more people focusing on this topic and there are more data available. Studies have shown that people are becoming more social and more interactive with others. But it is a different type of interaction, communication through social media has been shown to be less personal than communicating face-to-face, so the interactions tend to create weaker ties and build relationships that are not as strong as face-to-face relationships (Keller 10). New social media and new forms of technology has been changing the way people communicate and interact, the bigger the influence of the technology, the more changes we see in communication (Booth 6). In present days the conversation has shifted and taken a different path. While in older articles (from 2002 and 2009) the conversation focused on the effects of globalization in the economy and on senses of identity. But now, in more recent articles (from 2011 and 2013) there is evidence - from professionals and from quantitative data - supporting the claim that new forms of technology and new social media has been affecting everyday lives in the way they interact with one another as an effect of globalization. Although people may be communicating more, the bonds tend to be weaker. Since we are communicating less face-to-face, relationships are not as strong as they used to be (Keller 10). It is important to Oliveira de Camargo 4 address this topic now before the conversation changes even more in the future and gets to a point where we are only communicating through social media and technology. Works Cited Milanovic, Branko. we discern the Effect of Globalization on Income Distribution? Evidence from Household Budget  Center for Global Development . N.p., Aug. 2002. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Buchan, Nancy R., Gianluca Grimalda, Rick Wilson, Marilynn Brewer, Enrique Fatas, and Margaret Foddy. Globalization and human  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. N.p., 21 Jan. 2009. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Sawyer, Rebecca. The Impact of New Social Media on Intercultural  University of Rhode Island, May 2011. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Keller, Maura. Social Media and Interpersonal  Social Work Today. N.p., May & june 2013. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.