Freed 1 Jordan Freed Professor Roth Composition 1 26 March 2017 Childhood Obesity In the being was thought to represent an or wealth; the more you weighed, the wealthier you were. Obesity was a social symbol, rather than a health risk. Though it can be argued that obesity is still seen as a symbol of wealth largely due to the malnutrition of families in underdeveloped countries medical and moral standpoints have differed over the years. Previously, when seeing an overweight child, it had a positive connotation wealth. Now in the 21 st century, upon seeing an overweight child, one considers health risks and possible thoughts of child abuse. There is now extensive research on the negative consequences of obesity short-term, as well as long-term. Because of this research, an perception of obesity and the role it plays in society has changed. Obesity has always existed. Though the way in which obesity has been viewed in the United States and Western Europe has changed, obesity in adults, as well as children, is not a foreign concept. In the past, obesity was seen as a symbol of wealth and prosperity. Being an overweight individual, especially an overweight child, gave the family a sense of pride because they were not only able to provide enough food for the child to survive, they were able to provide the child with enough to keep them happy. Food began to be a symbol of wealth in a Freed 2 community, and can still be considered one. In underdeveloped areas of the world, there are numerous children starving and many families unable to provide them with enough substance to survive. As Americans, it is taken for granted that food is available in excess. For those starving, food is a luxury. Though obesity remains stagnant, it is the medical and moral view on the topic that has changed over the years. Medically, now affects one in five children in the United and has become a major concern (Dietz 1998). Many characteristics of what is classified as adult-onset obesity are now being seen in a early years. Some of these characteristics include hyperlipidemia, hypertension, abnormal glucose tolerance, and sleep apnea. In order to get ahead of this statistic, it is important to understand what a parent can do to lower their risk of being categorized as obese. Eating behaviors evolve during the first years of the vast majority of human history, food scarcity has constituted a major threat to survival, and human eating behavior and child feeding practices have evolved in response to this infants are born into a wide variety of cultures and cuisines, they become equipped as young omnivores with a set of behavioral predispositions that allow them to learn to accept the foods made available to (Savage 2007). Because of this, it is important to introduce young children to a proper, and healthier, alternative when approaching food. By introducing a more practical approach to eating, rather than eating until happy, this will create a healthy foundation for future eating patterns to develop. Freed 3 Not only has the medical approach to obesity evolved, moral standpoint on the subject has as well. Like previously mentioned, obesity used to be a social symbol, rather than a health risk. Now, when a vast majority of society sees an overweight child, they automatically associate this with negative connotations. On a larger scale, childhood obesity can be seen as a form of child abuse. This particular idea of making a direct link between childhood obesity and child abuse has become a controversial one. Many individuals say this correlation is unfair due to the cost of healthy food as well as the easy accessibility and affordability to unhealthy foods (Tam 2013). However, child abuse is defined as the of a child by a parent or guardian, including neglect, beating, and sexual (child abuse). Taking a closer look at the proper precautions a parent can take to childhood obesity, it is evident that a majority of those precautions begin in the home. This makes the argument of childhood obesity being a form of child abuse more evident. Overall, obesity was not always frowned upon. Whether it was thought highly of because it showed a wealth and class, or because it was a social symbol, obesity used to be considered a positive attribute. However, as time elapsed, so did medicine and morals. Obesity in children is no longer looked at with a positivity, but rather with a sense of judgment. In 2010, Michelle Obama launched the campaign. This campaign was solely created to encourage kids to be more physically active. (Gauging the public health) Society is beginning to take childhood obesity more seriously and hopefully with this new state of mind, the United States can continue to combat the vastly growing issues of childhood obesity. Freed 4 Works Cited Child  Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017 Gauging the public health value of Move  Modern Healthcare. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Consequences of Obesity in Youth: Childhood Predictors of Adult Health Consequences of Obesity in Youth: childhood predictors of Adult Disease SUPPLEMENT pediatrics. N.p., n.d web. 19 Feb. 2017 Savage, Jennifer S., Jenniger Orlet Fisher, and Leann L. Birch. influence on Eating Behavior: Conception to The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics 35.1 (2007): 22-34. Web Yam, Philip. Morbid Childhood obesity be considered child abuse? American Blog Network. N.P., 06 Aug. 2013. Web. 05 Feb. 2017