Shyler Willett English comp 02-24-17 Roth Animal Treatment Over the past couple of years, the controversial topic of whether using animals in the laboratory is ethical or not has been on the rise. There have been many restrictions and changes made to animals being used for testing and research for science and medication advancement. This scholarly argument has not changed much but there are two arguments that contradict each other. The first argument is that animals have feelings; they feel sorrow, happiness, guilty and they can suffer just has humans do (Frasser 1998). This argument builds the proponents stance on why animals should not be used for research testing purposes because they as humans, do have rights. The contradicting argument is that for humans to survive, prosper, and gain knowledge, animals need to be used for testing. Humans be used for testing because that would be in morale and would endanger the human population. For those proponents who believe that testing on animals is unnecessary and unethical they have made great improvements over the past couple of decades. They have worked tirelessly to set rules, regulations and standards. They have spread the word to many people across the Nation and the World that animals have rights too. They have influenced and educated people on rights and have managed to change some views. For an example, chimpanzees that were used in research is no longer being done because of the hard work of animal activists all around the world. Animal activists worked hard for decades to remove these types of animals out of the laboratories. The United States stopped importing chimpanzees after signing a 1973 treaty banning trade in endangered species. When the AIDS epidemic hit, the National Institute of Health (NIH) launched a breeding program for chimpanzees, but the agency declared a moratorium on breeding in 1995, after it became clear that chimps were poor models for the disease (Rienwald p. 270). The following years the United Kingdom and eight other countries outlawed the use of apes in laboratory experiments leaving only five counties left in 2005 including Italy, Denmark, Japan, south Korea, Canada, Australia, Belgium, France and Spain. (Rienwald p. 270). The proponents who believe that animals are necessary for our survival argue that we need them to find answers and cures that we cannot find with just robots or harming ourselves. For an example, proponents say that, is necessary for continued progress towards a hepatitis-C vaccine; for developing more effective drugs against hepatitis B and C; for testing monoclonal antibody treatments for a variety of conditions; and for research to develop a vaccine against respiratory syncytial virus, a seasonal virus that kills more than more than 66,000 children under the age of five each year across the globe. For many of these conditions, backers argue, the chimpanzee is either the only available model, or by far the best (Rienwald p. 270). The argument is that without scientists will not find the answers that are needed and they will not be as accurate with other mammals because we are most closely related to apes. Another article argues that large animals are necessary for research because each type of animal is used to in different studies because of their specific anatomy of the animal. sheep have an agreeable disposition, are compliant, and can be trained to perform routine tasks (treadmill walking or running) Thus far, sheep have proven invaluable in orthopedic research, and their use in the study of alveolar and mandibular bone loss has been (Fraser p. 131). There are other animals that can be used for this research, such as, pigs, but researchers argue that pigs in research are not as effective. Although views have not changed for the two arguing parties between 2000-2017 they have made changes. The hypothesis for the reason the arguments have not changed over time is because the world itself has not changed. As humans we still need to survive and strive to be at the top of the food chain, that is something that will never change. On the other hand, as humans we have emotions, we will always feel compassion, love and grief. I believe that the chemical make up in our brains and who we are as mammals is the reason this argument has not changed over time, because it is an ongoing struggle to do right but still do what benefits us. The animal activists still believe in the ethical and equal treat of animals as living creatures. As well as the proponents still believe testing is something that is necessary must for our survival as human beings striving to live and acquire knowledge. On the other hand, changes have been made to the research and its regulations. Because of animal rights activist, chimpanzees can no longer be used in laboratories as well as other notations are being made to change the life of other animals in the laboratory now. References Fraser, A.F. (1988) Animal Suffering: The Appraisal and Control of Depression and Distress in Livestock. Applied Animal Behavior Science, 20, Pages 127-133 Olsson, A.S., Robinson, P. Pritchett, K. and Sandoe, P. (2003). Handbook of laboratory animal science (2 nd . Edition).Essential principles and practices. London, CRC Press, 1, 13-30. Rienwald, S. (2008). Review of nonprimate, large animal models for Osteoporosis research, Journal of Bone and Mineral Research. (9),1353-68. doi: 10.1359/jbmr.080516 Wadman, M. (2011). Chimpanzee research on trial. Nature 474, 268-271.Retrieved from http://www.nature.com/news/2011/110615/pdf/474268a.pdf