Muhsen 1 Tameem Muhsen Professor Roth ENC1101.020S17 26 March 17 The War of No Outcomes The war on series of actions taken by governments worldwide striving towards a prohibition of illegal drug a topic that has sparked quite the debate over the course of recent decades. Although it is a war that had been fought in the US previously, on June 1971, President Nixon declared an official war on drugs, in which there has been a dramatic increase in the presence and size of federal drug control agencies. Similarly demonstrated in nations throughout the world, this war on drugs has been a controversial war filled with poor laws imposed that seem to have been taken without the consideration of the wellbeing and freedom of the lives. Such laws have sustained outcomes of incarnations, deaths, political disputes, and even environmental disasters. Examining the position of the world right now regarding the war on drugs, it seems like little has changed. The world remains to see a war in which diminutive progress has been made, with recent examples of the war on drugs led by the infamous Mr. Duterte, in which citizens are incarcerated and killed with no mercy. The scholarly conversation regarding the war on drugs, which first emerged with President 1971 declaration of the war, and continuing up to Mr. infamous drug war, has not changed over time. Assessing the drug war since President declaration, which included the decertification policy and the unnecessary incarceration of millions of citizens, drug abuse has been handled as a criminal offense rather than a public health issue. The United States has Muhsen 2 enforced international policies in regards to drug control within its borders. Implemented in 1986, this law requires the president to assess the performance of Latin American nations in the war on drugs. If the efforts of the drug-producing countries are judged to be insufficient, the US government  that nation and cuts off aid towards the country. Two cases in which this policy was in use is the Peruvian Case and the Mexican case of 4). Furthermore, there are numerous economic and social costs of the strategy, in which too many people are placed in jails and prisons. Of the two million prisoners in the US, approximately 500,000 are imprisoned for violations of drug laws... Which is greater than all of Western prisoners combined (the US has a 100 million less in population) (London 2). Moreover, such prisoners are incarcerated when they are really in necessity of support. Marijuana, as the most common illegal drug abused, is useful to consider when discussing decriminalization. If decriminalized, less people would go to jail for consuming it, and instead receive help at rehab centers. Nonetheless, the issue of substance abuse should be regarded as a public health problem instead of a criminal justice problem. Right off the bat, it was apparent that the initial approaches taken by governments to combat drugs were not going to lead to improvement. Evaluating the current drug war through the and the present day ineffective and unmerciful law has persistently observed similar outcomes as the same war discussed can be assumed that the war has now been deemed a failure. The United States has heightened the drug control issue worldwide by imposing prohibitionist ideology onto foreign failed tactic we have witnessed in the past. Enforcements of such laws have proven that the past forty years [the spent over $2.5 trillion dollars fighting the war, with little empirical data to support meaningful (Wild 2). Such statistics Muhsen 3 call for a reform and the urgent need of a more rational drug control policy instead of the policies imposed by President Nixon nearly forty years ago. Aside from the assessment of such outdated laws which have been regarded as fiascos, present day evaluations of the current Philippines drug war have shown no progress. Ever since President Rodrigo Duterte has been sworn into office on June 30, 2016, an all-out war has been waged on drug users. Approximately 1,800 people have been killed by police and vigilantes in the seven weeks of Mr. presidency (Villamor 1). These staggering numbers are shocking the whole world, especially human rights advocates; raising questions regarding the methods used. Mr. Duterte ordered the police to to when encountering criminals or suspects linked to drug offenses. The article continues to discuss the bashing Mr. Duterte has been receiving from the international community, mentioning Mr. threat of withdrawing from the United Nations after human rights specialists advised the nation to put an end to the murdering. Due to the threat of the police, almost 600,000 suspects of drug using or dealing turned themselves in to avoid being killed since the war on drugs began (Villamor 1). Despite the emergence of current statistics that have proven the older policies- which are still implemented to this day- to be futile, lawmakers and governments are showing no signs of adjustment. The scholarly conversation regarding the war on drugs, which first emerged with President 1971 declaration of the war, and continuing up to Mr. infamous drug war, has not changed over time. Ever since the initial widespread actions taken by law enforcers to combat drugs emerged, it seems like little to no consideration of the outcomes of such laws have been taken. From the failed international policies imposed by the US and the unnecessary incarcerations, to the consistent enforcement of such laws regardless of their inefficient Muhsen 4 outcomes, a continuous vu effect can be seen throughout societies of the where no change is taking place in response to Muhsen 5 Works Cited Limits Of Pressure: US Policy Failures In The International War On  Harvard International Review 2 (1998): 38. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. London, Robb. Is the War on Drugs  Harvard Law Today. The President and Fellows of Harvard College, 1 July 2005. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Wild, Joshua D. Epic Failure: The Uncomfortable Truth About The United Role In The Failure Of The Global War On Drugs And How It Is Going To Fix  Suffolk Transnational Law Review 2 (2013): 423. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Villamor, Felipe, and Richard C. Paddock. 1,800 Killed in 7 Weeks in Philippine Drug  The New York Times 2016: 6. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.