Alejandra Rincon Project 2 ENC 1101 Animal Testing Animal testing started in the late nineteenth century and it is something still known about today. Over the course of the years, the conversation on animal testing has had different opinions whether animal testing should or should not be banned. Scientist started animal testing as a source to be able to find curable vaccinations for humans. One of the reasons for this cause was the similarity between the DNA of a chimpanzee and humans. You can see how this has changed over the years because just recently in September of 2015 testing on chimpanzees was officially banned. Animal testing now can be used differently with the advancement of technology that was accrued over the years. Between the time frame of the year 2000 and the year 2017 the conversation on the topic of animal testing has now been leaning towards getting it banned. The cause of this transition has to do with the fact that most of these experiments on animals do not end up improving the health of humans. According to PETA that are artificially induced in animals in a laboratory, whether they be mice or monkeys, are never identical to those that occur naturally in human This is causing people to ban animal testing due to the fact that if the disease is not exactly the same as the one the human has then the cure will not work exactly on the human. Another reason found why more than 50% of the American population wants animal testing to be banned is because most of the time it does not work. Nancy Caron states in the article issues guidelines for early drug states that out of ten experimental drugs fail in clinical studies because we cannot accurately predict how they will behave in people based on laboratory and animal With this we are harming the animals and end up harming humans as well most of the time because of the difference between animals and humans, most of the cures on animals for these diseases do not work the same on humans. Alejandra Rincon Project 2 ENC 1101 As we get more towards the recent years this conversation has leaned towards getting it banned because we now have alternatives we can use that will prevent animals getting hurt as well as make the cure for humans more accurate. In the article of Animals in Drug Research: An Approach Towards Fulfillment of an alternative that can be used would be computer analysis models. This can be beneficial because of the growth of our technology that we have now and the reduction in animal use. Another alternative spoken about on NEAVS was a new method of toxicity testing that can be done by lab grown human cells. This is method is not only an alternative use instead of animals but also a way that can make the process faster and save money too. Alternatives to animal testing is what most people want today because we now live in a world that depends on technology and by using these alternatives it can cause an increase in technology and can also be a beneficial impact on humans. Although animal testing is not something we can have go away from one day to another, as the years pass more people are fighting and waiting for the day it gets banned. People want this to not only protect animals and their rights but they also want this type of testing to be banned so we can use alternatives that could provide society with better test results. RESOURCES: Experiments on Animals:  PETA. N.p., 2002. Web. FDA Issues Guidelines for Early Drug  FirstWord Pharma. N.p., 2006. Web. Arora, T., A. K. Mehta, V. Joshi, K. D. Mehta, N. Rathor, P. K. Mediratta, and K. K. Sharma. Substitute of Animals in Drug Research: An Approach Towards Fulfillment of  Indian Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences. Medknow Publications & Media Pvt Ltd, 2011. Web. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Alternatives to Animals in  In Testing. N.p., 2016. Web.