Laverde 1 Valentina Laverde Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 5 April 2017 Understanding Feminism in Modern World Feminism is defined as belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities. It is the theory of the political, economic and social equality of the It has flourished into a movement that has come a long way since it first emerged, tackling issues involving gender inequality and moving forward in rights. Evolving as the decades have gone by, progress has been made in what started as a strive for suffrage to spreading awareness of the purpose of the movement and addressing issues that currently surface in news and media. Becoming a movement that has touched cultures all over the world and has become a global phenomenon. It is a movement that can also be misinterpreted and frowned upon in some countries, different beliefs and approaches to gender equality clash with the different perspectives that exist in modern world. Understanding that gender equality within the feminist movement pertains to both genders and all cultures is important to clearly see the direction feminism is moving towards. Acting based on individual beliefs and knowledge is just as important as understanding the motives behind feminism and what it truly represents and seeks to accomplish. Oftentimes the significance and purpose of a movement such as feminism can be misinterpreted, taking on definitions and ideas that blur the objectives and goals it pursues. Feminism is a movement that tries to unite both genders to achieve equality, not inhibit one as Laverde 2 the other tries to overpower it. This misunderstanding of imbalance between the two genders can lead to a stigma attached to those who identify themselves as feminist. That women who are feminists are ultimately trying to invert the roles of inequality in the direction of men. This is not the case though, feminists want help from their male counterparts, only then can they defeat another barrier. Identifying as a feminist does not mean that it is a choice given only to women, but men can be feminist too. modern world requires unity to triumph over the issues that not only are faced at a national level, but a global level. A society is stronger together; division and misconceptions can only hinder the possibilities that a society can attain. This is evident in recent events that took place on January 22, 2017, both men and women of all ages united at the March on Washington, that took place not only in Washington but different countries and cities around the world (Stein et al.). A man attending the march by the name of John Fisher said care who you are, women impact your life, and no reason why they have the same rights as (Stein et al), pointing out that women and men can accomplish things together. This march left an impression and signified a major strive in gender equality where it was clearly indicated that men and women from different countries can come together to achieve gender equality. Throughout the world different cultures give rise to different beliefs and perspectives to issues that have become prominent in society. Gender equality and the approaches that people take vary among different countries; issues tend to be geared toward the culture a country or society possesses. some countries feminists risk social sanctions and even death to advocate for fundamental human (Radke and Hornsey 863). This situation influences how gender inequality should be approached and what matters should be taken into consideration Laverde 3 beforehand. The issues that vary can be education for women, ending violence against women, equal pay, or the right to make individual decisions involving body. The development of a country and their beliefs oftentimes influence what issue dominates over the others. In less developed countries granting education for women is a key matter addressed internationally by feminism. An increase in the number of educated women not only helps a society economically, but reduces the population with women who are more likely to start a career or continue studying before having children. Whereas religion may influence how women are treated within a society based on the principles of a religion, some religions segregate men and women during worship or what is work is referred to as a job (Bartkowski and Shah 176). Understanding that culture influences the core issues that are addressed by the feminist movement in different countries is important to comprehend that gender inequality is an ongoing issue that takes on various forms. Beliefs and customs should be understood and respected before any judgement is made or action is taken. Once its become clear what feminism truly stands for and what its goal is in modern world, can action be taken appropriately. Jumping in head first into an opinion without a conception of the meaning of a movement can lead to misunderstanding and wide spread conflict that may arise between genders and cultures. Understanding that feminism works to unite both men and women from all cultures to work together on the conflicts that inhabit our society today is the first step in educated. Once it is been made clear what gender equality in the feminist movement signifies, join a campaign such as campaign created by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) to address gender inequality as a issue and that it is not just a Laverde 4 Another option is participating in such as the March on Washington that took place in multiple locations London to Los Angeles, Paris to Park City, Utah, Miami to Melbourne (Stein et al.). Action can be taken anywhere and in anyway, even in engaging in conversations about gender equality, informing others on what the feminist movement is and how there are different approaches, but it ultimately includes both genders and all cultures. rights incorporate a very large spectrum of beliefs and issues that are established within the foundation of the feminist movement. acting collectively with other women has often been (Moses 760) in tackling the issues the movement addresses, but feminism tailor to only women, but men as well. Its important to understand that gender equality is a global issue that can only be conquered through partnership of both genders, even with the strides that have been made still more that needs to be accomplished. The more people that are aware within our society from every culture, the more issues are addressed; society has been socialized into the gender roles that exist in our society and its time to teach younger generations what gender equality and feminism signify. The history of feminism shows triumphs, but still a gap between men and women that needs to be closed. Compared to the past it is smaller through the collective actions that have occurred, but the work is not finished. This work must be done while respecting the different beliefs and perspectives that exist in modern world, uniting under a common goal that can push forward gender equality. Activism has become more that just participating in the feminist movement, it means understanding and it takes unity and cooperation to achieve the goals of any movement. Laverde 5 Works Cited Bartkowski, John P., and Sarah Shah. Religion and gender  and inequality in America: Research and theory on role in (2014): 173-194. Watson Gender Equality Is Your Issue www.unwomen.org/en/news/stories/2014/9/emma-watson-gender-equality-is-your-issue- too. Accessed 3 Apr 2017. Moses, Claire Goldberg. in a on Writing the History of  no. 3, 2012, p. 757. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsglr&AN=edsgcl.315068197&site=eds-live. www.heforshe.org/en/our-mission. Accessed 3 Apr. 2017. Radke, Helena R. M., et al. Barriers to Women Engaging in Collective Action to Overcome  American no. 9, 2016, p. 863. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.480567316&site=eds-live. Stein, Perry, et al. marches: More than one million protesters vow to resist President Washington WP Company, 22 Jan. 2017, www.washingtonpost.com/local/womens-march-on-washington-a-sea-of-pink-hatted-prot Accessed 3 Apr. 2017.