Abdelbari 1 Omar Abdelbari Ms. Heiser ENC1102 April 3, 2017 Christianity and the Afterlife Proposition To many Christian people, the world that man lives in was engineered by God and he presumably made all its inhabitants with free will. Based on their actions here in the free world, God would decide their fate in the other world, the other life he has afterlife. The afterlife decides what becomes of people after their temporary life here on Earth. God made the worlds of the afterlife with great distinction; a world for those who will be saved, and one for those who be. The concept of these worlds known as Heaven and Hell, follows common logic here with actions on earth, i.e. if one lives in an unlawful way, he is then subject to face repercussions. However, the huge difference is that the afterlife warrants repercussions for eternity rather than just worldly punishments. On the other side, if man lives within the restrictions of the laws set down by God, then he is granted a place in eternal paradise. But what if this promise is not even real? What if man follows these laws and limits his life for nothing? Either way, this is a pretty big deal and should be thought about by everyone. Simply put, what man does here on earth can potentially decide his fate forever, whether one considers forever to be the afterlife or the current one. Understanding religion, science and philosophy could potentially pave a lifestyle for man and his respective eternity. The average time a human lives for is 79 years. In that 79 years, a man could feel as though he has accomplished all life has had to offer in that span of time. He may feel as though he has lived forever simply because there was not a time he could remember when he was not Abdelbari 2 around. Without being able to fathom the thought of centuries before a current time, the thoughts of afterlife could be overwhelming and even perhaps inconceivable. PhD and University of Philosophy Professor Sean Carrol explains this in his journal Big Carrol explains that the afterlife cannot be conceived because the only way to conceive something is to compare it to something else. He shows this when he questions the reader would you be if you had different (The Big Picture). The only way to understand such a question is to compare it to current life. One cannot conceive himself in another life, as another person, because he cannot live another life, hence making the afterlife inconceivable. So, by patterning life to yield something he may have no idea about is a bit scary. This however is not the notion believed by many Christians. Christianity paints a very detailed picture on what happens when man dies, and it is conceived as living another eternal life. This is a thought that many uninvolved people are comfortable with; after life here, comes another. But why accept that so easily and without reason? Does one really want to live forever? Living forever may not be as intriguing as it may seem. It is almost built in within human nature to hold onto every moment, every person, and every memory that they have loved, forever, and this is what brings that very embracement of Heaven. Humans feel as though they will be reunited with lost memories and loved ones from their past human life to his post eternal life and they will live happily ever after, but that spark could only last so long. Think about the amount of times one can get bored in his current short life; then imagine eternity. The first time a baby opens its eyes to the world; how brilliant colors are, how marvelous the stars are, how incredibly alive everyone is; this was all because it was new to his eyes. As that person ages, their interest in things they once adored exponentially decreases with time. New York University Graduate, scientific Journalist Taylor Kubota explains this in her article science behind Abdelbari 3 She states that people become disinterested in things they once were fascinated by because they do not stimulate the brain anymore after a certain time. A classic example of this is where people may wonder why somebody may cheat on their spouse with someone else who is as as their current partner, the reason that the person they are cheating with is better, but just different. Kubota also explains that the older one gets, the more disconnected he becomes the same people he has lived with and activities he has done before, and will naturally gravitate towards something different. This makes Heaven a bit boring because if it is as it is described in the Bible; being reconnected with all the previous joys and more from the earthly world, it surely will get old. Moreover and interestingly enough, Hell by this theory then becomes a bit more bearable. Because surely if one is subject to the tortures of hell every day for eternity, at some point it be as torturous. This crisscrossing of the seemingly contrasting eternities bares to question; Does actions on earth really matter? It would seem as though then if it all results in the same feeling towards the afterlife then why bother with it anyways? The key is to remember that even with all the speculation on the afterlife, there is one thing that remains current life. The way one lives his current life will always determine whether the afterlife is great or not, exists or not, and most importantly what it means to them. Famous Philosopher Alan Watts made mention of this in his book The Tao of Philosophy. He stated that whatever a person perceives the afterlife to be, it will always adjust the way he acts in the current life. If one does not believe in the afterlife, the current one should surely mean everything to them and should live it to its fullest at all times. If Christianity is the path that one might think is for them, then a reevaluation of their current life should still be made in order to ensure they are doing the right thing. But first one might need to discover truly who Abdelbari 4 they are and what they really want out of this life before considering the afterlife and that does not always have to be as complicated as it sounds. One way to discover the things that might intrigue a person is to always have them learn something new about their religion. Alex Blackwell, a famous blogger told about this on his web page He said that most people are born into Christianity and thus they never are given the opportunity to tell if it is really for them. The way he resolves this is to encourage the casual Christian to open up to new ideas, read about different theologies, deepen their knowledge about the Bible and they may be surprised to how much they did not know. He guarantees that people will have a different outlook on life here and beyond if they seek a deeper answer to questions they thought they had the answer to. Another way to cope with understanding what the afterlife means is to live differently. The easiest way to do that is to travel. Chris Riotta, a journalist for Elite News said that in order to completely appreciate life, one needs to travel. Travelling can open up mind to all the different wonders of the world and in essence, provide a sort of satisfaction of the life they lived in the current world. If one has seen all there is to see here, then they would be more open to the potential wonders of the afterlife rather than just being stuck with their Religious or personal perspective of what it might be. Whether the afterlife means an eternity in Heaven, Hell or does not exist at all, what it means to a person can drastically change by the way their current life is lived. Understanding the possibilities of what the afterlife may be, is essentially the prompt to appreciating and living the current life to its fullest. Do not wait to die to begin to start living because there is no guarantee what happens next. Abdelbari 5 Works Cited Blackwell, Posted By Alex. Beliefnet Voices - Alex  Everyday Inspiration. Cornello, Chad. The Big Picture: On the Origins of Life, Meaning, and the Universe  Booklist, no. 18, 2016, p. 6. EBSCOhost. Kubota, Taylor. The Science of  LiveScience. Purch, 20 Sept. 2016. Web. 04 Apr. 2017. Riotta, Chris. People Who Travel Frequently Are Open-Minded, Creative And  Elite Daily. N.p., 25 Aug. 2015. Web. 04 Apr. 2017 Watts, Alan. The Tao of philosophy: the edited transcripts. Tokyo: Tuttle Pub., 2002. Print.