Roberts 1 Alexandria Roberts Martha Heiser ENC1102.069 5 April 2017 Captive Elephants and Their Permanent Home People come across elephants in zoos every day, but is being trapped in a tiny enclosure really good for them? Elephants have been kept in zoos for over a century, but some recent scientific studies prove that it may not be the best place for their species to thrive. Elephants were originally put into zoos to help the species, but it may have made the problem worse and they living as long. Recent research shows that there are other solutions and ways people can contribute. With the help of the public, elephants may have a permanent place to live without the threat of extinction. Elephants were first put in zoos because there was a huge decrease in their population due to hunting or poaching for their ivory tusks. According to the Woodall website, have always been an important source for ivory and, during the late uncontrolled elephant poaching pushed the species to the brink of (Woodall). The idea for zoos was that keepers could put them in an enclosure and charge people to come and see them. The money gained would go to helping maintain the zoo and take care of the elephants. Even though the idea sounds great on paper, it becomes more difficult when rules and restrictions are involved and require that certain needs are being enforced. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) sets guidelines that every zoo must follow to operate legally. But even the rules always provide what Roberts 2 an animal really needs. The elephant is the largest land mammal in the world, and needs to be accommodated properly. The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is a non-profit organization whose goal has always been to help animals. They have done extensive studies and countless investigations that has benefitted all types of animals in some form. According to the PETA website, zoos have pitiful standards for their animals even by AZA rules and lack the much-needed space that sanctuaries provide They also constantly breed animals for new attractions, and their conservation and donation methods are bogus. (PETA website) They are working towards getting elephants out of zoos and into sanctuaries in hopes that they will have a better life and the species suffer from it. A sanctuary is defined as a place of refuge or safety (Merriam-Webster). Animal sanctuaries are different from zoos, where most animals spend the entirety of their lives without moving to another facility. The biggest difference between sanctuaries and zoos is space, but it the most important. According to Jordan Carlton Schaul, there is controversy over space for elephants in zoos, it would be unfair to say that space is the critical factor in providing elephants with the kind of we deem (Schaul). Sanctuaries tend to be much larger than zoo enclosures and the way they operate it is slightly different. According to an article comparing and contrasting sanctuaries and zoos, elephant offer hundreds of acres of space through which elephants can at some urban zoos are maintained in considerably smaller areas (one acre or (Hutchins). In a zoo, it is also common that animals will be moved to different facilities throughout their lives when a zoo decides they want them anymore. Animals in a sanctuary are usually there for life unless it has a medical condition that prevents it. Roberts 3 Breeding is another difference that zoos and sanctuaries share. As disturbing as it is, zoos will attempt to impregnate their animals multiple times to produce a new reason for people to go there. According to the PETA website the Woodland Park Zoo in Seattle, an elephant named Chai was subjected to traumatic artificial insemination 112 times, with only one successful birth: a calf who later (PETA). Sanctuaries are different because they do not usually breed their animals and their intention to gain new guests by mutilating a living creature. But sanctuaries do have their own flaws. Money something that is obtained in different way at zoos than at sanctuaries. According to Hutchins, AZA zoos are non-profit entities, but still have solid business plans to ensure that they are not solely dependent on unpredictable (Hutchins). This refers to the fact that accredited zoos are making stable funds which will carry the business forward whereas sanctuaries will sometimes rely on donations and volunteer work to keep it running. The fact that many zoos are accredited does help their side of the argument because they have standards they need to follow, unlike sanctuaries. These things aside, sanctuaries still could be a better option for the welfare. The best solution for saving elephants is actually mentioned in an article by Jeffery P. Cohn. This solution may not be realistic, but it is a solution that would work. He writes, Schobert says zoos should create their own sanctuaries for elephants. Zoos could buy large areas in southern states away from cities, yet still accessible to visitors, with enough space to house herds of elephants. He suggests that several zoos collaborate to build and run regional sanctuaries in different parts of the country. Such zoo-run sanctuaries would be a better, and probably more successful, venue for breeding elephants than their current facilities (Cohn, 4) Roberts 4 The only way to save elephants from going extinct is to get involved. Elephants live as long in zoos as they do in the wild, but in sanctuaries they have a chance to live more happily, even if they have had some traumatic experiences in the past. Without the help of the public, elephants could go extinct when there was a possibility of saving them. The best way to get involved, besides donating money is to do a few things. Websites like PETA who are against elephants being in zoos will provide a petition of some sort that will encourage a change. The problem is that signing them guarantee any sort of change, even if they have made improvements in the past. Another way to help elephants get out of zoos is to write a letter to the AZA and tell them that their standards need to be raised for elephant care, or else they need to be sent to a sanctuary. If neither of those, the best way to get involved and support an elephant sanctuary is to volunteer at the nearest sanctuary. It would mean everything to the elephants to have support, and it would literally save their lives. They say an elephant never forgets, and elephants would always remember the change that could be made in their honor, and save their species from extinction. Roberts 5 Works Cited Cohn, Jeffrey P. Do Elephants Belong in  BioScience 56.9 (2006): 714. Web. 3 Apr. 2017. Hutchins, Michael. Zoo Vs. Sanctuary: An Ethical Consideration - Zoo Vs. Sanctuary: The AZA Position: An All Creatures Animal Rights Article: Justice, Peace, Love, Compassion, Ethics, Organizations, Bible, God, Lord, Jesus, Christ, Holy Spirit, Grass Roots, Animals, Cruelty Free, Lifestyle, Prolife, Pro Life,  Zoo Vs. Sanctuary: An Ethical Consideration - Zoo Vs. Sanctuary: The AZA Position: An All Creatures Animal Rights Article: Justice, Peace, Love, Compassion, Ethics, Organizations, Bible, God, Lord, Jesus, Christ, Holy Spirit, Grass Roots, Animals, Cruelty Free, Lifestyle, Prolife, Pro Life, P. Http://www.all-creatures.org/index.html, 3 Oct. 2004. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Merriam Webster. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Apr. 2017. Newkirk, Ingrid. Get Elephants Out of  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 7 May 2014. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Synergize. The History of Elephant  Woodall Addo. Woodall Country House and Spa, 12 Sept. 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Schaul, Jordan Carlton. Elephants in Captivity: A Perspective from Former AZA Director/William Conway Chair of Conservation &  National Geographic Society (blogs). National Geographic, 07 Oct. 2014. Web. 03 Apr. 2017