Muatasim Al-Rawahi Project 2 Professor Mark Nusspickel 03.30 2017 Banning Firearms in United States of America America is a very beautiful country, but have you thought what if in the future less tourist will come in because of the crimes? Bogus, Car T said cities are dangerous places. One has a far greater chance of being murdered or robbed at gunpoint in a major city in the United States than in any other high-income With gun control, you would expect the gun related violence to go down, but by checking the statics of the violence rates, you will notice it is increasing every year. And one of the reasons the can reduce it is by having a strict background check program that will not allow a lot of people to be able to own a gun easily, but instead go through very intensive background check. Looking at the fact the mental illness is not a danger factor, Background check is not the solution and the high crime rates, guns laws should be stricter. As to most of the problems that has been happening, banning firearm in United States would benefit the people by allowing them to avoid incidents such as the shooting in high school, shooting in theaters and shooting in the airport. You cannot turn a blind eye to lot of crime that is happening for the past 30 years is associated with firearms. Where More than 200,00 people were murder between 1988 to 1997 only, and more than half of it was because of guns. According to Rates of Household Firearm Ownership and Homicide Across US Regions and States, 1988- 1997, the 233 251 people who were homicide victims in the United States between 1988 and 1997, 68% were killed with (2) It is only getting worse by the day, people are losing their lives every day because of guns in United States According to Eli Gottlieb, Americans currently killed by guns each day on average (excluding suicides); more than 100 metro areas in the United States afflicted by mass shootings in 2016; 12 billion bullets manufactured (Gottlieb, 58) taking an action now and stopping it from being a bigger problem in few years is what going to save thousands of people from being murdered. Some of the massive shooting that happened recently, the accused person was found not guilty and the reason was because they are diagnosed with mental illness. Even though mentally ill patients are not dangerous, some people are threatened by individuals with mental illness now because of what they see in the news, and individuals with mental illness gets labeled as dangerous by the people. And by doing that, they project a wrong image about people whom are suffering with mental illness. Out of all the crimes that is happening in America, in fact mental illness individuals are only responsible for four present of the violence. According to Lindsay Bramble four percent of violence in the United States is attributed to those with mental illness and individuals with mental illness are actually far more likely to be victims of (Bramble, 306) One of the parents explains what she goes through with her son who is diagnosed with bipolar, her fourteen-year old son is stabbing himself with a pencil just so he does not do anything harmful to his brother. hallucinations had been telling him to hurt his brother, and acting out and harming himself was his way to deflect those (Bramble, 306) This shows that they are not the reason behind the violence that is happening in America and will hurt themselves before thinking about harming others. Other than gun related violence, guns should be banned because some people use it to commit suicide, especially military soldiers whom retired after their service with the army, that is why some of the countries in the world take away guns from soldiers. In Switzerland, they took away guns from the soldiers who served in the army and found out that taking away their guns helped to drop the rate of suicide by firearm in general. Gottlieb said. they took away the guns formerly given to soldiers at the end of their compulsory service, military suicides dropped significantly, as did the rate of suicide by firearm (62) Source Bogus, Carl T. Gun Control And Cities: Public Policy And  Albany Government Law Review 1.2 (2008): 441-482. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 30 Jan. 2017. BRAMBLE, LINDSAY1. Putting A Band-Aid On A Bullet Wound: Why Gun Legislation Targeting Individuals With Mental Illness  Journal Of Health Care Law & Policy 17.2 (2014): 303-327. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 30 Jan. 2017. GOTTLIEB, ELI. The Guns That  New Republic 247.4 (2016): 58-63. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 Miller, Matthew, Deborah Azrael, and David Hemenway. Rates Of Household Firearm Ownership And Homicide Across US Regions And States,  American Journal Of Public Health 92.12 (2002): 1988-1993. General Science Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017.