Jacob Conaty 1 Jacob Conaty Emil Smith Enc 1101 .002 Comp 1 March 26 th , 2017 Genetically Modified Crops Is the use of genetically modified food causing more harm or good to the environment in which we live in? Throughout the years, research on GMOs have been highly covered on whether these genetically modified crops are causing harm to the environment or not. In many sources, hypotheses from the data in the past are now being proven with new and upcoming data from current years. While questions concerning damage to the environment and GMOs as an alternative fuel have not changed over the past seventeen years, new research suggests that these aspects once questioned in the past, are now being proven and answered properly thanks to recent studies in the last few years. Before 2010, genetically modified crops were still being heavily researched and a conclusion to the question, GM foods safe for the never reached a for sure answer. In 2003, the book Modified written by Nigel G. Halford attempted to record all the new information coming about this subject and the concerns that these GM foods pose to the environment at that time. In this book, written by Halford, he attempts to answer the above question. Halford answers this question even though he was uncomfortable with it sense there is new information always coming out. Halford responds by saying is an international consensus amongst experts in the field that GM is not inherently more risky than other methods in plant breeding: GM crops are examined under a rigorous assessment system that goes beyond that applied to other (Halford, 84). This being said many nations and the Jacob Conaty 2 World Health Organization considered the topic of genetically modified crops, and concluded that at that time in 2003 there was not enough evidence to prove that GM crops pose any harm for the environment. After the year of 2010, research concerning GM crops proved to show no threat to the environment. In the article Modified Crops and Food written by Kouser Qaim, he finds sufficient evidence, after reviewing other scientists work for years and doing his own research, that these modified crops do not affect the environment in any way compared to non GM crops as said in this quote by Qaim, such risks are not specific to GM crops. Long-term research confirms that GM technology is not more risky than conventional plant breeding technologies. On the other hand, GM technology can help to breed food crops with higher contents of micronutrients and improve soil (Qaim, 8). Qaim says that with these crops food is able to grow in places otherwise known as infertile, but these crops can still produce and this can make the once infertile soil fertile over time thanks to the decomposition of older plants dying, eventually improving the condition of the environment. In this article written by Qaim, he even goes on to say that GM crops can improve the quality of common crops by stating that, genetically modified crops we saw an increase in overall quality in the food products with no unnatural effects to the surrounding (Qaim, 12). The idea of these crops effecting the environment did not necessarily change over the years but new information came about in current years to prove that these genetically modified crops have no effect on the environment compared to non GM crops. Before the year 2010 scientists believed that they could help reduced the pollution in our environment by creating a bio fuel from GM crops as mentioned in the article GM Crops for Energy written by Sergi Garcia. Unfortunately, Garcia and his fellow scientists were unable to find a successful way to covert these genetically engineered crops to an Jacob Conaty 3 alternative fuel at that time they continued working in hope the future years will figure out a way. Before 2010, this method of creating a bio fuel from genetically modified crops was an ongoing research project the ability to do this was confirmed in the years after 2010. After the year 2010, genetically modified plants and crops were proven to help lower the air pollution by a possible 5% if we create a bio fuel that becomes available to the public from these crops. In the article Next Green Movement: Plant Biology For The Environment And written by Jez Joseph he says products can not only create an increase in food but also in fuels and (Jez, 1). The process of converting crops such as corn and sugar cane to a bio fuel is quite complicated involving burning down the crops product and then catching the fumes released, then this is used as an oxygenate that is then ignited by a spark to produce a alternative fuel that runs directly from the fumes from the genetically modified plant burned. Our world is now in green and new alternative fuels and methods of decreasing the amount of carbon dioxide emitted in the atmosphere will have to become available. In recent years the idea of turning genetically modified crops into bio fuels was just an idea, but in world scientists were able to take these crops, specifically the modified corn, and create a fuel to run equipment. This bio fuel although sufficient in decreasing carbon dioxide emitted in the air, is not yet available to the public as it is still in the experimental trials. Throughout the years, the idea of turning the crops into an alternative fuel was always present but in recent years the scientists working on this project made it a reality. In conclusion, over the years the use of genetically modified crops have become more of a popular subject because it is now known that the modified products have no apparent effects on the environment and even better no effects on humans. Before 2010, the subject of genetically modified crops was fairly new and still being heavily researched to make sure that they were safe Jacob Conaty 4 for our environment since we are entering the After 2010, more research has been released stating that these genetically modified crops are indeed safe for the environment. Over the research continues to change and bring about new information that the past years did not know. Thanks to new research in recent years we are able to deem GM crops safe for the environment and prove that they can help lower pollution by using them for an alternative fuel source. Jacob Conaty 5 Citations Garcia, Sergi Astals, Buddhi Bahadur Achhami, and Anna Pericas Maymo. The GM crops for energy  (2010).ll Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Halford, Nigel G. Modified London, US: Imperial College Press, 2003. ProQuest ebrary. Web. 25 March 2017. Jez, Joseph M., Lee Soon Goo, and Ashley M. Sherp. The Next Green Movement: Plant Biology For The Environment And  Science 353.6305 (2016): 1241. Publisher Qaim M, Kouser S (2013) Genetically Modified Crops and Food Security. PLoS ONE 8(6): e64879. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0064879