Daniel Garcia Professor Nusspickel Enc 1101 2/19/2017 Garcia 1 OUTLINE I. Intro Student loan debt has influenced the lives of many college graduates for many years. According to research found between the years (2000-2010) the reasoning behind large amounts of student loan debt was the cost of tuition, and the different costs between public and private universities. However, recent studies show that the miss use of large loan distribution has become a main reason student struggle with a massive amount of debt after graduation. ii. Early research (2000-210). A. A Lifetime of Student Debt? Not likely / Wilson Robin 1. often, the problem among students who go heavily into debt is that they are determined to attend their dream college, no matter the Wilson Robin. 2. Going to a prestigious school rather than your local University ties into the amount one pays after graduation. 3. Students in the year 2007 who graduated from the University of New York borrowed an average of $33,637 dollars. Garcia 2 B. Helping new grads understand student loan repayment options can aid retirement planning success / Mark Naddler 1. Comparing the cost of your tuition and the amount you hope to make in the future is an important part of managing debt. fail to match loans taken with potential career Mark Naddler 2. According to the author college students violate the golden rule, which is to not borrow more than what your starting salary will be. Although tuition cost is a big reason students tend to suffer from debt. Recent studies show that loans given to students has been greatly increased. The miss use of loans has caused students to become even more in debt. The lack of financial knowledge has also been a reason as to why students struggle with debt. In turn students have to put important life decisions on hold like buying homes, and having families. iii. Later research (2011-2017) A. Student Loans: What you need to know before signing / James Sullivan, Melissa Towell 1. Authors James Sullivan and Melissa Towell say do not need to borrow all the money available. If possible, students should borrow only what they need to cover tuition, books, and fees, and pay living expenses with income earned by working part time or applying for a work study program as part of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid form. Garcia 3 2. Students tend to use the amount left over from borrowed money on unnecessary things which causes the amount of debt to grow even more. 3. Seeking assistance for financial budgeting would be beneficial for students who decide to take out loans. Resources are available to almost all students. Financial counseling is usually offered on campus, but students fail to use these resources, which cause them to become irresponsible with their money. B. Overcoming The Obstacles Student Debt Presents To The Ability To Buy a Home / Clarence Rose. 1. According to author Clarence Rose- spite of the relatively low current level of home mortgage interest rates, home buy- ing activity among college graduates under age 35 is at the lowest level in 2. According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, The amount of student debt in the U.S passed $1.2 trillion, and about $1trillion of that was federal student debt. 3. Outstanding student debt is lowering the ability of younger graduates to purchase homes. 4. under-aged-35 group has continued to see a decline in homeownership even as the housing market has begun to improve in recent Clarence Rose. iv. Conclusion Students loan debt has been a big influence on graduates lives. Tuition amount has increased, homes are becoming more difficult to obtain, loan distribution amount has been even greater the past decade. Garcia 4 Overwhelming Student Debt A college education is important and many believe that receiving a higher education will bring a good life and financial stability. However, some college graduates are having difficulties managing and paying off student loan debt. Supporting themselves, their families, and accomplishing future goals becomes difficult when they have accumulated a massive amount of debt. Student loan debt is truly horrifying and is a huge burden on college graduates; especially when graduates are only given a six-month grace period, before having to start paying off the debt. The cost of education has greatly increased the past decade. Student loan debt has reached an astounding 1.4 trillion dollars collectively, and is starting to become an even bigger problem (Christina Beck). Students who are deemed fit for loans are given an unnecessary large amount, which entices them to spend the money unwisely, causing the debt to grow even more. Many college graduates suffer from a large amount of student debt and it effects the way they live. Important life decisions such as owning homes, and starting families are put on hold because of the burden these student debts put on them. Dreams that many graduates hoped to fulfill come true. With that, student loans has and will be a big influence in college graduates lives. College tuition can be extremely costly and is a reason as to why college graduates suffer from massive amounts of student debt after graduation. Early studies done in the years 2000- 2010 show that the reason behind excessive amounts of student debt comes from the price of tuition, and the price differences between public and private universities. According to Wilson often, the problem among students who go heavily into debt is that they are determined to attend their dream college, no matter the (Wilson 1). Choosing which colleges to apply for is a very crucial decision for a young individual to make. However, for some that college might Garcia 5 put a strain in future financial decisions such as buying homes, and starting families because of the debt being accumulated throughout ones college career. As Robin stated these young individuals realize the predicament they put themselves in by attending prestigious private universities. The cost of private universities is well over the cost of going to a local state university. Students in the year 2007 who graduated from the University of New York borrowed an average of $33,637 dollars (Wilson 1). Compared to attending a local state university which would cost significantly less since monthly expenses such as rent, and food which would likely be less. A crucial mistake many students make according to author Mark Nadler is that students do not make a comparison between how much they intend to take out for loans to the amount they will make starting out in their career (Nadler 51). It is always important for a student to not borrow more than what ones starting salary would be. This rule is also known as golden (Nadler 51). While early research focuses on tuition costs being the key reason student debt was so high, present research has shown that students tend to graduate with high amounts of debt because they borrow more than they need, and lack a financial understanding in general. College students tend to borrow an entire amount that loan distributers offer which puts students in a big hole. According to Sullivan, and Towel do not need to borrow all the money available. If possible, students should borrow only what they need to cover tuition, books, and fees, and pay living expenses with income earned by working part time or applying for a work study program as part of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (Sullivan and Towell 2). Basically college students are taking loans that amount to more than what the tuition cost, and spend it on other expenses such as rent, food, and leisurely things. Although those three things mentioned are important those expenses should be paid for using other means. On top of Garcia 6 spending needlessly students fail to utilize important resources available to them such as financial budgeting and guidance. Almost all universities have resources students can use to help budget their college expenses. These resources are available to students because a part of their tuition, campuses usually offer financial counseling to those who have no knowledge in budgeting money. After graduation, many graduates have a difficult time achieving goals they set for themselves. One goal being able to buy a home. Decisions like buying a house get put on hold because of the financial burden graduates deal with. According to Rose says spite of the relatively low current level of home mortgage interest rates, home buying activity among college graduates under age 35 is at the lowest level in (Rose 1). Young adults are starting to lose the ability to buy homes because of their outstanding student loan debt. By being in debt it is also difficult for students to be candidates for financial help when purchasing homes. Student loan debt has been a problem among graduates. Although research on the topic has changed slightly throughout the years, all the reasons from early to now contribute to the reason why student loan debt remains high for many. These main reasons being, the cost of tuition, the college one decides to attend whether it be a private or public university, the amount one decides to borrow from loan distributers, and the failure to use campus resources in which helps students manage and budget their money. Because of these reasons college graduates find it difficult to be able to buy homes and accomplish other goals. Student loan debt has influenced the lives of many college graduates, and will continue to do so. Garcia 7 Work cited Christina Beck, Staff. Average student loan debt increases  Christian Science Monitor 19 Oct. 2016: N.PAG. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Nadler, Mark. Helping New Grads Understand Student Loan Repayment Options Can Aid Retirement Planning  23.11 (2009): 51-52. AgeLine. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Rose, Clarence C. Overcoming The Obstacles Student Debt Presents To The Ability To Buy A  Journal Of Financial Service Professionals 70.5 (2016): 72-80. Business Source Premier. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Sullivan, James, and Melissa Towell. Student Loans: What You Need To Know Before  Journal Of Accountancy 223.1 (2017): 49-52. Business Source Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Wilson, Robin. A Lifetime Of Student Debt? Not  The Chronicle Of Higher Education 37 (2009): Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.