Buschle 1 Charlie Buschle ENC1101 March 2, 2017 Outline I. Introduction a. Key Points i. In the world today, football is at the forefront of American culture. ii. The NFL profits off of the big hits put on their players iii. We look at these players as indestructible heroes iv. We fail to recognize the effects the game puts on these long term health b. Thesis: This report will analyze the long term effects of concussions on both active and retired NFL players and the lengths the NFL is going to reduce the frequency of concussions and prevent the impact of further injuries. II. Body a. Sub-topic: Illnesses concussions can lead to i. Before 2010: Lou disease linked to concussions, NFL players need to raise awareness  (2010) 1. If treated improperly, multiple concussions can eventually lead to a plethora of life threatening illnesses. Of these, the two most dangerous are CTE, which can lead to dementia, and ALS, or more commonly known as Lou disease. Buschle 2 ii. After 2010: Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays After The Approval Of The NFL Concussion  (2016) 1. This article continues to explain the possible contraction of CTE and the dangers it could lead to. CTE can lead to memory loss, confusion, impaired judgement, impulse control problems, aggression, depression, and eventual dementia. b. Subtopic: How concussions have been perceived i. Before 2010: Just A The National Football Denial Of A Causal Link Between Multiple Concussions And Later-Life Cognitive  (2009) 1. This piece further discusses the impact of concussions on current and former NFL players, describing violent collisions in the NFL as primary ingredient behind the incredible success of the Unfortunately these collisions, more often than not, lead to concussions. This article addresses the prevalence of concussions in the NFL and the long term health effects and possible diseases that they could lead to if not treated properly. It also explains the previous notion that concussions, because they were so common, were looked at as commonplace and taken lightly. ii. After 2010: When Getting Your Bell  May Lead To Ringing The : Potential Compensation For NFL Player Concussion-Related  (2013) Buschle 3 1. This article compiles several cases of long term brain damage caused by concussions in former NFL players, including the unfortunate stories of former players such as Junior Seau. It chronicles the history of concussions in the NFL along with the strides the NFL has taken to prevent long term injuries in current and retired players. These injuries, if not treated correctly, can lead to long term brain damage and, at its worst, can cost the lives of countless former players. The danger concussions pose puts the NFL in a difficult position, as they are pressed for time to find solutions to this rapidly growing problem. c. Subtopic: How the NFL is handling the matter i. Before 2010: Hed Case: An Guide To Protecting Their NFL Clients From Concussions And Associated  1. This article continues to look into the efforts the NFL is making to handle the increasingly prominent issue of concussions and their long term effect. It gives examples of unfortunate cases of effected players, including Mike Webster, who was homeless before he died of heart failure in 2002, Terry Long, who committed suicide in 2005 by drinking antifreeze, and Andre Waters, who committed suicide by shooting himself. All three autopsies revealed the men all suffered from post-concussion-syndrome. As similar cases continue to flood in, the pressure is on the NFL to act. In 2007, the NFL began requiring players to undergo a baseline neurological Buschle 4 exam. The NFL Players Association (NFLPA) has also contributed by helping fund the concussion studies by the Center for the Study of Retired. Both the League and the Players Association are working together to make a difference for the sake of their players. ii. After 2010: School Of Hard Knocks -- The Impact Of The Nfl Concussion  (2014) 1. This article chronicles one of the largest instances of former NFL players acting out against the way the league handles the treatment of concussions and other head injuries. It contains the details of a 2012 lawsuit filed by thousands of former NFL players against the NFL. The players, including hall of fame quarterback Terry Bradshaw, were seeking financial compensation for chronic long term injuries, along with financial losses suffered by the former players. The litigation created awareness for the long term effects of concussions and the responsibility to prevent said effects. III. Conclusion a. Key Points: i. When it comes to concussions, a beyond serious issue in football, and the NFL needs to do everything in its power to see that as resolved as it can be. Buschle 5 The Realization of the Dangers of Concussions In the world today, sports remain at the forefront of American popular culture, with no sport being more popular than the National Football League. The NFL is a billion dollar industry that makes is name off of Hail Mary touchdowns, one handed catches, and earth shattering hits. We look up to these teams and their players as if they are indestructible, larger than life superheroes. Because of this, we fail to recognize the effects the game has on these players long term health. Of these effects, the most concerning is the games effect on the brain, more specifically, concussions. This report will analyze the long term effect of concussions on both active and retired NFL players, how concussions are perceived by both the public and the NFL, and how the conversation about the topic has changed over time. The long term effects of concussions on the brain have been thoroughly over the past 17 years. always been observed as a threat to the victim of said concussions, but over time, the threat was taken more and more seriously. In an article published by Brain Injury Canada in 2010 titled Lou disease linked to concussions, NFL players need to raise awareness  the research begins to display serious signs of some fatal possibilities. It discusses that if not properly treated, multiple concussions can eventually lead to a plethora of life threatening illnesses, one of the most dangerous being ALS, or more commonly known as Lou disease. ALS leads to muscle weakness and eventual muscle loss, impaired speech, mild cognitive impairment, and severe unintentional weight loss (Mayo Clinic). The majority of ALS cases ends in death of the patient. With studies beginning to discover major results in 2010, they would only continue to discover more and more dangerous illnesses and effects of concussions on NFL players. For example in a Defense Council Journal article by Jay Barry Harris in 2016 titled Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays after the Approval Of The Buschle 6 NFL Concussion  the author delves deep into the effects of CTE on the brain. Traumatic Encephalophy (CTE) was is linked to the list of possible long term effects of multiple concussions or improperly treated concussions. It is a progressive degenerative disease that has been found athletes who have a history of repetitive brain trauma. This trauma includes symptomatic concussions and other severe blows to the brain. The trauma triggers progressive degeneration of brain tissue. The loss of tissue can lead to an endless list of detrimental effects to the human brain, including memory loss, confusion, impaired judgement, impulse control problems, aggression, depression, and eventual dementia. As displayed in these two source examples, clear to see that the long term effects of concussions on the human brain has begun to be taken more and more seriously, as researchers and scientists continue to discover more and more life threatening effects. The perception of concussions is something that has changed quite drastically over the history of professional football. In the early days, the only thing protecting heads from the many dangers of the game was a leather cap. As time went on, helmets were introduced to better protect heads from dangerous collisions. Even then, concussions always taken as seriously as doctors today hoped. In a piece written by Daniel J. Kain in 2009 titled Just a The National Football Denial of a Causal Link between Multiple Concussions and Later-Life Cognitive  Kain describes how concussions always taken too seriously. He describes that the NFL has always profited off of the violent collisions, describing them as primary ingredient behind the incredible success of the Due to these big hits, concussions became quite prevalent across the league. He goes on to say that because concussions were so common, they were often looked at as commonplace, taken lightly, and treated improperly. The perception of concussions would soon make a Buschle 7 complete 180 degree shift as more and more long term effects would be discovered. In a 2013 article by Brad J. Reich titled When Getting Your Bell  May Lead to Ringing the : Potential Compensation For NFL Player Concussion-Related  the author describes how the conversation has become much more seriously than in previous times. The article compiles several instances of long term brain damage on former NFL players. No case was more documented than that of former San Diego Chargers linebacker Junior Seau, who committed suicide in 2012 at his home in Oceanside, California. He was 43. Many saw this case, in particular, as the one that changed the perception of concussions as we know. The news of Seau, a former hero to fans all over the world, taking his life due to illness if the brain hit too close to home for many fans along with the NFL front office, who lost one of their all-time great players. After these events, concussions were in no doubt a major threat to the health and wellbeing of NFL players, putting the league in a tough decision, as they are pressed for time to find a solution to this rapidly growing problem. As clearly displayed above, concussions are a serious issue facing the NFL because they continue to put their players lives in danger. While they always looked at as the threat they are today, the NFL has accepted concussions as a continually growing issue and need to do everything in their power to halt it. Buschle 8 Works Cited Harris, Jay Barry. Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays After The Approval Of The NFL Concussion  Defense Counsel Journal 83.2 (2016): 156-164. Business Source Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Kain, Daniel J. Just A The National Football Denial Of A Causal Link Between Multiple Concussions And Later-Life Cognitive  Rutgers Law Journal 40.(2009): 697. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Lou disease linked to concussions, NFL players need to raise awareness  Brain Injury Canada. N.p., 13 Sept. 2010. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://braininjurycanada.ca/2010/09/13/lou-gehrigs-disease-linked-to-concussions-nfl- players-need-to-raise-awareness-level/>. Reich, J. Brad1. When Getting Your Bell  May Lead To Ringing The : Potential Compensation For NFL Player Concussion-Related  Virginia Sports & Entertainment Law Journal 12.2 (2013): 198-231. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017.