Castaneda 1 Mariana Castaneda Professor Ryan ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Project 2: Analyzing Visual Rhetoric- Planned Parenthood The heavily debated issue of abortion has brought about thousands of organizations, many of which have a purpose to either promote or defame pro-choice institutions. Planned Parenthood is a pro-choice organization working towards the expansion of reproductive and sexual health services for individuals of all ages and backgrounds. The mission statement published on their site makes evident their belief in individual rights to his or her fertility, regardless of the income, marital status, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or Their main purpose is to provide complimentary reproductive health care services in a place that protects the privacy and rights of all individuals. Planned Parenthood has worked endlessly to steer away from the public misconception that their services revolve around providing abortions. They do so through an effective use of visual and rhetorical appeals in advertising, where they work to widen their audience and educate the public on the wide variety of services they offer. For Planned Parenthood, it is of major importance to appeal to and gain the support of individuals from all kinds of backgrounds in order to promote their beliefs and maintain their organization afloat. The first advertisement was found on the Twitter page, which is verified by Twitter and currently has 168.2K followers. The organization reaches hundreds of thousands of people through advertising on social media, where they make use of current and trending issues, as is immigration, to advertise to specific groups of people. The advertisement Castaneda 2 has a direct and colloquial tone, presenting a familiar issue in a straightforward manner that clearly helps get their mission across. The color scheme of the advertisement is various shades of blue, which is a strategy commonly used in advertising to promote a sense of trust in the organization (Colorwheelpro.com). With dark blue representing knowledge, power and authority in the issue, and light blue representing health, tranquility and understanding for their prospective audience, Planned Parenthood works to establish the validity and credibility of their institution in the community. In addition to visual appeals in advertising, Planned Parenthood successfully makes use of rhetorical appeals as persuasive techniques to gain support for their organization. PP takes an ethical approach in advertising as they attempt to establish trust with their audience. In the first advertisement, the first appeal to ethos is made by placing the name and logo right below the message. It is common for widely known organizations to use their logo as a symbol of truth in their advertisements. Because PP is one of the leading facilities in reproductive health, they have established credibility through years of experience, and therefore have authority in their message to the public. In addition, since their name is well known in the community, and much of the population knows what kind of organization it is, it is not necessary for Planned Parenthood to explicitly state their beliefs or what services they provide directly in the ad. Planned Parenthood makes a logical appeal by maintaining consistency and clarity in their arguments, as they hope to persuade new groups into taking a new perspective on the issues they stand for. In this advertisement, there is clear consistency within the core values and beliefs. Their slogan, No matter embodies their mission, to provide services to every individual without fear of discrimination. The ad expands on that idea by specifically naming an individual group (immigrants) that usually feels uncared for, and making it clear that Castaneda 3 they will not discriminate against them, all in hopes of encouraging this audience to support the organization. Expanding on use of immigration issues as an advertising technique, this ad gives a sense of urgency and timeliness by bringing up an issue that is current and prominent right now. After the elections, immigration and healthcare are two of the most talked about issues in the country, so it is an opportune time for Planned Parenthood to appeal to these groups and gain their support. By offering services and defending the rights of individual groups, PP hopes to widen their reach and gain support in the community. Planned Parenthood uses various methods to widen their audience as well as to establish credibility in their organization. In their second advertisement, they involve characteristics that are common and wide known in their organization. This advertisement was also posted on the official twitter page, along with the caption a healthier world for everyone: this is what we do following a link to more information on their services and the demographics of the organization. Planned Parenthood uses their twitter page to appeal to teenagers and young adults who use the app regularly, providing them with information that they may need to learn about as they begin to experience their sexual and reproductive lives. By informing them through a site they use frequently, Planned Parenthood gives young adults an already familiar way of seeking this type of information. This technique is effective in advancing their mission, as a key part of it is to increase the amount of sexual and relational health information available in the community. The design places emphasis on the name, logo, and slogan of the organization by placing them at the top of the ad and in a different color. This is done to establish credibility in the information provided, as it is coming from a leading health/educational organization that has years of experience in the subject. The majority of the advertisement is in different shades of blue, which according to an article on Color Wheel Castaneda 4 Pro, is widely associated with trust, wisdom, confidence, intelligence, and truth. In the same way as the first ad, the color is also used to promote tranquility and calmness, which are two key components of the appeal to young adults in this advertisement. With the intention of refuting the arguments of the opposition, Planned Parenthood works to demonstrate that a vote against the organization is much more than a vote against abortion. The second advertisement begins by establishing credibility in the information by placing the name, logo, and slogan of the organization before the list of services they provide. Because PP is a medical institution with hundreds of years of experience in the field of reproductive and sexual health, placing their name on ads leads the public to believe in the information presented before them. This ad helps the organization logically disprove the association of PP with abortion by providing the audience with a clear list full of information that hopes to make them see the organization from a different perspective. The ad makes a logical argument by giving statistics that inform the public of how many people are affected by their services every year. According to an article about appeals to their audience found on WordPress, it is common for the organization to use their slogan in their site and advertisement to appeal to the emotions of their audience, specifically young adults, in an attempt to help them connect with the issue. In this advertisement, PP uses their slogan on Twitter to give teenagers and young adults security in the information as well as to ease the tension they might feel when seeking help from the organization. It ensures young adults that no matter who they are, where they come from, or what situation they find themselves in, PP will stand with them to provide the help and care necessary for their well-being. Castaneda 5 The advertisements previously analyzed have a clear and direct purpose, that is, to inform people from all different ages, backgrounds, and socio-economic statuses about the resources available to them and to make evident that Planned Parenthood does a lot more that simply provide and refer abortions. The organization strives to prove that they do not discriminate against anyone; they want to show that every single individual that visits their clinics or makes any use of their services will be treated appropriately and equally. They successfully promote their views and mission in all advertisements through ethical, logical, and emotional appeals. In these advertisements, particularly, Planned Parenthood works to prove that the arguments that pro-life organizations have made for their defunding are mistaken. Planned Parenthood asks the public to understand that their organization is crucial in society. The organization effectively appeals to the public through various methods, all of which hope to show individual groups that even if they agree with pro-choice views on abortion, there are thousands of other services Planned Parenthood provides that they could benefit from if needed. Planned Parenthood makes use of a variety of visual and rhetorical appeals to their audience as they fight to establish their validity and credibility in the community. The institution successfully defends its beliefs through the use of logic and ethics as they take on the task of defending the rights of all individuals equally. They have involved themselves in current issues such as and LGBTQ rights, social and racial justice, as well as sexual and reproductive rights of all individuals with the purpose of connecting to these groups and gaining their support. In these images, Planned Parenthood makes evident their mission to provide care for and to protect all individuals, no matter what situation they are in. Castaneda 6 Works Cited Account, Planned ParenthoodVerified. a Healthier World for Everyone: This Is What We Twitter, Twitter, 22 Dec. 2016, twitter.com/PPFA/status/812024947379961856/photo/1. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning, www.color- wheel-pro.com/color-meaning.html. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Planned Parenthood We Care No Matter What. Twitter, Twitter, 11 Feb. 2017, twitter.com/PPFA/status/830446815375921154. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Planned Parenthood, 21 May 2014, www.plannedparenthood.org/about-us/who-we-are/mission. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Slh26. 1: a Rhetorical Analysis of slh26, 18 Sept. 2014, slh26.wordpress.com/2014/09/18/project-1-a-rhetorical-analysis-of-plannedparenthood-org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Castaneda 7