Al Oraimi 1 Safa Al Oraimi Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 26 March, 2017 Word (1117) Outline I. Introduction: Environmental Sustainability and Business Success a. Background: What is environmental sustainability? b. Thesis: As demonstrated through various research, most companies have begun implementing environmental suitability practices in their work. II. Early Research 2000-2010: A- Kanopy (Firm). A Passion for Sustainability Examples of companies applying using environmental Sustainability in their business. 1-EBay. 2-Google. 3-Starbucks. B. Salzmann, Oliver, Aileen Ionescu-somers, and Ulrich Steger. The Business Case for Corporate Sustainability. A sustainable society a. How the future would look like if most of the companies and organizations followed the environmental sustainability plans? Al Oraimi 2 Transition: While early research provided examples of companies and the sustainable society, later research focuses on strategies and learning environmental sustainability in the universities. Transition: While early research provided examples of companies and the how society will be if companies start using environment sustainability, later research focuses on strategies and learning environmental sustainability in the university. III. Later Research (2011-2017) A. Eweje, Gabriel, and Martin Perry. Business & Sustainability. The strategies of environmental sustainability 1. Describe the strategies and how it is work? 2. How this strategies help business to success? B. Wendy Stubbs. Integrating Environmental Sustainability into  How can universities learning about environmental sustainability? 1.Importance of addressing the environmental sustainability topic in the universities. 2. Why is it necessary to introduce the environmental sustainability subject to the future business owners? 3. factors critical to enabling universities to undertake the transformational changes necessary to embed environmental sustainability into all university areas included: a strong policy environment, resourcing of strategies, and encouragement of leaders and environmental sustainability advocates. Educating and building the awareness of university staff to the importance of Al Oraimi 3 environmental sustainability to future generations was key to successful (Wendy 71) IV. Conclusion: The real success is having an environmentally sustainable future a. is the economic engine of our Western culture, and if it could be transformed to truly serve nature as well as ourselves, it could become essential to our Karl-Henrik Robert, Founder of The Natural Step. b. All people have responsibility for the nurture not only companies. Al Oraimi 4 Environmental Sustainability and Business Success Environment Sustainability and business success is the most important goal of the United Nation (UN). In 1972, the government discussed the cause of environment issues such as global warming, and ozone hole (McMahon and Maureen 1). They observe the main reason for these issues are human and business activity because their companies do not have environmentally friendly practices. People blamed the governments for not taking any decisions about companies and sustainability. As time passed, may individual companies and business owner noticed that there is a relationship between using environmental sustainability and economic gain. To this end, Wangari Maathai, an environmental political activist, identifies: environment and the economy are really both two sides of the same coin. If we cannot sustain the environment, we cannot sustain (Eweje and Perry 122). This quote examines that the environment is very important, because if humans need to save planet, they should take care of the environment. Presently, there are many companies applying environmental sustainability in their work such as EBay, Google and Starbucks. As demonstrated through research, most companies have begun implementing environmental sustainability practices in their work. However, this has not always been the case. Between 2000 to 2010 the research provide some examples of companies that are applying environmental sustainability and how society will look if companies using environmental sustainability, later from 2011 to 2015 research shows the strategies that help business owner to succeed and learn environmental sustainability in universities. Al Oraimi 5 Many companies a fried to apply environmental sustainability in their companies because they thought that will effect in the economy. However, there are many companies using environment sustainability such as EBay, Google and Starbucks. First of all, EBay is one of the companies, which uses environmental sustainability focus. It has and online retail across the world which makes it easy for every customer to interact and exchange the reuse goods. So instead of throwing away the products, it is reused by other people. In return, the lifespan of the product is very much prolonged. Apart from interacting and exchanging product the company also has a classified section. Customers can buy or sell households and furniture. These eliminate shipping and packaging of these products. The second company that uses environment sustainability is Starbucks. The Company has managed to stay green stores and as results reduce the operating cost the negative environmental impact. The third company in focus is Google. It is a leading partner to greener future. It uses environmental management and helps in implementing a good chain management practice. This company has given a stern commitment to handle environmental challenged and offers a solution to complex challenges that are faced by the environment. In the past, people dream to have a sustainable society because they are busy on the industrial revolution. They do not know the negative effects that they are causing when they do not use environmental sustainability. Al this time, people start to make ways to save the earth and they hope to make sustainable society (Salzmann 88). are not subject to conditions that systematically undermine their capacity to meet their (Fischler 10). In other words, people who live in sustainable society think before start a new business because they need to keep a sustainable society. If the organization and companies start to follow the environment sustainability the future will be better. Al Oraimi 6 While early research provide examples of companies that use environmental sustainability and suitable society, later research faces on the strategies that help owner business to success and learning environmental sustainability in the university. All business is striving to be seen as sustainable and suitable. Every activity is seen as save the earth activity. This makes economic sense to also of he concerned parties and governments. The rapid growth of business across the world has been achieved by the emission of gasses and the degradation of the use of natural resource. There is a close relationship between the impact of business growth and the climate issues. In industries, mineral prices impact the cost of business and profitability. The effect of biodiversity is also heavily felt on the daily customers. The environmental changes at all levels have a serious impact on the industries both within and across Africa. Sustainable business activities are more related to social and cooperate. The process majorly involves examining the business processes, and the practice given by people. People think to find a way that can help firm to get higher outcome and the only way that they can help them is include the environment sustainability plan in different operations of the companies. The book Business& Sustainability: Concepts Strategies and Changes, provide some strategies that help companies to get higher economy. The first strategies are to promote sustainable leadership in companies. This is inclusive of the board members and oversight committees. This group should seek to be accountable to environmental and social values. It is more adverse with high expertise in linking employees with the organizational goals. The second strategy is to involve dialogue with the key stakeholders on the sustainable challenges, which include employees, NGO, and investors. This does not exclude routine suppliers and consumers. In doing this, the company does a periodic reporting on strategic goals and Al Oraimi 7 accomplishments. The final way is by offering systematic performance and improvement to achieve environment neutrality. This will cover other concern sustainable goals expected across the value chain for instance operations and products. Moreover, theses strategies are useful for specific companies that supply various types of products such as household, furniture and bags. Thus, customers can buy cheaper product and they can save money. Since environment sustainability is the important topic not only in business but also in education, many universities start to include the subject of environmental sustainability as a learning objective in universities. In the article Integrating Environmental Sustainability into , Meredith, and Wendy show why it is important to address environmental sustainability in the universities. The reasons for include this subject in universities because students need to know how to use environmental sustainability to succeed in their business. Also, in universities students can learn more benefits of using sustainability without damaging the natural word (Ralph and Stubbs). In conclusion, the real successes of theses companies not only get higher economy but we have environmental sustainability in future for people who think to start business. Universities can also be part of the existence of a sustainable society because it encourages companies to develop plans for the benefit of the environment. Moreover, it gives owner business ides to use nature step without damage the earth. Many people on society do not know the affect of environmental suitability for our future life. Al Oraimi 8 Works Cited Eweje, Gabriel, and Martin Perry. Business & Sustainability. [Electronic Concepts, Strategies and Changes. Bradford : Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2011, 2011. Print. Kanopy (Firm). A Passion for Sustainability. San Francisco, California, USA: Kanopy Streaming, 2008. Salzmann, Oliver, Aileen Ionescu-somers, and Ulrich Steger. The Business Case for Corporate Sustainability: Literature Review and Research  European Management Journal 23.1 (2005): 27-36. Print. Wendy Stubbs. Integrating Environmental Sustainability into  Higher Education 67.1 (2014): 71-90. Print