Zambrano 1 Maria Zambrano Mark J Nusspickle ENC 1101 March 1, 2017 Outline I. Introduction Education is one of the most important steps in life. The United States provides a free educational system from kindergarten to high school. After graduating from high school, there is an important decision to make; whether to attend postsecondary education, or not. Due to the high costs of attendance in college or university, many students decide to take out student loans and go into a personal debt. Student loans have been looked at as a helpful but harmful tool to pay for college expenses. Between 2000 and 2010, studies focused more on the percentages of low-income students, to whom the costs of postsecondary education prevent them to attend an university; this is due to the fact that the government supported more the private sectors. At the same time, less federal funding aid was given to the colleges or universities, making them raise the costs of attendance considerably. However, recent research between 2011 and 2017, focused more on the increasing percentages of student loans borrowed by undergraduate and graduate students, and their opinion about the decision they made of getting into debt. II. Early research (2000-2010) A. Students Need You More Than  Peterson, James R. Zambrano 2 1. The necessity that families had to get into a student loan in order to be able to afford their, or their children, college education. 2. Approximately 48% of high school graduates with low income household, are not able to attend college due to the high costs of the tuition, fees, and many others. B. Debt Education: Bad For The Young, Bad For  William, Jeffrey J. 1. Possible bad consequences of acquiring a student loan 2. The raise of tuition and postsecondary education costs are due to the less funding aid from the Federal government to the universities or colleges in each state Transition: Despite the previous mentioned research made before 2010, later studies were more focus on the unstoppable increase of amount of money owed and lent to college students, and their side effects. III. Later research (2011-2017) A. Student Loan Debt Levels And Their Implications For Borrowers, Society, And The Cornelius, Luke M., and Sharon A. Frank. 1. Ways of receiving low interest rates in a student loan. 2. Loan forgiveness after 10 years of full payments (if working with education). 3. Worries about daily growth of student debts, and raise of tuitions. B. 68% Of Americans With Student Loans Are Unhappy With How They Financed  Vien, Courtney L. 1. Survey by AICPA show how students with loans, after graduation, regret the way of how they paid for college. Zambrano 3 2. Necessity of asking specific and certain questions before signing a student loan. 3. Mental wellness after acquiring a loan. IV. Conclusion Zambrano 4 Student loans effects in college students and graduates in United States Education is one of the most important steps in life. The United States provides a free educational system from kindergarten to high school. After graduating from high school, there is an important decision to make; whether to attend postsecondary education, or not. Due to the high costs of attendance in college or university, many students decide to take out student loans and go into a personal debt. Student loans have been looked at as a helpful but harmful tool to pay for college expenses. Between 2000 and 2010, studies focused more on the percentages of low-income students, to whom the costs of postsecondary education prevent them to attend an university; this is due to the fact that the government supported more the private sectors. At the same time, less federal funding aid was given to the colleges or universities, making them raise the costs of attendance considerably. However, recent research between 2011 and 2017, focused more on the increasing percentages of student loans borrowed by undergraduate and graduate students, and their opinion about the decision they made of getting into debt. Although education should be an inspiration for all humans, the excessive costs of attending postsecondary education, create a barrier between students and their success to pay educational dues. From 2000 to 2010, studies emphasized more on the effects that reducing the government federal aid to educational institutes in each state of the United States, may have on the decision of whether to attend postsecondary education or not. The author James Peterson states that figures show that cost factors prevent 48% of college-qualified high school graduates from low-income families from attending a four-year (Peterson 51). Zambrano 5 He explains the necessity of low-income families to borrow money, whether from federal loan or private loan, in order for their child to study postsecondary education. Simultaneously, it was found that long as state governments are unable to compete more meaningfully and as long as parents are unable to save, volume will grow (Peterson 53). This explains the benefits that banks and private lenders are going to continue getting by acquiring more money from the high interest on the loans given. Similarly, a 2006 article written by Jeffrey Williams states that has increased in large part because there is significantly less federal funding to states for education, and the states fund a far smaller percentage of tuition (Williams 54). This can certainly affect how students pay for college expenses. Additionally, he points out that teaches career (Williams 56). Before getting into a debt, the student must analyze the career path that he or she is going to take, and valuate the amount of money owed at the end with the amount of earnings someone can get after graduating from that particular degree. Despite the previous mentioned research, simultaneously, studies between 2011 and 2017, focused more on investigations that are lean toward the increasing amount of money lent to students and their viewpoint after a couple of years with their loan. According to the Journal of Accountancy, the writer Courtney Vien, wrote that percent of adults with college loans or whose children have loans said they regret how they financed their own or their (Vien 1). Even though the person acquiring the loan has the ultimate decision of whether to sign for it or not, people should look deeper before deciding to go into a debt. The high levels of interest can make someone pay almost double of what they actually borrowed to pay for tuition, books and other common college expenses. At the same time, one of the main benefits of acquiring higher education, is the qualification for higher paying jobs, which Zambrano 6 can make someone doubt the decision of not taking a loan. Following this, another source written by Cornelius Luke and Sharon Frank, shows how someone can receive a low interest rate on a student loan; both authors addresses that a result of decades of expanding access to student loans along with the increasing cost of college and the failure of federal grants to keep pace with such costs, the percentages of students with student loans has increased (Luke and Frank 36). Additionally, loan forgiveness can be acquired after ten years of consecutive payments, if the person decides to work on an educational branch. In synthesis, the United States provides an expensive, but well integrated, postsecondary education system. Some investigations showed that student loans were the most successful way of paying for college, making the amount of money lent to students higher every day. Between 2000 and 2010, and 2011 and 2017, there has been an important shift to be mentioned. The focus on studies about student loans have changed dramatically. There used to be an inclination in research of how government has been providing less and less aid to public universities in each state of the U.S., but now examinations in academic journals focuses more on increasing percentages of student loans and their effects after graduation. Zambrano 7 Works Cited Cornelius, Luke M., and Sharon A. Frank. Student Loan Debt Levels And Their Implications For Borrowers, Society, And The  Educational Considerations 42.2 (2015): 35-38. ERIC. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Peterson, James R. Students Need You More Than  ABA Banking Journal 96.5 (2004): 50-53. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Vien, Courtney L. 68% Of Americans With Student Loans Are Unhappy With How They Financed  Journal Of Accountancy 220.1 (2015): 1-2. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Williams, Jeffrey J. Debt Education: Bad For The Young, Bad For  Dissent (00123846) 53.3 (2006): 53-59. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017.