Caruso 1 Paige Caruso Mark J Nusspickle ENC 1101 3/22/17 Outline I. Introduction In this day and age, technology plays a huge part in everyday activities. Not only are adults being affected by the new and fascinating technology, children are being subjected to it as well. There is an increased use of computers at elementary schools in addition to abundant learning that is being done through some form of technological media. Learning is not being restricted to the classroom as media based learning is also done at home. Children are exposed to screens from the day they enter this world now, children have televisions in their rooms, handheld toys that are by theirs sides (i.e. Leapfrog), and an increased trend of children under ten receiving all access to smartphones or tablets. Within the past ten years, the rate of growth of technology has changed exponentially. Just a decade ago, smartphones were an unrealistic idea, and today they are seen in every hand. Children are being exposed to so much more technological things now, how do parents and teachers know if what they are doing is harmful or beneficial? While the rapid progression of technology in home and the classroom seems like a fantastic idea and a way to create individual learning, research over the past decade has only increased around the consistent idea that that the need of parents and teachers to be present during learning is just as important as the content being taught. Caruso 2 II. Source One a. Eisenberg, Michael. Educational Technology,  New Directions for Youth Development 2010.128 (2010): 25-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. b. of these themes- hangouts, economies, rooms, rituals, displays, and buddies-thus represents an opportunity to rethink educational (Eisenberg 32) c. Looks as past anthropological themes that shape children and use of tech. III. Source Two a. Lau, Cynthia, et al. The Effects of Teacher Facilitation on The Social Interactions of Young Children During Computer  Topics in Early Childhood Special Education 25.4 (2005): 208. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. b. 18 groups of children w/ and w/o teachers present c. Impact of teachers is beneficial IV. Source Three a. Slutsky, Ruslan, Mindy Slutsky, and Lori M. Shelter. Playing with Technology: Is It All  Dimensions of Early Childhood 42.3 (2014): 18-23. Education Source. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. b. Technology based toys take away from learning opportunities c. problem is that there is too much technology compared to the amount of (Slutsky 20) Caruso 3 d. Toys that pair technology and learning are most effective and Technology is helpful in moderation V. Source Four a. Ching-Ting, Hsin, Li Ming-Chaun, and Tsai Chin-Chung. The Influence of Young Use of Technology on Their Learning: A  Journal of Educational Technology & Society 17.4 (2014): 85-99. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. b. the technology-related practices developmentally appropriate for young (Ching-Ting, 86) c. Parents interaction w/ children while using technology effects outcome d. Children thrive with technology they could use with their friends e. learned more from using technology when adults provided them with a safe climate, encouraged them to participate in conversation, involved them in establishing the goals of the activity, and maintained their interaction with the adults and with the (Ching- Ting, 96) VI. Conclusion While the rapid progression of technology in home and the classroom seems like a fantastic idea and a way to create individual learning, research over the past decade has not changed much but grown on the constant idea that the need of parents and teachers to be present during learning is just as important as the content being taught. Over the past ten to fifteen years, there has not been a dramatic change of mind on the thought of technology learning and children. Research among Caruso 4 all four sources has shown that the impact of technology on children and adolescence has become more accepted and beneficial when there is an authoritative figure around mediating the learning. Caruso 5 Technology and Children In this day and age, technology plays a huge part in everyday activities. Not only are adults being affected by the new and fascinating technology, children are being subjected to it as well. There is an increased use of computers at elementary schools in addition to abundant learning that is being done through some form of technological media. Learning is not being restricted to the classroom as media based learning is also done at home. Children are exposed to screens from the day they enter this world now, children have televisions in their rooms, handheld toys that are by theirs sides (i.e. Leapfrog), and an increased trend of children under ten receiving all access to smartphones or tablets. Within the past ten years, the rate of growth of technology has changed exponentially. Just a decade ago, smartphones were an unrealistic idea, and today they are seen in every hand. Children are being exposed to so much more technological things now, how do parents and teachers know if what they are doing is harmful or beneficial? While the rapid progression of technology in home and the classroom seems like a fantastic idea and a way to create individual learning, research over the past decade has only increased around the consistent idea that that the need of parents and teachers to be present during learning is just as important as the content being taught. Research done in 2005 and 2010 was limited but contained the same root ideas the recent research within the past few years has. Michael Eisenberg wrote a research paper Educational Technology, , where he presents a new idea of technology not only being desktop computers and learning is not only in a classroom. Elementary aged kids are exposed to all sorts of technological items such as, 3-D printers, automated sewing machines and handheld E books. This type of learning is exposed outside of the classroom but still qualifies as an educational aspect of the life. Eisenberg looks at past anthropological themes that shape children and Caruso 6 their use of technology. He realized something that researchers up until then ignored, or did not have access to, that children and teens are exposed to technology in all sorts of areas or themes and these areas can become educational. of these economies, rooms, rituals, displays, and represents an opportunity to rethink educational (Eisenberg, 32). He further explains the themes and evaluates how technology can play a part in that part of a young adolescence life. Another past research that was done was in 2005 by Lau, Higgins, Gelfer, Hong, and Miller who wrote a paper, The Effects Of Teacher Facilitation On The Social Interactions Of Young Children During Computer , conducted an experiment/research study of 18 groups of children that included both disabled and non-disabled children. The groups also involved teachers who acted as facilitators and ones who did not. The result was found that children benefit greatly from teacher interaction. The students (with or without disabilities) in the groups with a teacher present (and giving instruction) had a more positive time illustrated by their social behaviors, they were more friendly and overall and happier about the entire situation that the kids without the facilitator. The result and solution to the continuous impact of technology in education was that a teacher needs to lead the programs when the students are doing technology based learning rather than leaving children to fend for themselves on the computers. This was an undoubtedly new discovery because technology was so new and fresh at this time, people did not think to look at the environment children where in while using technology. Until now it was assumed that the computer could do all of the teaching and instructors did not need to be involved for the education to work. These researchers show us that even a decade ago the idea that technology can be a good thing if instructed by the adult in lives takes a part in the learning activities. Caruso 7 Studies in the past laid the basic groundwork for resent research about children and technology based learning. In 2010 Ching-Ting, Hsin, Li Ming-Chaun, and Tsai Chin-Chung wrote an academic journal The Influence of Young Use of Technology on Their Learning: A  In the journal the authors bring to light the idea that when children are instructed by teachers while using technology to learn the result is overall better. This research was done five years after study, The Effects of Teacher Facilitation on The Social Interactions of Young Children During Computer  holds true to the same idea; that an adult should be present and interacting with the child while he/she is using educational technology tools. The main question being asked is the technology-related practices developmentally appropriate for young (Ching-Ting, 86). The study found that interaction with their children and technology greatly effects the outcome as well. Children whose parents provided them with a safe learning environment succeeded exponentially rather than children with parents who left them to their own demise. The researchers noted this in their results, learned more from using technology when adults provided them with a safe climate, encouraged them to participate in conversation, involved them in establishing the goals of the activity, and maintained their interaction with the adults and with the (Ching- Ting, 96). This shows us that children thrive on direction in where to go with their technology. In school, it was found that children strived when using technology based math learning and online books they could read with their friends. This is because when they incorporate technology and their friends it is easier than alone, this goes back to how young students do better with direction from their parents. Finally, the journal, Playing with Technology: Is It All , written by Slutsky, Ruslan, Mindy Slutsky, and Lori M. Shelter takes into consideration that technology is a growing trend and that we must learn how to shape it to benefit us the most. If a child sits in Caruso 8 front of a television all day they then have no time to play and act out what they learned in the supposed learning program, this is where a facilitator comes in, the parents or teacher regulates how much screen time is allowed and produces intervals of non-technology activities. The writers describe positive technology as such that is open ended, leaving room for creative thinking. They note that problem is that there is too much technology compared to the amount of (Slutsky,20). It is like the saying is good in the same goes for technology around children, it is the parent or teachers job to instruct to moderation. The research done from both groups of academic scholars in 2010 reflect directly of the studies done five to ten years before and expand on them. While the rapid progression of technology in home and the classroom seems like a fantastic idea and a way to create individual learning, research over the past decade has not changed much but grown on the constant idea that the need of parents and teachers to be present during learning is just as important as the content being taught. Over the past ten to fifteen years, there has not been a dramatic change of mind on the thought of technology learning and children. Research among all four sources has shown that the impact of technology on children and adolescence has become more accepted and beneficial when there is an authoritative figure around mediating the learning. Caruso 9 Works Cited Ching-Ting, Hsin, Li Ming-Chaun, and Tsai Chin-Chung. The Influence of Young Use of Technology on Their Learning: A  Journal of Educational Technology & Society 17.4 (2014): 85-99. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Eisenberg, Michael. Educational Technology,  New Directions for Youth Development 2010.128 (2010): 25-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Lau, Cynthia, et al. The Effects of Teacher Facilitation on The Social Interactions of Young Children During Computer  Topics in Early Childhood Special Education 25.4 (2005): 208. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Slutsky, Ruslan, Mindy Slutsky, and Lori M. Shelter. Playing with Technology: Is It All  Dimensions of Early Childhood 42.3 (2014): 18-23. Education Source. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.