Curley 1 Eileen Curley Mark Nusspickel Composition I 23 February 2017 Outline I. Intro In 2002, the passing of the No Child Left Behind Act attracted national attention to the creation and execution of standardized tests. This law requires students to be assessed on a national level, identifying their strength and weaknesses to reform the educational system. After the passing of the NCLD Act, research has indicated that standardized tests negatively impacts a education in the classroom while also being recognized as an inappropriate tool of student assessment. II. Early Research 2000-2010 a. Of English Learners Left Behind: Standardized Testing As Language Wagner, Elvis. 1. describes how the need to pass the English Language Arts Regents has led schools and teachers to change the way they teach English language learners. Teaching to the test has essentially become the curriculum for ESL classes, rather than pedagogically sound practices that result in second language (Wagner 2). A passage explaining how teaching to test has changed the focus of Curley 2 education. Students who know English as a second language are being punished for not showing proficiency on the same standardized tests as English speaking students. 2. In some states NCLB tests are required to graduate with a high school diploma. Some students, especially those with learning disabilities, who have lower test scores but understand course material fall behind their classmates. b. Testing: Does It Measure Student Preparation for College & Camacho, Dawn, and Vickie Cook. 1. Earlier research focuses on how standardized testing effects students and faculty, after implication of the NCLB act these tests were considered high-stake tests because they are used to hold schools and students accountable. While many people agree it is necessary to measure the success of school systems and education within them, people disagree on the tool that should access this measurement. 2. The writers of this article agree that for standardized testing to be a reliable measurement of student success, tests need to be restructured so they go beyond measuring procedural knowledge and put emphasis on conceptual knowledge. *Transition III. Later Research 2011-2017 Curley 3 a. To Whom? Teacher Reflections On The Relationship Between Creativity And Standardized Testing in Dishke- Honzel, Catharine. 1. Recently, the focus of standardized testing has shifted and researchers are evaluating the pros and cons of standardized testing. After assessing how classrooms have been adjusted in order to focus on test scores, it is obvious that test preparation has taken away time from valuable learning material. 2. While acknowledging that standardized testing enhances the basic skills of students in areas such as reading and math (Hondzel 1). She advocates for experimental learning in the classroom because she feels students are missing out on a crucial part of their education when teachers cut and change their curriculum to improve test scores. Today, Creativity is increasingly being recognized as a crucial part of education and learning which is impossible to measure on standardized tests. b. TESTING IN FLUX. (cover LEVIN-EPSTEIN M. 1. to has become a trend in classrooms with teachers cutting course material to focus time in to test preparation. 2. Researchers and administrators acknowledge that testing only measure a small portion of what makes up the entirety of a education. IV. Conclusion Curley 4 Standardized testing has negatively impacted the classroom environment in many ways, by limiting creativity and curriculum while taking time away from material that is crucial to the learning process. Curley 5 Eileen Curley Mark Nusspickel Composition I 2 March 2017 Standardized Tests Controversy regarding the use of standardized testing has been around since they were first implemented in the educational system. Testing has been around since the but the use of standardized tests has changed a great deal since then, especially in recent years. In 2002, the passing of the No Child Left Behind Act attracted national attention to the creation and execution of standardized tests. This law requires students to be assessed on a national level, identifying their strength and weaknesses to reform the educational system. Standardized tests were once used to compare schools and sort students into the appropriate grade level, now these tools have become a burden on every education. Testing has reshaped education putting more emphasis on test scores than proficiency of course material. After the passing of the NCLB Act, research has indicated that the call to use standardized tests as a method to hold students accountable has negatively impacted the educational system while also being recognized as an inappropriate tool of student assessment. Early research focuses on how high-stake testing has changed how classrooms are conducted and how testing practices have led to a decrease in retaining material. An article written by Dr. Wagner, a professor in the Education Department at Temple University, discusses how teaching practices have been uprooted to focus on test scores. His article critiques a book written by Kate Menken Learners Left Behind: Standardized Testing as a Language Curley 6 Since the passing of the NCLB act, these tests have grown in population and are now being used all over the country. Many states are not only using these exams to meet the requirements set forth by the NCLB, but also as exit exams to receive high school diplomas. Students who struggle with test taking but understand and have mastered course material are been punished for low test scores. Wagner writes describes how the need to pass the English Language Arts Regents has led schools and teachers to change the way they teach English language learners. Teaching to the test has essentially become the curriculum for ESL classes, rather than pedagogically sound practices that result in second language (Wagner 2). This proves that a education is being negatively impacted by adjustments made to improve test scores. Testing practices have essentially become the curriculum in classrooms. Learning should be focused on long-term mastery of a subject. There is a call to measure the success or students and school, the disagreement lies when trying to establish a fair tool capable of measuring everything a education should encompass. Standardized tests were created to model the Army Alpha test, intended to pick apart those who were superior intellectually. These Alpha tests are designed to asses a test-takers current standing, but in the educational system they are used to measure acquired knowledge and achievement in each student. The article written by Dawn Camacho M.A and Dr. Vickie Cook, the associate professor of research in the College of Education at the University of Illinois, she also the director of online learning, research, and service. Both Camacho and Cook agree that for standardized tests to accurately access a success, they need to be restructured so they go beyond procedural knowledge and emphasize conceptual knowledge. Recent research about standardized testing has shifted. In the early the focus was on how standardized testing affected students inside the classroom, but today it focuses on Curley 7 creativity, which is now being a crucial part of a education. Standardized testing unfortunately does not access creativity in students. In a 2014 article written by Catherine Dishke-Honzel, the coordinator of research and learning support at Huron university College. Hondzel conducts her own research related to standardized testing and her goal is to reshape education and create an environment that fosters positive learning creativity, and to prepare students with skills needed in workforce. Honzel interviewed teachers and asked how their teaching habits have been effected by test preparation. Most teachers agreed that the only way to include test prep into their curriculum was to cut valuable learning material. Honzel wrote about one teacher she interviewed stating, recognizing his unique individual strengths, he usually provides his students with multiple opportunities of expression. His frustration with the test is in response to not being able to see how different creativity and learning styles are recognized and (Honzel 10). Proving insight into how teachers struggle to find a balance between prepping for high-risk testing while promoting creativity along the way Similarly, an article published in Principal Leadership highlighted the same concerns regarding the use of standardized testing, reflecting on both sides of the issue and how it impacts each individual student. Standardized tests are beginning to be viewed as a burden on our nations educational improvement. Limiting the ideas and course material needed to go and succeed into competitive work force. to practices have created classroom environments that restrict curriculum and narrow creativity as well. Robert Miller, the assistant superintendent of schools in Sand Springs, OK and was a Principal of the Year finalist in 2014 is an outspokenly challenges the use of standardized tests. Miller states are very few positives relative to the current state of standardized testing in our (Epstein 36). Miller also believes tests should Curley 8 ideally provide administration and schools with meaningful results that show how students compare to a standard, this information could then be used to reform classrooms. But Miller acknowledges that any potential value in standardized testing is overshadowed by its downsides. Research has indicated multiple times that standardized testing has negatively impacted the classroom environment in many ways, by limiting creativity and curriculum while taking time away from material that is crucial to the learning process. Today, our success is ingrained in our ability to think in new ways. Students have outgrown standardized tests and are in need of a new tool that measures one crucial part of our education that will prepare them for success in work force: creativity. Curley 9 Works Cited Camacho, Dawn, and Vickie Cook. Testing: Does It Measure Student Preparation for College & Online Submission (2007): ERIC. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Dishke-Honzel, Catharine. To Whom? Teacher Reflections On The Relationship Between Creativity And Standardized Testing in Critical Education 5.3 (2014): 1-16/ Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. LEVIN-EPSTEIN M. TESTING IN FLUX. (cover Principal Leadership 16.3(2015):34-38. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Wagner, Elvis. Of English Learners Left Behind: Standardized Testing As Language International Journal Of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism 12.6 (2009): 721-725. PsychINFO. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.