Apicerno 1 Angela Apicerno Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.059 26 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric Amnesty International for a world where human rights are enjoyed by including the right to life (Death Penalty). When it comes to the death penalty they believe it is symptom of a culture of violence, not a solution to and have therefore been working for years to abolish it within judicial systems worldwide, including (Death Penalty). In the two images presented here, Amnesty International uses both visual and rhetorical appeals to accomplish their mission of abolishing capital punishment. By using strong but simple messages and powerful imagery through both visual and rhetorical appeals, Amnesty International hopes to gain support and spread awareness about their mission to abolish the death penalty. In the first image, there are multiple visual elements that factor into the overall message. The main image, a man grasping the bare metal bars of his prison cell with his head lowered, gives the ad a dark and somber look to it. The next major visual element in this image is the message in bold across the center DEATH PENALTY follower by a yellow stamp of Yellow is often associated with sunshine, happiness, and sunflowers. What many know is that it also has a dark side. It is also the color of caution and physical illness, and stands for betrayal and madness (Morton). The final statement in fine print says penalty is legal murder. It violates the right to life and the prohibition of torture, and considering the Apicerno 2 methods and traditions goes against human rights. The state, which grants permission to kill, just as guilty as the (Amnesty). This powerful message both clearly and simply states the Amnesty opinion on the issue. By stating facts, their message is more compelling. There are also various rhetoric appeals being used when it comes to this image. The background image relates to pathos as it is targeted at emotions like sympathy, empathy, or mournful. According to the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, sympathy is often defined as response to the negative affects (suffering) of another individual, leading to pro- social (helping) behavior towards the (Agosta). Using this definition, it can be assumed that the presence of sympathy alone could influence the viewer to act in helping the cause. The bold, yellow stamp can instill a sense of urgency, or Kairos, as this days are limited and time is of the essence. The final message, penalty is legal murder. It violates the right to life and the prohibition of torture, and considering the methods and traditions goes against human rights. The state, which grants permission to kill, just as guilty as the relates to both ethos and logos (Amnesty). clarity and simplicity relate to logos as presented in basic facts that come across as common sense. The death penalty IS legal murder. It DOES violate basic rights. The state that allows it IS guilty of murder. This then appeals to ethos because with established logic comes credibility. By presenting the information in a new, simpler way, viewers can relate better and find more credibility and accuracy within it. In the second chosen image, there is much less use of visual elements and relies primarily on its message. Using capital black text against a bright yellow background, once again summoning the negative aspects of yellow. The message reads DEATH IS NOT A SENTENCE. A FULL STOP. The first line relates to ethos and logos as it is both logical and true. Death Apicerno 3 is not a sentence, it is the end of life, hence the second line, it is a full stop. This also carries some emotion and connects to pathos as it verbalizes in print the weight that a death sentence carries. The life will continue, but for the convicted, that is not the case. The last line END THE DEATH PENALTY reinforces the time sensitivity of the issue. Amnesty is putting the responsibility onto the observer to act and do what is possible to end the death penalty and possibly save lives. Their message is clear and simple. Without using flashy slogans or any imagery, Amnesty can validate their argument through logic. Overall, each image is fighting for the same end goal but uses different visual and rhetorical elements to achieve it. By using strategic imagery and common language that makes sense, their messages easily gain support and credibility. By connecting with these various appeals, Amnesty is successfully campaigning to end death penalty immediately. Apicerno 4 Works Cited Agosta, Lou. and Sympathy in Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. N.p., n.d. www.iep.utm.edu/emp-symp/. 25 Feb. 2017. International: Death Visual.ly. www.visual.ly/amnesty-international-death- penalty. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Death Penalty. Amnesty International, n.d. www.amnesty.org/en/what-we- do/death-penalty/ Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Morton, Jill. Yellow. J.L. Morton, n.d. www.colormatters.com/the-meanings-of- colors/yellow. Accessed 8 March 2017 Writes, Human. International: I Hope the Death Penalty Rots in The Daily Blog RSS. N.p., 29 Oct. 2015, www.thedailyblog.co.nz/2015/10/19/amnesty-international-i- hope-the-death-penalty-rots-in-hell/. 19 Feb. 2017. Apicerno 5