Bedi 1 Sean Bedi Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric Vaccines Vaccine usage continues to spur debates on their legitimacy and their benefits to general health. Some organizations denounce the use of vaccines, accusing them of being harmful, while others adamantly promote their ongoing administration due to their claimed health advantages. In the case of the Immunization Action Coalition (IAC), they are in full support of vaccine usage. According to their mission statement, Immunization Action Coalition (IAC) works to increase immunization rates and prevent disease by creating and distributing educational materials for health professionals and the public that enhance the delivery of safe and effective immunization Action Coalition). With their goals in mind, it can be concluded that the ads the Immunization Action Coalition produce use visual forms of rhetorical appeals to convince the viewers to back their cause for increased immunizations. In the first ad put out by the Immunization Action social media, certain visual cues stick out when first viewed. The picture shows a lineup of toddlers that are smiling along with text that convinces the reader that vaccines are a proven way to protect children and to give them Healthy Its purpose is to convince parents to immunize their babies so that they have a head start in their health development. The tone of the ad is directly related to the expression of the faces, which seem to be joyful and happy. It should also be noted that the words, Healthy are bolded, which gives emphasis to the need for vaccinations. All of these visual elements attempt to promote the desire for increased vaccinations Bedi 2 The first ad presented by the IAC can be broken down into 3 forms of rhetorical appeals used to influence the viewer: pathos, logos, and kairos. In regards to pathos, the ad depicts a set of smiling children to accompany the text. The smiling babies set to achieve a positive base mindset in the viewer in order to associate vaccines with being positive. The inclination to feel positively when seeing a smiling baby can be proven in an article written by Joel B. Cohen called, affect, and consumer It explains that an image of a smiling baby can cause a consumer to be positively predisposed to a product in order to sell it (Cohen 155-156). This effect is attempted in the ad, but instead of trying to sell a product, the IAC is trying to convince the viewer to adopt the goals. When it comes to the logos aspect of the ad, it mostly stems itself from the text provided. When the ad mentions, give parents the safe, proven power to protect their it hopes to appeal to the sense of logic. When the ad says vaccines are beneficial to a health, it hopes for the parents to go out and immunize their children solely based on the fact that it would help their child. Lastly, a sense of kairos can easily be recognized at the end of the ad when it states, healthy start begins with on-time This implies that if vaccinations are not started soon enough, the child would be behind in their health development. The second image presented by the Facebook page uses certain visual appeals in an attempt to attract the attention. In the image, a picture of a newborn child with a banner running along the bottom that states, Lives Next to this banner is a logo of the Immunization Action Coalition that depicts a group of people covered by an umbrella shaped cover with the words along the bottom of the logo. The purpose of the ad itself is to convince parents of newborns to immunize their children in order to The tone of the image is more somber, as the image implies that if immunizations are not given Bedi 3 to newborns, babies just like the one pictured could lose their lives. Besides the one line of text given in the banner at the bottom of the image, there is not much explicitly said about their goals. It leaves it to the viewer to interpret the image and to draw their own conclusions about the full message the IAC wishes to convey. The second ad the IAC provides relies on the interpretation of rhetorical appeals to drive home their message. The most effective rhetorical appeal used is the way they use pathos to appeal to the emotions. The inclusion of the newborn baby alongside the text usage of Lives- sets out to make the viewer feel a sense of guilt if immunizations were to not be given to newborns. It attempts to make the audience responsible for any deaths of babies, such as the one shown, if they do not support immunizations. The ad furthers its usage of rhetorical appeals in the sense of ethos. According to Jessica McKee and Megan McIntyre in the article in the publication Rhetoric Really Matters, ethos is a form of persuasion through the demonstration of the own credibility (McKee and McIntyre 27). The ad exhibits this by using a minimalistic logo of the Immunization Action Coalition. Using a logo of the organization gives legitimacy to the ad itself due to the logo having a certain degree of authority. Providing the logo makes it easier to find the organization if further research about the issue is to be done. The most subtle form of appeal used within the ad is kairos. Embedded within the words, Lives is a sense of urgency to immunize. Going back to the idea of needing to save newborn lives, the saying attempts to urge the viewer to immunize children before their lives are lost. It hopes to encourage the immunization of newborns before too many lives are lost. The two ads described are designed to encompass and visualize the goals and values the Immunization Action Coalition holds. Both of the images are able to be used in tandem to Bedi 4 persuade the viewer to support their pro-vaccination stance. Each of the images is effective at appealing to the emotions as well as their sense of urgency to act on the subject. The use of pathos in order to either convey the grim consequences of not vaccinating or to make the reader have a positive mindset about vaccines by using smiling babies is a way of promoting support of immunization use. Additionally, the use of kairos attempts to make the viewer feel the need to vaccinate their child as soon as possible. This is a major goal of the Immunization Action Coalition, as they believe that on-time vaccinations are vital to the beginning of a young health development. Both of the ads essentially attempt to achieve the same thing in gaining support for their cause. Organizations such as the Immunization Action Coalition use forms of rhetorical appeals in an attempt to persuade the viewers to join in support of their individual goals and values. In the images provided by the IAC, it uses all forms of rhetorical appeal: ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. They use them to effectively portray the image of vaccines that they want the public to be exposed to. Both of the images are meant to persuade the viewer to support their goals by using imagery such as smiling babies and textual cues that stress urgency of the administration of vaccines. The Immunization Action Coalition, along with many other pro-vaccinations, uses these techniques to hopefully convince anybody that comes across their ads, to join them in their fight for increased immunizations. Bedi 5 Works Cited Us: The Immunization Action The Immunization Action Coalition, 8 July 2016, www.immunize.org/aboutus/. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Cohen, Joel B. Attitude, affect, and consumer  Affect and social behavior (1990): 152-206. Web. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. McIntyre, Megan and Jessica McKee. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text. 24 Feb. 2017.