Al Omairi 1 Ward Al Omairi Professor Mark J, Nusspickel ENC composition 1101 March 5, 2017 Outline I. Introduction: some details about how the researchers have shifted their areas about fast food effects and popularity before 2010 and after 2010. A. Key Points: Before 2010, what did researchers focus on about fast food effects? After 2010, what did researchers focus on about fast food effects? B. Thesis: Throughout the years, research about fast food has shifted as it relates to the effects of fast food on different cultures, the effects of fast food in America, and the diseases that are associated with fast food. II. Body A. Sub-topic: The effects of fast food companies on different cultures. 1. Before 2010: the researchers focused more on how the fast food has affected the American culture. Evidence: According to Mark A Pereira, consumption has increased greatly in the USA during the past three decades. However, the effect of fast food on risk of obesity and type 2 diabetes has received little 2. After 2010: researchers start to expand their research to other countries, so they know the effects of fast food there. Al Omairi 2 Evidence: the number of Asian individuals with the 2 nd type of diabetes, which is caused by fast food, is going to increase to 552 million by 2030, especially in China and India (Pan 1). B. Sub-topic: The effects of fast food on Americans. 1. Before 2010: many researchers focused on the effects of fast food on the labor force in America. Evidence: Sara Reischman mentioned that fast food companies have created jobs now occupied by human employees are to oversee what a computer or machine is doing. The implementation of new technology into the work force has left a lot of people unemployed, and many more nervous about their job security, or taking wage or hour cutbacks to stay where they 2. After 2010: through the years researchers start to discuss the bad effects of fast food on the health of Americans. Evidence: Ann Pietrangelo and Elea Carey stated that food frequently replaces nutritious foods in your diet, it can lead to poor nutrition, poor health, and weight C. Sub-topic: The diseases that are caused by fast food. 1. Before 2010: most researchers focused on the fact that fast food has a large amount of fats, sugars, and is related to some diseases. Evidence: Fast food is major factor of many diseases because it has a relationship with insulin resistance and obesity, and could lead to the 2 nd type of diabetes (Pereira 1). Al Omairi 3 2. After 2010: researchers search new aspects of the diseases that could be caused by the fast food, especially heart diseases. Evidence: According to Ann Pietrangelo and Elea Carey, overweight is a risk factor for a variety of chronic health problems including heart disease, high cholesterol, stroke, and high blood III. Conclusion: All in all, through the years researchers have changed some parts of their research about fast food effects. For example, parts that have been shifted are the effects of fast food on Americans, the effects of fast food on different countries not just in America, and start to encounter the diseases that are caused by fast food. Al Omairi 4 Fast Food Effects and Popularity Fast food is one of the controversial topics in the past years in the world, and it has different effects that have changed throughout the years because the world is developing. Researchers have realized more effects of fast food either bad or good. For instance, fast food effects have changed before 2010 and after 2010 since it has harmful effects and good effects. Moreover, researchers have changed their research about the effects of fast food. However, throughout the years, many researchers have shifted their research as it pertains to the effects of fast food on diverse cultures, the effects of fast in the United States, and the diseases that are related to fast food. First of all, many researchers have changed their research aspects about the effects of fast food on cultures. For example, before 2010, most of the researchers were aiming their observations to the fast food effects on the American community only. This was because the fast food restaurants were widely spread in America, which caused many effects to the American culture. Moreover, researchers before 2010 have understood that fast food could lead to harmful diseases and could affect behaviors toward fast food. According to Mark A Pereira, consumption has increased greatly in the USA during the past three decades. However, the effect of fast food on risk of obesity and type 2 diabetes has received little What is more, this researcher have stated that fast food cause some diseases in the American community. On the other hand, after 2010 researchers have shifted their aspects about the effects of fast food on cultures, and have started to observe the effects of it on the foreign cultures. For instance, after 2010 Ann Pan aimed his research about fast food effects and popularity toward Asia. Al Omairi 5 goal was to figure out the effects of fast food corporations on Asian cultures since it is something new to these cultures. Pan states that fast food companies lead to the 2 nd type of diabetes, and the number of infected people with the disease will be 552 million by 2030. Furthermore, 70% of this increasing will be in India and China (Pan 1). Moreover, these sources show the bad effects of fast food in Asia and America. Also, the researchers have shifted their research, and have realized the effects of fast food on other countries not just in America. Furthermore, throughout the years researchers have shifted their aspects about the effects of fast food on Americans. Before 2010, researchers have absorbed the effects of fast food companies on the Americans. Also, they have shown how these companies created jobs that affect unskilled workers, and lead to bad situations for the unskilled workers. According to Sara Reischman, fast food created jobs now occupied by human employees are to oversee what a computer or machine is doing. The implementation of new technology into the work force has left a lot of people unemployed, and many more nervous about their job security, or taking wage or hour cutbacks to stay where they This source shows that the new jobs in fast food industry have affected the unskilled workers and have made them afraid of the new technology. However, after 2010, researchers have shown the harmful effects of fast food on health. Moreover, researchers have claimed that fast food causes bad health because it has a lot of sugar and fats. According to Ann Pietrangelo and Elea Carey, food frequently replaces nutritious foods in your diet, it can lead to poor nutrition, poor health, and weight Additionally, the facts from these sources Al Omairi 6 show how the research about the fast food effects on Americans have shifted through the years. In addition, the researchers have shifted their discussions and aspects about the diseases that are associated with eating a lot of fast food. Furthermore, researchers before 2010 focused more on the diseases that are caused because of the large amounts of calories and fats in fast food. Also, they have related the fast food with an increasing number of obese people. For instance, Mark A Pereira mentions that fast food has a lot of sugars and fats, which is related to some diseases such as the 2 nd type of diabetes and insulin resistance (Pereira 1). Nevertheless, after 2010 researchers have investigated the harmful diseases that are associated with fast food, especially heart issues. What is more, researchers have realized that fast food could damage blood vessels and lead to heart diseases because it has a lot of sugar, which hurt the blood vessels. According to Ann Pietrangelo and Elea Carey, overweight is a risk factor for a variety of chronic health problems including heart disease, high cholesterol, stroke, and high blood Furthermore, the facts in these two sources show the changing in the discussions before 2010 and after 2010 about the diseases that are caused by fast food. All in all, the researchers have shifted their aspects and research about fast food effects during the years because a lot of things have changed in the world. Moreover, before 2010 and after 2010 many aspects of fast food have changed because the researchers have realized more effects of fast food through the years. Additionally, the aspects that have changed are the diseases that are related to fast food, the effects of fast food on the American society, and the effects of fast food on different cultures. So, these Al Omairi 7 changes in the aspects of fast food effects are evidence that the development and the progressing in the world could affect the opinions and ideas about any topic. Al Omairi 8 Work cited Pan, Ann, et al. diabetes mellitus to Asia: the impact of Western-style fast Ncbi. (2 July 2012). Retrieved from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ Pereira, Mark A, et al. Articles: Fast-Food Habits, Weight Gain, and Insulin Resistance (The CARDIA Study): 15-Year Prospective . The Lancet. (1 January 2005). Retrieved from: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673604176630 Pietrangelo, Ann. Carey, Elea. Effects of Fast Food on the Health line. (2 November 2015). Retrieved from: http://www.healthline.com/health/fast-food- effects-on-body Reischman, Sara. food & Uncommon thought. (17 January 2003). Retrieved from: http://www.uncommonthought.com/mtblog/archives/2003/01/17/fast-food- socie.php