Aboderin 1 Cherelle B. Aboderin Professor Robert Ryan English Composition II 18 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric: Susan B. Anthony List The use of advertisements on controversial issues, such as embryonic stem cell research, to further goals has been proven to be quite effective, when done properly. It encourages viewers to connect with the organization, individual or topic being presented to them. Embryonic stem cell research, while quite beneficial, is so controversial because it involves the destruction of embryos. Susan B. Anthony (SBA) List is a pro-life organization whose goal to put an end to abortion, embryonic stem cell research and all other procedures that present dangers to the unborn child. According to its mission statement, the organization aims to inform the public on pro-life matters and, thus, increase the number of those who support its cause. This, in turn, will then help further their aim of voting pro-life candidates into positions of power in the hopes of creating a new legislation to protect embryos and fetuses. Being such a vocal entity, SBA List has been known to advertise using various forms of media on different platforms such as Twitter, the radio and television, to name a few. By analyzing the visual and rhetorical appeals, one can see that the images (Image I and Image II), while both quite different, capture the goals of SBA List: to stop the destruction of embryos. Image I successfully uses visual rhetoric to illuminate the ideas of SBA List. The goal of Image I is to arouse empathy in those who view it. As social creatures, humans are predisposed to care about young children, even those of others. The image of the pregnant woman plays on this innate characteristic in order to try and evoke the desired response from the audience. There are some underlying aspects of symbolism in this image. The Aboderin 2 hands are placed on her belly and this can be construed as her trying to protect her child from those who would justify harming it. Also, the somber color scheme highlights the grave severity of the issue of embryonic stem cell research. The quote was used in order to make the audience pause, ruminate on its meaning and relate it to the predicament of the unborn child. It aims to make the viewers see the issue through the eyes of SBA List; the permission of the of murdering a defenseless child could lead to an increase in leniency where other committed crimes are concerned. Aside from visual elements, rhetoric appeals are also used in Image I to show the aims of SBA List. In this image, two aspects are used to provide a sense of authority to the message. The first is the logo of Susan B. Anthony List, which authenticates the source of this information, giving the image credibility. Although there are those who do not support or agree with the ideologies of SBA List, many still acknowledge that it is an important organization in matters concerning unborn children. The second source of authority is the quote from Martin Luther King Jr. While embryonic stem cell research was not his focus, the fact that he, and his ideologies, are respected to date and that he was the voice of civil rights gives borrowed authority to SBA image. This image mostly relies on appealing to the emotions. By considering the vulnerable nature in which mother and child are presented, this image aims to encourage the audience to feel protective of and empathize with the woman and the defenseless child she carries, the way SBA List does. The quote from Dr. King may even make the audience feel guilty if they come to a conclusion that goes against their previous beliefs that there was nothing wrong with destroying embryos. Like with fear, using guilt in an advertisement such as this can produce two possible responses from the audience. They can either stop supporting the destruction of embryos or they can avoid the image and its message entirely; both methods will eradicate feelings and thoughts of guilt (Miller 581). The image will not be able to fulfill its purpose of portraying SBA views, Aboderin 3 should the audience choose to do the latter. The image aims to make one think about the logic behind the words of the quote; by agreeing to the destruction of embryos, people are attacking the very legal foundation that the nation is standing on. Image II, although using a different approach, also captures the true essence of SBA beliefs with the aid of visual rhetoric. It utilizes a quote from the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, Paul Ryan. As a public figure in such a position of authority, a quote from him is supposed to make the audience be willing take his words, and the beliefs of SBA List, into consideration. The quote itself, saying that begins at aims to debunk the general belief that the destruction of embryos is not necessarily the same thing as murder. It tries to point out that there is no difference between taking the life of an embryo and taking the life of a child. The American flag in the background also has a role to play in this image. While Paul Ryan is the main focus, the blurred flag here backs him up. It symbolizes that he represents America and the beliefs of its citizens. According to avid flag collector, Dr. Jeffrey K. Kohn, the American flag represents patriotism and promise for the (Kohn). Hence, by incorporating it into the image, SBA List is showing that the destruction of embryos goes against the true American way. This is because children are often seen as the promise and hope of the future and destroying embryos would extinguish this hope. The use of rhetoric appeals by Image II further helps in showing the goals of SBA List. As with the first image, the logo of Susan B. Anthony List provides credibility to Image II, certifying that the organization stands by the message the image is trying to send. Using a quote from Paul Ryan also aids in promoting this image because SBA List is showing that they have the support of a respected public figure such as himself. Unlike the first image, Image II makes no appeal to the emotions of the audience. Rather, it banks on the belief that the authoritative figure conveying the message will be enough to accomplish the Aboderin 4 purpose. The words spoken by Paul Ryan are intended to make people acknowledge the fact that, scientifically speaking, a new life begins The major argument for those who support the destruction of embryos for the purpose of research is that no moral wrong is committed, as no life is being taken but SBA List is trying to make people see otherwise. Hence, the quote aims to counter this argument and to make the people reconsider their initial beliefs. Upon reviewing Images I and II, it can be said that although they are quite different, both are effective in symbolizing SBA aims. In fact, it is the differences between the images that make them so effective together. Most advertisements concentrate on general characteristics that are shared by the majority, if not all, of their audience. However, focusing on the differences between the various demographics of an audience ensures that the message an organization is trying to send will be able to reach more people as they feel a closer connection to it (Miller 582). For example, Image I can show SBA goals to the younger, more empathetic members of their audience, but Image II can appeal to older generations who are more likely to heed the words of a political figure. Therefore, together, both images are more likely to show SBA beliefs to its entire audience than either one is on its own. In conclusion, both Image I and Image II effectively show that SBA goal is to prevent the destruction of embryos. By using visual and rhetoric appeals as well as the differences present in the various strata in its audience, SBA List has managed to portray what it believes in, as well as what it hopes to accomplish, to its audience. Aboderin 5 Image I Image II Aboderin 6 Works Cited Kohn, Jeffrey Kenneth. Stars &  Country Living, vol. 25, no. 7, July 2002, p. 77. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db =edo&AN=6794642&site=eds-live. Miller, Neal E. Social Science And The Art Of  Journal Of Marketing 14.4 (1950): 580-584. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Susan B. Anthony List Advancing Pro-Life Leadership. Susan B. Anthony List, 2017, www.sba-list.org. Accessed 18 Jan. 2017.