Daley 1 Patrick Daley Bob Botkin ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Florida Lottery Advertisements In the words of the Ghanaian recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize and UN diplomat, Kofi Annan, is power. Information is liberating. Education is the premise of progress, in every society, in every Indeed, few causes are considered as noble as education when it comes to meaningful and long-lasting access to the improvement of quality of life. The Florida lottery in particular has used this cause to great effect. Where most lotteries, whether in the newspaper, on television, through the internet, or upon billboards, have focused the message of their consumer outreach on the benefits to the winning individual, the Florida Lottery has mounted a sustained and successful ad campaign that highlights the good being done for the secondary beneficiaries: the students. Though the Florida Lottery is by no means unique in its work funding education, it has taken different approaches in its branding, those being disseminating advertisements that do not simply focus on how a participant will be helped by winning, but by how that individual is helping others regardless. The approaches used within said advertisements range from displaying the seriousness of the need for education and the risks that come without it, as is seen in the first advertisement selected, to a more optimistic and informative tone, presenting the good that has been done, as is seen in the second advertisement selected. In both cases, there is a singular message the stakeholder is meaning to convey: the Florida lottery is synonymous with funding education. The inception of the Florida Lottery was not particularly unusual in itself. It was created when Then-Governor of Florida, Ben Martinez along with the legislature saw Daley 2 its foundation, which had been authorized by voters through a constitutional amendment in However, when the first game commenced in 1988, that being a one dollar Scratch-Off, it raised enough to pay off its $15.5 million start-up cost in just two and a half weeks, and accumulated a total just shy of a hundred million in sales, setting an industry This has meant over $31 billion dollars raised for education over the course of its 28 years of operation. In fact, every year for the past fourteen years, the Florida Lottery has raised over one billion dollars for education These facts are right in line with the mission statement in the legislation that created it, which claims its purpose is, revenues for education to allow the people of Florida to benefit from significant additional monies while providing the best lottery games In the first Florida Lottery ad that has been selected Vocation/ Florida there is an air of seriousness. Set within a plain green background, the sole imagery is that of a medical syringe which separates the words and next to which is the phrase, makes the At the bottom of the ad are the words, when you get an education, you make better under which is a statistic which notes that, is why awarded 220,000 Bright Futures Scholarships since Then in the lower right hand corner of the ad is the Florida lottery logo, with the words, you play, we all The audience that this ad is likely trying to reach includes those old enough to participate in the lottery, e.g. adults, people in close proximity to drug abuse, such as medical personnel, social workers, or the family members of those suffering from addiction and people with a stake in education, like educators and parents of Florida students. The message being conveyed is simple, if not a bit severely executed: buying lottery tickets provides better life outcomes. The purpose of this ad is, of course, to get more people to participate in the lottery and respect the work it does. Though seemingly Daley 3 simple in its imagery and text, there is a decent breadth and depth of rhetorical appeals within its minimalist aesthetic. In terms of pathos, the syringe, which is not an object used casually, whether for vaccination, medical procedures, or hard drug use, draws in the attention of the audience with the feeling of discomfort associated with the object. In addition, the word when coupled with the syringe, might elicit feelings of fear or sadness, especially for those with loved ones in the throes of addiction. On the other hand, the word when coupled with the syringe might evoke feelings of hope or opportunity, which a career in the field of medicine can often provide. The use of the colour green is also a subtle appeal to pathos as it is representative of the money raised for education and illness, which comes from unchecked drug abuse. Furthermore, according to Professor Jill Morton, who teaches colour theory at the University of Hawaii, green is symbolic of nature, and, in many western cultures, good luck (Morton, Jill L. ), which is rather fitting in the context of the ad. Dr. Morton also notes that green is evocative of concepts such as growth, fertility, and most relevantly to the ad, life, which doctors are sworn to protect. Concerning logos, the ad provides a concrete figure for the work that has been done when it states, awarded 220,000 Bright Futures Scholarships. They add even more specificity by noting the time frame within which the 220,000 scholarships have been awarded when they mention the beginning point 1997. In regards to ethos, the plain green background, with minimal imagery and a few striking statements in unembellished black and white lettering gives an air of professionality and sureness as to the message it is trying to convey, lending to its credibility. Additionally, mentioning the work that it has done with Florida Bright Futures, a well-established charitable organization, lends an air of authority that serves as a further boon to its ethos. When it comes to kairos, the entire ad, including its message and imagery, produce an air of urgency, not so much in terms of winning the lottery, but in terms of giving at-risk kids a fighting chance for a better future. Indeed, the text you play, we all Daley 4 further drives this point home, because it could mean winning against the ravages of a dead- end life. Though this ad makes effective use of the rhetorical appeals, it is not free of rhetorical fallacies. It could be argued that this ad makes use of a false dilemma: the ad makes it seem like the only two outcomes of this situation are higher education or hard drug use. The actuality of the matter is obviously much more complex, as those with a higher education or well-paying job are still susceptible to the dangers of addiction, a fact most likely glossed over by the stakeholder for the sake of simplicity and concision. It could also be contended that the ad illustrates a case of the slippery slope fallacy when it puts forward the idea that a lack of education inevitably leads to addiction which is not only fallacious, it is a bit insulting to the free will and reasoning of the disadvantaged. This ad also exhibits an instance of false cause; when the ad posits the idea that, you get an education, you make better it does in fact confuse correlation with causation. In reality, when a person gets an education, they have better choices, but they do not necessarily make them. Focusing not on the down-side of a lack of education, but instead on the access to education that the stakeholder has facilitated, the second Florida Lottery ad ticket is a score for education/ Florida communicates a slightly brighter tone. Set within a warm yellow background, a person is being handed a lottery ticket, whilst the shadow being cast is a person receiving a diploma. The largest text reads ticket is a score for Underneath that is a bit more information that reads continued support of the Florida Lottery has helped us raise over $25 billion for Florida education. The result is more diplomas and over 600,000 students in college on Florida Bright Futures Scholarships. With over 250 eligible Florida colleges and universities, our students can pursue any career of their dreams, wherever those dreams may take The audience they are attempting to reach includes those old enough to participate in the lottery, e.g. adults, people with a vested interest in the educational system such as teachers and faculty, and individuals who Daley 5 want to see those close to them succeed academically, like parents of Florida students. The message they are trying to convey to this audience is pretty clear: buying lottery tickets contributes to education which benefits children. Likewise, the purpose of the advertisement is to persuade the audience to start or continue participating in the lottery. The rhetorical appeals applied within the ad are pretty well-varied. In terms of pathos, the ad employs the attachment one feels towards their kids to relate to the subject at hand. It uses the phrase for as a play-on-words with the fact that the ticket is football-themed to create a sense of levity. On top of this, it deliberately uses the term to create a sense of unity and shared interest between the stakeholder and the audience. It also makes use of the colour yellow, which, according to the aforementioned Dr. Morton, is used almost universally to denote a sense of joy, and also happens to be the most noticeable and attention- grabbing colour on the visible spectrum (Morton, Jill L. ). This particular rich, golden hue of yellow could also be representative of the colour of the riches that an individual could potentially win by participating. Regarding logos, the ad gives specific figures such as $25 billion for Florida It mentions statistics like 600,000 students in college on Florida Bright Futures Plus, it provides information when it notes that there are 250 Florida colleges and where students can receive this funding. To appeal to ethos, this advertisement also makes mention of the Florida Bright Futures Scholarship organization, a well-known reputed organization, to establish credibility. Not only that, but it also focuses on the fact that it is helping education, a noble purpose, to prove the virtue of its endeavour and thus bolster its credibility. Furthermore, its use of stats and data, while appealing to logos, also boosts its credibility. Concerning kairos, any lottery ad, this one included, conveys a sense of urgency, as the message is the sooner a person buys a ticket the sooner they could be a winner. Also worth mentioning is the fact that the diploma in the background instills a sense of timeliness as any Daley 6 parent with a child in school might feel that they could be doing more now by participating in the lottery to help kids, like their own, have a greater range of opportunities. While this ad may seem cogent and factually sound, there are still some minor incidents of potentially fallacious reasoning. This includes a subtle usage of the bandwagon approach, because when it states that continued for the Florida lottery has raised over $25 billion for to pursue it makes it seem like everybody who plays the lottery is doing it for the right reasons and an individual is a good person if they participate. Along with this there is also a case of false cause: just because a lot of money has flowed into the educational system from the lottery and has provided over 600,000 students with scholarships, it does not necessarily mean that the student graduation rate has been boosted simply from the influx of money; there are many other factors that play into academic success. In an industry that is not without its controversies, the Florida Lottery has not forgotten why it was created. It also has made sure that its constituents and participants are aware of the importance of the good that it is doing. In this regard, many of the ads that it circulates serve their purpose well in presenting this message. And though, like their stakeholder, these ads are not without their flaws, what they convey is clear: when one participates in the lottery, everybody has a better chance at success. Daley 7 http://colormyname.com/designstudio/?project=florida-lottery http://benwallis.net/Florida-Lottery-Print Daley 8 Works Cited Morton, Jill L.  Colormatters.com. N.p., 9 July 2006. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. <https://www.colormatters.com/the-meanings-of-colors/green>. Morton, Jill L.  Colormatters.com. N.p., 18 Nov. 2011. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. <https://www.colormatters.com/the-meanings-of-colors/yellow>. About  Florida Lottery - History. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://www.flalottery.com/history>. Vocation/ Florida Colormyname.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://colormyname.com/designstudio/?project=florida-lottery>. ticket is a score for education/ Florida Benwallis.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. <http://benwallis.net/Florida-Lottery-Print>.