Anand 1 Dhruv Anand Bob Botkin ENC 1102 26 February, 2017 Trophy hunting has been very popular and famous for ages. Trophy hunting is a wild game for human recreation. The people who indulge in this activity treat the animal or part of the animal as a trophy and usually display it to represent success. Large parts of mature population of endangered species are killed by trophy hunters. Trophy hunting has more consequences than benefits. For the trophy hunters, ending the lives of animals has just become a recreational activity or a symbol of bravery which is not fair as hunting of endangered animals affects the whole eco system. The stakeholder is in favor of banning only trophy hunting of endangered animals because it is not practical to ban hunting for every reason as hunting has provided a lot of employment opportunities since last few decades and people are living with the help of hunting. There are also some species of animal like deer which need to be hunted as the population of deer increases very rapidly. The stakeholder in this case are wildlife conservation organizations like The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. They are spreading word against trophy hunting and want to ban the hunting endangered species with the help of protest. Numbers of people are supporting the wildlife conservation organization in large protests because support of people is very important to organizations as it will make government to apply some strict rules and laws against trophy hunting because general public is also against trophy hunting. Simon explains the late nineteenth century, elite hunters, recognized that trophy hunting would lead to the extinction of many wildlife species and unsustainable exploitation of Anand 2 forests and other natural (2). This indicates that trophy hunting has been creating problem for many centuries now and it is the time to stop before it affects all of our natural resources and animal species as all the species play a vital role in maintaining the balance of the ecosystem. Trophy hunting is just another recreational activity for some people. It just gives people an experience and motivates them to treat it as a competition because people are winning dead animal body parts which are so called trophies for them. The consequences of trophy hunting have been recognized by people for a long period of time now but no one has taken any action against it. However in past few decades there are some wildlife conservation organizations which understand the consequences of it and started working to ban trophy hunting. Smith states that death resonated with the American public to think about the humanity of killing for sport and sparking legislative attacks on trophy The death of Cecil the lion made a big difference in the United States. It made people think that how bad trophy hunting is especially of an endangered animal species. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service introduced new laws and extended the protections of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) which states that it is an offense to kill an endangered animal in a restricted area such as national park or any wildlife sanctuary. Wilson talks about Texas man paid $350,000 for the right to hunt an endangered African black rhinoceros in (4). This emphasizes that people are willing to pay a lot of money just to kill an endangered species because it will become a symbol of bravery or an achievement for them. Many employees in the national parks and wildlife sanctuary makes thousands of dollars in exchange of life of an endangered animal from the trophy hunters. The first picture which is used is very helpful to show how protestors are trying to spread the word to ban trophy hunting. This picture establishes an appeal to credibility (ethos) as well as Anand 3 appeal to experience or suffering (pathos) of the source. It depicts a women who is holding a board which says THE TROPHY HUNT in large bold font and the handwriting on the board shows that it seems to be made up in some elementary or middle school. Some wildlife conservation organizations are also promoting the idea of banning trophy hunting in elementary as well as middle school. They are organizing campaigns in school and teaching the kids about the consequences of trophy hunting. This makes this picture powerful as anyone who will look at the board will try to learn more about it because it appears that the innocent mind of a kid which does not know how to hate or kill anyone, they just know how to love, is behind the creation of the board. A picture of black bear and a hunter with a weapon in his hand on the board make this picture more important and powerful. It shows a red target on the head of the bear which emphasizes animal cruelty by portraying the hunter killing an innocent animal just to show how brave he is. Mainly black and red are used in the picture because these colors are usually used to show the emotion of anger. There are some Hashtags like #BanTrophyExports, #pacificwild which is used in the pictures. Hashtags are generally used to promote any kind of action or change a group wants in the society for a good or bad cause. Viewers get an appeal of timeliness (Kairos) too from this picture as on the board, the word catches the attention because means that urgent action by the people is required to solve this problem. The background of the picture is dull in color to make it easy to focus on the board as words on the board are black in color. In the second picture, there is a group of protestors who are against trophy hunting. They are holding some boards which have quotations. For example, there is a picture of lion on the board and a quote is written on that board head belongs to my shoulders, not your This tells that lions wants to express to all the trophy hunters that he is a living creature and his Anand 4 head is a body part not a decoration piece or a symbol of bravery. Another protestor is holding a board which says Fish and Wildlife Service say no more animal This shows the public that a famous wildlife conservation organization is involved in this issue, so it is must be a big problem which society is facing. This encourages people to come and learn more about the consequences of the problem. This picture establishes an appeal to credibility (ethos). Four women and a men are used in the second picture because women are used to get sympathy from the viewers very quickly. Unity of women has its unique power. Women of different ages are used in the picture which shows that no matter how old the women are, some in every generation of women are against trophy hunting. Both of the pictures support the ideas that the stakeholder wants to express to the audience. Though both the pictures evoke an emotional response from the audience, picture 1 is more effective in presenting the information on banning the trophy hunting as it shows with the help of images of bear and hunters to ban the trophy hunting whereas picture 2 makes the audience think about trophy hunting from the point of view of the animal. The pictures present ideas about the view of stakeholder. Many wildlife conservation organizations are playing their part to ban trophy hunting because it does not really make any sense to treat animals as a trophy or any kind of achievement. There is not much usage of logos, and this is due to an emphasis on emotion which is easier to relate to in such an issue. Though there is a little amount of logos, the pictures still establish a sense of credibility, evoke emotions, and place a sense of urgency on the audience. The two pictures inform the audience that some famous wildlife conservation organization are against trophy hunting and the government should take appropriate actions against this activity by banning it. The pictures fulfilled their intended objective and are an ideal way for the organizations to persuade spectators to support the cause. Because Anand 5 together people can make a big difference in the society and every individual matters. So to change the society, we all have to step out and take a stand against the problem. These pictures are an effective way to ask people to come out and join the wildlife organization like The U.S Fish and Wildlife Service. Anand 6 Work Cited Shoot To  Earth Island Journal 29.1 (2014): 4-5. Guide Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Elgin, Beckie. Hounding The  Earth Island Journal 30.4 (2016): 30-36. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Simon, Alexander. Against trophy hunting: a Marxian-Leopoldian  Monthly Review 2016: 17. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Wyatt. Endangered Species Act Or Extradition?: Protecting Foreign Species In The Aftermath Of The Cecil The Lion  Vermont Journal Of Environmental Law 18.1 (2016): 55. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Anand 7