Gabriel Hineman Spencer Bennington Comp II 12 March 2017 The Lions and The Lambs As the ages have come and gone, the weapons of warfare have always changed with the passing times. Weapons of every era are limited to the technology of their time. From swords to guns there has been a huge advancement in our technological weapon capabilities. Organizations such as the National Rifle Association are at the forefront of a comprehensive push for safe use and education for proper handling of various firearms. Formed in 1871 by various pioneers of gun ownership, one of the main goals has been centered on providing education on the safe handling, as well as promote the overall usage of rifles and handguns, among the civilian population. They host events year round where guns are available to be purchased and sold, provide educational forums, host shooting competitions, and even educate the young to the dangers and precautions should they encounter a firearm. To promote these events and encourage people to join and/or look into their organization and their ideals, they employ the use of advertisements. These ads are carefully crafted images designed to specifically draw people in. The first image, partnered with the inclusion of the wise words of Wayne LaPierre, is one of a boy holding a gun. It provides a provoking imagine, inclined to make you feel as if you were of the sheep who needs to become a lion to protect everyone from the The second impeccable and thoroughly persuasive image is that of Governor Victor Atiyeh holding a rifle and talking about his steadfast support of the NRA and our 2nd Amendment. Though both images are effective at promoting the ideals/vision; with Image 1 portraying a young, yet, seemingly aware young boy pointing a gun at the viewer and Image 2 displaying a kindly older gentleman holding a rifle, Image 2 more effectively invokes positive emotion and authority; it garners attention towards the ideals in regards to the importance of gun safety and enforcing the 2nd Amendment. People have a natural tendency to hold in higher regard those who hold positions of authority or possess some semblance of power over them. This influence can happen for many reasons, as a civilized nation, authority futures of all types are meant to be representations of the good and virtuous in a society. Many people of all ages look up to and admire authority figures, so their directions and advice are often Publishing LLC). In the second image the man portrayed is Victor Atiyeh, a respected and well-liked Governor, who remains a passionate supporter of the NRA and our 2nd Amendment rights. As he is well known and liked people who know him and others who view the image and understand the position of power he holds will likely follow his suggestion. The NRA passport logo included at the bottom right of the image solidifies his position with the NRA. These two aspects of the image appeal to ethos or the power of authority. Everyone has someone they look up to and trust and frequently that person tends to be older. In respect to age, particularly grandparents, their years of experience and exposure to many different challenges throughout their lives makes them a viable source to go to for advice. Our perception that older translates to wiser lends credibility to their messaging and this can successfully translate to a familiarity that creates successful advertising when implemented. The kind old man staring directly into the eyes in the Image 2 ad and you help but smile right back at him. There is a part of you that almost intrinsically trusts him, it evokes a feeling of pathos as this man seems so kind that he could be your own grandfather. Not only would the viewer likely trust what he has to say regarding his stance on the NRA, but there really is no discomfort evoked by the fact that he is holding a rifle. One of the major factors is that it would be surmised that he knows how to handle the gun because of his advanced age and assumed experience, but he is also holding it in his arms non-threateningly by not pointing the barrel directly at the viewer. On the opposing end of the spectrum, the other ad displays a child pointing a gun directly at viewer with his finger resting prominently over the trigger, ready to fire at a notice. While this does a great job of drawing the viewer in and shockingly capturing their attention, it does not necessarily invoke a positive reaction. Most people likely will instantly feel uneasy upon witnessing a child holding a gun. Additionally, the fact that the gun is pointed directly at the viewer coupled with the menacing look of sheer determination on his face, causes one to pause with concern. A few questions to come to mind: this child know how to properly handle a gun? Does he understand the potential consequences of shooting it? Under what circumstance did he acquire the gun? Why is it aimed right at me? Is he threatening or being Viewing this image, people may wrongly get the impression that the NRA desires to arm children with guns when in fact the message is more likely to be the importance of educating, even our youth, on gun safety. Another interesting aspect of the child is that he is clothed in a light blue shirt. Blue is a color, that upon gazing onto it, makes one feel calm and almost tranquil. It is also and predictable, a safe and non-threatening color, and the most universally liked color of all, probably because it is safe and This provides quite a juxtaposition by showing an image of a boy holding a gun threateningly, pointing his gun directly at the viewer, inciting emotions that are the exact opposite of peaceful. An interesting thing to note is that the same time blue is persistent and determined to succeed in whichever endeavors it This melds perfectly with the look of sheer determination clearly plastered on the face, tying in the emotions of the boy to the meaning of the color blue. While the the use of the color blue on the shirt is contrasting compared to the tenser atmosphere created by the presence of the gun in the hand, it does match the look of determination on the face. While both ads provide ample support for the NRA in differing ways, Image 2 does a better job conveying the ideals of the NRA and encouraging hesitant viewers to conclude that they too should consider becoming a member. This is done through the effective use of authority and the appealing to emotion by using an older man who happens to be a governor as well. first image is as it captures attention by juxtaposing the image of what should be the innocence of a small child with the boldness of a gun firmly placed in his grasp pointed directly at the viewer. For future advertisements it would be wise to note that just because an image is louder and draws a attention more drastically, mean it will do the best job portraying an ideals and getting people in opposition to agree with their stance. Works Cited: Scott-Kemmis, Judy. The Color  By N.p., 1 May 2010. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. National Rifle Association National Rifle Association of America , https://home.nra.org/. Accessed 3 Feb. 2017. Why do people obey authority  IAC Publishing LLC , n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Site talking about the right to bear arms according to the second amendment. , 4 June 2013, www.pagunblog.com/2013/06/04/standing-with-the-nra-as-a-sitting-governor/imthenragovatiyeh /. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. NC, Mark. 5 Apr. 2013, www.newscorpse.com/ncWP/?p=dzbeaykm&paged=163. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.