Blashinsky 1 Samantha Blashinsky Professor Smith Comp 1 5 March 2017 How Social Media Affects athletes In society it seems that all individuals have some sort of media. Media is able to send out information and news for the world in matters of seconds. For most individuals the media is used for their benefits, but for those who media is talking about is not always beneficial. Athletes these days have huge amounts of pressure and have people watching their every move. Social media is an issue for athletes emotionally and continues to cause problems. Since athletes are in the public eye so much it is easy for them to be role models for the youth, but can also make it easier for them to get themselves in trouble. Athletes, just like any other person, can get in trouble for misbehavior picture or inappropriate context. In the past few years it seems that the media has been more of a problem. The major struggle that some athletes have is the mental health associated with it. Throughout 2000-2010, there have been some case studies on how it affected the athletes. According to McCarthy, seeing more and more students coming to college with pre-existing mental health For example, it is easy to read articles on line about yourself because people always want to see what others say. Most of the time society makes up lies. As any individual, not just athletes, it is normal for them to beat themselves up over it. Prior to coming to college some athletes already are struggling with the amount of pressure there is to even get to the collegiate level (McKelvey). McKelvey also stated social media interfere with their success in Blashinsky 2 athletics, in the classroom and beyond, and can even lead to That is of course the worst possible case. Most individuals are able to stay focused and not let the negative comments and energy get to them, but athletes put a lot of pressure to themselves to be perfect. What athletes and all individuals need to understand is that being perfect is impossible. The world is able to see what athletes are doing before they even get to college or the professional level. Before college any individual can search name and it will tell you everything about the athlete and where they are going. For the athlete this puts them in the public eye before they are even aware that they are. There will never be a solution for the amount of information that the media puts out there because the media will never go away. The only thing that could help the student athletes is trying not to let it get to them. That is much easier said than done. From 2000-2010, studies have shown that the media was on the rise of becoming an issue. One of the main issues with this topic and what continuously kept coming up was how the right of social media with student athletes conflicts with the first amendment right. Throughout 2010-2015 and according to Med Penrose, commentators decry any regulations on a speech because they fail to appreciate that the goal of athletics is successful athletic What Penrose is trying to say is that the strict regulations on what the athletes can post of social media more implicates the first amendment, rather than breaking it. authors admonish schools and coaches, claiming that they should be educating their athletes on the proper use and handling of social (Penrose). Athletic departments specifically have mandatory classes that are required knowledge for the young athletes to take to help them follow the rules so that not only do they get in trouble but as well as the university. An example of a possible questioning of violating the first amendment right is a Blashinsky 3 case that happened with athlete, John Wall. This has to deal with his recruitment and the potential trouble he could have got himself into with National Collegiate Athletic A student at North Carolina Sate made a fan page for him so that way it would influence him to come to that university. This case had nodo with what John Wall posted but what someone else posted is what potentially created a problem. North Carolina State required the student to remove the fan page because they believed it could have caused a NCAA fraction which is a violation. After the talk of this issue the questioning of the students first amendment right came into play. asked about this concern, an NCAA spokesman stated, see it as a free speech issue. We want to be sure that we limit the level of intrusion that comes into [the potential (Stubblefield). The student believed that he was doing nothing wrong and was just being a supportive fan. Little did he know he could have got John Wall into some serious trouble. From 2010-2016 there seemed to be more evidence and information supporting the fact that media has an effect on athletes. In conclusion media seems to be a problem in all aspects. Not only for athletes but all individuals in society. It just happens to be more known for with the athletes due to the fact that they are put in the public eye. Ever since social media started it has become an issue but in the last few years it has escalated which is what the evidence supports from the articles. It is very important that student athletes watch everything that they put out there for the media because it is easy for things to get twisted and come back on the individual when those were not the intentions. People in the media constantly look for issues to get athletes in trouble or create issues for publicity. The first amendment right issue is something that is a topic brought up continuously, but really the main protection is the university or the athlete not breaking the Blashinsky 4 rights. Although media is something that will never go away, there are still ways to improve attitudes towards it. The universities will continue to require their athletes to take classes to help prevent them from getting in trouble, as well as teaching them how to approach their attitude towards it with nothing but positive thoughts and actions. Overall, most of the evidence that was found with this topic was through recent dates. Blashinsky 5 Work Cited Stubblefeild, Patrick. Journal of Law & Education, Jul02012, Vol. 41 Issue 3, p593-601,9p, Date base: Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson) McKelvey, Steve. This Tweet Sponsored By ... The Application of The New FTC Guides To The Social Media World Of Professional  Virginia Sports & Entertainment Law Journal 11.(2010): 222. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Penrose, Meg. Tinkering With Success: College Athletes, Social Media And The First  Pace Law Review 35.(2014): 30. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Bentley, Eric D. Unnecessary roughness: why athletic departments need to rethink whether to aggressively respond to the use of social media by  The Computer & Internet Lawyer 2013: 19. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Lewis, Melvin1, and Carla2 Hugg. Review Implications, Best Practices For Social-Media  College Athletics & The Law 12.9 (2015): 1-3. Education Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Stubblefield, Patrick. CHALK TALKS--: Evading The Tweet Bomb: Utilizing Financial Aid Agreements To Avoid First Amendment Litigation And NCAA  Journal Of Law & Education 41.(2012): 593. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.