Elliott 1 Taryn Elliott Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 2 March 2017 The Future of Trade Nearly every aspect of daily life relates to trade. From technology, to apparel, to food, international trade has transformed into an integral role in the life of the billions of people around the world. As trade continues to increase internationally, many stakeholders voice concerns about the impact of international trade on workers and consumers. Fair Trade USA, a stakeholder founded on the principles of fair trade, focuses on protecting workers and laborers from unfair wages and unsafe work environments (Fair Trade USA). This non-profit main goal is to influence and persuade people around the world to use fair trade practices and purchase fair trade products. One way stakeholders like Fair Trade USA are able to advocate their missions is through advertising images. Each image used by stakeholders appeal differently to the audience and draw on different aspect to further the campaign. In two images provided by Fair Trade website, certain qualities are applied in order to encourage the viewer to support fair wages and work environments for workers and farmers, which in turn promotes the adaption of fair trade. Fair Trade USA utilizes the different effects of infographics and realistic photographs in order to further the spread of the purpose of the adaption of fair trade principles. One aspect of Figure One that Fair Trade USA uses to propose their purpose to viewers is the graphic, which appeals to the reason and rationality of the audience. One of the first things seen in Figure One is what appears to be a coffee mug made by pencils. Alone, the coffee mug Elliott 2 forces the audience to question exactly what the point of the image is. However, it until the infographic on the side is read, that the audience begins to understand the object of the figure. According to the information in Figure One, million children work up to 16 hour days to help support their (Fair Trade USA). This undebatable fact draws in the viewer through logical appeal; capturing the reason and rationality of the audience. It is simple logic to notice the social issue with the statistic given, and Free Trade USA assumes every viewer can logically reason with the facts of Figure One. Below the child statistic, Fair Trade USA employs the success of the mug made of pencils and factual statistics to explain to the audience the involvement of Fair Trade USA in education. Figure One states fair trade products help keep children in school. This happens because Fair Trade USA makes farmers, workers, and laborers enroll their children into school in order to receive support and benefits from the stakeholder (Harvey). According to Shannon Harvey of Green Plus, this that are getting an education, but also not working in (Harvey). This supports the fact drawn from Figure use of logos to appeal to viewers. There is a very fundamental logic behind child education, and most any person can relate to it. Fair Trade USA uses this to reel in the audience and begin to teach the principles of fair trade. Unlike Figure use of an infographic and statistic to appeal to the logic of the audience, Figure Two is a realistic photograph that allures to the emotion of the viewer as a way of indorsing the practice of fair trade. In Figure 1, the background of the image is a photograph of a large coffee plant. The average person consumes about 1.6 cups of coffee a day (E-Imports). This makes the image especially relevant. Most consumers only see coffee at the end result and as the product of a machine. The stakeholder seems to humanize coffee, showing a part of the Elliott 3 production of coffee most consumers forget about. This is the use of pathos, drawing the emotions of the audience in to promote the purpose of the Fair Trade USA. In a similar way, Fair Trade USA uses another form of pathos in Figure Two. Fair Trade use of the farmer in Figure Two promotes the purpose of the stakeholder by appealing to the empathy and sensitivity of the audience. People do not typically see coffee as the outcome of hard and long labor at the hands of actual people. This is why the photographer depicts the farmer as faceless. The unknown person working to create the popular product triggers the sensitivity and empathy of the viewer, and the audience is able to emotionally connect with the image and relate to it. The big bold letters asking picked your triggers a feeling of responsibility in connection to the faceless person in the image. People immediately feel guilty for not recognizing or supporting the individuals whose hard work went into supplying their coffee. The photograph is faceless because in most cases, that is how consumers see the industry. This is an extremely effective way of promoting Fair Trade mission. The use of pathos here attracts the audience to Fair mission because when a product used as often as coffee is humanized and people are able to empathize with the image, there is a more likely chance that the emotional connection made leads to a desire to protect the people responsible for the production. While Figure One and Figure Two both utilize two different appeals to achieve Fair Trade purpose, the figures are similar through the use of Fair Trade logo in the corners of the images. The logo proves the credibility of the figures. Odds are the audience has seen the logo on products, so by using ethos as a way to persuade, the audience trusts the figure and respects the experience of the stakeholder. Both figures also appeal to ethos because both Elliott 4 images rely heavily on morality. Figure One uses children and Figure 2 draws from the faceless worker, which applies a morality of the creator because both subjects are in need of basic help. The stakeholder Fair Trade main goal is to ensure workers, farmers, and laborers are treated and paid fairly for their work. Through the use of different aspect of the two figures, Fair Trade USA successfully gets the message to the public. Figure One and Figure Two appeal differently to viewers, but no matter the method, both figures are useful in spreading awareness for Fair Trade mission. Due to their difference, Figure One and Figure Two would prove useful in different environments. Figure Two would work very well on a billboard or somewhere where people only have a few seconds to notice it. The image and short statement gets straight to the point, and does not require constant analysis. On the other hand, Figure Two takes more time to understand, so it will work best as a flyer or poster where people can stop and take time to read and analyze it. Due to their differences in appeals, Figure One and Figure Two can potentially spread awareness of Fair Trade USA. Elliott 5 Figure One: Figure Two: Elliott 6 Works Cited E- Imports. Coffee  E-Imports - Coffee Business Startup Solutions. E-Imports, 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Trade Fair Trade USA. Fair Trade USA, 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 Harvey, Shannon. Fair Trade: History, Purpose, and Why You Should Support  Green Plus. Go Green, 13 Aug. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.