Barr 1 Mary Barr Bob Botkin Enc 1102 15 March 2017 Project 2: Analyzing Visual Rhetoric Visual rhetoric allows the use of photographs, drawings, videos and other media forms to be used to support an argument (Stanford). Words written on paper allow the audience to get a general grasp of the subject or issue presented to them, but visual aids allow the audience to notice the reality of the subject, causing a deeper connection to the subject. The main goal of the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) is to better the lives of the mentally ill and ensure they are receiving the proper treatments and services. To help spread awareness and rally for their cause, they often use visuals to reach their audience. The strategic visual tools used in the photographs chosen support the argument for more education on mental illness and that substituting jail as a mental health facility is problematic. The first picture chosen to support the argument is a black and white cartoon depicting a short statured man standing in front of a sign that reads health that is blocking the building behind it, a jail. The picture summarizes how jails are trying to disguise themselves as a mental health facility. In the picture the building is placed far from the city that is drawn in the corner. This isolation from the rest of civilization, represents how the problem is being handled. The isolation shows that this problem is one that people feel is not close to them; it is a problem that they feel will correct itself if they just ignore it and leave it alone. The separation of the two entities, implies that they are two different worlds that can not coincide Barr 2 with each other. This attitude that is being communicated through the picture is caused by the misconception and lack of education on mental health, an issue that the NAMI is working to rectify. The Health sign that is attempting to cover the jail sign, still leaves a wide enough gap that the audience can see the words from the front angle of the picture; deception is what this element of the picture is portraying. The failure to fully cover the sign symbolizes that even when the jail is trying to disguise their institution as a mental health facility they are still not adequate enough to be able to disguise their institution as such. This is something that the National Alliance on Mental Illness strongly believes. Jail is not the proper place to treat the mentally ill and their institutions are not trained or constructed to provide the treatments/services needed to treat the mentally ill. Falsification, mistaken the jail as a mental health facility, can occur if an individual were to look at the image quickly and not look at the image in its entirety. This behavior mimics the situation in reality. When people look at the situation briefly they think that incarcerating a mentally ill person will fix their symptoms and stop their undesired behavior, but when they fully dissect the situation and look at the bigger picture they realize that jail is insufficient to help the mentally ill. Logical appeal, logos, is presented in this because jail can not be both of the institutions; when the purpose of the jail is retribution, to keep the community safe, and house criminals and the purpose of a mental health facility is to treat illnesses. The purpose of the two institutions would be near impossible to merge into one to effectively fit both criminals and the mentally ill. Color scheme also plays a key role in the overall message that is being depicted in the cartoon. Making the picture predominately black with only a white background, gives off a dark and gloomy feel that creates a bleak tone; reflecting that this issue is not an easy situation to handle or considered a Barr 3 welcoming topic to openly discuss. This attitude is a main cause in the absence of conversation and understanding about mental health from communities, because they feel it is labeled taboo. Black most often symbolizes evil, death, power and mystery. Choosing to make the jail/mental health facility black categorizes the jail as being a place that contains evil and is a destination individuals should stay away from. White represents the ideas of hope, purity, goodness, and innocence. Making the jail/mental health facility surrounding white, symbolizes that everything outside of that building is categorized as being good and acceptable. This color chosen highlights some thoughts of the community, particularly that if a person has a mental illness and needs to be admitted they should be exiled before they taint the pure world around them. A sympathetic appeal, pathos, is what the audience sense from the use of symbolism in the colors white and black. The audience feels a sadness towards the subject, because the picture is alienating people based on who they are and labeling them. The second visual that supports position and goal is a campaign flyer for Stamp out Stigma. Stamp out Stigma is a campaign that is calling for a change in society (kairos), to reduce the stigma associated with mental illness Out Stigma). The flyer showcases four individuals placed against a background, with their lips ripped off and inside their lips are different stereotypes against those with a mental illness. The words from left to right, read suicidal, rejected, nutter and lethal. All the words selected are derogatory and highly offensive to those who have a mental illness. The first thing that grabs the attention is that the four individuals physically have no lips. They are unable to communicate. Instead their lips are replaced by demeaning adjectives that they have been labeled. This harsh and disturbing depiction gives a physical representation of how those with a mental illness feel when they are Barr 4 labeled as these distasteful epithets. The individuals in the picture are feeling trapped and unable to defend themselves, because other individuals have made them feel that they are unworthy of this right. Denial of human rights, the ability to speak for yourself, evokes a melancholic emotion from the audience, creating a sympathetic appeal (pathos). The picture only allows the audience to know the individuals based on the words they are labeled. The audience are unaware of their real name, their age, their circumstances, personality, hobbies and what mental illness they have. This disconnection from them and only knowing them by their labels, dehumanizes the individuals, indicating that they are only their illness. The belittlement seen in this flyer is a prime example of why NAMI is fighting to implement more mental health education to correct the misconceptions people hold about a certain mental illness and how the stereotypes in society are incorrect and detrimental to people with a mental illness. The flyer shows how when people are ill informed about mental health they are traumatizing and victimizing the individuals, by making them feel like they are only labels and have no voice. A black background symbolizes, darkness, mystery and evil. Choosing the color black to drape the subjects in the flyer, signifies them feeling alone and in a secluded and painful place in their life. Using the color black does not take away from the individuals and makes the audience focus solely on them; reassuring that the purpose of the flyer and the movement should be addressing the problems the individuals are facing. Another visual tool the designer employed in this piece is including people of different ages, genders and ethnicities. This mirrors how mental illness can affect anybody regardless of ethnicity, age and gender. These factors help the audience realize that mental health is an issue that does not exempt anyone, making it something that all of society should be concerned about. Barr 5 Using pictures, videos or other visual forms help to spread information. People in generation are hesitant to sit down and pick up a long article to gain knowledge on a subject, but they will stop if a picture captures their eye. The images selected in this essay help to make the message on mental health more accessible to society. Through image placement, color schemes and symbolism the pictures raise awareness on the effects of stigma caused by a lack of information on mental illness and the plight with making jail the proxy for mental health facility. Barr 6 Figure 1 Figure 2 Barr 7 Works Cited A Human Rights Lens in Corrections . of the Correctional Investigator , www.oci-bec.gc.ca/cnt/comm/presentations/presentations20120618-eng.aspx. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Out Stigma , Association for Behavioral Health and Wellness, 2014, stampoutstigma.com/about.html. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Stamp Out Stigma . Out Stigma Campaign , Ewens LTD., www.ewencom.com/portfolio/stamping-out-stigma/. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. Rhetoric and Strategies of ,