Montoya !1 Sergio Montoya Professor Aranda ENC 1102 February 5, 2017 Oil Companies Contribution to Global Warming It is no hidden secret that the world is heating up from excessive carbon emissions in what is known as Global Warming. When it comes to experts on this phenomena, interested parties need look no further than evidence NASA has to offer. NASA has performed numerous studies and have taken photo evidence to prove that the planet is indeed changing as a consequence to human activity. But the question begs to be asked, if mankind is aware of the consequences of our activities, why do we continue to behave the way we do? Exxon is a titan in the oil industry and accounts for over seventy three thousand jobs and pulls in a revenue of close to four hundred and fifty billion dollars. In short, it pays very well to, on the toughest energy (Exxon motto). My first stakeholder is NASA, motto is for the benefit of With a creed such as this for the backbone of this organization, it is safe to assume that they have humanity and the earths future in the best interest when they make claims denouncing the use of fossil fuels and encouraging the advancement in alternative fuels and more environmentally conscientious products. There is no argument when it comes to the evidence NASA has to show about global warming. One study involving 1300 independent scientist concluded that there is a 95 percent likelihood of humans being responsible for global warming ( Global Warming 101). The problem these scientist have all met with is that with the evolution of technology, humans are now Montoya !2 emitting much more greenhouses gases such as carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide into the atmosphere. The thing about these gasses is that with a higher concentration of them in the atmosphere it becomes harder for solar energy to escape the earth and consequently making the planet hotter. As well as all of these gasses being emitted, with the expansion of industry and humans moving into new lands, environments are being disturbed ad forests are being deforested. Trees are vital for humans and the Earth because they take in green house gasses and transform them into clean oxygen. The ExxonMobil Corporation, my second stakeholder, is one of the largest companies in the world. Exxon has three branches of operation which are: upstream, downstream, and chemical. purpose is to explore and extract oil. Even though Exxon is one of the leading oil producers, they account for that 1% of the total oil and gas ( ExxonMobil). Also with over 400 billion in revenue, it is easy to say that there is a large demand for services. Exxon may not be the sole party responsible for global warming, but they can make efforts to prevent more damage to come to the Earth. If there were to be a compromise with Exxon where they decrease the amount of focus the company has on fossil fuels, they may end up having more positives than negatives in regards to their self interest. I would propose that Exxon begin to place funds into researching new and alternative methods of getting energy. In addition to this investment they could open up dialogue with companies interested in inventing new machines and vehicles that run on alternative fuels. The future of humanity is in fact in the direction of energy sources such as solar power, wind power, and hydro power. As investments produce fruit, they would be responsible for decreasing the amount of emissions of carbon into the atmosphere. This plan also Montoya !3 makes sense for the benefit of Earth because if they take the first steps to change, many other organizations and companies are sure to follow if they find success. In a scenario where Exxon chooses to follow through with this plan, NASA along with many other organizations could wrk to promote their work by publishing articles of the positive effects environmentally contentious decisions have brought. In following through with this plan both stakeholders, Exxon and NASA, would continue to keep their and the world would be able to begin a healing process. Montoya !4 Works Cited Global Warming  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Topic:  Www.statista.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Feb. 2017.