Lyn 1 Mellissa Lyn Professor Aranda ENC 1102 22 February 2017 Free Speech Online or Taming of the Internet? Democracy expresses the fundamental right to freedom of speech. Some may express this right without censorship regardless of the platform, including the internet. Some may argue that this has caused political instability. There are citizens that dismiss this right when it greatly affects their children or loved ones negatively. Most Americans crave the internet and with its unlimited access, it is undeniably dependable. The choice of free speech online or taming of the internet is consequently left to the users, whether to communicate without censorship or to control their indecencies. In this debate, the public advocate group, is and the widely accessible search engine, Google both express their freedom of speech. Within this context, although some may consider this a lawful act, others may oppose when strong concerns regarding young children are at stake. Enough is Enough is an organization that advocates on behalf of the families and loved ones of children with the mission of making the internet safer for them to use. Google is a worldwide search engine and technological provider that creates a platform for end users with a range of programs and applications. Both stakeholders should state their willingness to work together to fully enact and implement a cost-effective compromise of creating a published web browser specifically customized for the safety of young children online. Since 1992, Enough is Enough (EIE) has been an organization dedicated to raising public awareness about the dangers of internet pornography, sexual predators and cyberbullying among Lyn 2 other dangers. According to the president and CEO of the organization, Donna Rice Hughes, America needs to exercise responsibility to be part of the solution to keep children and families safe while using public Wi-Fi They strive to protect the innocence of the children for a healthy sexuality and to build a society free from the sexual exploitation (enough.org). EIE has been a beacon for many families at the floodgate of the distribution of pornography. The sexual dangers are great and the EIE organization has successfully demonstrated the need for federal legislation to take corrective action to protect children and families from the dangers online. Such examples are the CIPA; Internet Protection Act of 2000 and the Communication Decency Act of 1996 (enough.org). In an article published in the Journal, Dian Schaffhauser discussed that students from grades K to 12 are to be educated on online behavior, online safety and cyberbullying. This kind of awareness causes a direct impact on the children; they learn the importance of internet safety, and they also learn it in a safe and familiar environment among their peers. Kaitlyn Schallhorn from the Blaze wrote an article speaking on the organizational outreach that has been noticeable as the President, Donald Trump has signed the Internet Safety Presidential Pledge as he thinks this is a critical step in making America great again. There is a need for a compromise to protect the children since it goes hand in hand in making America great again. After all the children are the future. Google is a technological search engine, founded September 4, 1998 (google company.com). Over the years, Google became innovative with its collective entrepreneurs, bloggers, advertisers and viewers. Google is a deep sea of information and a digital powerhouse, constantly improving its practice while increasing its contents by introducing new features people would want to use and fully utilize every day, such as the Google Chrome Browser, Lyn 3 Gmail, Calendar, Google Docs, Google Drive, Hangouts, Google Maps, Google Search and so on. With all its benefits, many have argued if Google is protected by the First Amendment; freedom of speech. Mark Joseph Stern, a writer from the Slate magazine covered first amendment defense in court in 2014. The article was based on the assertion that information is speech and that computers are participating in constitutionally protected free speech activity. The content published on the web can be found by Google, including the potential online dangers; pornography, online and dating chatting forums and social media. All these contents are found by search algorithms designed by Google. It filters searches by the unique queries or phrases entered into the search box. A Google Trend analysis indicates that searches for have more than tripled from Total searches for related porn reached an estimated 500,000 daily in March 2013 of total daily searches for pornographic web sites (enough.org). Like all else, there are advantages and disadvantages to using Google when young children are involved. Google can aid with the research, to watch educational videos or even to play educational games. It is essentially easy to use and navigate. But, can this advantage also be its disadvantage? When researching, relevant as well as irrelevant content may pop up, and in this case explicit imagery and/or content can be in the sight of the child. To get rid of this disadvantage, Google can move toward the action of building a compromise with EIE to simply meet the cyber need(s) of all young children. The two stance are different from the other. Ultimately, this debate is about the young children and their well-being. advocacy existed four years before Google was started, and ever since they have called forth the help of the public, the state, law enforcement and the technological industry to be a part of the society they are trying to build. Google meets Lyn 4 the needs of users everyday as it relates to conducting a search, using the browser, maps or anything else. However, safe search is put into question when issues are raised on whether it is censored enough for the children. The two stakeholders have no previous ties. Both stakeholders support freedom of speech but the grounds on which they support it are different. EIE supports it for a culture where all people are respected and valued and the innocence for a childhood is protected, while Google shows the world the emotions and expressions of others with or without indecencies. Both stakeholders can compromise on creating a filtered web browser for the children. This browser would be like Google Chrome but encompasses the websites recommended for children from grades K to 12. This compromise will need the equal efforts of both stakeholders to effectively discuss and implement means of the compromise. This type of compromise would need the software engineering expertise of Google and the funding, legal, marketing and advertising aspects of both parties. The EIE would appoint the recommended sites for the children, such as, 2 SMRT 4 U Campaign, The Exploratorium, Internet Public Library Youth Division and lots more (enough.org). To help support the maintenance of the browser, there would be an installation fee along with regular updates to keep the browser up to date with new and improved sites. Another compromising factor would be that 25% of the profit would go to Charity (google.org) with young children while spreading the EIE advocacy and introducing the safe browser. Despite the arguments of internet censorship, freedom of speech is a right, and though it may be controversial, it is fundamental. The compromise presented can cause a lot of children lives to change whether at home or at school. This kind of movement would tremendously minimize the problem of internet censorship for children. Also, this action can cause a chain Lyn 5 reaction to outside parties, such as, the families and loved ones, the schools, the law enforcement and the tech industry. The compromise signifies defending the innocence and dignity of the American children. Lyn 6 Works Cited Schaffhauser, Dian. New CIPA The Journal, 16 May. 2012, www.thejournal.com/articles/2012/05/16/the-new-cipa-deadline.aspx. Schallhorn, Kaitlyn. Candidates Asked to Sign Pledge to Protect Children from Sexual Exploitation How They The Blaze, 6 Aug. 2016, http://www.theblaze.com/news/2016/08/06/presidential-candidates-asked-to-sign-pledge- to-protect-children-from-sexual-exploitation-heres-how-they-responded/ Stern, J. Mark. Google search results protected by the First Slate, 20 Nov. 2014, Google Inside Search, Google, https://www.google.com/insidesearch/howsearchworks/algorithms.html Better World, Google.org, Google, https://www.google.org/ Sites and Resources for Research and Resources, Enough is Enough,