Brichner 1 Lilly Brichner Bob Botkin ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Killer Whales in Captivity Since the release of the 2013 Netflix documentary, countless anti-Sea World ads have been released through blogs, articles and billboards. The idea that animals should not be kept in captivity for entertainment has never been more prominent, especially since it is so easy to understand that a wild animal as large as a killer whale cannot possibly be happy (or healthy) in the tiny tanks that Sea World keeps them in. The ultimate stakeholder in this debate is the public and judging by the numerous amounts of ads on the internet and in the real world, they have had enough of killer whales being kept in captivity for entertainment. The first image that depicts a message against Sea World and killer whales in captivity is from an article on the website of One Green Planet, an organization that strives to make the Brichner 2 planet better for animals and humans. The article overall is trying to explain why dolphins and orcas do not belong in captivity, and each image that goes with the reasons displays a message and evidence about this information. The image reads are often chipped, broken or including a picture of a killer whale with broken teeth (Bardroff, 2017). Jenna Bardroff goes on to explain that the orcas often have their teeth drilled down in order to protect the humans who handle them on a daily basis, noting that this sounds like a very painful process (2017). Although without the context of the article this picture may seem insignificant, it is very important in understanding how orcas are affected not only physically but emotionally. This image uses pathos and logos. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal used to cater to emotions. In the case of this image, it looks as though the orca without its teeth would be in pain from the process of losing teeth and it seems unnatural to the human eye. This kind of treatment can be compared to a house cat being declawed by their owner, taking away one of the way of surviving on its own in the wild and making it impossible for it to ever return to its natural habitat. The logos side of this image, appealing to logic and facts, is that there is actual evidence of this fact, and it can be inferred that the whale pictured is in captivity. The second image is meant to be more of an ad against Sea World or any killer whales in captivity, calling out humans for making profit from the suffering of orcas. This picture uses a rhetorical appeal known as Pathos, used when an author wants to evoke certain emotions through their work. The use of an image of a killer whale bleeding and tied up in a rope evokes feelings of guilt and pain, along with a message in words to bring it home. At the top of the image, the words are in capital red letters and under the illustration of the orca is the question is the true cost of animal captivity for our own (Doctor Rex, 2015). The overall message of the picture is to show how greedy humans can be when it comes Brichner 3 to trying to sell entertainment, saying that the safety or health of the animals used are often not considered when money is involved. Although these images come from two different websites or sources, both are displayed in blogs that represent an opinion of the public. After the release of the Blackfish documentary and the events that happened in 2012 went public, it was widely known that the orcas at Sea World were not happy or even healthy compared to the killer whales in the wild. An article published to Sift.com titled Blackfish and Public Opinion is Changing Sea explains the link between the Blackfish documentary and the overall opinion of Sea use of orcas as their biggest entertainment show (Kassab, 2014). Beth Kassab explains that Sea attendance has dwindled since the release of the Blackfish documentary with their parks in San Diego and Orlando at the lowest number of visitors in a long time (2014). It seems that in order to accommodate the changing opinion of the public against orcas being kept in captivity, Sea World decided to change its ways as well. The organization has claimed that they will stop trying to pass legislation (in California) that allows their trainers to swim with orcas again and will make the tanks two times bigger for the whales to increase their comfort and safety (Kassab, 2014). Perhaps this is due to the fact that their stocks went down thirty-three percent after the release of the blackfish documentary (Kassab, 2014). This was only the beginning of the changes Sea World was forced to make in order to get back the visitors they had before, as more recently they made an announcement that they will stop breeding orcas in captivity and will be rid of their orca exhibit by 2019. Overall, the changing public opinion of killer whales in captivity has brought on major changes for Sea World, the leading source of orcas in captivity. As mentioned before, it is not difficult to find images online displaying anti-Sea World messages and ones that advocate for the Brichner 4 proper treatment of animals in captivity. This is most likely due to the release of the Blackfish documentary, with over 21 million people watching (Kuo, 2014). An article published by CNN after the backlash of the documentary reached a new level summarized the protests that took place near the parks and even discussed how famous musicians were not willing to perform at Sea big concert series Brews, and (Kuo, 2014). Although Sea World has tried to combat the remarks made about them in Blackfish, they have more recently come to terms with the breeding of orcas in captivity being inhumane and are looking to change their ways in the future. This is because their main goal as a whole organization has always been to conserve and protect wildlife, not harm it. Brichner 5 Works Cited Bardroff, Jenna. 10 Signs Whales and Dolphins Do NOT Belong in  One Green Planet. One Green Planet, 10 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Dr. Rex. Killer Profits. Digital image. Sea World It Is What It Is. Wordpress.com, 23 Aug. 2015. Web. Kassab, Beth. How and Public Opinion Is Changing  Skift. Skift.com, 25 Aug. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Kuo, Vivian, and Martin Savidge. Months after airs, debate over orcas  Www.cnn.com. CNN, 9 Feb. 2014. Web. 29 Feb. 2017.