Fournier 1 Ian Fournier Bennington English Composition II 3/8/17 Images and the NCPA The NCPA stands for the National College Players Association. The NCPA is try to help college athletes receive more money for scholarships they receive from the colleges. The NCPA tries to do what every they can to help the college athletes to have the best college experience. There is a big issue nowadays in the world of sports and it is if college athletes should get paid while they play for their college. The NCPA is on the side of college athlete and allowing the college athlete to get paid while they go to college and play their respective sport. There are two images that help convey the message of the NCPA of how college athletes should get paid while they play for their college. The first image is a person dressed up in a suit and then a mask in a locker room, with words on the top of the image saying the $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes. The second image is of a college holding up a sign that says College Athlete Anything it also says account username where people can send money to him. Even though both images support the side of the NCPA on how college athletes should get paid, both images relay the message for the NCPA in different ways for the viewer. The images help relay the message of the NCPA to the viewer by using themes of each image to persuade the viewer to get on the side of the NCPA. In the first image, there is a person the image who is wearing a mask and a suit which can be a connotation for the message the NCPA is trying to get across. People who wear a mask is perceived as a negative connotation to the viewer because when people see a Fournier 2 mask they might think they are being robbed. The NCPA uses the mask as a form pathos to give the emotion of fear and concern to the viewer because the NCPA what the viewer to be concerned for the college athlete because the college athlete is getting robbed by someone, someone like the NCAA who receive tons of money from TV contracts and ticket sales from the games being played by the college athlete. In the image, there person is also wearing a suit, the suit can have a connotation of someone with authority. People wear suit when they need to wear something formal like a funeral or a big business meeting or people wear suits for their jobs if the dress code, wearing a suit could also that the person wearing the suit has a source of power like the president who always wears suits when he is working. In the image the person is wearing could stand for a connotation with the NCAA because the NCAA is leader in college sports they make all the rules for the college athletes and college when it comes to college sports. As the person in the image is wearing a suit and a mask that person might stand for the NCAA because the NCAA uses amateurism as a reason not to pay college athletes millions of dollars of revenue that they would otherwise use in the fair market (NCPA, 2013). The NCPA uses a man wearing a mask and a suit to form a connection to the viewer about how the NCAA are the people who are robbing the college athletes of billions of dollars. In the both images the text in each image gives out the message to the viewer that the NCPA wants to get so the viewer of the image gets on their side of the issue. In the first if the text in the image says the $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes. By saying that there is a $6 Billion Heist when at the top of the image like a headline to a newspaper article makes the image look more credible then it actually is because people your read the news out of the newspaper read because the newspaper is credible., the NCPA uses the image being credible and Fournier 3 having the text look like a newspaper article is a form of ethos because newspaper articles are usually credible. In the second image is the text in the image was from the college athlete perspective and the college athlete wrote on a sign that said college athlete anything with a Venmoe username to send him money (Ziller, 2016). With the college athlete standing and holding the sign it made it look like he was standing using a picket sign so people can see what he is fighting for which is right for college athletes to get paid. With the text in the second image being written by an actual college athlete makes it more believable and credible because as a college athlete he is actually go through the issue of not being paid for playing for the college sports team. The text of each image helps the NCPA with persuading its viewers to get on the side of the NCPA by making it easy to understand the image. The timing of both images or kairos helps the NCPA with getting the viewers of the images on their side. The time of the first image was good because when the photo was released the issue if college athletes should be paid was very big and all of the news broadcasts like ESPN. The NCAA was suspending college athletes if they broke the rules of getting paid for their efforts on the field they would get suspended games or sanctioned by the NCAA (CBSnews, 2013). In the second image the timing of the image was perfect because the college athlete in the picture is standing in front of a broadcasting of College Gameday which was broadcasted every Saturday morning for the college football games. It was very impactful for the NCPA because it was publicized on ESPN and other sports media and help bring the issue back in the spotlight to talk about and discuss. The kairos was very convenient for the NCPA because it helped them with their cause of college athletes getting paid because the images brought the spotlight to the cause. Fournier 4 Both images helped the NCPA with getting people on the side of college athletes getting paid. The second image is more affective then the first image because the second image is because in the second image it has an actual college athlete who actually deals with the issues of being a college athlete so it makes it more credible and believable and it helps with getting the viewers on their side of the issue whether then with the first image since the first image is a lot like propaganda because it was made by the NCPA to help persuade the viewers to get on the side of the issue if college athletes should get paid. Fournier 5 Image 1: Image 2: Fournier 6 Work Cited Ziller, T. (2016, October 17). SBNation. Retrieved from www,sbnation.com: http://www.sbnation.com/college-basketball/2016/10/17/13297796/nigel-hayes-protest- ncaa-paid-athletes National Collage Players Association, NCPA, 20 Mar. 2013, www.ncpanow.org/news/articles/the-6-billion-heist-robbing-college-athletes-under-the- guise-of-amateurism. Accessed 20 Mar. 2013. Montopoli, Brian. Study: College athletes denied $6.2 billion over four  www.cbsnews.com, 20 Mar. 2013, www.cbsnews.com/news/study-college-athletes- denied-62-billion-over-four-years/. Accessed 20 Mar. 2013.