Calvin Courtney Bob Botkin ENC 1102 Courtney 1 The Electoral College: Does it Belong in America? voting system has been a subject of much controversy ever since the birth of the nation. The goal is and always has been to have a method of election that favors the candidate or policy that best represents the will of the entire nation, and all its citizens. The electoral college was created by the founding fathers in the constitution, to serve as a compromise between those that wanted a purely popular vote, and those that wanted a vote between members of congress. The electoral college is constantly criticized, with critics believing that the college is unnecessary, overcomplicated, and that it causes the votes of many citizens to have little to no impact on the result of the election. While there are pros to the electoral college, such as that it ensures all parts of the country will have relatively equal say in elections, the cons far outnumber the pros, and the system is in need of reformation. The electoral college is a system that overcomplicates the process of election, and causes votes to become less important, and for these reasons, the system requires either reform, or total abolition. The following image features the White House, the home of the president of the United States, surrounded by an extensive and complicated maze. The entrance of the maze reads College and the Calvin Courtney Bob Botkin ENC 1102 Courtney 2 image is captioned, to the White The image suggests that the electoral college is a system that overcomplicates the election process. By including a setting that most Americans are familiar with, and is considered to be a symbol of justice and leadership in our country, and presenting it in this fashion, the creator of the image has used ethos to cause readers to question how the Electoral College makes sense. The creator would likely support the statement that it would be much easier to simply hold elections based purely on a popular vote. There have been five US elections in which the winner did not win the popular vote, two of those elections having taken place since the year 2000. In each of such cases, there was widespread dispute, conflict, and in some cases even rioting. If the college is not to be abolished entirely, then it should at least be altered so that there is a more firm and definitive way of deciding the winner. California senator Barbara Boxer has publicly spoken out against the electoral college, stating that it is system where the winner can As voting is an essential and fundamental aspect of American society, it is essential to encourage eligible citizens to participate in presidential elections. One of the most common Calvin Courtney Bob Botkin ENC 1102 Courtney 3 phrases used to encourage such participation is vote The following image takes this popular phrase and adds a large question mark. By taking a phrase that many are familiar with and associate with a reassurance that their vote does count, and adding the large question mark, pathos is used to cause viewers to begin to question the electoral college and wonder whether their vote truly matters. When the young thirteen original American colonies were at war with Great Britain, it soon became clear that, if America should win the war, George Washington would become the first ruler of the new nation. Many assumed that he would assume the role of king, or some other dictator. However, Washington saw that dictatorships and lack of representation are what led to America needing to split off from England in the first place. He chose to hold less power, and alternatively let the people of the United States hold the power. To Washington, it was essential that everyone be heard and respected. The electoral college causes some votes to matter more than others, going against every core value that America was founded on. In addition, some citizens are not given equal fair access to learning about each candidate, as presidential candidates generally bother to campaign and rally support for states in which they are predicted to lose. In short, the electoral college goes against the core values of America, and is unfair to many voters. Calvin Courtney Bob Botkin ENC 1102 Courtney 4 While the electoral college is overall in need of reform or abolition, there are some positive aspects such as ensuring that all parts of the country are involved in elections. However, there are ways to maintain the positive aspects of the electoral college, while eliminating the negative aspects. For example, a system that gave more votes to those who paid the most taxes would encourage people to stay away from welfare or other programs that hurt the government, while still giving equal opportunity for citizens to voice their opinion and be heard. While the electoral college serves some purpose by ensuring that the entire country participate in elections, it is an outdated system that requires either reformation or total abolition. It causes conflict and division amongst the nation, as it is possible for the winner to lose, and will inevitably lead to both parties believing their candidate should have won. It goes against the core values of America by causing some citizens to not be counted as much as others. There are ways to change the system so that the negative aspects are extinguished and the positive aspects remain, however, the system cannot remain the way it is. Works Cited Calvin Courtney Bob Botkin ENC 1102 Courtney 5 National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The Electoral College: Top 3 Pros and  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. 20160, Pam Key30 Nov. Boxer Decries Electoral College: System Where the Winner Can  Breitbart. N.p., 30 Nov. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Calvin Courtney Bob Botkin ENC 1102 Courtney 6