Lena Santoro Professor Spencer Bennington ENC1102 12 March 2017 Two Messages from the National Vaccination Information Center Vaccinations have been around for quite some time now. They continue to change and progress in order to assure children and their families are protected from harmful disease. With old vaccines changing and new being introduced to the public, many people are not as well versed in the subject as they should be. Most see vaccines as a good thing, that ultimately benefits those who use them. However, many are unaware of the potential dangers that comes with the use of vaccinations. In addition to that, many know what rights they have when it comes to the regulations regarding administration of vaccine to school age children. The National Vaccine Information goal is to keep families up to date on all information regarding vaccines. Through their websites and various campaigns, images have been used to spread their message for parents who many not be well informed. The two NVIC images provided serve different purposes, one on vaccination rights the other on the potential dangers of vaccinations, but by using similar techniques both messages are able to reach their intended audience, parents, equally well. In the first image the NVIC uses the Statue of Liberty as one of the main focuses of the ad to induce an emotional response. It lets the audience know that they have rights, concerning vaccinations. When the audience first looks at the ad they are drawn to look at the Statue of Liberty first because it contrasts with the white background. Then they notice that the Statue of Liberty is a well know symbol of freedom. By putting the Statue of Liberty in the ad it evokes that feeling of freedom, and with freedom comes rights. This makes parents feel that they are entitled to all information regarding vaccinations, and their right to know all they can about them before making the choice to vaccinate their family. Similarly, in the second image the dominant focus is a picture of a mother and child which also evokes an emotional response to the ad. When a parent views the ad and see the mother and baby together most feel a parental instinct. No one wants to see a child harmed or sick, and by adding that picture of the smiling baby the audience feels compelled to do whatever it takes to protect the child. In this case looking into the possible health benefits and consequences of vaccinations, and weighing which option is better. Using a picture the only way the images gets the audience to take action, but text is also a big factor in the ad campaign. Another way the NVIC gets their message across is by use of text to appeal to emotion and logic. The ad is accompanied by the words, Health. Your Family. Your This brings forth the feeling that a parent deserves the rightful access to information involving vaccines, and that any decision regarding health of a family is solely their own. By having a period after every phrase, the message comes across as serious and definitive. That health should be taken in account with as much knowledge as possible, and that everyone should be aware of the rights they have when it comes to the vaccination of their children. By coming to that conclusion, the only logical action a parent would take after seeing the ad would be to look into the information out there concerning vaccinations to help make the right decision for their health. Likewise, the second image uses a different approach in using text that equally enhances the message by appealing to urgency and the logical solution to what the message offers. Know the risks and are the words that are displayed in the ad. They imply that more to vaccinations than what the average person already knows, and since all the words are in a bold, and in all caps, it shows that the message is important. Since most view vaccinations as having only beneficial outcomes, the text brings to attention that there is a negative aspect to vaccines that a parent may not be aware of. An article referring to this second image discusses the purpose of it, non-profit National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC.org) is conducting an educational billboard campaign in Arizona, Illinois, Oregon, Washington and Texas to encourage well informed vaccine decision-making (Business Since the purpose is to educate, it would only make sense that the audience would look further into the topic when they see it. By adding credibility to the ads the audience is able to do just that. The first image also uses multiple aspects to add credibility to the ad campaign. By spelling out what the acronym NVIC stands for, the audience is able to know that it is an actual organization. A logo is also provided in the image, so that a person could recognize what association is behind the ad. The website is also presented so that the audience can take action and learn more about the same issue. By having these elements in the ad, curious parents would be able to access credible sources to find information like this, carry risks that can be greater for some individuals and vaccination does not guarantee you get the disease. This is true for pertussis, influenza and mumps vaccines, for said NVIC co- founder and president Barbara Loe Fisher (Kindred Media and If a parent searched NVIC, or a National Vaccination Information Center, they would be able to find more information from the founder or the organization itself. The second image also has the logo, and website of the organization on the ad, allowing people to see what information the NVIC has about the topic of vaccinations. This excerpt straight from the NVIC website would allow a person to learn more about the goals, National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC) is dedicated to the prevention of vaccine injuries and deaths through public education and to defending the informed consent ethic in medicine Without adding these simple features to the ad it would be hard to take the message the NVIC is giving seriously. It also helps that with the assistance of color it gives the right tone to the message. In both images the same neutral color scheme is used to further the feeling of importance about the ads message. Both of the message are important for the public to know. In the first image the overall message is that a person has rights when it comes to the decision to vaccinate their families. The second imagine wants parents to look into the positive and negative aspects of vaccinations in order to make a well informed decision when it comes time to vaccinate their child. no flashy color to distract from what the ad has to say, and the colors chosen induce a somber mood (Parker). By using blue, black, and white easy to focus on the messages rather than any decorative parts of the campaign. Ultimately, the goal of the National Vaccine Information Center is to spread awareness of possible risks regarding vaccination, and to keep parents informed of the rights they have for vaccinating school aged children. Though the two images used by the NVIC in their ad campaign share two different messages, the way the messages are projected through advertisements are very similar. By using these similar techniques both images are able to communicate their goals equally well, and reach their intended audience effectively. Work Cited Billboard Campaign for Vaccine Education  Kindred Media. N.p., 04 Dec. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. National Vaccine Information Center - Your Health. Your Family. Your  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. NVIC Launches National Billboard Vaccine Education  Business Wire. N.p., 13 Mar. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Parker, Raetta. The Meaning of  N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. First image Second image