Holly Weber Bennington ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Visual Appeal: Discouraging vs. Uplifting Many organizations have recently joined the conversation about GMO labeling, and advocated for the implementation of a mandatory labeling system that would inform consumers about the ingredients used in the food they consume (Just Label It). Just Label It is an organization leading this conversation. It is a consumer-driven group that advocates for the implementation of a mandatory labeling system (Just Label It). JLI strives to provide consumers with information about all issues concerning the use of GMOs in food, and to grant them the right to know what is in the food products they are consuming (Just Label It). It has partnered with multiple health organizations that support this initiative, with the ultimate goal of making the public and the government aware of the issues surrounding GMO labeling (Newswire). JLI recognizes that GMOs may pose serious health risks such as the risk of cancer, heart disease, and respiratory illness, among others (Newswire). Several studies have also indicated that GMOs may lead to various health problems. One study found that GMOs can pose serious health concerns infertility, immune problems, accelerated aging, faulty insulin regulation, and changes in major organs and the gastrointestinal (Health Risks). JLI is a web-based organization, and therefore relies heavily on visual rhetoric to persuade consumers to take a stand against GMOs. It produces a blog that interacts with consumers to address the many important issues pertaining to GMO labeling (Just Label It). The blog presents many images meant to persuade consumers to take a stand against GMOs and advocate for the mandatory labeling of them (Just Label It). In Image #1 from the blog, reproduced in Appendix A, JLI addresses the drastic increase in the use of a weed killer used on GMO plant varieties that is likely to be carcinogenic to humans. In Image #2, reproduced in Appendix A, JLI makes the assertion, through clever imagery, that GMO labeling will not increase food prices. Both images establish an appeal to credibility, by including the JLI of certifying that the message in each image can be trusted. By challenging the way consumers view the use of GMOs, the images are intended to elicit an emotional response about the health concerns and labeling issues associated with GMOs. Although the purpose of each image is the similar, the first image relies heavily on provoking adverse emotions through bold, provocative, and striking text, while the second image evokes a feeling of familiarity and comfort through the use of common phrases and visual images. Through the use of the color red, bold print, and words that trigger an emotional response, Image #1 relies heavily on emotional appeal to persuade consumers to take a stand against GMOs. The use of large red letters on a plain white background, coupled with the use of the word is an appeal to emotion, and creates a suggestion of danger. The red/white contrast immediately captures the attention, while at the same time the bold color red evokes a sense of anxiety through its common association with danger. The statement, Weed Cancer by using the word appeals to the instinctive fear of illness and disease. As a result, Image #1 links GMO weed killer with danger and the risk of cancer, causing the viewer to view GMOs negatively. Aside from its appeal to emotion, Image #1 presents a logical argument by including a self-use weed killer container with the word written on it. This can be seen as implying that GMO weed killers are not only used commercially but are also available for consumer use, subtly suggesting that it is a danger for everyone. By using the words and the emotions evoked through pathos, the image captures the attention and then establishes a logical reason to avoid GMOs. In this image, the appeal to emotion and logic work together to emphasize that the use of GMO plants as crops have dangerous consequences to the health and welfare. While image #1 appeals to the emotions and logic through a primarily negative message, JLI has taken a more positive approach to persuade viewers in Image #2. Through the use of bright primary colors and large, familiar visual images, the second image relies on an emotionally uplifting appeal to persuade consumers that GMO labeling is not only desirable, but entirely feasible. The use of vibrant colors suggests a sense of excitement about GMO-free products. JLI is able to elicit a feeling of enthusiasm about the by employing contrast between the bright blue background and yellow box. This allows the image to cast a positive light on healthy eating, and therefore the consumption of non- GMO products, which this image associates with GMO labeling. In a manner similar to Image #1, JLI Image #2 uses large, familiar imagery to elicit an appeal to logic by emphasizing the logical reasoning for GMO labeling and dispelling a common counter-argument. The image uses 3-D star shapes to highlight the healthy aspects of the crackers shown in the image, such as the fact they contain and are made with This is a logical appeal to the viewer, suggesting that health facts labeling is and is in fact, commonly done. Consumers are very familiar with this type of labeling, and there is an implication that GMO labeling could be done in a similar fashion. Image #2 also states that labeling will not increase food This contributes to the logical appeal of eating GMO-free products, and is supported by the images of the 3-D star shapes of the health facts, a similar type of labeling that is already commonly used on food packaging. The two images produced by Just Label It challenge the way consumers view the use of GMOs by using emotional, logical and credible appeals to elicit a response to the health concerns and, ultimately, the labeling issues associated with GMOs. The first image relies heavily on eliciting strong negative emotions through bold, provocative, and striking text, while the second image relies on evoking feelings of familiarity and comfort through the use of common phrases and visual images. Both of the images produced by Just Label It employ similar appeals to persuade consumers to avoid GMOs and advocate for the mandatory labeling of them. However, the use of bold, provocative text in Image #1 to elicit strong feelings of anxiety and fear may offer a more effective strategy to ultimately persuade consumers to avoid GMOs. According to a recent study conducted to assess the relationship between color and advertising, color red not only draws attention for it being among the most vibrant colors in the visible spectrum, it also attracts the eye because of the multiple associations consumers have with the (Writer). Therefore, it is possible that the use of the color red, along with the word in the first image offers an intense emotional experience for the viewer, and therefore offers the most effective strategy to persuade consumers to demand GMO labeling. Nevertheless, by appealing to logic, emotion, and credibility in both images, Just Label It is able to successfully inform consumers of the health risks of GMOs, as well as the need for GMO labeling. Works Cited Health Risks. Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. It, Just Label. Right to  Just Label It. N.p., 2017. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. PR, Newswire. Just Label It Survey: Parents Overwhelmingly Say Label Genetically Engineered  PR Newswire US 10 Sept. 2012: Regional Business News. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Writer, Leaf Group. How Does Color Affect  Small Business - Chron.com. Chron.com, 10 Oct. 2011. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Appendix A Image 1. Image 2.