Sabrina Downing 1 Sabrina Downing ENC 1101 Instructor Emil Smith March 26, 2017 Nuclear Power Before and After Fukushima in Japan Compared to other non-renewable resources, nuclear energy is economically less expensive to produce and emits significantly less carbon dioxide. Applied to the theory of global warming, this alternative energy source reduces the impact energy production has on the destruction of ozone layer. Though nuclear power may be impressive, the production process is highly dangerous. Failures of the system can cause large disasters, which expose humans and the environment to harmful amounts of radiation. This unflattering element of nuclear power stifles eagerness to construct nuclear plants in their towns. Japan, one of the leading countries in nuclear power technology, had goals of reducing its carbon emissions by erecting nuclear power plants. However, public support essential for the development of these plants diminished following the 2011 disaster in Fukushima. Due to a series of accidents that occurred between 1997 and 2007, public resistance for new reactors took a major decline. Complete support of the public was needed to complete the plans to decrease total carbon emissions by 25 percent below the values recorded in the 1990s before 2020 (Cyranoski, 2010). We just start putting reactors wherever we have to get the understanding of the local residents, and that takes  said Takuyuki Kawauchi of the industry nuclear-energy policy division. But, in 2002, the Sabrina Downing 2 Tokyo Electric Power Company had to shut all 17 of their reactors down due to a data falsification. Making matters worse, July 2007, a severe earthquake hit the area surrounding the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear power plant, the largest nuclear power station in the world. Ever since, its seven reactors (totaling 8,212 megawatts of capacity) have remained closed for damage verification and repairs, and by October 2009, only two of the units had gotten as far as low-power testing prior to reentry into (Schneider, Thomas, Froggatt, & Koplow, 2009) Once damages were repaired, the least damaged unit was restarted. These events distorted future plans, and pushed back completion dates. In 2009, there were a total of 435 nuclear reactors operating world-wide, 53 of which were in Japan. These plants generated 25 percent of electricity. (Schneider, Thomas, Froggatt, & Koplow, 2009). Japan had two plants under construction at the time, and 13 more planned. On March 11, 2011, an earthquake of magnitude 9.0 shook East Japan. A tsunami followed, which wiped out power needed to maintain the cooling processes of the reactors in the plant. The back-up generators designed to cool the nuclear core were also destroyed by the water infiltration, and the nuclear reactor cores began to melt, releasing deadly amounts of radiation into the atmosphere. This accident alarmed people globally, and countries suspended their nuclear power plants. A study conducted by The Belgian Nuclear Research Centre concluded that the accident had an overall negative effect on public support for nuclear energy. Rather than terminating nuclear energy completely, in 2014, the Japanese government adopted a new National Energy Strategy intended to reduce dependence on nuclear energy whilst still Sabrina Downing 3 considering it as one of the important base-load electricity (Tatsujiro, 2015). The termination or reduction of nuclear development following this incident was mainly due to the retraction of public support. Worldwide actions were taken to investigate the safety of plants, like conducting stress tests examine the ability of nuclear plants to resist emergencies, such as earthquake, flood, tsunami, tornado, impacts of plane and (Ming, Yingxin,, Shaojie, Hui, & Chunxue, 2016). Slowly, policy revisions and design renovations strengthened the safety of plants. Three years following the incident, suspended plans were lifted, and construction has started again. Although the predicted number of new plants has decreased, the development is still following an upward trend. Nuclear power as a new alternative energy source compared to the others is a popular choice. Despite the clean production and use of nuclear energy, it is dangerous to work with. Framing this technology as an environmentally- friendly electricity source energized people to promote its development. Unexpected nuclear disasters such as Fukushima make the dangers of nuclear energy production apparent to the public, and support has dwindled. development of nuclear power technology experienced a halt in 2011, but slowly continued back to development. Residents of Japan have an important decision to make, if a reduced carbon dioxide emission process is worth the serious dangers of producing nuclear power. How sure can they be that safety precautions will support almost all unexpected incidents? It is up to the government and scientists to test and prepare, following with a presentation of security to the public. Sabrina Downing 4 Sources Cyranoski, D. (2010). Japan plans nuclear power expansion: proposal for eight new reactors and nuclear fuel reprocessing faces public opposition. Nature, (7289), 661. E., Perko, T., & Thijssen, P. (2017). Public opinion change after the Fukushima nuclear accident: The role of national context revisited. Energy Policy, 104, 124-133. doi:10.1016/j.enpol.2017.01.027 Ming, Z., Yingxin, L., Shaojie, O., Hui, S., & Chunxue, L. (2016). Nuclear energy in the Post- Fukushima Era: Research on the developments of the Chinese and worldwide nuclear power industries. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 58, 147-156. doi:10.1016/j.rser.2015.12.165 Schneider, M., Thomas, S., Froggatt, A., & Koplow, D. (2009). 2009 world nuclear industry status report. Bulletin Of The Atomic Scientists, 65(6), 1-19.