Kelsey Lay Lay 1 Instructor: Emil Smith Composition 1101/002 March 26, 2017 College Students and Adderall Researchers have shifted their concerns about the use of Adderall by college students over the past ten years. Before 2010 the researchers focused on Adderall as a for college students who wanted gain more on their schoolwork. However, since 2010 researchers have noticed a trend of college students taking Adderall as a supplement to other party drugs such as alcohol and marijuana. College students who take stimulants sometimes believe that the drug makes them sociable and likeable among their peers. While researchers continue to discuss the use of Adderall as a among college students, they have become increasingly concerned about the serious side effects of mixing Adderall with other drugs. The use of nonprescribed medical stimulants, such as Adderall, have continued to become a major problem on college campuses across the United States. Before 2010 approximately 12 million persons reported using these stimulants in America. Per Larry Kroutil in Nonmedical Use of Prescription Stimulants in the United States, most people who misused Adderall were between 18-25 years old., in which this age group was 10 times more likely than any other age group to misuse Adderall (137-138). The misuse was similar between males and female, and most prevalent among low income families who did not have health insurance (Kroutil 138). Since 2010 the number of Adderall misusers has continued to grow at an exponential rate. This growth of users is evident by the increase of the amount of Adderall being manufactured in this country. Simon Essig Aberg, stated in his journal article, Study drug, abuse by college students: Lay 2 What you need to know, that of stimulant drugs has increased nine million percent in the last ten (145). Various studies have been conducted across the country and the abuse rate ranges from 7% to 33% on college campuses. Many students are obtaining Adderall illegally as Aberg further states that study of more than 10,000 college students from across the country found that more than half the students who were prescribed Adderall or other ADHD prescription were asked to sell the medication to peers and (145). Since 2010 researchers have found that the characteristics of the abusers have shifted from low income families, both men and women equally and mostly black students to most abusers being white, middle to high income families, members of fraternities or sororities, male and students with a grade point average of a B or lower. With this change in the characteristics of researchers have shifted their theories on why college students over use Adderall and other such stimulants. Prior to 2010 researchers only focus of the nonmedical use and abuse of Adderall by college students was to enhance their studies and improve their grades. It was believed that students took Adderall without a prescription mostly during exam weeks and at the end of school years to finish their end of semester projects. Students believed the drug would help them in the same way it did their friends who had ADD/ADHD. They took Adderall and other such stimulants to increase their ability to focus and stay awake to pull all-nighters at exam time. Kroutil stated that percent fit the criteria for (141). The criteria for addiction means the abuse has a compulsive drug seeking behavior and persistent use even when knowing the harm the drug may cause. The person continues to increase the dose the longer they are addicted. Their body will also suffer withdrawals without the presence of the drug in their system. Since 2010 researchers have taken a new look at why students take nonprescribed medical stimulants. As they look at Lay 3 the characteristics of the abusers they have discovered the social reasons why students abuse the drug. Students tend to believe the effects of Adderall makes them more sociable and talkative in social settings with their peers which leads them to be popular and well liked amongst sorority and fraternity members. Per a study performed by the National Center for Health Research of college students around the nation, a third of students have taken Adderall to get high or (Aberg) According to Jennifer Gomes, in Prescription Stimulant Abuse on University Campuses, students equated taking Adderall while drinking alcohol as cocaine (825). Aberg further discovered that one in five women who took the drug took it to lose (145). The problem is that many students who legally obtain the drug with a prescription see no harm in making extra money by selling some of their pills to other students, thus making it easy for students to obtain the drug illegally. They do not realize that this is illegal and punishable by law. However, the Drug Enforcement has declared Adderall as a highly addictive drug. As the use of nonprescribed medical stimulants continues to grow on college campuses so do researchers concern for the risks associated with Adderall. Most students believe there are no risks to using the drug because the Federal Drug Administration have approved it. Prior to 2010 researchers focused on the risks of students taking Adderall occasionally to get through midterms, projects, or finals. Since researchers did not see a large amount of addiction they investigated the risks but did not have a major concern. Kroutil and his researchers did find in isolated cases the prolonged uses of Adderall could cause heart conditions, weight loss, insomnia, and psychiatric conditions (142). The incident rate however was very low. After 2010, there was a growing concern among researchers about the risks faced by college students when using nonmedically prescribed stimulants. This shift occurred because of both the apparent Lay 4 change in the purpose of why students were taking the drug and the growing rate of addiction. A study by the manufacturer of Adderall determined a prolonged use of nonprescribed Adderall or mixing Adderall with other drugs can lead to serious complications. They have determined that the drug when combined with other drugs can cause problems, blurred vision, increased body temperature, increased heart rate, hallucinations, increased blood pressure, cardiac arrest, and even (Aberg 145). As overuse of Adderall continues to increase on college campuses so should the concern for the students who are misusing the drug. Students prior to 2010 appeared to use the drug just to get through exams so researchers concluded there was minimal risk. After 2010, the tendency has shifted from Adderall being used as a study drug to an addictive drug by lower achieving students who try to use the drug to keep up with their studies while partying and feeling the high of the drug when taken with other party drugs. As the reason shifts for college students taking the drug the concern for the deadly effects and addiction continues to increase. The mixing of Adderall and other party drugs can prove deadly to the abusers. Lay 5 Works Cited Aberg, Simon Essig. Study  abuse by college students: What you need to  2016. National Center for Health Research. Web. 23 January 2017 Gomes, Jennifer, Tammy Song, Lynn Goodwin, and Paul J. Toriello. Stimulant Abuse on University Journal of Human Behavior in the Social Environment 21.7 (2011): 822-33. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Goodman, John. Enhancement, Cheating, and Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal. 2012(2010): 145. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Kroutil, Larry A., et al. Nonmedical Use of Prescription Stimulants in The United  Drug and Alcohol Dependence 84 (2006): 135-143. ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017.