Perez 1 Chris Perez 02/22/17 Instructor Aranda ENC 1102 The Ambiguity of Standardized Tests A standardized test is that is given to evaluate the performance of students relative to all other students with the same (McMahon & Maureen). Some of these tests include the SAT and the ACT, both similar in goals but different in style. On one hand, the College Board, creator of the SAT, believes that their tests help students prepare for college, inspire practice, and connect better to the classroom experience (College Board). The National Center for Fair and Open Testing, however, believes that standardized tests are detrimental to a performance in school. There obviously needs to exist some sort of tool to measure a academic success so that colleges can get an idea of how well students perform during high school. And while standardized testing is the most popular choice, some agree that those tests could be harsh; therefore, a compromise must be reached to give each student an equal opportunity for college admission. Standardized tests should focus more on writing prompts rather than multiple-choice questions. The College Board is a large not-for-profit organization that assists and guides students throughout high school and college. It was founded in 1900 and now has over six thousand institutions settled around the globe. High school students probably know them from taking AP classes and the SAT, but they offer many other services as well. In addition, College Board changed the format of the SAT in March 2016 because world needs more people who can solve problems, communicate clearly, and understand complex (College Board). Perez 2 The changes include questions that focus more on analysis and understanding; longer, complex passages; an optional essay portion; more student-produced questions in the math portion; and no penalties for wrong answers. Because of these changes, it is now even more imperative for students to perform better in class so that they can prepare for the SAT. But therein lies the problem: as the exams become progressively harder, students who have already done well with exams will flourish but those who have not will struggle even more. FairTest is an organization that opposes standardized testing and fair, open, valid and educationally beneficial evaluations of students, teachers and (FairTest). It was founded in 1985 by Dr. Sophie Sa and is currently presided by Robert Schaeffer. FairTest has done a series of projects such as working with other anti-testing organizations, advancing programs, and overhauling federal programs such as No Child Left Behind (NCLB). Since the passage of NCLB, students are required to take an average of 112.3 tests between preschool through grade twelve (Hennick 42), and the staff at FairTest are trying to reduce that. In addition, in 2004, FairTest posted a chart of SAT scores by income. Their results showed that students whose parents made less than $10,000 scored an average of 872 on the SAT, while those whose parents made more than $100,000 scored an average of 1129, thus displaying the economic gap between SAT test takers (Jackson). The College Board and FairTest have two different mindsets: the former believes that standardized testing accurately measures skill, while the latter does not. Valerie Strauss, writer for the Washington Post education section, revealed post of his opinion on the SAT. First Schaeffer claims that the new SAT in 2005 was a and out to be neither a more accurate nor a fairer admissions However, Lauren Bunin, Vice President of College Board, responded to Schaeffer in her post: Perez 3 Critics of standardized admissions tests try to assail the validity of the tests, suggesting that they predictive, or that using only a high school grades is a better alternative. The truth is that the SAT is very predictive of both a college academic performance and a likelihood of staying in college (retention). Furthermore, the SAT is equally as powerful as high school grades at predicting a college performance. And because the SAT and high school grades assess complementary, but somewhat different, capabilities of a student, the best predictor of college performance is the combination of the SAT and high school grades. Finally, Schaeffer responded by exclaiming that research shows that the is a substantially poorer tool for predicting college graduation, a much more important It is evident that these two groups do not get along with each other, so they have never worked cooperatively. However, despite these arising conflicts, they do share a common trait, and that is that they have a passion in helping students transition from high school to college. There are many different solutions to this problem, but there is one that could potentially work: requiring a written answer for questions instead of choosing a right answer in a multiple- choice exam. Doug Archbald and Fred Newman explain this in clearer terms in their book Standardized Testing: Assessing Authentic Academic Achievement in the Secondary They mention how would probably agree that the best way to determine whether a person understands a subject or problem is simply to ask him or her to explain and to respond to given to them. This way rather than a multiple-choice exam, a written response will do several things: require the student to think more, allow the student to Perez 4 write down explanations and reasoning, and also allow the grader to grasp the understanding more. This compromise is reasonable because standardized tests will still be required from students but the tests should emphasize the written parts because allow students to express their thoughts unlike a multiple-choice exam. As one can see, standardized testing is a controversial topic in regards to how the test should be administered. While it is almost impossible for a compromise to come to a consensus, a test that stresses more on writing than multiple-choice questions will help ease that tension. better to receive some credit on a written response rather than no credit at all to a wrong answer on a multiple-choice exam. Therefore, College Board and FairTest should support this compromise so that they can work together, offer the best help they can for students entering college, and end this controversial issue rising in the country. Perez 5 Works Cited Archbald, Arthur A., and Fred M, Newman. Beyond Standardized Testing: Assessing Authentic Academic Achievement in the Secondary School. Reston: National Association of Secondary School Principals, 1988. Print. Hennick, Calvin. Test  Instructor 125.5 (2016): 42-45. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Jackson, Derrick Z. College Board is put to  Chicago Tribune. N.p., 13 Dec. 2004. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. McMahon, Issitt, and Micah Maureen. Standardized  Research Starters, Jan. 2016. Web. Strauss, Valerie. How the ACT caught up with the  The Washington Post. WP Company, 17 Sept. 2010. Web. 2 Feb. 2017.