Stow 1 Cassidy Stow Bob Botkin ENC 1102 - 063 20 February 2017 The Non-GMO Project The Non-GMO Project is an organization created in 2007 by two natural food grocery store owners. The main mission is to inform society about the dangers and harm that genetically modified foods may cause. They are currently fighting for the labeling of GMOs and have already started labeling non-genetically modified foods with their logo (Non-GMO Project). Most of their advertisements are aimed to inform the consumer and persuade society to buy food that is GMO free. However, they occasionally take a few swings at their biggest opponents, The Grocery Manufacturers Association and Monsanto. Both of these companies are making the biggest profit of anyone from the growth and distribution of GMOs. These companies main concern is that if genetically modified foods are labeled as such, consumers will stop buying their products, there for less profit for them. On the other hand, The Non-GMO main concern is the health of the consumers. The majority of their advertisements relate to pathos and logos because they pull on heart strings whilst making you realize that food should be healthy and natural, not modified. This photo is one of the advertisements used by the Non-GMO Project against Monsanto. The main point of this advertisement is to show that eating food grown by Monsanto farmers is unhealthy and can lead to obesity due to the DNA being modified. There is an underlying Stow 2 message that humans are not meant to eat modified foods, as even Neanderthals were healthier than society today. This is shown by the tools in each hand. From left to right there is a bone, a spear, a gun, and then a McDonalds bag. Also, it seems as if the men create a bar graph of improvement until the last man who is shorter and lastly the pig which is the lowest point. The colors used in this are very earthy and natural with a strong boarder around the edges. Also, the Monsanto logo is used above the pig says Biotechnology innovation, collaboration, Just with that little logo comes another underlying message that Monsanto knows that GM food is bad for society but is distributing it anyways. This gives Monsanto a bad name and reputation which gives The Non-GMO Project a step forward in their fight. This advertisment appeals to logos by using the of mankind and in turn, food. It suggests that when mankind was eating food as it naturally came, they were fit and healthy. But as mankind started eatting processed and GM foods, such as McDonalds (pictured in the hand of the man on the right), they became inherently unhealthy and obese. Logically nobody wants to be unfit and unhealthy, so this advertisment successfully appeals to ones logic. It also appeals to pathos by using fear. This is because it makes consumers wonder what is in the food grown by Monsanto farmers that it would lead to such an unhealthy lifestyle. It creates a sense of worry that they may end up unhealthy as well. The colors and dark border also add a sense of despair to the advertisment. And last but not least, it appeals to ethos because it is credibility. With how well known Monsanto is and the use of their name and logo, it gives consumers a credible name on whom to blame the issues. Stow 3 This advertisment is aimed to inform consumers about the dangers and risks associated with GMOs. The Non-GMO Project used the same bright and pastel colors that are in their logo and added a small version of their logo on the bottom right side. They use a crisp and easy to read font sizes that is visually appealing to the viewer. They include the statement to to get their immediate message across. They also seperated the advertisment into three separate sections. This includes a section on plants that are at high-risk for GMO testing, a section on animal products that are at high-risk, and a section on how to avoid GMOs. This advertisement appeals to logos in the three sections labeled and Animal and can I avoid Logically, consumers do not want to eat anything that may cause health problems. The first and second sections are straight forward and warn viewers about GMOs. The third section appeals to the reaction of the viewer when they realize they want to eat food that could potentially be harmful to them. It also appeals to pathos by the use of colors. The pastel and bright colors suggest happiness and healthiness. The cartoons of the globe and the butterfly are visually pleasing while hinting at the theme of nature and the butterflies tie the whole advertisement together. Lastly, it appeals to ethos because of the placement of The Non-GMOs logo. Since they are an organization that has a big name and good rep in the anti-GMO movement, that automatically adds credibility to the advertisement. Stow 4 The Non-GMO Project achieves two different things with these advertisments and successfully convinces society that GMOs are high risk and should be avoided. The first is informing the consumer of the risks of genetically modified foods and informing viewers how to avoid them. The second is giving their oponent, Monsanto, a bad name by hinting that the food grown by their farmers is modified and leads to health problems. Due to the use of three rhetorical appeals, logos, pathos, and ethos, the consumer is able to quickly come to the realization that GMOs should be avoided, and therefore, The Non-GMO goal is successful. Stow 5 Works Cited First picture: Blog  The Sensitive Life. N.p., 30 May 2013. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Second Picture: GMO  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., 08 Aug. 2014. Web. 18 Feb. 2017  The NonGMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Feb. 2017.