Pogue 1 Matthew Pogue ENC 1102 Bob Botkin 11 March 2017 P2: Final Draft Pogue 2 The debate about animals being used for scientific and commercial purposes has been going on for years, if not decades. One of the organizations that is against animals being used for scientific and commercial purposes is S.A.E.N. (Stop Animal Exploitation Now). The two advertisement pictures presented by the S.A.E.N. organization are very effective against the use of animal testing because they both display features of logos, ethos, pathos, and kairos. They also go into depth about how these ads not affect the debate about the use of animal testing, but also how it affects the general public. The S.A.E.N. is non-profit organization which was founded in April of 1996. mission is to end animal experimentation through cutting-edge investigations, hard-hitting media exposes, and public pressure. Since their creation in 1996, they have discovered numerous laboratories all across the United States that have tested cosmetic products on animals. A section of these laboratories were on college campuses. Some of these campuses included of Central Florida, University of Miami, and shockingly University of South (Florida). It is not just Florida college campuses where these in animal tests are taking place, there are taking place in a majority of college campuses across the United States. Like other animal rights organizations, they use commercial ads on television and all over the Internet to help spread their message to the world. Some of these ads consist of pictures of animals being neglected, wearing devices on their bodies, or presenting an animal showing emotional features, such as a sad face. The purpose of these pictures is to get the general public to realize that these innocent animals are being harmed and neglected by being used as test subjects for cosmetic products. What these images are trying to accomplish is that they want the general public to feel emotional Pogue 3 for these animals. They also want the general to think about if this was their dog, how would they feel if this was their dog being used as a test subject. The S.A.E.N also wants the cosmetic companies to realize that there are other ways to test the effects of these products rather than on animals. In the first picture, there is a significant amount of pathos, and kairos. The first picture shows a golden retriever puppy with a sad, emotional face along with a animal statement and a stated question that asks I do something This question in the image implies that the golden retriever puppy is talking to the general audience. This puppy can be seen as having feelings because it is wondering what it has done to deserve this abuse. The goal for this part of the picture is they want the general audience to feel bad for this puppy. The rhetorical appeal, pathos, is the appeal to emotion, and in this picture there is a lot of pathos features. The most obvious one is the golden retriever face because he/she is displaying a very sad/emotional face which is mainly to grab the general attention and immediately feel bad for the animal. The main purpose of the picture is that the S.A.E.N. organization wants the general public to think that this animal is being used. Another example of pathos is the position of the head, and the direction in which he/she is facing. In this picture, this golden retriever has his/her head positioned to the side, facing downward rather than looking up. If the dog is facing downward and has its head turned to the side, it would mean that this dog feels ashamed, cowardly, and wondering what he/she has done wrong. Another rhetorical appeal that is used in this picture is kairos. is a term that refers to the elements of a speech that acknowledge and draw support from the particular setting, time, and place that a speech (Purdue Owl). An example of kairos is the word The image shows that Pogue 4 word is red, which means to stop a particular action. For example, when someone is driving and they are approaching an intersection and light is green they would pass on through the intersection. However, if the light is red then they must come to a complete stop. The color red implies a direct order that an action must be stopped immediately. The reason that this organization shows these specific advertisements or commercials is that they want the general public to think about the message of these advertisements and how poorly these animals are being treated. In the second picture, there is a significant amount of pathos, as well ethos, and kairos. This picture shows three different animals a monkey, a rabbit, and a cat. Also in this picture, there electronic devices on two of the three animals. There is also three different font faces of writing below the picture, which says Animal Exploitation Now, S.A.E.N., and a force for change. Because of the of the different font faces it could be inferred that it written this way in order to grab the general attention. The animals in the picture are some of the common animals used as test subjects in research laboratories. The use of these particular animals in this picture is to show how cruel and heartless these researchers and cosmetic companies are. In addition, the devices that are on the monkey and cat resembles how much power these companies have over these animals. Just like in the first picture, pathos shows the emotional features of the animals. For the monkey, it shows a terrified face where it has no idea what is going, which also has no idea what will happen next. In addition, these types of animals will have all of their limbs locked, where they cannot move any part of their body. Plus, these animals tend to scream or yelp when they are in the need of assistance. Like the monkey, both the cat and rabbit are also displaying emotional features. For the cat, it looks like it is very Pogue 5 emotional probably because it has a device attached on top of its head, as well as clothing wrapped around its body. In comparison, the rabbit looks extremely nervous in this picture because it has puts its body in a hutch position, which could mean that the rabbit is scared about what will happen next. Another rhetorical appeal that can be seen in this picture is kairos, which is the appeal to timeliness. Though it is not stated in the picture, but the general public can imagine on how long these animals have been in restraints and how long these animals have left to live. Based on the devices shown in the picture and the condition in which these animals are in, it can be seen that the organization wants the general public to think that these animals have spent a majority of their lives in labs. Ethos is another appeal presented in this picture, which is the appeal to or (Purdue Owl). An example of ethos in this picture is the title of the organization because it helps establish credibility or trust towards the general public. By having an acronym as a title, can give an individual or a group of people a sense of trustworthiness. Overall, these two pictures have shown features of pathos, kairos, and even ethos. It also shows the concerns that the S.A.E.N. has towards animals being used as test subjects rather than companions. Based on these pictures, the general public can also infer probable statistics about how many animals have been abused and killed as a result of these tests conducted in laboratories. They can clearly see that both of these images had a deep effect on the general public. Based on these pictures, it seems the organization has accomplished its goal which is wanting the general public to feel bad enough that they must take action. Pogue 6 Works Citied Florida Facility Reports and Information Resources and Links From SAEN Stop Animal Exploitation Now., www.saenonline.org/res- fr.html, Accessed 26 Feb 2017 Welcome to Purdue OWL. Purdue OWL: Establishing Arguments., https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/625/03/, Accessed 26 Feb2017