Munoz 1 Marcos Munoz Professor Alison Missler Enc 1102 03 March 2017 Preserving what is truly beautiful The National Park Foundation is a high achieving foundation that has been in works for over 50 years, providing a lot of support through media and money (fundraising) for the National Park Service and their employees. The National Park Foundation uses advertisements to portray a visual concern to people that are unaware of the problem of the national parks. Using visual rhetoric helps portray messages to people without having any words just from the picture. Through these two advertisement pictures presented, there are ethos, pathos, logos and kairos presented. Ethos, pathos and logos are often used in advertisements to convey the message more than just writing a message. Using emotions and using logic to convey a message is better to get attention and persuade them to join the cause or movement. There are two advertisements that are presented that are related to the National Park Foundation. The first photo presented is an advertisement of a mountain skyline and a message saying before there were skylines, there were skylines. The second photo presented is 4 different national parks with the letters P A R K over them. Munoz 2 In the image with skylines, there is not really much ethos. The credibility is seen on this photo is from the National Park Foundation logo and the come down to earth message underneath. The National Park Foundation logo could be used as a source of credibility because the National Park Foundation was founded on Dec 18, 1967. Along with having an extended history, just in 2013 alone, the National Park Service awarded thirty three grants which totaled up to $134,371. These grants were given to the National Park Service and their employees. Pathos can easily be seen here in the photo with skylines because of the saying on the advertisement and also the picture of the mountain with the sunset in the background of the photo. The saying there were skylines, there were implies that before building skylines, there were mountain ridge skylines. This shows that the beauty behind real skylines are in the mountains and nature, not in man made buildings. Also, the scenery in the background the sun setting or rising also shows the beauty of mountain skylines. Seeing the beauty of natural skylines pulls on emotional strings and makes them more inclined to want to become a part of the cause and help protect the environment from unnatural things such as drilling for oil, or fracking for natural gases. In this photo with the mountain skylines, there is logos being used with what is said on the advertisement. there were skylines, there were This appeals to both ethos and logos, but is mostly logos. When reading this saying, it makes the reader think about what this advertisement is really about. Saying before there were skylines, there were skylines implies that there were natural skylines before manmade skylines and that natural skylines are more Munoz 3 beautiful than manmade skylines. People thinking about this beauty would make them want to take more action towards this cause in supporting the National Park Foundation and fighting against any destruction the park or environment around the park. Kairos is being used in this photo of the skyline because it pulls at the emotional strings and uses logic to persuade people to take action against destruction in national parks. Even though it does not specifically say that people should go out and help the cause, people seeing the message sent on the advertisement would make them want to go out and do something about it. In the other photo with the different national monuments, the ethos in this photo would be the different national monument in the advertisement and also the logo of the National Park Foundation. Having nationally recognized monuments on the advertisements would make people think that it is more credible while also having their own recognized logo. Having nationally recognized parks and monuments with the letters of park over them, make it more credible compared to not having nationally known places and monuments. Pathos is being used too in this picture because it shows the different national monuments which could have people see how beautiful they are and would get attention. Using the emotional tactics on advertisements would make people more inclined to do something about the advertisement they see. Logos is present in the photo because it shows four different national monuments and places and it has each letter of park placed on each photo of the national park or monument. Seeing the Mount Rushmore heads and Statue of Liberty with the letters of park over them gives Munoz 4 some logical reasoning behind the advertisement because it would be logical to take care of the national parks and places through the National Park Foundation. Also, when people see the statue of liberty and mount rushmore, they correlate those nationally recognized monuments with logic because they each represent something important in american history. Kairos is evident in this advertisement because all ethos, logos, pathos are in the advertisement. Having all of these rhetorics in the advertisement helps with having people want to take action against national park destruction or having the environment around the property being destroyed too. People seeing the advertisement would want to take action because of the appeals. In both of these photos, visual rhetoric is presented to try and persuade the audience in some way to do something about national parks. Ethos, pathos, logos and kairos are all used in order to get people to get out and make a difference about preserving our national parks. It is a non-profit organization that is ran by congress that is being utilized to help preserve our national parks. If people are aware of the problems that are occurring to the national parks, like being drilled for natural gases and oils. Munoz 6 Works cited Campaigns &  Park N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. What We Do (U.S. National Park  Parks U.S. Department of the Interior, n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017.