Hernandez 1 Carlos Hernandez Robert Ryan ENC 1102.059 25 February 2017 PETA on the cruelties of using animals for clothing Animals have been used as a source of clothing from as early as 170,000 years ago, when man still relied on their hunter and gatherer ways (BBC). The animals caught for food were fully purposed: the meat was eaten, the bones used for weapons, and the skin as clothing. However, in modern day, PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) argue that the of these animals is unnecessary and unjustified as there are many synthetic alternatives to animal skins. PETA states the condition that these animals are put through (dirty wire cages, sitting in their own filth, etc.) is clear animal cruelty (PETA.org). Also, the clothing methods of killing animals such as electrocution, gas, and are inhumane (PETA.org). The organization explains that year millions of animals are killed for the clothing and they will not stop until their goals of ending animal based clothing are accomplished (PETA.org). PETA uses rhetoric in their ads to invoke a range of emotions and logic to raise awareness for their cause. In first ad with Jona Weinhofen, Weinhofen is seen holding an injured sheep that has been sheared of its wool (Sheep ad). PETA uses this image to excite a feeling of guilt for being cruel to animals. In this image, Weinhofen (the male holding the sheep) is boasting a serious expression while holding this clearly abused sheep. The statement following says Hernandez 2 the rest of your wool (Sheep ad). This statement imposes a sense of accusation towards the audience implying that they are receiving the byproduct of animal cruelty. PETA also uses pathos in this ad to appeal to the sentimental side of the audience in hopes of making them understand or feel the pain. The organization tries to express the idea that no one wants to be abused and neither does the animal. The emotions of empathy and guilt are meant to be triggered by this ad in attempts to make the audience refuse to wear animal skin products. By attempting to swindle the audience, PETA hopes to lessen the purchases of genuine animal skin products. Their use of pathos in their ads the organization promotes the abolishment of animal based clothing in modern day fashion Along with the use of pathos in this ad, PETA also uses ethos when they include their logo at the bottom of the ad in red. PETA is an organization that is famous in one perspective and infamous in the other. This ad is a representation of what they stand for. Therefore, their logo asserts their authority over the matter and portrays the organizations attitude of asserting their beliefs. Also, by inserting their copyright over their ad, imposed with their white copyright logo over the black background, PETA further appoints the legitimacy of the organization. Through their use rhetoric in their ads the organization promotes the abolishment of animal based clothing in modern day fashion Aside from emotional and corporate assertions, PETA also uses logic in their ad with Weinhofen with their statement the rest of your wool The statement is logical because sheep produce wool. Weinhofen is holding a sheep therefore he is holding the precursor of the coat. This being completely logical to point of redundancy, further amplifies ideal that the masses of the population already know that animals are either killed or critically hurt for their products; however, they choose to ignore the matter. By providing the logical statement, Hernandez 3 PETA is manipulating the audience to feel as though they are hurting the sheep. This unjust hurting of the sheep is given a timeliness with use of the blood and flesh of the animal as red is used to represent danger and emergency. By using the red blood in the flesh of the sheep as an accent color against the black background and black attire PETA is giving the whole issue of not wearing animal product clothing a sense of urgency. Regarding their agenda, this subject is a major priority as it is one of the main threat to animals. They want to push that sense of urgency upon all who view the ad with their use of the battered red flesh and blood of the sheep. The same sense of urgency is also in second ad with Nicole Williams. PETA uses Williams as a martyr for animals, as they compare her beauty to an animal. The imagery of Williams having her skin teared from her body with red blood dripping from her skin, again pushes the sense of urgency upon the audience. Also, logo being in red portrays both kairos and ethos. PETA is asserting their credibility, by giving the audience a name that the image stands by. This notion of having a name behind something gives a sense of truth to the matter. PETA includes their logo in red at the bottom of the ad to push the audience to follow suit with PETA and fight for animal immediately (PETA.org). Ethos is also prevalent in the ad because Williams is a well-known model and TV personality (monsters and critics). PETA chose to use Williams to portray the pain that animals go through because she is famous; they are using Williams to improve their credibility, as they need the audience to side with them in their quest of animal liberation. Pathos is also very prevalent in this advertisement, primarily in Williams facial expression as she is having her skin forcibly removed. The statement in the ad, jacket or upholstery was portrays the equality between human and animal (Leather Hernandez 4 industry ad). This equality is exactly what PETA stands for, they want the audience to feel remorse for their leather. PETA wants the audience to think about the pain of being skinned; clearly portrayed by face. Also, PETA is using pathos by comparing an animal to Williams. Being a model, it is clear Williams is a beautiful woman being compared to an animal. This implies that Williams and the animal are equally beautiful. They are making the audience feel bad for skinning Williams because she is beautiful, just as the industry is skinning beautiful animals for leather. These two ads by PETA clearly emphasize exactly what they are about, liberation of animals at whatever measure that it takes. The are obvious stabs at the fashion industry for, in eyes, cruel treatment of the animals. PETA uses these rhetorical elements to swindle the perspective to agree with their goals. The organization hopes to gain more massive following from the publishing of these ads. Their goals of complete eradication of all animal based products would need an enormous amount of following for these mega corporations to listen to PETA. Consumer Freedom believes that methods are much too radical as they want to completely stop the use of all animal products. This corporate infamy is why PETA needs this grand following. PETA needs enough people to stand by their cause, sometimes even if they question it, as their goals are much larger than they are. PETA is a firm believer that animals can think on a higher level and have emotions (PETA.org). Subsequently, the organizations members are to pledge to not use or consume any animal based products. To PETA there is no half accomplished, they will not quit degrading the clothing industry until every manufacturer stops using animal based fabrics, leathers, or furs to make their clothes. In order to further this seemingly impossible task PETA uses rhetorical techniques to persuade their viewers to believe that the clothing industry is truly evil. Hernandez 5 Work Cited Used for PETA, www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-clothing/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. - Earth - We did not invent clothes simply to stay BBC News, BBC, www.bbc.com/earth/story/20160919-the-real-origin-of-clothes. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Campaign Shows Chipotle Serves B.S. With Every Center for Consumer Freedom Atom, 26 Sept. 2004, www.consumerfreedom.com/op-ed/299-petas-true-goals- are-too-radical/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Williams Gets Bloody Honest About the Leather PETA.org, PETA, http://www.peta.org/features/nicole-williams- bloody-leather-industry/. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Weinhofen: the Rest of Your Wool PETA.org, Dan Howe, PETA, 2 April 2015, http://www.peta.org.uk/blog/jona- weinhofen-heres-the-rest-of-your-wool-coat/. Star Nicole gruesome anti-Leather PETA Monsters and Critics, 28 June 2016, www.monstersandcritics.com/people/wags-star-nicole-williams-gruesome-anti- leather-peta-ad/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Hernandez 6 Hernandez 7