Nguyen 1 Anh Nguyen Professor Ryan ENC 1102 11 February 2017 Another Energy Option: Renewable Energy People have always looked for an answer to the question as to which energy source is the best option both for the environment and economy. Scientists suggest renewable energy as the solution to this unsolved issue but feel as though it will not be an easy transition. It will not be easy since humanity has been dependent on fossil fuels for centuries and breaking a habit is not an easy task. There are many organizations that are working hard to support the switch to renewable energy and 350.org is one of them. According to scientist James E. Hansen, 350ppm is the safe number of CO2 in the atmosphere to avoid a climate tipping point, which is the point when the climate change from one state to another. Hence goal is reducing the CO2 emission to 350 parts per million (ppm) since the Earth has reached 400ppm (Smith 2014). Per 350.org main website, they have gathered over thousands of volunteers in over 188 countries through online campaigns, grassroots movements and mass public actions. 21 first century is the age of digital, 350.org uses various media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, radio and television as their strength to strengthen their establishment (Wright, Dissertation Abstracts International). These are two of many strong advertisements that they posted on their Facebook page. Nguyen 2 The first picture focuses on pathos, an appeal to emotion, to raise the empathy and raise awareness of the issues concerning the use of fossil fuels for energy. There is a huge lit up by the candles, it is showcasing the divesting movement from fossil fuels. In the picture, the 350.org sign appears many times. For example, it is on the shirt and on both posters held in the background. This is done so viewers can acknowledge that this campaign is supported and delivered by 350.org. Among the signs in the back, there is one asking Pope Francis to light the way for a fossil-free future. Pope Francis, the current Pope of Roman Catholic Church, who has been straightforward about the climate change and considering environmental destruction a Therefore, 350.org and the Vatican people are urging for help from the Pope. They are asking him to use the power of his office to make appropriate decision to stop the investment in fossil fuels (Purchia 2014). The Vatican people are standing together in the background to show they are united for a fossil-free future. The dark background creates a doleful atmosphere showing the people are fed-up with the fossil fuels, and by using candles they send a message of using a greener energy instead of using fossil fuels energy. The kid in the middle of the picture represents the future... the next generation... they will be the one who will experience all the environmental consequences this generation left behind. Additionally, viewers will be shook because no one want their child to live in a harsh and dangerous environment. Climate change happens naturally but humans have pushed it to change at a faster rate. The use of rhetoric in the image only helps them catch the attention of the audience, taking them one step closer to achieving their goals. One image alone will not be enough to help them gather thousands of volunteers, and this is where the second image proves its worth. Looking at this advertisement, majority of this mage is filled with the smoke in black and white, which is in contrast with the bright words to draw Nguyen 3 audience in. The big impression of the photography is that there are no humans included in the picture, just a factory, with a lot of smoke, next to a deserted landscape. It shows the devastating consequences that fossil fuels leave behind, and demonstrates what factories are doing to the environment. The factory, the sky, the deserted landscape, and finally the smoke, are all the factors that are used to forge a spine-chilling warning to society. Smoke, coming out of factories, are polluting the air and resulting in asthma, lung cancer. exposure may increase respiratory infections in general (Smith 2014). The link to 350.org website provided at the bottom left is an effective way to motivate people to take an action and pressing this link might be the first step. By using this scary and realistic advertisement, they are showing their vision of the future. 350.org wants everyone to unite as one and tell world leaders: ALL NEW FOSSIL FUEL was mentioned in the message because people are still having a hard time dealing with current fossil fuel projects that are threatening the Earth. The two pictures have the same main goal...stop the use of the fossil fuels. The first image approaches through pathos while the second key is kairos. It helps them empathize with the Vatican and makes them scared of the consequences of burning fossil fuels. Although both images have several rhetorical appeals to them, each has one that is clearly more noticeable and more important than the other. The first image connects to the people by showing the Vatican tired of fossil fuels. They also seek empathy from viewers through the child in the middle of the picture. The child stands for the younger generations. The second image displays the terrible consequences of fossil fuel and the need to break free from these fuels. The use of that information tries to help people understand how serious this problem is and that there are people, who are desperately looking for some help. They did this to push the audience one step closer to take an action on stopping the fossil fuels usage. People will understand that it is now or Nguyen 4 never, if human still want to live on this sharing home called Earth. The two images support each other, one will move the viewers and catch their attention. Then the second image works as a boost to furthermore, push the viewers to take action before it is too late. Energy source is a very controversial topic, and the most active organization fighting against the use of fossil fuels is the 350.org. As a leading figure in the climate movement, 350.org strives to make a difference in the environment and thus urges the implementation of green energy. By using media as a method to spread the message and gather thousands of volunteers around the world. As a result, many people have signed up and show their support for not only the Vatican Divestment but other climate change movement as well (Mathiesen 2015). They stand for the name of the organization, 350.org. 350.org is working every day to unite the people and to help the world reduce from 400ppm to 350ppm. Those actions were done to pressure the world leaders along with big industries to stop all the fossil fuels projects. To achieve their goal, they try several ways to persuade the rest of the population to join their side and using rhetorical appeals in advertisements is one of them. Nguyen 5 Figure 1. Figure 2. Nguyen 6 Works Cited  350.org - Today launching a new global demand for... N.p., 24 Oct. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. (image 1 citation)  350.org - TOMORROW: Youth at the #WYD2016 are holding a... N.p., 28 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. (Image 2 citation) Smith, Heather. How 350.org went from to head of the green  Grist: Climate Energy. Grist, 07 Feb. 2014. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Wright, Patrick. New Rules for an Old Game: 350.Org and Social Movements in the Digital  Order No. 3617714 The University of Wisconsin - Madison, 2014. Ann Arbor: ProQuest. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Purchia, Robyn. Pope Francis urged to rid the Vatican of investments in fossil  Common Dreams: Newswire. Common Dreams, 26 Aug. 2014. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.