Austin 1 Hunter Austin Bob Botkin ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Image Analysis When the idea of an entrepreneurs came forth, more and more people started to need ways to sell their products. This is how the idea of advertisement came along. However, businesses are the only places that have advertisement. Just as businesses have, organizations have started to use advertisement to persuade people as well. To do this in the most efficient way, these organizations have to use certain rhetorical devices, such as: pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. The use of rhetorical appeals assist the ideas that each image has meaning and has symbolism in them as well. This paper will analyze the rhetorical devices that these two pictures, which St. Jude Hospital uses to try to help the society better understand what the hospital organization stands for, use. The first question that needs to be asked before an analysis of the picture is, does the hospital stand This question can be answered by presenting the history and reason the hospital was formed. A man by the name of Danny Thomas wanted to do something big with his life. One day he prayed to St. Jude Thaddeus and asked him to tell him what he should do with his life (stjude.org). During this prayer, Danny swore he would make a shrine for the saint and that is what he did with the St. Hospital (stjude.org). Not only was the hospital made to honor his promise, it was also made for research and supporting those who cannot necessarily support themselves (stjude.org). This simple thought is what helped this organization become as successful as it is. Without the assistance of advertisment, this organization would not have Austin 2 changed lives and probably not have saved so many lives, too. They could not have done all of this without advertising and using rhetorical strategies to increase the amount of people who want to help fight for the same cause. One type of advertisement that is used by St. Jude Hospital are advertisements like this. This advertisement catches the eye right away with the color scheme. Colors are usually there to appeal to the sight but, they also mean something else. For example, take the light sky blue that is in this picture. Light sky blue has a meaning of and (colormatters.com). This peace and serenity that is shown through the colors help show that this organization is here to give peace and serenity to the patients and families that they treat; this is appealing to the pathos of those who see this advertisement. Even though the color is a big part of the advertisement, that is not the only major part. Another important aspect is the font that the image uses. The font is not a professional font like Times New Roman, or Arial but, the font looks as if a child wrote it. The advertisement wants the audience to believe that the child on the picture wrote the words. With this being done, the picture shows the ethos, or the credibility, that the hospital works with children. Another way the advertisement draws credibility is through the St. logo that is placed in the corner. The logo being smaller and in the corner draws less attention to the logo and helps by guiding the eyes of the audience to the child and the words, Austin 3 which are the most important aspects of the advertisement. The reason the child is one of the most important aspects of the image is because the child helps show what the hospital stands for. The child represents the idea that the hospital is changing lives and making children happy throughout their stay (stjude.org). Not only does the image have a child, but the child is wearing white. White represents innocence, wholeness, and (empower-yourself- with-color-psychology.com). This just shows that the organization strives to keep that innocence whole and does not try to disrupt that innocence, even though the child is going through extremely tough times. For the final, most important appeal, is the appeal to Kairos, or the appeal to timeliness. The fact that the image says expresses a need to act as soon as possible. The exclamation mark at the end shows that an immediate action is needed and the mark brings a force to the two words. Those examples are a few of the rhetorical appeals, but there are many more. Photos do not always have to be used for direct advertisement, sometimes photos can be used for the purpose of a webpage, which is a form of indirect advertising. The next photo, which is above this text, was not used as direct advertisement, but it was used to make a webpage more interesting. These photos have just as much rhetorical appeal as the images used for an advertisement. This one grabs the attention by having two simple phrases, which are cures. Saving For one, this is the motto of the organization, but there is more to it than Austin 4 that (stjude.org). The simplicity of the words make it easier for the audience to read the image. Not only are the words simple, but they also are written in the present tense; this tells the audience that the organization is constantly helping those in need by working on cures and The words also show epistrophe, this means that the words have a repetition of an ending inside of the word but, what does an epistrophe show the audience? The epistrophe allows the audience to recognize repetition and this helps draws the attention to the which is representing the act of performing in the present day. Another appeal that the picture touches on, is the idea of ethos. The picture shows ethos by having a man in a white lab coat hug a child. The white lab coat is what people think of when they see doctors and that is exactly what the picture is trying to make evident. Another form of ethos is the fact that the setting is in a hospital, or a office. The image also appeals to the audience by showing great forms of pathos. The pathos, or emotion appeal, is seen in the hug. When someone hugs somebody else it is a sign of care, or even a sign of comfort for those being hugged. The hug in this picture shows that the doctors care for the patients, and that they know how to comfort the children when they need it. That is not the only pathos, the woman who seems to be the guardian of the child has a smile on her face. This shows that not only do the doctors of the organization make the children happy, but they also take care of the family. This image has many appeals to the audience and they are easily visible. Whenever images are used on webpages, in books, in magazines, in newspapers, or wherever; there is often rhetorical appeal for the audience so the image can relay a message. As for St. Jude Hospital, the images that are used for their advertisement and on their webpage are meant to appeal to anyone who sees them. Their images use several rhetorical appeals, which include ethos, pathos, kairos, and logos. When an image appeals to an audience Austin 5 through using symbolism it helps the images make it easier to raise money, express the idea of their cause, and even make it easier for someone to completely understand why someone should help the cause. That is what the images that were used in this analysis did for the hospital organization. Austin 6 Works Cited Blue The Meaning of  Color Matters. J.L. Morton, 2017. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <https://www.colormatters.com/the-meanings-of-colors/blue>. Donate  Pinterest. Sheridan Gospel Network, n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. How St. Jude  St. Jude Research Hospital. N.p., 2017. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <https://www.stjude.org/about-st-jude/history/how-we-began.html>. The Color  Empower Yourself with Color Psychology. Empower-yoursef-with-color- psychology, 2014. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <http://www.empower-yourself-with-color- psychology.com/color-white.html>.