Crockett 1 DJ Crockett Adjunct Prof. Ryan ENC 1102.059 12 March 2017 The Stand Against the DAPL Time and time again, oil access has polluted multiple lands and seas, and, as a result, many have been exiled out of their homes. With the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL), the Standing Rock Sioux tribe might be forced to do the same. According to Standing & page, their focal point revolves around the education of solely the Standing Rock people so that they maintain a state of self-sufficiency in regards to their overall health and well-being. Because they are a reservation and sustain their own government and economy separate from the federal and state levels of our country, they have minimal federal and state regulations along with limited to no interference from private companies. Because of the DAPL development, this standard is infringed upon, and these two advertisements are quite effective in leading the viewer into acceding that this is so. In the first advertisement, a few significant surface-level elements are present to warn the target audience, which is the opposing stakeholder. Primarily, the focal point rests on the Sioux woman who appears to have her arm in the air as if in protest. Then, in the background, there is the group of tribesmen on horseback. Overall, this gives the idea that the entirety of the Sioux tribe will fight together against their opposition. Lastly, the giant, red letters of the statement, with Standing provides a militant tone to the advertisement, and it supports the Crockett 2 idea that Standing Rock will stick together and stand their ground against the DAPL development. Beyond what is presented visually, there are rhetorical elements that add to the overall effectiveness of the first advertisement. Ethos, or credibility of the speaker/designer, is given through the website link shown at the bottom of the advertisement. The link leads to a petition and a video given by an enrolled member of the Standing Rock tribe. Per Anna Lee, the enrolled member of the tribe, the river that the pipeline would pollute is a crucial part of their community (Lee, Our Not only do the petition and video touch on ethos, but it also affects the pathos of the advertisement as well. Anna Lee is a 13-year-old girl, and she knows the extent to which oil access can be harmful. For example, the British Petroleum oil spill was the largest in US history, and it affected a large amount of land (Frost, Oil Many are aware of the dangers of accessing oil in addition to Lee. Lee states that she, along with the youth of Standing Rock, will no longer be able to play by the river, and their plants and animals will also be effected. Lee knows that this will cause a domino effect, ultimately leading to the diminishing of their health and safety if they were to stay next to the river that will be polluted by the pipeline; therefore, they will have no choice but to leave (Lee, Our She wishes to change that with her petition, and hopefully, the pipeline will not result in the devastation that was the BP oil spill. The appeal to logic/reason, otherwise known as logos, can be seen with the combination of the website and the advertisement. Together, these two prove to the viewer that solidarity amongst Standing Rock could result in a matter of life and death. The only other option would be that they must leave the land that they were forced into and settle somewhere else that may not be as prosperous for the survival of their community. Lastly, the kairos, or appeal to timeliness/urgency is given through the URL, which is not given only for the Crockett 3 opposing side to consider. Anyone can immediately support the cause by following this URL where the petition is made readily available to sign. The second advertisement supporting Standing Rock proves to be even more effective than the first given the combination of visual and rhetorical appeals used. At a distance, it appears that there is a scarf on the Native American, which is the focal point of the advertisement; however, these are two hands shaking, representing the peace that is desired from the Standing Rock people. Next, much of the advertisement is a bold red. Usually, when red is given in any presentation, the viewer is supposed to feel the austerity of the situation. Here, red represents the of the situation. Collectively, the two hands shaking along with the idea of the evil of this pipeline creates a cruel tone, because, per the Standing Rock & page, the tribe is focused on primarily themselves; however, Sunoco, the opposing stakeholder, disregards the location and will develop the pipeline through the land that is most convenient for them. Now, the designer carefully chose the coloring of the wording on this advertisement. Because it has a different color from the rest of the wording, the word sticks out against the monochromatic background. Along with the tone of this advertisement, this statement is also used in rhetoric appeals to attract viewers. In addition to the visual appeals used, the rhetorical devices in this advertisement creates a dynamic message geared more toward those supporting the development of the pipeline instead of solely the opposing stakeholder. As stated above, the designer isolated the word because the statement in the top left is a minus This displays logos as it forces the viewer to think about that it is equally important as to how the pipeline is developed as the result. Although there is not much ethos given in this advertisement, it can be established by any sign of support from a credible source, and this is done by the stamp of Standing crest. Now, the Crockett 4 statement at the bottom serves a different purpose than the one at the top. It gives pathos because it tugs on the emotions of the viewer with the specific language used. It states business deals are abusing the which sounds harsh with the use of however, they wish to establish the cruelty of forcing the Sioux tribe away from their land solely out of greed. Because this is more of a current issue, the kairos is somewhat implied, but it is also given from the use of hashtags, which indicate it as a trending topic. As such, clicking or typing these hashtags leads people into investigating the issue as it is occurring. The weight of the message and appeals used in this advertisement creates a tone that is as demanding as it is harsh; however, it gets across in an incredibly conventional way that is effective in directing the viewer to support Standing Rock. Jointly, these two advertisements give the viewers the idea that the Standing Rock people wish to live in peace on their land with no disturbance, and these advertisements show they will stand united against the opposing stakeholder because Standing Rock feels the opposition is violating their freedoms. In the first advertisement, viewers understand the solidarity of Standing Rock and the issues presented in the message given by Anna Lee. As far as the second advertisement, viewers feel the demand for advocacy against the DAPL. Advertisements such as these are the ones that were extremely effective in halting the development initially. Since then, advocacy has only grown because of the increasing number of effective advertisements like these two. Together, peace and unity, is the only thing the Standing Rock people strive for in this issue. Understanding that this Sioux tribe wants nothing but to be left alone to improve their community, and with these two advertisements, this very idea is ascertained. They were previously given freedoms, which are now being infringed upon. America is built upon the ideals Crockett 5 of possessing certain basic freedoms, and effective advertisements such as these two are doing well to reverse the action taken by the American government. Crockett 6 Works Cited Standing Rock, KK Bold, standingrock.org/environmental-profile/. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Frost, Emily. Oil Ocean Portal Smithsonian, National Museum of Natural History. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Lee, Anna, Bobbi Jean, and Oceti Sakowin Youth. Jo Ellen Darcy : Stop the Dakota Access  Change.org. Change.org, Inc., 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. #Standing #Rock Protest Google Search #Lakota #Algonquin : First Nation  Sentient Christian. Sentient Christian, 07 Sept. 2016. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Stand with Standing  Public Broadcasting Service. PBS, 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Lee, Anna, Bobbi Jean, and Oceti Sakowin Youth. Jo Ellen Darcy : Stop the Dakota Access  Change.org. Change.org, Inc., 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.