McDavid 1 Althea McDavid Instructor Robert Ryan ENC 1102 017 27 January 2017 Project 2: Analyzing Visual Rhetoric Owlet Baby Care Many persons may agree that infants are the foundation of our future. It may then be concluded that investments should be made towards their protection and development. In this stead, baby-monitoring systems have been created to better monitor and protect infants. This development, however, has been controversial since it has not been accurately determined that these products are actually beneficial in the protection of infants. Owlet Baby Care produces one such product and asserts its benefits. The vision is to the health and wellbeing of infants and their The company believes that its product is beneficial because it provides a way in which parents can a proactive approach to their health and The advertisements attempt to impart these beliefs to its audience but while simplicity can be effective in the persuasion of an audience, the use of simplicity in Owlet Baby advertisements does not effectively enough persuade viewers of the relevance of its product in the protection of infants. The first advertisement, while using good persuasive techniques, lacks a strong visual output that may have negatively influenced the impact of the messages. The target audience can be inferred to be relatively young and technologically adept parents, since the advertisement focuses on the technological description of the product. The use of terms such as a and implies a tone that conveys user-friendliness. The headline also implies that the designer would like to convey that these features would have a significant impact in McDavid 2 lives when it comes to protecting their child. The advertisement is arranged in such a way that the leftmost visual, the base station of the product, should be noticed first due to how most people read (left to right). Also, the headline is in the largest font size, implying emphasis here as well. While the image of the base station adds to the logical input, without further research on the product and the text in the advertisement, the image is difficult to decipher. This may have been a tactic to persuade viewers to research the product but it may also result in disinterest and confusion. The single red line in the advertisement would also draw emphasis to this message but the fact that the colour is barely noticeable seems to have taken away the persuasiveness of this technique. According to a scholarly study by Marie-Christine colour affects us based on its hue, brightness and saturation. The study discloses that warm colours such as red are more physiologically stimulating than blues and greens. It also states that the more deeply saturated and darkly hued the colour, the more stimulating it will be 37). This study helps validate the argument that the red text is a good persuasive technique but not as effective as it could be due to its glaringly bright red colour. The rhetorical appeals used in the first advertisement are few, possibly in the interest of simplicity, but the approach may have caused a loss in credibility and overall persuasiveness of the message. The description of the device, as well as the image of part of the product, gives the audience logical insight into the workings and design of the product. target audience may better receive this information since it can be seen as a more honest appeal. Viewers who value logic and functionality may also be impressed by this. The advertisement also includes an emotional appeal in the headline that creates a balance between the need for reassurance in function of the product as well as emotional relief. The headline seems to be a bold statement that would scare audience members, influencing them to want to purchase this product to protect McDavid 3 their children as soon as possible. While this headline can be quite impactful, some viewers may feel that there is not enough evidence to suggest how this product can you this may decrease the credibility. Also, the only indication of the company in the ad is the logo engraved on the device. While this may work if the logo is well known; a viewer who does not know the logo can neither be certain of the authenticity nor be able to research the product. The second advertisement has a simple and bold design but certain techniques may have had a negative effect on the intended impact of the advertisement. The target audience in this advertisement seems to be young, technologically savvy mothers or prospective mothers because of the image of the baby; it is known that babies incite the maternal instinct in women. The large text in the headline puts emphasis here and the bolded term you have to conveys that the company is considerate of their needs and desires and possibly that it is their main focus. The colour in the top section appears to recreate a night sky. This compliments both the message and the image of the phone, which is brightened because of the darker background. The size of the baby is also comparatively larger than the image of the phone. This may have been a technique to convey that the children are more important than the product, but it simultaneously gives the impression that the company is not as open as it seems, not only because of the size of the phone but also because of the lack of readability of the text. Tommy Walker, editor-in-chief of conversionxl, found that font sizes & low-contrast are the #1 complaint for web (Walker) and that by the age of 40, people see half as well as they did at age 20 (Walker). He also found that larger font sizes increase readability and can have a stronger emotional impact on readers (Walker). This study validates the argument that the size of McDavid 4 the phone and text negatively affects the message since it will be difficult to read for a large population and will cause the audience to be less impacted by the image. The rhetorical appeals used in the second advertisement are well developed, but the messages conveyed by certain techniques used to keep the advertisement simple may have misconstrued the purpose of the appeals. The logo, company name and catch phrase offer the advertisement well established credibility by the company. The company stamp section also has an emotional appeal in the catch phrase which, along with the image of the peacefully sleeping child and the headline up all night so you have to forms an appeal to need for a sense of security and peace of mind when it comes to the wellbeing of their children. The image of the product interface on the mobile phone provides logical insight into the service provided, which may be an attempt to convey openness and honesty but is contradicted by the fact that the image is too small to be easily read. The messages posed by both advertisements have similar concepts and generally convey the intentions of the company but certain techniques leave something to be desired. Both images appeal to an emotion that the target audience (parents) may wish to overcome when having children. They make statements that imply that the product will provide a service that both protects the child and makes the lives easier. However, the ineffective use of colour, arrangement, sizing and flow of the advertisement may have negatively influenced the impact. Both advertisements also include logical appeals that attempt to convey openness and reassurance to the audience, but techniques such as not including a company name and reducing the image of the product to a size that is almost unreadable contradicts that message. Despite these considerations, the advertisements coincide with the stated vision to aid infants and their families as they focus on concerns parents have in raising children. McDavid 5 The simplicity of the advertisements provides a consistency and sophistication to the way in which the product is displayed, but the techniques used could be improved to be more impactful and effective. However, by trying to simply appeal to things that their audience is mostly concerned about and not attempting to glamourize and impress them with colourful and complex advertisements they convey a desire to fulfill a value more than receive a profit. While there is room for improvement in the advertising, one may posit that their intentions at least seem to be pure. McDavid 6 Works Cited Lichtle, Marie-Christine. The Effect of an Colour on Emotions Evoked by an Ad and Attitude Towards the Ad: The Moderating Role of the Optimal Stimulation  International Journal of Advertising, no. 1, 2007, p. 37. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.160481741&site=eds-live. Accessed 25 February 2017. Owlet Response to Opinion Article in . 24 Jan. 2017. http://www.owletcare.com/blog/owlet-response-to-opinion-article-in-jama/. Accessed 25 February 2017. Walker, Tommy. Effects of Typography on Readability & (ND). https://conversionxl.com/the-effects-of- typography-on-user-experience-conversions/. Accessed 25 February 2017. McDavid 7 1. 2.