Viviana M. Milla Milla Professor Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 12 March 2017 1 United Nations Women and the defense of Women education United Nations Women is an international organization that promotes the development and the empowerment of women. However, UNW works for the improvement of situation around the world, its efforts are mainly focused in the areas where the circumstances of women are highly critical, like the Middle East. UNW believes that the principal weapon to struggle against gender discrimination is the education of women (15). Therefore, since the late twentieth century, this organization has been working to achieve the right of equal education for women in the countries of Syria and Jordan. In order to complete this purpose, UNW has appeal to various rhetorical appeals, but overall it has used the fame and prestigious of some politically and socially relevant people. For instance, UNW has utilized the social relevance of Malala as part of the campaign #yesallgirls in order to promote education in Jordan and Syria. In addition, it has use the strong political power of Theresa May, prime minister of England, to convince the audience about the imperativeness of education. Due to the constant war in those countries, the struggle of UN Women has become more frequent and stronger since 2010 (Sanghani 201). Because UN Women purpose was to defend the rights of girls and young women in Syrian and Jordan, it developed the campaign #Wearehere to stimulate the education of women affected by the war (UNWomen 30).In addition, in the Post-2015 development agenda, UN Women engaged its civil society partners, in order to have local defenders of education. Thus it is clear that despite UN Women strongly appeals to the use of ethos, the strategies utilized in each image are different. While picture 1 uses enthymemes and appeals to borrowed credibility Milla 2 thought the use of image. Picture 2 appeals to intrinsic authority and implicit kairos thought the use of UN Women logo and Theresa quote. As it was introduced in the previous paragraph, United Nations Women utilize the image of socially relevant people in order to encourage the society to achieve equal education. For instance, in the picture one, it is noticeable that there is a hashtag with the name of a campaign supported by UN Women called #yesallgirls. In order this movement can take more relevance, UN Women used the image of Malala Yousafzai as a ferrous supported to this cause. picture became a main component of the campaign due to her previous experience as a defender and activist of education in the Middle East countries (Carrington 150). Therefore, Malala became an international symbol of the UN Women educational goals. The relevance of Malala in the Middle Eastis generated from her ethnicity and identity. For the middle eastern women, experience, is not perceive as an alienated element, instead is looked as an element part of their identity (MCKinley 1). Therefore, her image represents a credible source of the struggle in the Middle East. This element is very important because her picture is a complete appeal to ethos by UN Women. This organization used the borrowed credibility of Malala to encourage the middle Eastern women to fight for their rights. In addition, UN Women appeals to the implicit use of enthymemes in the message of all girls, everywhere have a right to education in picture 1. Enthymemes is part of the rhetorical appeal of logos and it has three main parts, the claim, the reason and the unstated assumption (Burke 33). The use of enthymemes is implicit in this message, because it is not noticeable at the first sight how its elements are distributed in the message. Thus firstly, the phrase #yes all girls is an imperative claim that is telling to the reader that all girls have right to something. UN Women emphasize the word yes to demonstrate that is an imperative necessity. Thus if the readers just Milla 3 have access to hashtag message they will not know exactly what the girls need, but they will know that is something really necessary. Then, the reason is in the sentence below the phrase #yesallgirls. This sentence does not have explicitly the causation word, but the phrase all is telling the reader the reason behind the #yesallgirls phrase that is that girls everywhere have right to education. Finally, the unstated assumption in this message is telling to the reader that this fact is true. Thus, every girl has the right to be educated, and this logic is shared by a common community. It is highly noticeable that this unstated assumption is supported by the image behind the text. The reason for it is that the girls in the picture are from different races, however, all are colored in black and white, thus that tells to the reader that it does not matter the physical stereotype to have equal education. UN Women utilized faces with different expressions in order to generate different feelings among the readers. In picture 1, together with image there are 5 girls all with different expressions. For instance, in the right side of the picture, there are two girls in school age with backpacks and they have smiles on their faces, telling to the reader that they feel happy. On the contrary, by the left side, the other two girls have their heads covered and their expression is sort of thoughtful. Almost the same happens to the fifth girl that is between Malala and the school girl, her expression reflects yearning of something that she could not have. It is highly noticeable that the picture of Malala is in the middle of the image as a sort of equilibrium between the girls that go to school and the others that not. By using those images, UN Women clearly is appealing to pathos, in order the reader can feel emotive. The picture clearly is showing the contrast between a group of girls that go to school and some others that not. UN Women is implicitly telling to the reader that girls that go to school are happier than those illiterate girls. The basic structure Milla 4 of picture 1 is the appeal to ethos by the image of Malala. And Despite both images uses ethos as a central appeal, the rhetoric used in picture two is directed to a political public. United Nations Women uses rhetorical appeals with political images in order to catch the attention and call to the action of international organizations. In picture 2, UN Women uses the image of Theresa May who is the prime minister of England. Her image is really important because she is called the most feminist Prime minister ever, because she advocated for education in the UN council (Sanghani 1). After that intervention, point of view was taken as an example for many UN countries, thus she became an authorized and credible voice of education. With the purpose of searching international collaboration in order to increase the percentage of literate women in Jordan and Syria, UN Women used the political relevance of Theresa May as an emblem of education defense. Thus, despite in picture 2 there is just the image of Theresa May and her quote, UN Women applied several rhetorical appeals in that picture. UN Women applied different kinds of ethos in the image of Theresa May. Firstly, it is highly noticeable the support of UN Women. That can be seen by the logo of the organization that appears in the upper right side of the image. This is an appeal to intrinsic authority, because UN Women itself is an organization that has a lot of credibility in the defense of rights. That means that they entirely support the contents of this image. In addition, this logo appears in bold upper case which means that this is a strong organization. In addition, UN Women appeals to borrowed credibility by the use of Theresa May picture. The election of Theresa May as a representative of UN Women in this picture is not casual. Because UN Women is borrowing the political credibility of this prime minister. That means that UN Women is directing this image to a specific public, the political sector. In addition to the image of Theresa May, picture 2 has her Milla 5 name, her political tittle and the country where she belongs. That is telling to the reader that her opinion, is not only from her, but overall from the country that she represents, which in this case is a world power. The formal clothes that she is wearing in the picture, represent her authority. Different from picture 1, where clothes highlight her identity as a girl from the middle east and connects her with the women of that area, clothes are proper for an intellectual and political environment. The quote of Theresa May in picture 2 implicitly enclosures a message of previous experience in the defense of rights. Her quote utilizes certain verbs as continue and making sure. Those verbs indicate constancy in time, which means that Theresa May and her country have previous experience in the defense of education. This is a clear appeal to logos, because she has the logic of evidence. Different from picture 1 the enthymemes is not complete in this quote, because there is the claim which is sure that girls get the education they And there is the unstated assumption which is the common logic that all girls need equal education, but there still missing the reason in this quote. The logos in this picture departs from the experience of Prime Minister May, while in picture 1 parts from the common logic that all girls need education. UN Women is an organization that uses different rhetorical appeals depending on the audience that will receive their message. Therefore, this organization will use politically relevant figures to call the action of international organizations and foreign countries. While, if UN Women purpose is to generate a social movement, it will use socially iconic people such as Malala. That differentiation will allow UN Women to maximize their goals, because each image will be directed to an specific public. Thus, middle eastern women will feel identified with picture, while the international governments will take seriously this cause due to the intervention of Prime Milla 6 Minister May. A recommendation for UN Women is that must use more Kairos in its images, because women education is a timeless situation that needs immediate resolution. One possible solution can be the use of phrases that call for immediate action. In that way all kind of readers will notice the relevance of education. In addition, UN Women can add some images that support their goal. Cruel images are an extreme appeal to pathos that can help the reader to take immediate action. Finally, is important to notice that both images are relevant for this time period, but just picture 1 is timeless. This fact happens, due to timeless relevance as a women activist. However, the power of picture 2 is subject to the political power of Prime Minister May. That means that picture one can be used for future campaigns of education due to its timeless character. Milla 7 Works Cited Burke, Richard. as Ethics, Vol. 93, No. 1 (Oct., 1982), pp. 45- 55. 1982. Carrington, Kerry. and Global University of Technology Press, 2006. McKinley, Tretler. girls who persisted and spoke out for their right to Malala Fund, https://blog.malala.org/eight-girls-whopersisted-and-spoke-up-for-their-right-to- education43986ec95782#.yjwlepgwa. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017 Sanghani, Theresa May most feminist Prime Minister The Telegraph, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/politics/is-theresamay-the-most-feminist-prime- minister-ever/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017 United Nations family of Sites. United Nations and United Nations Women, 2010, http://arabstates.unwomen.org/en/countries/jordan. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017 Milla 8 Appendix: Image 1. Poster campaign #Yesallgirls. This campaign was supported by United Nations Women to encourage education in the middle East. Image 2. Quotation of Theresa May discourse in United Nations assembly in 2015.