Calabrese 1 Martina Calabrese Bob Botkin ENC 1102 28 February, 2017 Life in Plastic, is it Fantastic? For numerous years, beauty pageants have been known to sexualize young women and children. Between the crazy makeup, sexual outfits, and provocative tasks being performed in front of an audience, beauty pageants have mainly resulted negatively. A popular reality television show that provides people with background information as to what beauty pageants are actually like and not what people portray them to be, is the show Toddlers and Tiaras. The show was first aired in 2008 but due to major controversy, was stopped in 2013. Most people do not realize the qualities one must possess in order to even qualify to compete in a beauty pageant. Beauty pageants seem to be very controversial in the sense that they have both positive and negative aspects. The images that will be displayed in this paper will show the message that the show Toddler and Tiaras is trying to send to young women and children. This message being, in order to be beautiful, you cannot be natural. This message also enforces the stereotype that women are judged only by their outer beauty. This paper will discuss the fact that even though there are positives to beauty pageants, they are heavily outweighed by the negatives. Calabrese 2 This image is of a young girl who was given the opportunity to be on the reality television show, Toddlers and Tiaras. This picture is a prime example of how beauty pageant judges and parents expect these young girls to look. It is obvious that this young girl would not look the way she does if it were not for the false lashes, excessive amount of makeup, spray tan, and revealing outfit. Not only does her looking like this give her a false representation of what beauty actually is, she is being sexualized by the way she is dressed and the performances she is forced to do. With many of the girls who compete in beauty pageants being so young, it is very inappropriate for them to be dressed in clothing that resemble that of a stripper. This image contains the rhetoric appeals Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos. The Ethos displayed in this image is the arrows that are pointed towards her are showing the reader all of the ways this little girl is not how a girl of that age should look and or dress. Everything those arrows are describing about her is true. She is wearing caked on makeup, false eyelashes, and clothed in a stripper outfit; essentially, she is not looking like a young girl. The Pathos displayed in this image is the feeling of remorse for the young girl because she is being forced to look this way and being judged because of it. Another Pathos example would be confusion regarding why this young parents allowed her to look that way considering she is very young. The Logos displayed in Calabrese 3 this image is to give the reader a better understanding of what is expected from these young girls. If they do not look the way the little girl in this image does, they do not have a high chance or in some cases a chance at all at winning the contest. These young girls are expected to look and act perfect. In doing so, they wear lots of makeup, fake teeth and sometimes have to be a certain weight. Lastly the Kairos in this image is that beauty pageants negatively impact those who participate in them and that this young girl is not spending her childhood doing what children her age should be doing. This image is of an eight-year-old girl who is receiving Botox injections from her mother to prevent wrinkles so she has a better chance of winning a beauty pageant. This is not only dangerous for the young girl due to the fact she is only eight-years-old, but it can also cause a lot of psychological damage for her now, and in the future (Hassan, 2015). This image relates to the previous image in the sense that they both show how the negative conditions that come along with being involved in a beauty pageant, lead young women to think beauty can only be accomplished with makeup and surgery. This image also displays aspects of the rhetorical appeals Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos. The Ethos that is displayed in this image is that it was from ABC News and broadcasted on GMA (Good Morning America). This is showing that this image is credible. The Pathos shown in this image would be sympathy for the little girl. From the Calabrese 4 looks of her facial expression, it seems as though she is not enjoying her mother giving her Botox injections. Another Pathos example could be disgust towards the mother for doing that to her child at such a young age. This treatment to remove wrinkles is completely unnecessary for an eight-year-old. The Logos displayed in this image is to understand the potential dangers that come with being involved in a beauty pageant. Many times when parents desperately want their children to win a pageant, they will go to extreme measures to do so; for instance, altering their appearance. Many might view this image as going way to far but it just goes to show how serious some parents are and what they are willing to put their children through in order to win a beauty pageant. The Kairos in this image is the same as the previous image; that these children are not dressing, or in this case, looking how children their age should. These two images are prime examples of the reality of beauty pageants. These pageants are glorified on shows such as Toddlers and Tiaras to make money. What is being neglected is the health and mindset of the young girls participating in the pageants. Teaching these young girls that looks are everything at such a young age is a terrible notion to instill in a child. The desire to have inner beauty is being pushed to the side more and more in a world where so many already obsess over looks. In both of these images, the young facial expressions look as though they are not enjoying either being all dolled up, or receiving Botox injections. These beauty pageants are running their childhoods. They are at an age where they need to experience being children and having fun, not wearing provocative clothing and altering facial features. These physical changes the girls must accomplish in order to compete can result in these young girls suffering from mental and physical disorders. It can also play a part in these girls developing low self-esteem. Children of such young ages should not be exposed to this kind of stuff. There is a time and a place where girls start wearing makeup and start choosing their own Calabrese 5 clothes, but it definitely should not be before they even reach puberty. More times than not beauty pageants result negatively. Young women tend to go overboard trying to become idea of beautiful (Zhang, 2013). With the negatives that come along with entering a beauty pageant far outweighing the positives, there should be regulations regarding inappropriate clothing and synthetic beauty. Hopefully young girls will see that happening in beauty pageants in the future and it will lead them to grow up respecting themselves for who they are and help them to appreciate natural beauty and the beauty that comes from within themselves rather than the beauty everyone else wants to see. Calabrese 6 Works Cited Bentley, Paul. Child welfare services investigate pageant mother over Botox injections given to her eight-year-old daughter. 2011. San Francisco. Parish, Courtney. and Way Too Much or Just Enough. 2014. N.p. Psychological Effects of Child Beauty Tremr. N.p., 20 July 2015. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. & Wikipedia. Wikipedia Foundation, 10 Mar. Web. 12 Mar. 2017 Zhang, Cynthia. What Really Like To Compete In Beauty Business Insider. Business Insider, 30 Aug. 2013. Web. 12 Mar. 2017.