Maynard 1 Matthias Maynard Ms. Emil Smith ENC1101 March 26, 2017 Student Athletes On The NCAA Payroll The National Collegiate Athletic Association is a non-profit organization that controls over 400,000 athletes in more than 1,000 institutions. The NCAA values itself on being an organization for the student athlete well-being, but there have been some concerns regarding their core value. These concerns are a result of the primary source of revenue being through its student athletes. These revenues stem from various sources such as: TV contracts worth billions of dollars, jersey sales, brand name contracts, and the use of college names, likenesses and images without their permission in video games, posters and other types of memorabilia. The student athletes do not receive compensation from any of these sources. Some argue that they receive these profits in an indirect form of compensation, such as scholarships and new sports facilities for their respective schools. Also, some argue that the revenues would vary depending on the sport the student plays, or the school they play for. These arguments have been part of this issue since the NCAA started gaining popularity, and started to sign huge TV deals. The more examination into this problem the more people have agreed with the argument that the student athlete should get some type of compensation, but even the arguments against paying student athletes have been consistent. When the issue on whether student athletes should get paid or not by the NCAA first started gaining popularity, before 2010, it was a rather complicated topic. In the early stages of this issue a lot of people were not in favor of paying student athletes. People believed that the Maynard 2 NCAA was the most genuine form of competition, as writer Lazaroff describes, view the NCAA as a protector of all that is pure and decent in the world of (Lazaroff 329). People believe that the NCAA would exploit thousands of student athletes that are playing sports in college. People believed that the NCAA was all about fair competition and being all about sports. They did not know how the NCAA internally operated and how their business model was structured to generate revenue even if they are considered a nonprofit organization. Before 2010, the NCAA did not deal with a lot of antitrust lawsuits, so the public and a lot of student athletes know the details and lacked knowledge on this issue. Another reason why people were not in favor of the NCAA paying student athletes is because they believe that student athletes get enough compensation. These compensations coming in forms of scholarships, and with the ability to attend college, as board of director for the NCAA Mitchell Horace states are students receiving access to a college education through their participation in sports, for which they earn scholarships to pay tuition, fees, room and board, and other allowable (Horace 1) He furthers goes into detail about how student athletes get a lot more benefits than regular student do, and that in itself is a form of compensations for the student athlete. Even if people were against student athlete compensation before this issue gained popularity prior to 2010, there were a few that advocated for the student athlete getting a compensation. Some realized how the NCAA was operating and how the NCAA is a very high profitable business, as David Meggyesy, a union organizer for the NFL, describes it departments at these top athletic schools are highly profitable sports entertainment 24) He also noticed how basketball was one of the most profit generating sports for the NCAA and its institution as he explains it as basketball at some of these top schools, the University of Tennessee and Stanford University for example, run Maynard 3 programs that are highly successful and 24). Meggyesy also states, these top athletic schools, basketball revenues fund the overall athletic department and its nonrevenue producing sports programs and still show a So before this issues became a well-known topic most were against a student athlete compensation but there were few who stood by the student athlete having a compensation. As time progressed the issue started to gain more popularity and skepticism about the NCAA grew. More people were shifting towards being in favor of some type of compensation other than scholarship. In 2009 former UCLA basketball player, Ed Obannon, filed an antitrust lawsuit against the NCAA, and this case would make way for this issue to gain a lot of popularity. Obannon filed this suit after discovering that he was being portrayed in a video game without his authority. This lawsuit forced the NCAA to end a video game deal with EA sports in 2013. The deal was ended becuse during the case Ed teams brought to light that the student athletes being portrayed in this video game have not seen a single penny from the millions of dollars that the video game generated. After the lawsuit more and more people started to analyze the NCAA model and how they operate and started finding some discrepancies between its values, and the model that they were implementing. In 2014 William Berry, a law professor, noticed that there were three problems with the current NCAA model generate revenue through competition, the NCAA limits athlete compensation for that competition to the expenses of education, and the increased revenue related to the athletic competition places undue pressure upon, and in many cases compromises, the nonathletic (Berry 804). The current model the NCAA was operating under was exposed for being structured for profit and not the well-being of the student athlete, once student athletes noticed this more were in favor of a form compensation. Maynard 4 The NCAA major point of emphasis against lawsuits is that the players are amateurs through the NCAA amateurism rules, which remains in place because of courts deference to the idea of amateurism in the NCAA. Because of this, the NCAA began to be challenged often, after 2010, on the inconsistencies in its amateurism model as Alex Moyer, a Washington lawyer, states are two lines of case law that affect the analysis of the amateurism regime: cases challenging the NCAA eligibility rules and cases challenging the number and value of the scholarships 793). He continues to state scholarship-restriction cases most related to the amateurism regime are those directly challenging the limitation on the value of athletics 795) This is due to the fact that a 4 year full ride scholarship is not even close to the money that is generated by the student athlete. A recent study conducted by the National College Players Association also found that typical full athletic scholarship falls, on average, $3,222 short per player, per year for the true cost of attending the the study also discovered other facts including, that of on-campus and 86% of off-campus resident athletes lived below the federal poverty line, all while their actual value to the university exceeded, on average, This study exposed the major discrepancies in the NCAA student athlete scholarship programs, and how the NCAA support the student athlete as they should. Also an Elon Law Review article written by Mike Ingersoll analyses how basketball players are being exploited, as it states that the case of Duke Basketball, the valuation of each player to the university exceeded $1,000,000, but the scholarship still fell nearly $2,000 (Ingersoll 616) This further proves how much student athletes are worth to the NCAA and their respective universities , and that the scholarships awarded are not up to par in compare to the profits generated by the student athlete. Maynard 5 After the 2013 ruling of the antitrust lawsuit there were some that supported the NCAA not paying student athletes. As people noticed that these lawsuits applying or would have an effect on the NCAA as a whole, but mostly focused on the power 5 conferences. A Iowa law review article argues that student athletes that attend smaller schools are there for the experience and education, as it states value for the not seen on ESPN every Saturday in the fall or at the basketball tournament every comprised completely of the experience of four to six years of competing in athletics while working to obtain a college (Besser 2108). The article also argues that because of the ruling, schools are going to concentrate their money on the sports that generate more profit, as it states are likely going to rearrange their budgets to pump even more money into a select few of their school-sponsored (Besser 2108). This arguments is describing that if more money has to be put into college basketball or football because of a stipend, other NCAA sponsored sports could be discontinued due to low funding,. The Iowa law review also states that football and Division I basketball are not going anywhere; they are only getting bigger. The focus must turn to the sports. These non-revenue sports bring about an incredible impact and, because of that, the forgotten sports need a 2109).The Iowa law review explains how football and basketball will always be the major sports that generate the most money, so instead of giving football and basketball players more compensations, the money should be focus on making the other sports played at the college level more popular. As time passes the issues of if the NCAA should pay its student athletes continues to gain popularity. Both arguments main points for being in favor of it or not have been consistent, but as more information on this issue is gathered and analyzed throughout time, more and more favor Maynard 6 having some type of compensation. Both arguments should be taken into consideration as they will be essential to determine the future of how the NCAA model will operate economically, ethically, morally, and for the best interest of the student athlete. Maynard 7 Work Cited LAZAROFF, DANIEL E. The NCAA in Its Second Century: Defender of Amateurism or Antitrust  Oregon Law Review, vol. 86, 01 Jan. 2007, p. 329. EBSCO. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Meggyesy, David. Athletes in Big-Time College  Society, vol. 37, no. 3, Mar/Apr2000, p. 24. EBSCO. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. III, William W. Berry. Educating Athletes Re-Envisioning The Student-Athlete  Tennessee Law Review 81.(2014): 795. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Mitchell, Horace, and Marc Edelman. Should College Student-Athletes Be  U.S. News Digital Weekly 5.52 (2013): 17. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Moyer, Alex. Throwing out the Playbook: Replacing the Anticompetitive Amateurism Regime with the Olympic  George Washington Law Review, vol. 83, no. 2, May 2015, p. 761. EBSCO Web. 4 Mar. 2017 Baysinger, Tim. College Fight For Pay Finally Targets Tv  Broadcasting & Cable 144.37 (2014): 4. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Besser, Dillon J. The Forgotten Party in V. National Collegiate Athletic Association: How Non-Revenue Sports Operate in a Changing Intercollegiate  Iowa Law Review, vol. 101, 01 July 2016, p. 2105. EBSCO. Web. 5 Mar. 2017.