Gartrell 1 Dylan Gartrell Bob Botkin Enc1102.099 18 March 2017 Advertising and product placement can be seen everywhere. Many companies spread their brand through various mediums of advertising such as billboards or websites. And in doing this companies employ various forms of rhetoric to appeal to the many minds of the common man. The forms of rhetoric used are ethos, logos, pathos and Kairos. This paper investigates the rhetorical appeals used by many healthcare companies to promote the Affordable Care Act. Rhetoric is the study of effective speaking and writing. And the art of persuasion (Burton). Rhetoric may come in many forms though where this paper will concentrate is on how the rhetorical devices of Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos effect our perception of advertisements. The rhetorical device ethos is the appeal to character and morality. This type of rhetoric will employ either a celebrity, or a lawyer to allow the observer to associate the person with the product and as a result the observer will be more inclined to associate with the shown advertisement. Logos is the rhetorical appeal to logic. This form of rhetoric will often use different facts or statistics to prove their point. The merit of this rhetorical appeal is derived from its ability to provide information that has proven to be true. Further, pathos is the rhetorical appeal to emotion. This form of rhetoric is used to pull at the heart strings to motivate them on an issue by making them believe that if they step in and help, then they can be the ones to prevent terrible things from happening. Gartrell 2 Image one is an advertisement for the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare. There are multiple rhetorical appeals rooted within. The first observed one is the term This term is an appeal to pathos. The reasoning for this is that it is adopted from the term which was commonly printed on milk cartons back in earlier years of schooling. So this is a familiar term to associate with the younger years of life and to help them to understand how important life can be and the necessity of being insured to preserve wellbeing. The overall portrayal of this image is seen to be a form of ethos. In the image you see what is assumed to be three fraternity brothers, with one of them doing a This becomes important when understanding the target audience of this message. This advertisement is designated to attract college students between the ages of 18-25. Many teenagers are placed on their own once they attend college, and are unaware of the many things involved with being an Gartrell 3 adult. And one of the more important things to be considered is health insurance. If the consumer finds themselves partaking in any antics even remotely related to the ones depicted above, then health insurance is essential. Regardless of the amount of how good or bad the coverage is, healthcare will save their life if they kill themselves before they make it to the hospital. A simple trip to the hospital result in thousands of dollars in medical bills and can throw life out of proportion for many years to come if there is no health insurance in place to cover the costs. So it becomes important for the target of this advertisement to obtain health insurance as soon as possible. And this image appeals to the target group by broadcasting a familiar sight of doing a keg stand. When observing this image many will think fraternity brothers look cool, and they have Obamacare, so if I get Obamacare, I too will be Gartrell 4 Image Two is a chart of statistics regarding in healthcare enrollment associated with the Affordable Care Act. The first statistic seen is that million fewer adults were This is a significant change in the amount of people who were able to receive healthcare coverage. The next significant finding that ties back into image one, is that number of Gartrell 5 uninsured young adults dropped the by an average of 23% according to the image two. This relates as the first image is an advertisement focused towards young adults, assumedly enrolled in college, and image two resolved that the associated age group found the greatest change in coverage. This image is heavily reliant on logos, or the appeal to logic and statistics. Each piece of information is either a credited fact, or statistic about the Affordable Care Act and the subsequent impact it had on health insurance. The relative sizing of the font and images is also significant to the message being portrayed. The finding that fewer adults were is considerably larger than of people with new coverage visited a and the reasoning for this is that they want to convey a certain message while not coming off as a bias. So they place the more pressing information into the forefront to grab the attention, then proceeds to share the less favorable statistics. This is an example limited to not only image two, known as the Fine print is information companies like to sneak into advertisements or claims that show the risks or pitfalls associated with certain products, or drugs. Advertisers are able to claim that they warned the consumer of the risks, while hiding them in small font in the corner of the page, which is effectively what is seen here. Also the dotted lines following the 60% statistic shows that of 10 people would not have been able to access or afford this care It is employed as a redeeming statistic, showing to the reader that the overall message being conveyed is positive. Rhetorical devices are employed in nearly every aspect of our life. It is seen both in the world of advertisement, using rhetorical appeals to draw the consumer to a product. As well it is seen in our daily communication with others, people often use pathos when trying to convince someone to do something in their favor. Using the sad approach to guilt a friend into driving them somewhere, or in one of the many other ways that rhetoric is applied to our daily life. The Gartrell 6 above explained advertisements are strong examples of ethos and logos respectively. Though no advertisement is mutually exclusive to one form of rhetoric, any given piece may employ some of all of the rhetorical appeals. It is important for consumers to be able to identify and respond to these various rhetorical appeals in our daily life to be able to understand exactly how they impact the decisions and perceptions of various topics. Gartrell 7 Works Cited Arcos, Katie. Experts Say Survey Lacks  February 2015 Multimedianewsroom, 26 Feb. 2015. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. Burton, Gideon O. What Is  What Is Rhetoric? BYU, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Farley, Robert. The Keg Stand Obamacare Ads. Digital image. FactCheck. FactCheck, 14 Nov. 2013. Web. 04 Mar. 2017.