Lopez 1 Edison Lopez Professor Emil Smith Composition 1 28 February 2017 Electric car stipulations over time Although cars have been around for decades, electric cars (EVs) have just become a trend. Throughout the years, scientists and consumers have been flocking onto the idea of these environmentally conscious vehicles and their potential to replace regular internal combustion engine vehicles (ICEVs). However, many people have become skeptical of the true economic, environmental, and consumer popularity stipulations of electric vehicles. Due to the uprise in production of these vehicles in recent years, many have become more interested in these revolutionary vehicles and have altered or developed opinions on the above-mentioned stipulations of electric vehicles. Opinions on the financial stipulations have changed from focusing on the cost of purchasing one to the cost of owning one. Opinions on environmental stipulations have remained constant with its emphasis on whther or not EVs are fully environmentally friendly. Lastly, consumer behavior towards EVs have shifted from an interest in the financial benefits of an EV to the environmental benefits of an EV. The financial stipulations, as well as the financial benefits of these unique cars have always been a major concern in comparison to regular Internal Combustion Engine Vehicles (ICEVs). In 2004, Mick Hamer released an article entitled Hybrid cars driven by rising oil prices: as gas-guzzling becomes punishingly expensive, US drivers are Lopez 2 saving money with petrol-electric . This article focused mainly on how expensive owning a ICEV is and how consumers have been flocking to hybrid vehicles. This article also focused on how these electric vehicles work in terms of the company that produced them. However, the topic that this article seemed to be most concerned with is whether or not investing in a hybrid or fully electric vehicle is a worthwhile financial decision? even with prices at their present level, are marginal: driving 24,000 kilometers a year, payback would take six to seven  Anthony Pratt, a motor industry analyst with the California-based market research firm J. D. Power. , reveals that investing in an electric vehicle is indeed questionable and might not even be worth it. Hamer, as well as the public in 2004, were very concerned with the effectiveness of these electric vehicles and whether or not they were financially more beneficial to consumers in comparison to the cost of ICEVs alongside the continual increase of gas prices. However, in 2016, another article was published that also investigated the financial stipulations of EVs but focused more on the electrical demands of the actual vehicles themselves and how much money they are gonna cost to own without comparing them to gas prices. Modelling the weekly electricity demand caused by electric , an article published in 2016 by Nicolai Mallig, a research assistant and Ph.D. candidate at the Institute for Transport Studies at Karlsruhe Institute of  reveals data retrieved from a travel demand model called MobiTopp. Mobitopp allows one to study the amount of electricity these electric vehicles require to function. In comparison to its counterpart in 2004, this article focuses more on the actual electrical demands of the vehicles and how much that would cost to support that demand. It seems as if the discussion of financial stipulations of electric vehicles has shifted from Lopez 3 the question of, is it financially beneficial enough to purchase an electric vehicle? To, what will it cost the consumer to own an electric vehicle? The environmental stipulations of these vehicles have always been one of the main concerns for consumers and might even be the very reason for their existence. ICEVs have obviously been causing irreversible damage to our planet and atmosphere. The environmental damage we enable by using ICEVs on a daily basis is impeccable. However, proper transportation is an absolute necessity in our industrialized society. So what if we could have proper transportation without having to destroy our planet in the process? According to Santiago Miret and his article in 2013, Is the electric car really helping the , we still discovered how to fully eliminate all environmental damage and continue using vehicles. This article mainly investigates how EVs are produced and how many GHG emissions are released into the atmosphere in the process. This article places a specific emphasis on comparing the environmental damage needed to produce an EV in comparison to producing an ICEV. Overtime, it seems that the discussion has remained the same. Much like its counterpart, an article published in 2016 by Matthew N. Eisler, A Tesla in every  also places a heavy emphasis on discussing the production of EVs and its environmental repercussions. This article admits that ICEVs produce a immense amount of GHG emissions throughout their lifetime. However, it reveals that EVs produce way more GHG emissions than ICEVs from their inception. In terms of environmental stipulations it seems as if the discussion topic has remained the same since it started. The environmental and financial stipulations of electric vehicles are two huge factors that contribute to whether or not a consumer would be willing to invest into one of Lopez 4 these vehicles. However, consumer behavior towards EVs, itself, is also a hefty contributor to the decision. But has consumer opinion changed over time? In 2007, Author Ben Lane published an article entitled The adoption of cleaner vehicles in the UK: exploring the consumer . This article mainly focused on the aspects of consumer attitude that drive consumers away from purchasing EVs. This article reveals that most consumers do not purchase or even consider low carbon vehicles or EVs as an option because they are simply unaware of the benefits of these technologies. It seems as if this article is mostly concerned with decisions being based off consumer knowledge of environmental benefits. On the other hand, in 2016, Jose Fontainhas published an article entitled Is investing in an electric car worthwhile from a , Which focused more on decisions based solely off of an EVs financial comparison to ICEVs. Fontainhas found that in recent years most consumers were most concerned with whether or not the investment in an EV would pay off in the long run. After evaluating both these articles, it seems apparent that consumer interest in EVs has shifted from a concern with environmental benefits to financial benefits in comparison to ICEVS. Electric Vehicles have been a popular topic ever since the dawn of the first mobile vehicle. After the discovery of global warming and the effects of GHG emissions on our atmosphere, humankind has striven towards a greener initiative and a more environmentally friendly way of life. This has risen discussion of more environmentally friendly technologies such as EVs.However, many aspects of the discussion on electric vehicles has changed drastically overtime. Regardless of its irregularities, one thing is Lopez 5 certain, something needs to be done to regulate GHG emissions and make our earth sustainable again. Works Cited Hamer, Mick. Hybrid cars driven by rising oil prices: as gas-guzzling becomes punishingly expensive, US drivers are saving money with petrol-electric  New Scientist. Reed Business Information Ltd. 11 September 2004. Mallig, Nicolai. Modelling the weekly electricity demand caused by electric  Future Generations Computer Systems. Elsevier. November 2016. Miret, Santiago. the electric car really helping the berc.berkeley.edu. University of California, Berkeley. 23 September 2013. Eisler, Matthew N. A Tesla in every  Ieeexplore.ieee.org. IEEE. February 2016 Lane, Ben. The adoption of cleaner vehicles in the UK: exploring the consumer action  Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd. 2007 Fontainhas, Jose. Is investing in an electric car worthwhile from a  Energy. Elsevier. 15 November 2016. Lopez 6