Krems 1 Nicklaus Krems Bennington English Composition 2 3/12/2017 A Pictorial Analysis of Mars One Images are often used to advertise and influence decisions and choices by many companies; Mars one, a group who is planning on being one of the first to colonize Mars, is one of these groups that are using images to their advantage. Mars One has put a heavy focus on informing the public on their goals and how they intend to go about colonizing Mars. Mars One has put heavy focus on informing as their plans on colonizing mars will still take about 15 years till their first crewed mission to Mars. (Mars One) Due to their heavy focus on informing the public they have used images to their benefit to grab their attentions to their articles. The first image (Figure 1) created by Mars One uses both Kairos and pathos in the image to entice the reader to read the article that was attached to it. Mars One successfully made the image draw in the attention while still maintaining the important information about the event. This was done by using the text to both convey information and employ Kairos, and the image to grab the attention. The text on the image was able to convey important information about the event and what it was about, Live Q&A, and made use of Kairos by giving a date and a time to the event. This use of Kairos was used as a call to action to go watch the Q&A live. Then with use of the imagery to grab the attention Mars One used pathos. The image portrays a Krems 2 dark central figure which could be used to symbolize the observer, on an expedition, going toward the sun. With the Sun being the goal, the fog is used to create felling of mystery. This sense of mystery causes viewer wants to explore to uncover what the goal is. The portrayal of the viewer as the explorer cements this felling as viewer now feels committed to finding this goal. The colors used in the image also are used to invoke a felling in the viewer. With the surrounding area being grey, which often represents something to be cautious about, and White at the center used to symbolize safety or the final goal. (Lori McNee) This feeling of intrigue about the subject and the call of action to be at the live event were able to successfully draw the attention to the article. In the second image, (Figure 2) Mars One uses the imagery for pathos and uses the text to justify a logos rhetorical appeal to gain the attention. The text on the image is both used under a logos rhetorical appeal, but also is still used to convey information about what the article the image is advertising is about. The logos appeal is focused to the section of the audience that is already knowledgeable about the topic at hand, preventing contamination of Mars, (Mars One) these people are already interested in learning more and appeals to their desire to learn more. Mars One also uses the rhetorical appeal of pathos in the image. The image is used as an example of when the contamination of Mars could occur, while landing on mars. The landing craft in the center symbolizes the contamination that will be brought to mars, this used with the background which is desolate, but pollution free. The color brown used as it reminds people of the Earth and often a restful feeling. (Lori McNee) The mixture of making the place feel relaxing and in danger of pollution by us invokes a feeling of responsibility of Krems 3 Mars and its pollution. A mixture about felling responsible for eventual pollution of Mars, and the logical appeal that states we can prevent the pollution, influences the reader to read the article the image is related to. These images by Mars One used rhetorical appeal in their images to gain the attention of the viewer, and increase the likelihood that the viewer would read the article they were related to. Since these images were pertaining to different articles with different types of information, different types of rhetorical appeal had to be used to convey their intentions. These images also be used outside of their respective articles without altering the image. However even though these images be reused both images can be used as examples of what they did successfully, thus they can be used to influence future images with the same goals to make them more effective. Krems 4 Works cited Mars One, www.mars-one.com/. Mars One Community Platform, community.mars-one.com/blog. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. The Hidden Meaning of Color In Your Lori McNee Art & Fine Art Tips, www.finearttips.com/2009/08/use-the-hidden-meaning-of-color-in-your-art/. Accessed 12 Mar. 2017. Appendix Figure 1 Figure 2