Medina 1 Tomas Medina Bennington Composition II 3/12/2017 A Complementary Strategy for the Enough Project The Enough project is a humanitarian organization with one of their main goals being to reduce the presence of conflict minerals trading in Africa, while also supporting safe trade within the region. In 2010, thanks to the valiant efforts of them and other activists, the United States passed the Dodd-Frank act in 2010, which regulated suppliers trading gold, tin, tantalum, or tungsten in the Congo region (Whelan). Of course, visual communication is an important element of any success, hence why the Enough project uses plenty of images and graphics to help further their goal. Two images in particular will be examined, one a photograph and the other an infographic. In their many differences, the use of graphical elements and context in each image complement each other very well in delivering message. The first image depicts youths in drab clothing holding guns and smoking, yet contains no textual information. The focus seems to be on the child on the left (who appears younger) and centered on his left arm. Attention to the white cigarette and smoke is further emphasized when placed against his dark skin. Since children be smoking or handling firearms, the photo evokes a sense of unease, leading the viewer to ponder wrong in the scene, and thus can be an appeal to both logos and pathos. Furthermore, the pale colors of everything from the clothes the boys wear to the cracked walls in the background make the image seem much grimmer. This picture is quite emotionally striking, but without any context the viewer is unaware what caused such a miserable-looking situation. Medina 2 The second image is much more informative than the first, as it is almost entirely words with a few illustrations. It is positioned upright, similar to what one would find on a pamphlet, and contains blocks of information organized into a flowchart with arrows directing flow from top to bottom. It also uses only four colors, possibly to make it easier to read. At the bottom of the graphic are the Enough project logo and web address. The organization of factual information in a chronological flowchart make this most assuredly an appeal to logos. The logo at the bottom establishes credibility, and can also be taken as an appeal to Kairos as the exclamation mark and orange color may create a sense of urgency. As far as emotional appeal goes, there is one block of text which states that enslaved miners, including small children, are forced by armed groups to work in gold mines. It might also evoke guilt as the final block mentions that the jewelry, if they are wearing any, may contain conflict gold. Indeed this image is much more informative than the first, but it lacks the humanizing factor that the photo has to truly get people to sympathize with cause. Evidently, Enough has been quite effective at accomplishing their goals. Their campaign began in 2007. In 2010, The Dodd-Frank act was passed and now more metals used in from soup cans to wedding rings to can be considered conflict (Whelan). However, the current presidential administration may suspend the act in its efforts to loosen government regulations. Even so, major companies such as the conflict-free forerunners Intel and Apple vow to maintain their standard even without a formal law (Frankel). Still, very own Sasha Lezhnev stated that without section 1502 of Dodd-Frank, these standards would have no legal backbone and vast majority of the 1,300 companies that currently trace, audit and certify their supply chains would fall by the in Franklin). time once again for the campaign to step things up, and one of the things they can do is improve their visuals. The photograph is sentimental but lacks information, whereas the graphic is informative, but lacks sentiment. Evidently, the pictures are almost perfect complements to one another. Medina 3 advocacy has been acknowledged by many major companies. However, if the Dodd-Frank Act is suspended, it could undermine their efforts. Therefore, they should try to improve their visual communication in their attempts to convince legislation to keep the act. One suggestion could be to combine two images similar to the discussed into one. The first photo was used in a video that used a similar technique. Unlike a video, the information presented in a more limited fashion, and so it would help to combine them into one visual and spread it to raise awareness and generate supporters. Medina 4 Medina 5 Work Cited The Conflict-Gold Rush. Digital image. Enoughproject.org. N.p., 26 Feb. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <http://enoughproject.org/files/conflict-gold-infographic.png>. Frankel, Todd C. Why Apple and Intel Want to See the Conflict Minerals Rule Rolled  The Washington Post. WP Company, 23 Feb. 2017. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Franklin, Kelly. hazy for Dodd-Frank and conflict minerals Chemical Watch. CW Research Ltd., 13 Dec. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Lezhnev, Sasha. Untitled. 2009. N.p. Whelan, Robbie. Conflict-Free Mineral Exports on the  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 23 Feb. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017.