McGovern 1 Matthew McGovern Professor Spencer Bennington English 1102 12 March 2017 in your food? The National Farmers Union, or NFU, stands to protect all farmers that are part of their union, or about 200,000 families. On the topic of Genetically Modified Organisms or GMOs they take no stance as some of the families that stand for them use GMOs while some of them do not. But they do take a stance on GMO labelling. They believe that GMOs should be labelled in a way that is not confusing to the general public. The NFU has been around since 1902 and was originally created by ten farmers and now supports fishers, and ranchers across the country, with formally organized divisions in 33 (NFU) . The NFU stands by three main principles, Cooperation between members to reach common goals, Legislation to represent their lobbying efforts, and at the base education as they believe that all members should be educated and being educated will lead to success in the other principles. Their main mission is advocate for the economic and social well-being, and quality of life of family farmers, ranchers, fisherman, and consumers and their communities through education, cooperation, and legislation. NFU advocates sustainable production of food, fiber, feed, and (NFU) Overall, NFU stands on the belief that they should stand for all of the people that are part of their union, be it the farmers or the ranchers, no one left behind. This is expressed in ways such as the locations of the objects in the images along with the word choices in the images. McGovern 2 The first image, through the usage of placement of objects that are present in the image, promote the idea of unity in the NFU. The idea that the center part of the image is a collection of farming equipment itself shows unity, there is a plow, a hoe, and a rake. These different types of farming equipment together in a pile represent the fact that there is a conglomeration of different types of farmers that come together to make a difference. Also, the image has the word Cooperation on it, this word defined from Marriam-Websters dictionary as of persons for common while a unity is defined as quality or state of not being These definitions are very similar as one is a group of people while the other is literally not being alone, which is what a group is. The second image also uses the placement of objects to convey the idea of unity. This is expressed through the placement of the two people in the image. They are the center of the picture, the two people together. Pathos is expressed through the words directly under the people, they state that they will be there for you when you need help, that makes the people feel welcome and creates a sense of unity. Also in the image, there is a rainbow in the background of the image over the top of the two people, this in itself creates the idea that they are unified and happy, this is furthered by the fact that the rainbow is the same as the rainbow that the happiness is because of the national farmers union. Not only do they express unity though, they also express moving forward as a unified nation or group. The first image also uses the words and ideals that are present in the image and are used to express the idea of progression. This is shown through the use of the words Education and Legislation. Education is pushing us forward as a country and the NFU aims to help education. Legislation as pushing our government forward to pass that that can help progress our McGovern 3 government from helping the farmers. They strive for the words that are on the image as they are part of their mission statement. The second image also uses the words and ideals that are present in the image and are used to express the idea of progression. They show idea of having issues and getting help, the experts in turn are helping you move forward as a person or company. They use ethos to show that they have experts in the field. In conclusion, the NFU looks out for what is best for the people that are in its union. As the NFU stands to support both the farmers who use and do not use GMOs as they are part of their union. They aim to create a sense of unity and help us progress as a whole as a country and as farmers. This can be seen through the application of images that are present in the images as well as words that are shown on the pictures. McGovern 4 Appendix A. B. McGovern 5 Work Cited Packman, Hannah. Access to Markets: Organic  National Farmers Union. NFU, 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. NFU. About  National Farmers Union. NFU, 05 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://nfu.org/about/>.