Nguyen 1 Alan Nguyen Emil Smith Composition 1 4 March 2017 The Progression of Medical Marijuana The progression of medical marijuana has been very profound in terms of the legal and scientific community. The use of medical marijuana is not new and it has been documented as early as 2900 BC by the Chinese Emperor Fu His. The health benefits however, have been very controversial even up to the twenty first century. The progression of medical marijuana for seizure treatment has been changing very rapidly in the United States. The perspective for the early was marijuana is a drug that can cause harm or can be used as a gateway drug, a term for a drug that can lead to the user using harder, more addictive drugs in the future. This negative viewpoint was supported by the federal government and the legal community, but as scientific research into using medical marijuana as medicine grew to prominence, the viewpoint shifted. By 2010, the federal government and legal community had grown more lenient in the use of medical marijuana due to the increased research into the benefits of using medical marijuana to treat illnesses such as seizures. The view of medical marijuana has changed greatly from the early to the late due to the increase knowledge of the medical benefits of using medical marijuana. Before any real research was conducted on medical marijuana treating seizures, the federal government believed medical marijuana had no benefits and was merely a drug that was to be abused (Chapkis). Although this is what the government is portrayed as, it is widely speculated that the federal government was influenced by other means such as political views, Nguyen 2 economic policies, and pharmacy interests. The early was widely dominated with the notion that medical marijuana is not the best productive way to deal with illnesses and pharmaceutical companies would urge doctors to prescribe their medicine in order to make a profit. Many politicians would be sponsored by huge pharmaceutical companies, so it would be expected that they would try to please their constitutes by approving or denying bills that their constitutes do not approve of. With such legislators did not pass any legalization due to the limited knowledge of medical marijuana. Due to the many unknowns, many states even banned medical marijuana due to (Chapkis). As a result, the idea of using medical marijuana to treat illnesses such as seizures was very controversial so law makers did not pass any laws approving the use of medical marijuana, but instead passed laws to ban the drug for use recreationally and medically. Advocates tried to fight, but to no avail. As time passed towards the mid the view of medical marijuana took a huge one eighty. The sudden shift in the US about the public accepting marijuana inspired many scientists to conduct research on the benefits of medical marijuana (Titus 2016). The results of researching medical marijuana and how it can treat seizures ranged from having serious side effects such as causing the seizures to have more profound effects and for them to be more violent, to reducing the amounts of seizures in many patients (Titus 2016). The majority however, showed there was a benefit in using medical marijuana to treat seizures. Scientists primarily used the drug on rats and observations showed a decrease in the amount of seizures. As more research and results were published, the mind set towards medical marijuana took a huge turn and by the mid resulting in many state legislators in California to approve the use of medical marijuana and pass laws allowing the drug to be used medically, with Washington and Oregon following shortly (Titus 2016). By 2016, over twenty states have legalized medical marijuana, thus paving way the Nguyen 3 way for medical marijuana to be widely accepted. The use of medical marijuana was already being used by the public long before the legal community would grow more accepting of the drug. Many parents whose child suffered from epilepsy had been using conventional medicine prescribed by doctors. A small percentage however, did not improve even after using these medications. The parents, as a last resort would use medical marijuana. The result is tons of stories detailing how medical marijuana is a drug that can be used to cure epilepsy in children. As more information about the effects of medical marijuana and the potential benefits became well known, the mindset of medical marijuana being a gateway drug and harmful shifted towards a wider acceptance of the drug to treat illnesses such as seizures. Although some state governments have accepted the potential benefits of medical marijuana, the federal government so keen on the idea. The beginning of the was very clear to the federal government. The drug is not to be used and was deemed illegal by the federal government, but the drug would still be used by the general public. There have been strict attitudes about marijuana for many decades that has effected the governments approach to drug policy (Ferraiolo 2007). The federal government viewed the drug as very dangerous and a huge component in crime, thus deeming the drug illegal throughout the United States (Ferraiolo 2007). However, the federal knowledge was only derived from a few select studies that showed the negative impacts of medical marijuana. There was evidence that medical marijuana aided in reducing the amount of seizures, but the government did not have any concise, reliable information, instead ignoring most advocates. They relied mostly on corporations such as pharmaceutical companies for information. These corporations would of course, advice government officials that the results of using medical marijuana to treat seizures is too inconclusive and further research would be needed. Nguyen 4 As time passed however, the publics opinion of medical marijuana has caused state legislators to legalize medical marijuana. However, the federal government still deems medical marijuana illegal in the United States (Ferraiolo 2007). Even by 2017, the federal government is still skeptical of the benefits of medical marijuana even though there have been countless research experiments conducted on the drug and the mass legalization of the drug for medical purposes in almost half of the states. The increasing number of legal cardholders for medical marijuana is rising daily, with the federal government having no countermeasures due to the sparse resources in each state to combat the (Keefe 2013). Federal raids are costly and most of the time, are conducted in states where medical marijuana is legal. The mass public has accepted the use of medical marijuana, but it seems like the federal government just does not want to listen and evolve. Huge corporations still influence the federal government, so this is a major reason why progress has been slow even though there is more research showing that medical marijuana can lessen the amount of seizures and the violent tendencies that tend to occur during a seizure. The federal government however, has at times shown interest in the drug to aid its military. Times are changing and proof is that many states are legalizing medical marijuana. only a matter of time until the federal government recognizes that medical marijuana can have medical benefits especially for seizures and start to properly research and evaluate the drug for legal use. Nguyen 5 References 1. Keefe, K. O. (2013). STATE MEDICAL MARIJUANA IMPLEMENTATION AND FEDERAL POLICY. Journal of Health Care Law & Policy,16, 39-39. Retrieved February 20, 2017, from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=1&sid=ebb9c013-a169-4a05-8ab9- 160aa3ef0d07%40sessionmgr4007&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d #AN=edslexDBDC8CA4&db=edslex 2. Titus, D. (2016). PUFF, PUFF, PASS ... THAT LAW: THE CHANGING LEGISLATIVE ENVIRONMENT OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA POLICY. Harvard Journal on Legislation,53, 39-39. Retrieved February 20, 2017, from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=1&sid=b795d5f0-1276-4535- 84b5- bd103d0e76cc%40sessionmgr4008&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd mU%3d #AN=edslex0DD708DE&db=edslex 3. Belvins, G. (2009). Chapkis, Wendy. Dying to get high: marijuana as medicine. CHOICE,46(7), 1351-1351. Retrieved February 21, 2017, from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=4d311c61-f0e5-45b0-bdeb- db17a4c8f7be%40sessionmgr4010&vid=0&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd mU%3d#AN=edsgcl.266636364&db=edsgao 4. Ferraiolo, K. (2007). From Killer Weed to Popular Medicine: The Evolution of American Drug Control Policy. Journal of Policy History,19(2), 147-179. Retrieved February 21, Nguyen 6 2017, from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=1e29c717-c1a2-4ee3-a4ee- bad9947ca0ef%40sessionmgr4010&vid=0&hid=4208&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd mU%3d#AN=24990950&db=aph