Hackett !1 Josephine Hackett Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 April 2, 2017 Amnesty Prostitution Solution Multiple vantage points can be taken when dealing with the issue of prostitution. Prostitu- tion is highly controversial and polarizing, as the selling of body for sexual activity con- flicts many. The impact felt from prostitution is great and varies world-wide as different coun- tries have various criminal policies concerning the legality of prostitution. The decriminalization of sex work would be a major step in improving the overall well-being of society and would pos- itively impact the conditions of sex work and the safety of sex workers. It is important to note that removing criminal penalties for sex work does not remove penalties for exploitation, forced labor, violence, trafficking, rape or sexual assault of minors Reasons Decrimi- nalizations Protects Sex Decriminalizing sex work will promote superior sexual safety with the protection of sex workers and in turn aid Amnesty International in main- taining and preserving human rights for all. Amnesty International has a great stake in the well- being of sex workers as they are one of the most disadvantaged groups of people and they are often subjected to discrimination, beatings, rape and harassment. The laws regarding prostitution vary throughout the world and involve several elements such as pimping and brothel ownership. Prostitution is completely legal in countries such as Chile and Germany, completely illegal in countries including Italy and France, while other coun- tries such as the United States and Canada have limited legality. Currently in the United States Hackett !2 prostitution is illegal with the exception of 11 Nevada counties Federal and State Prostitu- tion Laws and Related Amnesty International proposes that prostitution, the act of consensual exchanges of sexual acts between adults be decriminalized: in the hopes that it will remove laws and policies criminalizing or penalizing sex work policy to protect the hu- man rights of sex Full decriminalization reduces the risk that sex workers will be vul- nerable to discrimination, eviction or arrest for related charges Reasons Decriminalizations Protects Sex Currently the criminalization of prostitution leaves sex workers open to many violations to their human rights as they do not have to have equal access to hous- ing or health care, all in addition to the prejudice and discrimination that they already face. De- spite the fact that prostitution itself is not a human right, sex workers are still humans and their basic human rights should be upheld and be abided by. A persons line of work should not factor into decisions involving their basic rights and no person should be denied the opportunity to ob- tain and maintain proper housing or the access to proper health care. It is a frequent story that sex workers are abused by their landlords if they are even able to obtain housing. To make matters worse whenever sex workers find themselves in any situation of harassment or endangerment they often have no where to turn, as any law enforcement will often only offer a conviction for the sex worker. Securing a living situation for sex workers is made even more difficult with the fact that they are not allowed to live with another sex worker as they would face consideration as brothel. The criminalization of prostitution leads to many unsafe practices and forces an entire underground network of trafficking that could be reduced. This pushes sex work further under- ground, making it difficult to seek help when needed. Sex workers are often forced to put the Hackett !3 protection of their clients above their own well-being, forced to meet clients in hidden places where the risks to their safety are higher, rather than places where they know they will be safe. Reasons Decriminalizations Protects Sex The treatment and the harass- ment that sex workers face is brought to a head by police officers in their efforts to enforce the law against prostitution. Sex workers are often barred by not only the laws which serve to be bi- ased against them but also the police officers who are given the liberty to judge and interpret the situations. There are anti-prostitution loitering laws in New York, California, and Washington D.C. that are inconsistent with human rights principles. One of these laws is California Penal Code 653.22, known as loitering with intent to commit prostitution. This law is significant be- cause it is solely based upon the police interpretation of the event and one can be arrest- ed without engaging or committing any acts of prostitution. Any arrest can be made as long as the police officers believes that one had the intention to commit prostitution. The room for inter- pretation by the police officer is often one that a result of profiling. Profiling is practice of target- ing individuals as suspected offenders for who they are, what they are wearing and where they are standing, rather than on the basis of any observed illegal activity Workers at Another basis for arrest after a person has been perceived as a sex worker is the amount of con- doms found on them. Using condoms as evidence for arrest, police officers discourage sex work- ers from using and carrying condoms based on fear. Condom confiscations and fear of condom possession lead to higher STD rates and truly endanger all parties involved in the sexual acts. Contrary to Amnesty International and their belief that the decriminalization of prostitu- tion is the best way to handle the safety of sex workers some disagree completely. Some feel that rape culture will be fueled with the trivialization of sex that treats sex commercially as some- Hackett !4 thing that can be sold between people. As some hold sex to be an extremely personal and inti- mate act between people that should not be available as a business transaction. These transac- tions can become particularly complex as legal problems could possibly arise with a faulty agreement between a sex worker and a client and the lines between rape and sexual service be- come convoluted. Some people also feel that allowing the act of prostitution itself is masking the underlying problem of why people become sex workers in the first place. Many sex workers are people who have are predominantly from disadvantaged and vulnerable communities. While en- try into prostitution is often preceded by prolonged and repeated trauma, that rape was the first sexual experience of most prostitutes, and that a majority of prostitutes were victims of child sexual abuse Reasons to Be Wary of Prostitution Sex workers truly face prejudice and discrimination in their lives not only from their everyday interactions but unfortunately in the eyes of the law and from those that are instructed to interpret it. A difference can be made in their lives however, if prostitution were to become decriminalized. If sex workers were legally supported so that they could maintain their proper human rights they could easily maintain safer work conditions and live a more prosperous life. Hackett !5 Works Cited: Geist, Darren. 5 Reasons to Be Wary of Prostitution  Rolling Stone. Rolling Stone, 01 June 2016. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Huang, Margaret. 5 Reasons Decriminalization Protects Sex  Rolling Stone. Rolling Stone, 09 June 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/ news/5-reasons-decriminalization-protects-sex-workers-rights-20160609>. Loitering with Intent to Commit Prostitution CA Penal Code 653.22  Loitering with Intent to Commit Prostitution CA Penal Code 653.22 PC. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. 100 Countries and Their Prostitution Policies - Legal Prostitution -  Should Prostitution Be Legal? Procon.org, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. US Federal and State Prostitution Laws and Related Punishments - Legal Prostitution -  Should Prostitution Be Legal? Procon.org, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.