Merchan !1 Maria Merchan Professor Emil Smith Composition 1 26 March 2017 How has the difficulty of a plus size modeling career changed over time, according to opinions from the industry? Do you know how much hard work it takes for a person to be a plus size model? Plus size modeling for women starts at size 8 US. You would have never imagined that a woman sized 8 is considered a specially when the average US woman is between 12-14 and weighs 164 pounds. (University of Texas, Even though they are considered plus sized models, they still have to work hard in order to meet the expectations and requirements of the fashion industry. This hard work involves the same hard work the have to do, such as eating healthy or having a diet, as well as exercising, maintaining flawless skin, etc. Plus size models have similar work expectations, in terms of difficulty, to the typical model, however there is significantly less job availability. The paragraphs will discuss the opinions of models, retailers and consumers. This paper poses the following question: How has the difficulty of a plus size modeling career changed over time, according to opinions from the industry? The paragraphs below analyze the standards, inclusion/representation and the job of plus sized models over time. This paragraph analyzes the available scholarly work regarding beauty standards from the to present day. The standards of beauty have changed over time, in the early the requirements of the fashion industry were much different from the requirements of Merchan !2 industry. This is shown by the changes in the scholarly conversation regarding plus size modeling. In the early the industry demanded that every model had a certain body size, shape, and height.There was less acceptance towards different body types. An example of this is when label Ralph Lauren fired model Filippa Hamilton for being too fat. Hamilton is five feet ten inches tall, weighs 120 pounds, and wears a size (Czerniawski 2), proving the lack of acceptance. Only one type of body figure was desired for models by the industry, and plus size models were definitely not well represented. Publications, books, and news articles, discuss the standards of beauty of the as very strict. You can notice this by understanding that like and exist to seemingly soften the blow while still denoting difference, more heavy- handedly pushes the fat woman and her garments outside of the standardized system of (Downing, 50). Currently, the scholarly conversation has changed greatly, noting a wider acceptance of body sizes and shapes. Because right now there are different beauty standards and the fashion industry requirements are different from what they used to be, there is more acceptance towards different types of bodies. An example of this is that the plus-sized retail segment is increasing by about 4 to 6 percent each (Silverman, 25). Books, articles, publications have focused a lot in the different types of beauty standards that exist making it a big deal in society, a positive thing is that now categories such as plus size modeling are evolving and more people is being involved in the fashion industry. This paragraph analyzes the available scholarly work regarding inclusion and representation of plus size models from the to present day. In the early it was not as common to see plus size models because there was not an actual category of modeling called Merchan !3 plus size. Just like the fashion industry has changed throughout time in order to include plus size women into the fashion environment, in the same way has the scholarly conversation changed but in a slower way than it has changed in the magazines or the runways. There has been an inclusion of plus size modeling according to Lauren Downing, twenty-first century has ushered in a new era of size-acceptance and a perhaps more fashionable, politically charged and inclusive era for plus-size (Downing, 176). Currently, a big part of the intentions of the scholarly conversations about plus size modeling, is to try to give more access to women that wear larger sizes to the same fashion as every one else. In the other hand, in the early there was not much conversation about plus size modeling because the modeling industry was centered in a main type of model which was a very thin woman. As explained by Lauren Downing, the early only one type of body was demanded, eighteen with an hourglass (Downing, 52). Before it was taken as a fact that fashion focused on single type of body, now society is more flexible when it comes to beauty standards and that allowed the inclusion and representation of plus size modeling. This paragraph analyzes the available scholarly work regarding job availability from the to present day. In modeling, finding a job is determined by how they look, a body size and shape determine her ability to find representation with an agency, which in turn leads to job (Czerniawski, 21).At the beginning of the there were not a lot of jobs as plus size models, now women are even being encouraged to become plus size models since the fashion industry wants more diversity within the category. This is shown by the study made by Amanda M. Czerniawski, where she states that modeling agencies prefer to work with models on the smaller size (Czerniawski, 21).The social media Merchan !4 has had a big impact in the acceptance of women that wear larger sizes, platforms like instagram have played a huge role because women are expressing themselves in order to stimulate and embrace plus size. This has created a bigger work environment for plus size models, because they are now being included in runways and magazines. Plus size modeling was not a relevant topic in the early it was not talked about in the media, newspapers, etc. Now as it is a more relevant topic, it is talked about more in the newspapers, magazines, etc. Since it is now talked about more and it is more relevant, more jobs are becoming available for plus size models, and they are also being paid more than they used to be paid before. After reviewing the information in this paper, the following question was addressed: How has the difficulty of a plus size modeling career changed over time, according to opinions from the industry? The paragraphs above analyzed the standards, inclusion/representation and the job of plus sized models. There has been improvements since the early but there are still companies that have not made changes regarding the plus size section, and models still have to build their bodies according to the demands of the fashion industry. An example of this is fashion industry demanded that she return to her larger size. Janice struggled with the issue of having to gain weight in an unhealthy manner, something she never thought she would have to do as a plus-size (Czerniawski, 21). Even though plus size models are now being included, there is still a lot more that can be done. There are even some individuals that think that plus size modeling should not be its own label, instead it should just be included in modeling. Merchan !5 Work Cited Peters, Lauren Downing. Pose And The Plus-Size Body In Vogue ,  Fashion Theory: The Journal Of Dress, Body & Culture 21.2 (2017): 175-199. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Czerniawski, Amanda M. Disciplining Corpulence: The Case Of Plus-Size Fashion  Journal Of Contemporary Ethnography 41.2 (2012): 127-153. Criminal Justice Abstracts. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Silverman, Dick. Body And Image: The Challenge Of Plus  WWD 2009: Academic OneFile. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Peters, Lauren Downing. You Are What You Wear: How Plus-Size Fashion Figures In Fat Identity  Fashion Theory 1 (2014): 45. SwePub. Web. 5 Feb. 2017