Grosser 1 Jake Grosser Bob Botkin ENC 1102 099 23 February 2017 We Are Watching 1. 2. Grosser 2 In the year 2015, 920 people were killed by police officers. Only 10 of those officers have been convicted due to the fact that their had been honest witnesses there to testify for the deceased. Imagine if there was a video record of what actually happened during the course of those 920 deaths. The above images show that the introduction of the police body camera not only decreased the number of complaints regarding police brutality, but also decreased the number of use-of-force incidents by police officers. As soon as the treatment of police body cameras was introduced, there was a dramatic decrease in police brutality and police forced contact with civilians on the graphs and bar charts above. This paper investigates whether police around the world should agree on letting officers wear body cameras on their person. Equipping all police officers with a body camera would eliminate many problems and struggles that police officers face on a day-to-day basis. Having a video proof of what happens when coming in contact with a police officer would keep both the police officer and civilian accountable for their actions. There would be no more false accusations of police brutality or inappropriate behavior of any police personal due to the fact that there would then be video evidence. There has been tremendous positive feedback from chiefs of police from all around the United States. findings suggest more than a 50% reduction in the total number of Incidents of use-of-force compared to control-conditions, and nearly ten times more complaints in the 12-months prior to the says Chief Farrar (Pagliarella). Introducing the body camera on all police personal in 2012 was a great move and can be shown on both of the images. Image one is a line graph of all the police use-of-force during the years 2012 and 2013, a 24-month experiment. Police use-of-force was at its highest point on record before the police body camera was implemented. On the one-year mark, the Grosser 3 body camera was introduced and use-of-force drastically fell to an all time low. This particularly graph is a great example of the rhetorical appeal Logos, appealing to logic and reasoning. As soon as the body camera was brought into play, the graph takes a drastic plummet to almost no incidents of use-of-force by police officers. If a person looked at image one, it would be very logical to say that the introduction of body cameras on police had a tremendous effect on incidents with police and civilians. Introducing body cameras was a very smart decision and the results are very clear on the line graph. Police body cameras can help ensure the safety of the people whom the police are solemnly trying to protect in the first place. Body cameras on all police officers will also help prosecution and arrests when the incident is brought to court. There will be video evidence of all that occurred during the time of the arrest. In other words, everyone will then be held accountable for his or her own actions that could be seen via video. Not only would the civilians that come in contact with them feel safer, but also so will the police. is on their best behavior when the cameras are running. The officers, the (Lippman) says Ron Miller, Chief of Police in Topeka Kansas. In image 2, there is a drastic change at one point in the bar graph that is very important. Previous to 2012, complaints and police use-of-force were extremely high. There were an enormous amount of complaints about how police were inappropriate towards civilians and a number of complaints of police brutality. At the end of 2012 when the police body camera was introduced, the bar graph drastically shrinks to reveal images of body cameras in the background of the graph. The graph does an excellent job of not only showing the radical decrease of complaints by civilians, but also the decrease of force used Grosser 4 by police officers. The body camera acts as the eyes of the people to make sure the police do not over use their force on the public. The two images above do an exceptional job of displaying that the debut of police body cameras acutely abated the bulk of complaints as well as the use-of-force by police officers. The images show that when body cameras were introduced, many people felt more safe and calm towards police. There was a remarkable decrease in complaints and incidents as well. People can view these images and understand that with these cameras available, less police and civilians have problems with the law. There is video evidence of the time of arrest, which helps prosecution become much easier. There is also a feeling of safety and security among all the people that come in contact with police. The images above show that these cameras assist the whole community while at the same time keep everyone safe. They eliminate many flaws in our justice system due to the fact the video evidence allows more people to view the content and decide what is the next step. The cameras not only provide safety to the people that come in contact with police, but also the police themselves. Many police agencies push to have their unit to wear body cameras. Just ask Roberto Chief of Police in Tucson Arizona, technology is driving the expectations of the public. They see this out there, and they see that other agencies that have it, and their question is, you have (Lippman). Grosser 5 Work Cited Americans Strongly Support Police Body-Worn  Security: Solutions For Enterprise Security Leaders 53.2 (2016): 12. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. As Police Body Cameras Increase, What About All That  All Things Considered (2015): Literature Resource Center. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Freund, Kelly. When cameras are rolling: privacy implications of body-mounted cameras on  Columbia Journal of Law and Social Problems 2015: 91. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kampfe, Karson. Police-Worn Body Cameras: Balancing Privacy And Accountability Through State And Police Department  Ohio State Law Journal 5 (2015): 1152. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lippman, Gary E. Will Police Body Cameras Be A Mandatory Subject Of Bargaining In  Florida Bar Journal 90.10 (2016): 57-61. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pagliarella, Chris. Police Body-Worn Camera Footage: A Question Of  Yale Law & Policy Review 34.2 (2016): 533-543. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.