Hardy !1 Ariel Hardy Bob Botkin ENC 1102.099 12 March 2017 Tricks of the Trade Advertisement is a tricky business. Its goal is to manipulate the audience into seeing a carefully constructed perspective with hundreds of underlying messages. One of the ways a message can be conveyed is through rhetorical appeals: pathos, ethos, logos and kairos. For the purpose of this essay the organization known as Not Dead Yet will be used to represent the opinion of those who oppose physician assisted death. This paper will investigate how figure one and figure two use pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos to speak against the legalization of physician assisted death (PAD). This paper will also analyze some of the arguments that are made against PAD. Figure 1 National. Right to Live News, NRL News Today , 18 July 2014. Hardy !2 Figure one is shown in a article titled Public support for Bill drops dramatically to just 43% when arguments against are  written by Dr. Peter Saunders. What figure one is showing is that public attitudes change dramatically once some of the key practical implications of AS (assisted suicided) are  (Saunders). This figure is showing that the issue of physician assisted death is way more complicated than the views of support versus oppose (Saunders). Once shown real examples of physician assisted death, the support rates drops dramatically (Saunders). The goal of figure one is to weaken the support of physician assisted death by showing graphs and statistical analysis of an experimental groups change of opinion. This figure uses a large amount of logos to appeal to innate instinct to trust graphs and numbers. People believe that all graphs must be accurate since they portray some form of evidence that supports a claim. However, people do not ask questions about where the information came from. In the bottom corner of figure one, it says that this information was gathered online. When someone is gathering results through the internet they never meet the person, so they do not actually know who they are getting the information from. Another aspect of the figure that must be examined the size of the text. The original support/opposed percentages are smaller then the ones at the bottom. The reason for this is because the advertisement wants your attention to go to the percentages at the bottom, the ones that show the even split of support and nonsupport. The whole argument surrounding physician assisted death is heavily infused with ethos. There is a strong appeal to peoples ethics; is physician assisted death right or wrong? Figure one is no different; it has ethos threaded through its diction. For example the first practical consideration says, people may feel pressurised to end their life so as not to burden their loved  With words like  and  the mind Hardy !3 automatically associates these terms with negative connotations therefore, thinking negatively of physician assisted death. Figure 2 is a poster in front of an older looking building and a blue sky as a background. This is using three of the four rhetorical appeals, however the one that is most prevalent is pathos. The red color of the sign indicates a wrong that has been done, and in contrast to the serene background it evokes feelings of urgency and shame. Also, the fact that there is a hand holding up the sign shows that this is part of a protest, and protests normally have negative feelings associated with them. When examining the background more closely, one may notice that there is a older looking castle. The older castle might bring up feelings of a time when religion was more of a influential factor, and this then calls into question peoples ethics and morals (ethos). Next turning to the words on the poster,  is the largest out of all the words. By making the word  the largest it makes it the first word that is noticed. When discussing life we often feel the pressures of time. This then reveals the appeal to kairos. The organization Not Dead Yet is a national, grassroots disability rights group that opposes legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia as deadly forms of discrimination against old, ill and disabled  (Not Dead Yet). On the Not Dead Yet website they have their views on physician assisted death, including their arguments against it. This paper will address two of Figure 2 Us To Live Not National Right to Live News, NRL News Today , 11 Oct. 2016. Hardy !4 their arguments. The first argument is that physicians are allowed to deny care and overrule an advanced directive filled out by the patient therefore, physician assisted death should not be allowed (Not Dead Yet). Although some physicians may deny care, this has no relevance to physician assisted death. The denial of care against a wishes is a tragic thing that should be monitored more closely, but it has no relation to the legalization of physician assisted death. The second argument is that society does not accept those with disabilities as much as those without, so the legalization of physician assisted death will just further this idea (Not Dead Yet). Although disability is intricately intertwined with physician assisted death, opinion on disability does not relate to whether it should be legalized. opinion relates to the regulations that should be placed on physician assisted death but not its legalization. Therefore these arguments exemplify the red herring fallacy rendering them both invalid arguments. In states that physician assisted death is legalized it is still a choice. In 2012 Stephanie Packer was diagnosed with a terminal lung disease Someone in a similar situation named Brittany Maynard chose to utilize physician assisted death, but Stephanie did not These two similar situations exemplify the physician assisted death argument at its most basic principles. Stephanie did not agree with physician assisted death so she choose a different option, but Brittany did agree with physician assisted death; therefore she utilized it. The legalization of PAD gives people the right to take control of the way they die when it comes to terminally diseases, and that is not a bad thing. Throughout this paper the opposing side of the physician assisted death argument is broken down and examined. Then, the opposed side of the argument is shown interacting with the supporting side in a way that both sides benefit. Two figures were analyzed to show how Hardy !5 pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos interact to support an argument. Physician assisted death is a controversial topic that will be debated for many more years, but to properly formulate a opinion one must breakdown the arguments to see which ones are valid and which ones are not. Hardy !6 Works Cited Dead Not Dead Yet the Resistance , Not Dead Yet, 2012, notdeadyet.org/. Stephanie. but against Physician-Assisted CNN, Cable News Network, 26 May 2015, www.cnn.com/2015/05/26/health/terminal-patients-against- assisted-suicide/. Saunders, Dr. Peter. Support for Bill Drops Dramatically to Just 43% When Arguments against Are National Right to Live News Today, NRL News Today, 18 July 2014, www.nationalrighttolifenews.org/news/2014/07/public- support-for-falconers-assisted-dying-bill-drops-dramatically-to-just-43-when-arguments- against-are-heard/#.WLNggss8KhC.