Irfan 1 Sumaiya Irfan Professor Noah Pearlstone 4/2/17 ENC 1102 Title? In society, progress is a part of everyday life. From every moment in everyday, there is a catalyst towards future innovation. However, despite the benefits of innovation, there are still those who oppose new methods and prefer to stay according to tradition. An example of such is stem cell research. Stem cells are a type of cell that leads to the development of different type of cells. They are different from other types of cells as they are unspecialized and later develop into specialized cells. Stem cells are used primarily for growth and repair. There are two types of stem cells: somatic and embryonic stem cells. Somatic stem cells are stationary and only work during injury while embryonic stem cells are found in embryos and develop into different types of cells after fertilization. The controversial type of stem cell is the embryonic stem cell as those opposed to research believe that utilizing embryonic stem cells in research is a form of abortion. Abortion is against the values of most religions that feel that any form of destruction or manipulation of the embryo or fetus goes against their religion. What could potentially save many lives had instead been slowed down because of questions regarding how it conflicts with world religions. As Americans in a country so developed, it is important to understand the benefits of stem cell research and how it can lead towards a better life for humanity. As we progress throughout the ages we must eventually come to terms that progress has always been a subject to varying criteria. Medicine was once thought to be the works of Irfan 2 witchcraft and as such herbalists were often isolated and charged with crimes that they did not commit. Although in the current era, we do not see such forms of persecution, funding for research has at times been halted by the federal government. Although at present there are less regulations in comparison to sixteen years ago, we still see resistance by both the government and the people for funding and supporting research. Stem cell research should be continued as it allows for future innovations in the medical field. Discoveries are constantly being made because of such research, for instance cancer cells have been found to stem-like characteristics to a degree sufficient to warrant the comparison with stem cells; the observed experimental and clinical behaviors of metastatic cancer cells are highly reminiscent of the classical properties of stem (Croker, Allan, 374-390) With this lead the probability of curing cancer has increased. Another important discovery was in 2014 when it was found that the transplantation of embryonic stem cells helped improve the sight of legally blind patients. Nine out of eighteen patients had a significant increase in sight (CNN). Proponents of stem cell research includes the nonprofit, Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation, which have supported research towards finding a cure for paralysis. Before his death in 2004, Christopher Reeve was able to regain some movement in his arms and fingers through stem cell research (NBC). A common problem is the tendency to come to a conclusion before knowing all of the facts. Those against stem cell research do not understand the entirety of stem cell research. They believe that stem-cell research primarily uses embryonic stem-cells when in reality, researchers use somatic stem-cells. Those against use their religion as an excuse to be against research. Conservative Christians believe that to create stem cells, abortion is required. This view is also false as embryonic stem-cells are not needed to create new stem cells, as well as the fact that there are regulations that go towards obtaining stem cells. Another problem that opponents worry Irfan 3 about are stem cell clinics that have opened up claiming to cure illnesses, however as of last year, the FDA has decided to start cracking down on these clinics (McFarling). Opponents of this research also believe in the possibility of eugenics, humans playing God, and the costs of stem cell research. As explained by Dr. Peter Lacchman, idea of also carries with it the proposition that there is knowledge that may be too dangerous for mankind to (Lacchman, 2). Sticking to the notion that some knowledge is not beneficial, is refusing to move forward and denying innovation. In the United States, the position on stem cell research has changed over time. Former President Obama has implemented acts to repeal the damage done by former President Bush. These include the executive order titled Barriers to Responsible Scientific Research Involving Human Stem which was enacted in March 2009. This repealed an executive order passed by Bush in 2001. In 2012 a U.S. District court for the District of Columbia ruled in favor of stem cell research in Sherley v. Sebelius. In 2013, the Supreme Court declined hearing Sherley v. Sebelius, therefore upholding the ruling of the district court (Reuters). However, this could all change as President Trump slowly cuts funding in various government funded entities. Stem cell research has brought forth a multitude of benefits that have been supported through research. If progress must occur, we as Americans must be willing to support these causes that strive to better human life. Stem-cell research is not trying to destroy moral or lead to humans rather it is striving to help people enjoy life while they live. All over the world, people suffer from various disabilities including various forms of paralysis and disabilities. Stem cell research has proven that there is a chance for these people to have a chance at living again. In a time where government funding towards research seems limited, it is Irfan 4 important for Americans to act if they wish for progress. Nonprofits such as Dana and Christopher Foundation or universities that research stem cells i.e. University of Michigan constantly need the support of the public if they wish to continue. While there are times that stem cell can be controversial, it is important that for human progress to occur there must be a positive attitude in research and future development. Taking the time to learn about stem cells and see how it can benefit human life is an important step in understanding and not remaining ignorant about issues. Mobilizing in movements such as the March for Science which takes place in cities all over the United States that seek to preserve funding of scientific research by the government is an important step in preventing the loss of funding of research institutions. Already through research we have found the source of cancer as well as a possible treatment to blindness. It cannot be stressed enough how without mobilizing and acting for scientific research, progress will be shut down and what could have been found now will instead take maybe a decade or even more. As Americans, it is a responsibility we need to take upon ourselves if we wish to go towards progress. Irfan 5 References: Frazzetto, Giovanni. Cells and EMBO Reports 5.6 (2004): PMC. Web. 10 Sept. 2016. NIH Stem Cell Information Home Page. In Stem Cell Information [World Wide Web Bethesda, MD: National Institutes of Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 2016 [cited September 10, Available at <http://stemcells.nih.gov/info/basics/1.htm> Lachmann, Peter. Cell Is It Regarded as a Threat?: An Investigation of the Economic and Ethical Arguments Made against Research with Human Embryonic Stem EMBO Reports 2.3 (2001): PMC. Web. 13 Nov. 2016. McFarling, Usha Lee. Weighs Crackdown That Could Shut Stem Cell Stat News, 09 Sept. 2016. Web. 11 Sept. 2016. Croker, A. K., and A. L. Allan. Cancer Stem Cells: Implications for the Progression and Treatment of Metastatic  National Center for Biotechnology Information. U.S. National Library of Medicine, Web. 13 Nov. 2016. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18182063>. McFarling, Usha Lee. Weighs Crackdown That Could Shut Stem Cell Stat News, 09 Sept. 2016. Web. 11 Sept. 2016.