Cummings 1 Annie Cummings Noah Pearlstone English Composition II 04/02/2017 Impact of Technology on Childhood Obesity According to an article from Live Strong, one-third of American children and teenagers are overweight or obese, making childhood obesity the leading health concern for parents in the United in Children and Technology). With all of the technology advances over the past decade, apparent that more and more children tend to navigate towards a game on a cell phone rather than the monkey bars on the playground. Technology can be beneficial in other ways, but when it comes to childhood obesity prevention, technology is not the go-to. Although some may believe technology has had a positive impact on preventing childhood obesity rates to increase, technology has ultimately had a negative impact on health, and therefore we should educate children on how technology negatively impacts your health and well-being. Childhood obesity is a condition in which a child is significantly overweight for his or her age and height. Due to the vast number of technology advances, this condition continues to appear throughout the country. hard to avoid technology nowadays as the years go on, especially with all the updates and new software. But if we were to educate children and make them fully aware on the harmful effects that technology has on their health, then children and teenagers would be more proactive in utilizing their cellphones and IPads. When not using technology in a beneficial way, children start to lack motivation to exercise. In other words, increase in exposure to technology goes hand in hand with a decrease in physical activity. As children spend more time sitting in front of the TV or computer, they spend less time outside Cummings 2 running around and burning off in Children and Ultimately, if children were to put away their technology devices more often each day then there would be an overall beneficial effect to their health. Teaching children how technology is harmful to health will only benefit children by motivating them to become active. There used to be a world with very little to no technology therefore kids had no choice but to go outside for some fresh air and play rather than sitting on the couch zoned in on their phone or other technology advice for hours on end. 2004 study of 872 Swiss children found that for each hour spent regularly watching TV or playing video games, a obesity risk technology behind the rise in childhood This proves that technology has continued, over the years, to have a harmful effect on health. Not only that but if a child were to decrease the amount of time that he/she spends on their phone or watching television and channel their energy towards something more productive and healthy, then obesity would be a much smaller issue in society. Unfortunately, if technology continues to advance, then new games will continue to be released which will continue to draw children and teenagers attention. When that happens, then more time is spent on their devices rather than in a gym or actively engaging in a healthy manner. More importantly, educating children on the how technology negatively impacts our health, especially with increasing obesity rates, is crucial. With technology advances becoming more frequent, children and teenagers need to be fully aware of how to properly use their devices. For instance, children and teenagers need to be more physically active rather than sitting. Not only that, but technology specifically cellular devices can be quite distracting. While having several things needed to get accomplished, your phone may keep you distracted whether playing a game or reading a book. Whatever it is, sitting down while doing it and Cummings 3 could be up and about being active. Furthermore, parents need to also take a stand and make sure their children and other children are aware of too much technology usage. Parents have a big impact on how much technology their children use. Unfortunately, are turning to technology to help keep the kids quiet and busy, allowing them time to focus on making dinner, send a few emails from their smartphone or even just some personal down (The Florida Hospital Blog). In other words, parents need to be aware of how much time their children are spending on their phones, computers and video games in order to see what they can do and inform their children of what changes need to be made to have a more active lifestyle. Then when their children become more active and spend less time on their devices, they should notice an overall positive effect on their health. If all children and teenagers were able to be properly informed on technology and its negative effects then the obesity epidemic that we have going on in our country now would no longer exist which would benefit our country as a whole. On the other hand, there are people who firmly believe that technology has helped keeping children aware of staying healthy. For example, there are commercials constantly appearing on television that advertise healthy foods for children. Although that may be known as smart advertising to promote healthy children, it still change the fact that kids continue to sit in front of these commercials and they listen and take action. Some children who watch television may be so young that they aware of even going on or being said on the screen. In other words, if a healthy food advertisement is on in front of them then they are more likely to just sit and watch it rather than to actually get up from the couch and do something about their health. that follow children over long periods of time have consistently found that the more TV children watch, the more likely they are to gain excess (Obesity Prevention Source). Furthermore, people may argue and say technology has beneficial advances Cummings 4 and has helped increase their exercise load due to video games such as Wii Fit is a video game designed by Nintendo that consists of exercise games and has players work towards personal fitness goals. This may sound efficient and useful, but it still educate children on healthy diets and what they should be doing outside of the technology world. Technology nowadays is so powerful and could be so beneficial to promoting childhood obesity prevention as well as teaching kids on how it negatively effects your health. Overall, if children were informed more often, and educated on the negative effects that technology has on our health and well-being then be able to prevent obesity rates from increasing. In addition, education has a tremendous impact on people, especially children and teenagers. As they are growing older, they learn more and more and throughout their life they are constantly learning about new things. Therefore since education is such an important part of lives they should stay informed on the negative impacts that technology continues to have on people. It is up to parents as well as educators to keep children and teenagers aware of what they should be using their phones and other devices for. Technology is only going to keep advancing and going to keep advancing at a fast pace, therefore if children stay aware and conscientious of when to use their devices then be setting a positive future for their health and overall lifestyle. Cummings 5 Works Cited Fals, Angela. Obesity & Technology the The Florida Hospital Blog. 09 August 2013. Web. 01 April 2017. Layton, Julia. technology behind the rise in childhood Web. 01 April 2017. Paula, Elle. in Children and Livestrong.com. 11 December 2015. Web. 01 April 2017. Rowan, Cris. Impact of Technology on the Developing The Huffington Post. 29 May 2013. Web. 01 April 2017. Watching and Sit Obesity Prevention Source. Web. 01 April 2017.