1 Elisa Terrill Prof. Emil Smith ENC 1101 3-26-17 Final Draft Cell Phone Use Effects Tracked Through Time As technology advances, so does the research on the effects cell phone use has on people. While academic discussion has remained consistently negative regarding effects of cell phone use, the focuses have become more specific over time. For instance, between 2000-2010, the studies of cell phone use effects had a more immediate focus, such as driver aggression. However, between 2011-2015, research on this topic delved a little bit deeper into studies that center around the negative effects cell phones cause on things such as salivary glands. The main point is that as time has passed, the methods in which research has been conducted has become more scrupulous. In comparison to how long humans have been documented to exist, the use of cell phones is relatively new and they were not widely used until around the Given this, no surprise that the research conducted a little over a decade ago as specific or in-depth as the newer research. In the experiments conducted by McGarva in 2010, driver aggression linked to the use of a cell phone was tested. 135 participants in a city of 17,000 people were videotaped while a confederate driver in a low-status vehicle frustrated them in two different field procedures. This was done in the first Terrill 2 experiment by having the confederate driver go well under the speed limit. In the second experiment, the confederate stayed still at a light that had turned green. When the confederate visibly talked on their phone, it was recorded that men showed their frustration by honking their horn more frequently than when the confederate was not seen talking on the phone. As for women, blind judgment based on facial expression from the video tapes concluded that they were more angry when they saw the confederate on the phone compared to when they see the confederate using their cell. Based on the reactions and facial expressions, conclusions from this experiment were drawn that these situations caused aggression for the drivers. This is a very observational study compared to if they had done some type of brain mapping on the drivers, or something that required results that went deeper than mere observation. Another earlier academic discussion regarding cell phone use and effects carried out by Elder mentioned the observational methods that were used in the experiment that was completed. college students responded to a questionnaire about their use of cell phones during classes, studying, and driving and about their beliefs about how cell phones impact their (Elder, pg. 585-592). In addition to the survey, a subset of 34 students completed an experimental study where half of the participants listened to a novel lecture without a cell phone and the other half listened to one but were told to use a phone to do things like play games or text while they listened. The results show that there is both an acceptance for cell phone use during class, study time, and driving as well as neutral opinions on whether or not cell phone use was distracting or affected a study time when using a phone from a student viewpoint. In addition, it was found that although the grades on quizzes Terrill 3 were not significantly different between the people who used their phone during lecture and those who it was reported by those who did use their phone during lecture that they expected lower grades on the quizzes. Although this experiment is not as observation based as the previous, the methods and results were more or less biased based on how participants self-reported and gave their own personal opinion in a majority of the results. A more recent and less straightforward study conducted in 2015 analyzed the effect cell phone use had on salivary enzymes levels, protein and oxidant-antioxidant systems in college going students. The results found express significantly higher levels of (p = 0.001), LDH (p = 0.002) and MDA (p = 0.002) in saliva, when compared to less mobile (Shivashankara, pg. 19-22). Based on these results, it was concluded that the higher the cell phone use, the lower the number of salivary enzymes present. This is a more meticulous level of research because it is not merely based on an observation made based on facial expression or how the students expressed they felt about being distracted. In addition, the methods consisted of actual scientific tests that produced scientific evidence of negative cell phone use effects which could potentially lead to not being able to eat as effectively as we can now, since elevated phone use decreases the amount and quality of the enzymes that are used to help break down food in our mouths. In 2014, a study about the electromagnetic field and the radiation it causes to people was studied. It was concluded from the research that although radiation levels vary on a wide spread amount of circumstances and on a person to person basis, everyone should still attempt to keep their phone 10-30 centimeters away from their Terrill 4 head to avoid raised radiation levels. Just as the salivary enzyme discussion, this study is deeper than results drawn from opinion of the subjects or facial expression. Because these more recent studies are more hard-hitting and have actual numbers to support their conclusions, the original thesis that the more recent research is more descriptive and explanatory is supported. In conclusion, the scholarly conversation about the effect cell phone use has on people remains relatively negative. However, the methods used to study the extent of the effects developed over time. Earlier on, methods yielded observational and opinionated results. In more recent years, methods aim more towards proving a hypothesis correct or incorrect based on scientific tests or experimental studies. This distinction in the methods also determines the eligibility of the source based on how well it can prove physical negative effects. Terrill 5 Works Cited: McGarva, Andrew R., et al. Effects of Driver Cell-Phone Use on Driver  Journal of Social Psychology, vol. 146, no. 2, Apr. 2006, pp. 133-146. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=buh&AN=20814869&site=eds-live. SHIVASHANKARA, ARNADI RAMACHANDRAYYA, et al. Effect of Cell Phone Use on Salivary Total Protein, Enzymes and Oxidative Stress Markers in Young Adults: A Pilot  Journal of Clinical & Diagnostic Research, vol. 9, no. 2, Feb. 2015, pp. 19-22. EBSCOhoi:10.7860/JCDR/2015/10872.5580.st, do ELDER, ANASTASIA D.1. College Cell Phone Use, Beliefs, and Effects on Their  College Student Journal, vol. 47, no. 4, Winter2013, pp. 585- 592. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=eft&AN=93813987&site=eds-live. Buckus, Raimondas, et al. The Assessment of Electromagnetic Field Radiation Exposure for Mobile Phone  korisnika mobilnih telefona elektromagnetnog Vojnosanitetski Pregled: Military Medical & Pharmaceutical Journal of Serbia, vol. 71, no. 12, Dec. 2014, pp. 1138-1143. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2298/VSP140119013B.