Kissoon 1 Jeremy Kissoon Bob Botkin ENC 1102.099 12 March 2017 Stop Shark Finning The consumption of Shark Fin Soup has been going on for generations, as it plays an integral role in the Chinese culture. However, many environmentalists around the world have recognized that shark finning is a major problem: one so vast that the ecosystem is at risk of collapsing. As a result, Shark finning has led to the near-extinction of many species of shark. Therefore, this paper will investigate how these two images unite through the use of rhetorical appeals to go against this practice. Before these images are compared to one another, the stakeholder discussed must be analyzed as to why they are against finning. Environmentalists, the stakeholder, are angered when it comes to Shark finning because they claim that sharks are apex predators in the ocean so, as their population decreases in size then, the ecosystems would eventually be thrown out of balance. At the end of the day, these people are trying to pass laws that limit or completely ban shark finning so that the shark population has a chance to rebound. According to author Crystal Green, an advocate against shark finning, in her article, An International SOS (Save Our Sharks): How The International Legal Framework Should Be Used To Save Our Sharks, over 100 million sharks are killed each year due to shark finning. Green also mentions that shark finning makes up the number one cause of death of sharks. As one can see, environmentalists consider finning to be harmful to the ecosystem and they wish to end it. Kissoon 2 Image One Image one portrays a human about to eat a bowl of Shark Fin Soup. This soup is considered a luxury to the Chinese middle class because it is considered to be both very delicious and prestigious in the Chinese culture (Jefferies 257). The message that the author is trying to say is to stop eating the soup. However, this image could further be broken down to represent sharks being helpless in the arms of man and as a result; the environment will pay due to the collapse of the shark population. Both colors and rhetorical appeals are used to convey these messages to the audience, which include people around the world who enjoy Shark Fin Soup. To start off with, the title of the image, Shark Fin is depicted as more of a dark red color. According to Raetta Parker, dark red is usually used to represent rage and anger (Parker 1). This could be interpreted as the environmentalists being angry towards finning, which is one of the processes that occur before a bowl of Shark Fin Soup is eaten. Also, the color orange is used to represent the soup. The color orange can be used to catch the attention of others and highlight the most important elements of a design (Parker 1). In this case, orange is used to really indicate importance towards the soup because the soup plays an important role in finning. Without the soup, finning would not be necessary. Therefore, the author is trying to convey that people should focus on the soup and stop consuming it. Furthermore, the human in the image is Kissoon 3 displayed as being maniacal with sharp, pointy teeth combined with a menacing look in his eye when he is about to consume the soup. Inside the soup itself, is a tiny shark compared to the huge human. The majority of demographic think of sharks as being huge cold-blooded killers; however, this difference is most likely included to resist popular belief and represent sharks as being helpless while humans act as the overpowering the apex creature of the ocean. As for the rhetorical appeal, pathos is mostly used in the image to appeal to the emotion of the audience. The author is rhetorically trying to persuade people to stop contributing to the cause of the dwindling population of sharks by not eating the soup. Emotionally, this is reasonable because if the message gets across to the public, then the public will possibly react and agree with the author since the image is portraying man as being cold, and heartless to harmless creatures of the deep. Therefore, less people will probably eat Shark Fin Soup and Shark Finning will decrease as the population of sharks will increase. Image Two Moving on to the second image, a lot of statistics are present about sharks and shark finning. The message that most people will interpret from this image will be that there are just Kissoon 4 statistics about shark finning. However, like the last image, this image could also be further broken down to be interpreted as the population of sharks are suffering as finning continues which will in turn, affect the entire aquatic food chain. This relates to the previous image because most of the sharks that are killed are being used as a major component for Shark Fin Soup and both authors are seeking support against the soup and the practice that is used to get the soup into a bowl. The overall color of the image is in blue to represent both the ocean where the sharks reside and the tranquility that occurs within the ocean as well (Parker 1). Thus, the sharks, along with their home, could be seen as peaceful, whereas the other image portrays the aura of humans as red, emphasizing the fact that humans are dangerous, not the sharks. To add, the numbers on the image are bolded in white. In advertisements, white is used to represent information in a smooth way (Parker 1). This image is an advertisement, for the author is advertising against finning. The author incorporates logos throughout the image by using fact and logic. The author uses phrases like, of sharks are threatened with and million sharks are killed each to show the magnitude of how shark finning affects the shark population. The author even mentions that sharks often still alive when their fins are sliced This phrase could be interpreted as the rhetorical appeal, pathos. This indicates that the author of this image, like the author of the previous image, is trying to appeal to the emotion of people and represents man as being brutal killers hungry for a profit, showing no care for the innocent. In this case the shark is the victim and man is the instigator. To sum up, these images are both used to appeal to the public through the use of color and rhetorical appeals such as pathos and logos in order to convey the message that shark finning is actually a horrible practice that brutally kills sharks for the enjoyment of man. In most movies, or fictional books, authors/producers convey sharks as hunters hungry for man and bombard the Kissoon 5 public with fallacies relating to these creatures. However, that is not the case with these images in which the authors are attempting to pass along the message that sharks are in danger, along with the rest of the ecosystem. Instead, they portray man as being killers and the sharks as being helpless. In this way, they are hoping to change the belief of humans and show how it is humans themselves who should be afraid of each other. After all, a shark can not help itself once it has been caught. Kissoon 6 Works Cited Green, Crystal. An International SOS (Save Our Sharks): How The International Legal Framework Should Be Used To Save Our  Pace International Law Review 2 (2015): 701. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jefferies, Cameron. Legislative Note: An Emerging Pacific Initiative To Ban Shark Finning And Limit The Consumption Of Shark Fin Soup The Case For Canadian  Journal Of Environmental Law & Practice (11817534) 22.3 (2011): 255- 265. Environment Index. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. No Shark Finning - Google  No Shark Finning - Google Search. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. (Image 1) No Shark Finning - Google  No Shark Finning - Google Search. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. (Image 2) Parker, Raetta.  The Meaning of Colors. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.