LoPresti 1 Andrew LoPresti Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 4-2-2017 Zoos: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly. The moral question of whether or not zoos have been more beneficial to animal well being than not has been debated ever since public zoos first became popular in the late 18th century. (National Geographic) Many flourishing zoos such as the San Diego Zoo have consistently been praised for their exceptional treatment of animals as well as the extensive conservation efforts that these organizations fund. However the majority of zoos have been faced with criticism and controversy by animal rights activists and the general public alike. While some people claim that all zoos exploit animals and others claim that only some zoos mistreat their animals and are more harmful than good, the truth is that only about 10% of all registered zoos worldwide have been approved by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA), a nonprofit organization considered the forefront for accrediting zoos for proper treatment of animals. (Association of Zoos and Aquariums) Ultimately, while many of the largest and most popular zoos have been accredited with proper treatment of animals, the majority of zoos require improvements in conservation and preservation of animals in order to be seen as helpful by the animal rights community. To revolutionize how zoos are perceived around the world, the community needs to shift their hatred away from properly maintained zoos and moved towards educating the community as well as fixing the zoos which meet the standards. LoPresti 2 The argument for and against zoos ultimately boils down to whether or not zoos treat their animals properly as well as whether or not the business practices of zoos are moral or not. Animal rights activists have consistently berated zoos, aquariums, reserves, and circuses alike for the mistreatment of animals they possess. Horrible cases have been brought to light from zoos around the world including one in which the Forest Wild Animal Zoo allowed 11 of its Siberian tigers to starve to death in cold, cramped metal cages during the first three months of 2010. (5 Disgusting and Depressing Stories of Captive Animal Abuse) Cases such as this highlight the despicable practices that completely violate animal rights laws that take place in some lesser known zoos around the world. Because of this, zoos have often been looked at through a negative light and many claim that the harm to animals in captivity outweighs the effects that zoos may have towards protecting species in the wild. Over time , more situations like in Shenyang Forest Wild Animal Zoo have been discovered around the world and the continued discoveries of severe mistreatment of animals is what accentuates the severity of the situation. Regardless of what stance someone takes on animal rights, the need for reform in zoos is apparent with a focus on proper treatment of their captive animals. While the ugliest cases are often used to highlight why zoos can be immoral, the opposing side demonstrates how zoos can be overwhelmingly beneficial to both animal communities and our own. Often considered one of the greatest zoos in the world, the San Diego Zoo is in many ways a shining example of what makes zoos educational and helpful to the survival of many animal species. Among other feats, the San Diego Zoo and its Institute of Wildlife Conservancy have successfully bred 165 endangered species as well as reintroduce 43 once endangered species back into the wild. (San Diego Zoo Global Wildlife Conservancy) LoPresti 3 While these numbers may seem insignificant, in the battle against extinction which the San Diego Zoo as well as many other animal conservation groups support, these numbers represent entire species which without proper care may have disappeared from the planet altogether, never to come back again. It is for this reason that zoos are often argued to be crucial to animal well being on a global scale and because of this, the continued support for these organizations as well as the push for reform in zoos that do not meet these standards is of utmost importance. Both the general public and animal rights activists should take action by shifting their negativity away from the percentage of zoos that uphold the standards of conservation set by organizations like the AZA and transformed into a desire to improve and reshape the practices of those that do not. Although different people have differing opinions on how many rights animals should receive, the fact that animals deserve proper treatment within zoos is something that the vast majority can agree on. Therefore it is of utmost importance for people around the world to not only discover malpractice within zoos but work towards reforming these organizations so that their goals and practices will have an impact in saving animals around the world. Zoos are crucial to educating as well as protecting endangered animals which would not survive in the wild. Supporting these zoos and advocating for the continued proper treatment of captive animals is the best way that the average person can make a global impact towards helping animals. LoPresti 4 Works Cited: How Stuff Works. Are Zoos Good or Bad for http://animals.howstuffworks.com/animal-facts/zoos-good-or-bad1.htm. Accessed 2 April 2017 Association of Zoos and Aquariums. http://www.aza.org/animals-and-conservation. Accessed 2 April 2017 Association of Zoos and Aquariums. https://www.aza.org/about-us. Accessed 2 April 2017 National Geographic Encyclopedia. http://www.nationalgeographic.org/encyclopedia/zoo/. Accessed 2 April 2017 San Diego Zoo Global Wildlife Conservancy http://www.endextinction.org/end-extinction. Accessed 2 April 2017 5 Disgusting and Depressing Stories of Captive Animal Abuse http://www.treehugger.com/natural-sciences/5-disgusting-and-depressing-stories-of-captive-ani mal-abuse.html. Accessed 2 April 2017 LoPresti 5