Bryanna Tanase Prof. Smith Composition I 26, March 2016 Tanase 1 Academic Conversation on Vegetarianism and Weight Loss Over the years, several different types of vegetarian diets have come about to appeal to the varying degrees to which individuals can tolerate cutting out meat from their diet. These include the commonplace vegetarian diet, the not as common ovo, pesco, and lacto vegetarians, and veganism. The latter is the most extreme type of vegetarian diet, which eliminates all foods containing animal products, while pesco- vegetarians can consume fish and other seafood, ovo- vegetarians can eat eggs, and lacto vegetarians can eat dairy products. Nutritionists and ordinary people alike have promoted these diets because of their supposed ability to decrease risk of diseases such as diabetes and cancer, as well as aid weight loss. On the other hand, others have condemned them because they can lead to nutrient deficiencies. Although fewer studies have been conducted on the effect of vegetarian diets on weight loss or their relationship with eating disorders in recent history, overall the attitudes regarding these two topics have not changed over time. In the early obesity rates were growing higher in America, and along with them came an increased interest in vegetarian diets in an attempt to escape it. As a result, experts in the field of nutrition wanted to determine if they could promote weight loss in a safe and effective way and if they were nutritionally sound. In 2003, the American Dietetic Association and Dieticians of Canada agreed that planned vegetarian diets are healthful, nutritionally adequate, and provide health benefits in the prevention and treatment of certain (Mangels, Messina and Vesanto 748). Vegetarian diets contain lower levels of saturated fat and cholesterol while providing increased amounts of carbohydrates, fiber and Tanase 2 magnesium among other nutrients (Mangels, Messina, and Vesanto, 749). This dietary structure helps promote weight loss because fiber helps keep individuals fuller for a longer period of time, while the consumption of complex carbs and plant based proteins provide steady energy for less calories. As a result of all these factors, those on a vegetarian diet have a lower body mass index than those who are not (Mangels, Messina, and Vesanto 748). In 2015, Gabrielle Turner- McGreivy and colleagues conducted a study comparing omnivorous, semi-vegetarian, pesco- vegetarian, vegetarian, and vegan diets and their effectiveness for weight loss. Participants were assigned to one of the five diets for a six-month period with monthly progress checks. At the conclusion of the study, it was discovered that the vegan group lost the most weight (- followed by the vegetarian pesco-vegetarian semi vegetarian and omnivorous groups (McGreivy et al, 354) These findings suggest that as diets contain more plant based food such as beans and fruit, and less red meat, the more successful they will be in helping dieters reach and maintain their weight loss goals. The same trend appeared in the intake of substances such as fiber and cholesterol, where the researchers found that more plant based diets also led to more favorable changes in macronutrients, fiber, and (McGreivy et al, 356). The participants consumed less cholesterol and saturated fat whilst adding more fiber and vitamins as the proportion of plant based foods in their diet rose, improving their overall weight loss. Overall, McGreivy and cohorts agree that vegetarian diets are adequate for those looking to lose weight and give those taking part the added benefit of improved nutrition. These findings correlate with those of the 2003 article, implying that the academic perspective on vegetarian diets and weight loss has remained consistent over time. Tanase 3 The American media has established unattainable beauty standards for both men and women, leaving many of them with a loss of confidence and self-worth, and causing them to engage in harmful weight control strategies. A study done by Ramona Robinson- and colleagues in 2009 assessed the relationships between vegetarianism and weight loss, dietary intake, and methods used to regulate weight loss. Adolescents and young adults between the ages of 19-23 took a survey asking questions on a variety of topics like if they were or previously had been vegetarian, their height and weight, and the quality of their diet. et al, 649). By analyzing the results, they determined that although vegetarians had an increased intake of vegetables, fruit, and fiber which help promote weight loss, adolescents and young adults who previously followed a vegetarian diet were 20 percent more likely to develop unhealthy eating and weight management habits. The researchers state that other studies along with theirs have shown that young people adopt a vegetarian diet because it is a socially acceptable way to eliminate food groups et al, 650). Participants restrict their intake of food by taking out red meat and other foods that are such as bread and refined sugars, and consume plant based foods that generally have fewer calories. As a result, a poorly planned vegetarian diet could lead to a dangerously low consumption of food, and inadequate nutrition, which may cause an eating disorder. Moreover, adolescents are insecure about their bodies and are pressured to look a certain way, causing them to experiment with various weight control methods et al, 649). In 2012, a similar study was conducted by Anna Bardone- Cone and associates comparing vegetarian diet patterns among females who had an eating disorder, were recovering from one, and those who never had one through a survey (Bardone-Cone et al, 1248) They found that those who had been vegetarians before were at higher risk for developing an eating disorder because vegetarianism can be a method of hiding concerning eating habits (Bardone-Cone et al, Tanase 4 1249).Within a three-year time span, both sets of researchers agree that vegetarian diets could cause eating disorders. Through tracing the academic conversations concerning the benefits of vegetarian diets for weight loss and their association with eating disorders, it can be concluded that the opinions surrounding them have not changed over time. Both articles discussing vegetarian diets for weight loss agree that they serve this purpose due to increased fiber and decreased saturated fat intake. In both the early and late 2000s, experts agree that vegetarians are prone to develop eating disorders because herbivorous diets conceal them. These two conversations illustrate that vegetarian diets may aid weight loss, but there are health risks that may occur with poor planning. Individuals should ponder their reasons for pursuing a vegetarian diet plan and understand their potential dangers to avoid compromising their health. (1051 words) Tanase 5 Works Cited Bardone-Cone, Anna M., et al. The inter-relationships between vegetarianism and eating disorders among  Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics 112.8 (2012): 1247-1252. Mangels, Ann Reed, Virginia Messina, and Vesanto Melina. Position Of The American Dietetic Association And Dietitians Of Canada: Vegetarian  Journal Of The American Dietetic Association 6 (2003): 748. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Ramona, et al. Adolescent And Young Adult Vegetarianism: Better Dietary Intake And Weight Outcomes But Increased Risk Of Disordered Eating  Journal Of The American Dietetic Association 4 (2009): AGRIS. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Turner-McGrievy, Gabrielle M., et al. Applied Nutritional Investigation: Comparative Effectiveness Of Plant-Based Diets For Weight Loss: A Randomized Controlled Trial Of Five Different  Nutrition 31.(2015): 350-358. ScienceDirect. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.