Sian 1 Sonal Sian March 5, 2017 Composition 1 PAS: Increased Legalization as Debate Continues In 1994, Oregon became the first state in the US to legalize Physician Assisted Suicide (PAS) when it put into place its Death with Dignity Act. As anticipated, this act had many opponents, as PAS was (and continues to be) viewed in a negative light by many. Death with Dignity Act forced the end-of-life discussion to arise much sooner than expected and began to alter the physician-patient relationship. Patients who had life-threatening illnesses felt more open to discuss their thoughts and ask for the guidance of their physician for future treatments, palliative care, and/or PAS 2008). Although the legalization of PAS enhanced the physician-patient relationship in many ways, it has also come with its flaws. Opponents of PAS view doctors who agree to practice it as Additionally, some administrations of PAS have not been completely successful, and organizations such as the American Medical Association still believe PAS to be fundamentally inconsistent with the role of a physician 2008). The overall effect of the act, however, has been deemed a by many Oregon doctors. Just as many of the have changed their view of the role of PAS over the past 15 years, the scholarly conversation discussing PAS has also changed overtime, although gradually. Despite PAS being a highly debated topic continuously receiving harsh criticism from opponents, this phenomenon has slowly but increasingly been accepted into the medical world not necessarily as a valid duty of a physician but as a valid option for a patient with a life-threatening illness. Sian 2 In the early 2000s, the debate regarding the viability of PAS attempted to remain objective even though the consensus generally refused to legalize PAS as it was viewed as a violation of the basic duty of a doctor. Although there had been some cases of PAS, it was not legal and many viewed it as a heinous crime almost matching the level of homicide. This was before there was any solid information on how the legalization of PAS would affect patients and physicians. In article the focus remains on increasing personal service accessibility for the severely debilitated and emphasizing palliative care so as to prevent requests for PAS. Per the article, superficially there does not appear to be a link tying PAS and increased access to disability services. However, opponents of PAS contend that the debilitated lacking the access to basic personal assistance services are oppressed, and a society that provides a right to assisted suicide is essentially an accomplice in coercing such individuals to end their (Batavia, 2001). Thus, efforts to aim for universal access for such services would eliminate a major area of contention in the right-to-die debate in places such as the United States. Similarly, in a 2003 article titled and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an EAPC Ethics Task the primary focus concerns providing sufficient palliative care for patients in a hospice. According to the article, the duty of a physician should be to restore and strengthen the autonomy of patients with life-threatening illnesses. Although should respect individual choices for euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide . . . it is important to refocus attention onto the responsibility of all societies to provide care for their elderly, dying and vulnerable (Materstvedt et al., 2003). Again, the argument in the early 2000s comes down to the opinion that patients should be provided with sufficient care to prevent PAS, but PAS should not be ruled out as an option altogether. Sian 3 In more recent times, the conversation has not necessarily changed drastically, but it has gained some more perspective on the effect of PAS in states and countries that have tested out the legality of it. The focus on the discussion of PAS has seemed to shift from how it fits into the role of a physician to whether it is a severely ill right to request PAS. As the article and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and mentions, PAS and euthanasia are of relatively rare occurrence and are increasingly being legalized in countries such as Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Colombia, Canada, and the United States. Per the findings of this article, PAS is not as large of a problem as many people believe it to be. Legalization of PAS has not encouraged or significantly increased PAS requests. The article provides statistics stating that the United States, less than 20% of physicians report having received requests for euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide, and 5% or less have complied. In Oregon and Washington state, less than 1% of licensed physicians write prescriptions for physician-assisted suicide per (Emanuel, Onwuteaka-Philipsen, Urwin, & Cohen, J. 2016). Though many people had initially believed that legalization of PAS would lead to an increase in patient deaths, the facts found show otherwise indicating that PAS can stand as a valid option for patients without promoting unnecessary death. Still, the opponents of PAS hold strongly to their ethical arguments regarding the irrationality of PAS. The opponents of PAS argue that the goal of a physician is to provide care to the sick to restore their health and including PAS as a duty undermines this goal. In Yang and article, they state that has shifted toward redefining the role of and the inclusion of PAS as part of the duty of a physician will reduce the role of a physician to a mere of (Yang & Curlin, 2016). Despite these ethical arguments, PAS has been increasingly legalized and as article had concluded, there is no current evidence displaying that Sian 4 rates of PAS are significantly higher in those jurisdictions that have legalized it. Nor is there very much evidence indicating that the increase in the legalization of PAS has led to the abuse of the practice, thus, excluding PAS from the available services for patients would be withholding the right to that option. In spite of the ongoing debate, increase in legalization has caused the controversy related to PAS to come to the forefront of the medical world. The debate revolving around PAS has not changed too much in its content, as there are many people who still oppose it for moral reasons and those that do not deny that it should be one of the options for patients receiving palliative care. However, the data retrieved from states and countries that have tested out PAS as a legal service has increased the belief that legalization of PAS is not a completely bad idea and patients deserve to have all viable options presented to them, including PAS. Sian 5 References Batavia, A. (2001). The ethics of PAS: Morally relevant relationships between personal assistance services and physician-assisted suicide. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 82(12). doi:10.1016/s0003-9993(01)12017-4 Emanuel, E. J., Onwuteaka-Philipsen, B. D., Urwin, J. W., & Cohen, J. (2016). Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and Europe. JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, 316(1), 79-90. doi:10.1001/jama.2016.8499 Materstvedt, L. J., Clark, D., Ellershaw, J., R., Gravgaard, A. B., H. C., . . . Rapin, C. (2003). Euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide: a view from an EAPC Ethics Task Force. Palliative Medicine, 17(2), 97-101. doi:10.1191/0269216303pm673oa K. B. (2008, May 12). Oregon still stands alone: Ten years of physician-assisted suicide. Retrieved March 05, 2017, from http://www.amednews.com/article/20080512/profession/305129970/4/ Yang, Y. T., & Curlin, F. A. (2016). Why Physicians Should Oppose Assisted Suicide. JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, 315(3), 247-248. doi:10.1001/jama.2015.16194