Yost !1 Mike Yost Professor Heiser ENC 1102 5 April 2017 Gun Laws in the United States Gun laws in the United States of America has been a huge topic in society in the last twenty years. Many people think that by making gun laws and stripping citizens of their second amendment rights (the right to bear arms) would help make the country a safer place. While many other people believe that these gun laws should not be implemented, and that they need guns in order to protect themselves. These people are also very against being stripped of their second amendment rights and feels like it is unconstitutional to do so. Hillary Clinton was pushing for abolishing the second amendment rights while she was running for president which scared many people (National Review). These gun laws are taking away peoples second amendment right and will be an issue in the future if pushed enough. Many people who currently unaware the percentage of americans that would be affected if the second amendment rights were abolished and very strict gun laws were implemented into our government. In the United States, there are about 88 guns per 100 people. This means that there are about 270 million guns in the United States making this country the biggest country in gun total in the world (Gun Control ProCon). Having so many guns in the country makes it easier for criminals and people who mentally healthy enough to own a gun, to get one. This could easily be to blame for why there are so many shootings when it comes to gang shootings, different types of public shootings, or terrorist acts. In 2012, the US Yost !2 had nearly 30 times the amount of gun murders compared to the UK (BBC News). People against guns and who are for gun laws will argue that this is because the United Kingdom has very strict gun laws and that if the United States would make stricter gun laws the number of deaths would decrease significantly. While there is a strong case against guns and for stricter gun laws, there is always the fact that stricter gun laws would abolish citizens second amendment rights. The second amendment states that every citizen has the right to bear arms, meaning that citizens are allowed to own guns to help protect themselves. People think if gun laws are harsher they will not be able to protect themselves. Yet if gun laws were stricter the amount of criminals and those who are mentally incapable of handling a gun would have a really tough time getting a gun if they were able to at all. Yes it would make the system of getting a gun and a license to own a gun much harder, but it would most likely decrease gun violence and the amount of deaths and injuries caused by guns. This theory is backed on the statistics of other countries gun violence and how they handle their gun laws compared to how how much violence the US has when it comes to guns and how easy going the United States gun laws are. For example, since the US has the most guns in a country in the world, citizens in the United States are 10 times more likely to be killed by a gun than anywhere else in the world (CBS News). When thinking about the topic initially it may not be super important to anyone. But, then when bringing up tragedies like what happened in Newtown Connecticut. A man who mentally stable went to an elementary school with a rifle and two pistols and ended up killing six adults and twenty children (The Washington Post). This tragedy shocked the whole country. It was such a huge tragedy that right after it happened the president of the country Yost !3 had to address the entire country and make a plan to where such a tragedy could never happen again. Other tragedies include a shooting in a Colorado movie theater when a man went into a movie theater during a movie and shot the audience. There were 12 casualties in this shooting and again the country was devastated. The man who committed the crime bought the murder weapons at a local sporting goods store and bought over six thousand rounds of ammunition online (CNN). Both these tragedies and many others like it should be a huge reason why people should start questioning the gun laws the United States has implemented, and helping to change them. There are many different ways and organizations people can get involved in in order to help the gun control cause. One way of getting involved is to get connected with the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. This organization gives an outstanding amount of information for anyone to see about anything that has to do with guns and gun violence. Also they have a great amount of information on the second amendment and the state and federal gun laws in the United States. This organization not only lets people get connected but also gives a great amount of support for someone who is interested in helping out the cause. On this organizations website they have a place where anyone can donate money to help the organizations cause. This money would go to things like different events to make the public aware with how important the topic of gun violence and gun laws are. There is also the option to sign up as a member of the organization on their website so a person could be able to volunteer for the organization. As a volunteer a person could help out the organization with different events to make people aware (Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence). Yost !4 In conclusion, the topic of gun laws in the United States of America should not be taken as a joke. There have been so many tragedies in this country due to the gun laws not being strict enough that it needs to come to an end. Helping make stricter gun laws will decrease homicide rates by guns drastically and can also make people feel safer knowing that it is a lot harder to obtain such a dangerous weapon. Helping such a cause like this is what the United States needs to put effort into. Yost !5 Works Cited Payne, Daniel. Yes, Hillary Wants to Get Rid of the Second  National Review. N.p., 12 May 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Background of the Issue - Gun Control -  Should More Gun Control Laws Be Enacted in the United States? N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Guns in the US: The statistics behind the  BBC News. BBC, 05 Jan. 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Preidt, Robert. How U.S. gun deaths compare to other  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 03 Feb. 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Vogel, Steve, Sari Horwitz, and David A. Fahrenthold. Sandy Hook Elementary shooting leaves 28 dead, law enforcement sources  The Washington Post. WP Company, 14 Dec. 2012. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Colorado Theater Shooting Fast  CNN. Cable News Network, 04 July 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017.  Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017.