Smith 1 Karim Smith Professor Nusspickel ENC1101 23 March 2017 I. Introduction A. Key Points: What are genetically modified organisms, negative of using GMOs, pros of using GMOs. B. Thesis: Although there is much negativity behind genetically modified organisms such as effects on nutrition and corruption, there are strong positive outcomes from using them which include larger crop yields. II. Body A. Subtopic: What are GMOs 1. Before 2010: Part of the problem is that people do not know what GMOs are a. Evidence: scientists found a way to make crops resilient to (What is Genetically Modified Food?). 2. After 2010: This lack of knowledge is causing skepticism b. Evidence: Zambia, refused genetically modified crops in 2002, even as its people starved (Van Montagu par.6). B. Subtopic: Bad about GMOs 1. Before 2010: GMOs are taking a toll on our health a. Eating GM food can change the genetic make-up of your digestive system and could put you at risk of infections that are resistant to antibiotics, experts said (Poulter par.1). Smith 2 2. After 2010: There is lack of funding and trials that are funded only skew the results. a. Evidence: sponsors got favorable outcomes for their own drug 78 per cent of the time, while independently funded trials only gave a positive result in 48 per cent of (Goldacre par.55). C. Subtopic: Good about GMOs 1. Before 2010: Provides many jobs and sustainable living for many farmers. a. Evidence: than 90% of 17.3 million farmers that use genetically modified organisms are smallholders who harvest on a few acres in developing (Van Montagu par.1). 2. After 2010: Good for our environment a. Evidence: tolerant GM crops have stimulated no-tillage farming, reducing the greenhouse gas (Van Montagu par.14). III. Conclusion A. Key points: What are GMOs, Negative about GMOs, Positives about GMOs. Genetically Modified Organisms Genetically modified organisms, commonly known by their abbreviation: GMOs, are one of the most highly debated topics over the past 20 years. As science and technology continues to improve, we are able to do so much more but at the same time there is much outcry that we could be sacrificing our health at the same time. Between the years 2000 and 2010, research was mainly to find out what exactly these GMOs were and how they could benefit us. While research between 2011 and 2015 change much if any, the main focus during this time was how GMOs were negatively affecting our health and how the companies who were making GMOs Smith 3 were being very questionable. The fact that scholarly conversation has not changed much over the past 20 years could be primarily because GMOs are still relatively new, however because the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) relies on those companies to ensure safety, they necessarily the safest. Although there is much negativity behind genetically modified organisms such as effects on nutrition and corruption, there are strong positive outcomes from using them which include larger crop yields which can solve major issue worldwide: world hunger. Lack of knowledge has been a big issue for GMOs over the past few years. Especially between the years 2000 and 2010, part of the problem was that people do not know what GMOs are. To put it simply, scientists found a way to make crops resistant to (What is Genetically Modified Food). This seems great at first but in order for scientists to make these crops resistant to pesticides, they have to alter the DNA of the food that you would then be consuming. From the moment some people here those very few words, they are immediately turned off by GMOs and dismiss them without further looking into how they could benefit. It is this kind of lack of knowledge that leads to so much skepticism. The skepticism has even caused countries to refuse GMOs altogether in fact, in 2013 Marc Van Montagu wrote an article in which he stated that, refused genetically modified crops in 2002, even as its people (Van Montagu par.6). Scholarly conversation about what GMOs are is something seen to continue to stay the same over the years but at the same time, lack of knowledge and skepticism is also something that seen continue from 2000-2015 and if people willing to look more into them on their own, it will only continue. It is safe to say that genetically modified organisms do not have too much support in their corner. As mentioned earlier, GMOs have their DNA altered in order to make them resistant to pesticides which may sound good at first but they could be taking a toll on our health. Actually, Smith 4 according to an article written between 2000 and 2010 GM food can change the genetic make-up of your digestive system and could put you at risk of infections that are resistant to (Poulter par.1). This has become a major issue being looked into because the foods that are supposed to be good for us and are now causing pharmaceutical companies to increase the intensity of antibiotics which as a result kill the good cells as well as the bad ones when we get sick. This is very controversial because, while GM companies are attempting to portray GMOs as healthy, research contradicts repeated claims by the GM industry that gene transfer from foods to humans is extremely (Poulter par.4). That just leads into research from 2011-2015 that there is lack of funding and the trials that are funded skew the results. With funding being primarily done through these companies, it has become an issue that sponsors got favorable outcomes for their own drug 78 per cent of the time, while independently funded trials only gave a positive result in 48 per cent of (Goldacre par.4). These kind of results, goes to show, understandably why many are so suspicious of GMOs and the companies that back them. While industry research shows that they are not bad for us, private research that they could be. What is even more concerning is that there is no way prove that these companies are aware of this because they could leave the trials that make them look bad unpublished, and then need to prove the existence of studies you have access (Goldacre par.55). Being that the GM companies are not being completely honest with consumers, a rise in skepticism could be the way scholarly conversation is shifted over the upcoming years. With all the negativity associated with GMOs, easy to overlook the many benefits that they do provide such as the many jobs and sustainable living available to farmers. Genetically modified organisms allow for not only larger crop yields but benefit farmers in such Smith 5 a large way that than 90% of 17.3 million farmers that use genetically modified organisms are smallholders who harvest on a few acres in developing (Van Montagu par.1). Many of these farmers rely on the money provided for their crops to provide the bare necessities for their families such as food, clothing and money for school supplies for their children. Everyday essentials like these are readily available because GMOs make it easier for these farmers to bring in more money while producing larger crop yields. They also have many environmental benefits including the fact that tolerant GM crops have stimulated no- tillage farming, reducing the greenhouse gas (Van Montagu par.14). Insect-resistant crops have also cut insecticide sprayings by more than 25% which, again is more money farmers are available to save each year, while at the same time improving our environment. As technology continues to improve and research continues in the upcoming years, hopefully we will see more of a shift in scholarly conversation about genetically modified organisms but between 2000 and 2015 there been much change. Conversation began between 2000 and 2010 about what they were and their adverse benefits but now many people are starting to question GMOs. Being that they are still relatively new, evidence that point and show that GMOs are actually bad for us come until later on when people start showing the effects, which have yet to happen. In order to take advantage of these resources, people need to stop being so skeptical and use a more open-minded approach to see any change because although they have some negative associations with them, the benefits tend to outweigh the cons, especially when you can feed millions of hungry families around the world with these crops. Smith 6 Works Cited Goldacre, Ben. Trial Sans Error: How Pharma-Funded Research Cherry-Picks Positive Results  Scientific American. N.p., 13 Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Poulter, Sean. Can GM Food Cause Immunity to  Daily Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 13 Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. VAN MONTAGU, MARC. The Irrational Fear of GM  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 22 Oct. 2013. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. What Is Genetically Modified  YouTube. YouTube, 16 Dec. 2009. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.