Shoukry 1 Aly Shoukry Mark Nusspickel ENC1101.901 26 March 2017 The Arab Spring The Arab Spring is a series of uprisings that occurred in the Middle East at the beginning of 2011. While it started in Tunisia late December of 2012, The Arab Spring did not take much time in becoming a phenomenon that swept Arab countries in a near concurrent fashion. While earlier discussions of the Arab spring viewed it as a fight for dignity, human rights and better living conditions, recent discussions view the spring as a phenomenon that was deleterious to the Middle Eastern nations. I. Early Research A. Goldstein, Eric. Before the Arab Spring, the Unseen  1. notion of dignity is so central to human rights that it me at become an abstraction until the Arab Spring protests forced me to reflect on its meaning. Long before Tunisian peddler Mohamed Bouazizi set himself ablaze on December 17, 2010, to protest a humiliating run-in that day with local igniting unrest that ousted President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali one month later and spread as far as Syria, Bahrain, and were countless, equally poignant protests against indignity that passed unnoticed. But they added to the pent-up frustrations that gave resonance to desperate Shoukry 2 2. many Libyans, dignity came via a rebellion that showed the world, are not leader with whom the country had been synonymous for four rather a people able to shape its own B. Campante, Filipe R. and Davin Chor. Why Was the Arab World Poised for Revolution? Schooling, Economic Opportunities, and the Arab  1. recent decades, the Arab region has been characterized by an expansion in schooling coupled with weak labor market conditions. This pattern is especially pronounced in those countries that saw significant upheaval during the first year of the Arab Spring 2. the years leading up to the events of the Arab Spring, the expansion of schooling in the Arab world increased the pool of individuals who had completed primary and attained some secondary schooling (and beyond) but who had not seen that education rewarded in the labor market. The low opportunity cost of political participation would thus make such individuals more likely instead to channel their efforts towards political action, and political protest in While earlier research focused on the causes of the Arab spring as a fight for dignity and freedom, later research focuses on the results of the Arab spring and how it proved to be an impediment to the improvement of the Middle East . II. Later Research A. ElAkawy, Zaki S. The Geostrategic Consequences of the Arab  1. three years since the beginning of the Arab uprisings, the emerging political order in the Middle East is marked by considerable changes within each Shoukry 3 state at national level in a vital region in the global geostrategic 2. Arab uprisings have unleashed internal dynamics of protest and political change in most of the states of the region, its impact transcending national systems, and affecting the political order in the Arab world. The region is at a crossroads, facing various security challenges both from neighboring countries such as Israel, Turkey and Iran, and in their socioeconomic dynamics and national 3. a systemic level, the Arab awakening is creating a new socio-political and economic reality in the region, transforming the balance of power, not because some states have become stronger, but rather because other states have become weaker and more B. Makara, Michael. Rethinking Military Behavior During The Arab  1. The discussion of the Arab spring has shifted from a glorification of the effort to overthrow the regimens to an analysis of the underlying interests and true decisive factors of the Arab spring with regards to the military. 2. scholars have noted, mass uprisings against authoritarian rulers facilitate defection among military elites by organizing collec- tive action among military personnel and signaling that those within the armed forces who hold grievances against the regime have sympathetic allies among the population.26 Upris- ings thus provide military elites with an opportunity to break ties with the ruling regime that had not existed Shoukry 4 III. The Arab spring was a beam of hope for all the Middle East; it was viewed as the final step before freedom, equality, dignity, and better living conditions. Views have changed monumentally in the post Arab spring period; as the consequences and implications of the Arab spring have overshadowed its positive outcomes and many agendas have come to light. Shoukry 5 The Arab Spring is a series of uprisings that occurred in the Middle East at the beginning of 2011. While it started in Tunisia late December of 2010, The Arab Spring did not take much time in becoming a phenomenon that swept Arab countries in a near concurrent fashion. Starting in 2012, early discussion of the Arab spring depicted the protests as a fight for a better life and a fight against unjust distribution of wealth and blatant oppression. Recent discussions depict the Arab spring as a phenomenon that would lead to the stagnation of all Middle Eastern nations as it proved detrimental to the stability and prosperity of these nations on many levels. The tone change in discussing the Arab spring evinces the magnitude of the events that happened from start to finish and all the hidden motives that were brought to light in the process. While earlier discussions of the Arab spring viewed it as a fight for dignity, human rights and better living conditions, recent discussions view the spring as a phenomenon that was deleterious to the Middle Eastern nations. In 2012 the Arab spring was viewed as the movement that would help Middle Eastern people finally reclaim their dignity and establish better living conditions. Tunisian Mohamed self-immolation after a humiliating interaction with the police is undoubtedly the spark that lit the flame, galvanizing those who have been stripped of the most basic human rights, and releasing years upon years of human rights violations and oppression upon the dictators who enforced them (Goldstein, Eric.). In article he attributes the ferocity and resilience of the Arab spring to the demand for a more dignified life with better conditions and solid human rights. The failure in predicting the uprising was due to a focus on the sovereignty of the ruling regimens coupled with a failure to take into account the extent to which people were willing to go to reclaim their dignity and rights (Goldstein, Eric.). Shoukry 6 Another article that glorifies the intentions of the Arab Spring is Filipe 2012 article on why the uprisings were bound to happen. The writing discusses the Arab spring as a fight for better living conditions and freedom. An expansion in schooling met with a weak labor market was one of the main causes of the Arab spring (Campante 170). The main point presented by Campante is that the Arab spring was instigated by the middle class who fought vehemently against the scarcity of job opportunities to match the increase in schooling. As the opportunity cost of participating in political activity decreased people who were not satisfied with the lack of jobs engaged in protests (Campante 175). The author believes that the people instigated the Arab spring as they already had nothing to lose and had everything to gain in terms of living conditions. While earlier research focused on the causes of the Arab spring as a fight for dignity and better living conditions, later research focuses on the results of the Arab spring and how it proved to be an impediment to the improvement of the Middle East. In the 2014 article written by Zaki ElAkawy, he discusses the geostrategic consequences of the Arab spring. ElAkawy illustrates how the Arab spring has caused major changes in the political structure of the Middle East. The author illustrates the geopolitical effects of the protests by saying, Arab revolutions untied the internal dynamics of protest and political change in most of the states of the region, affecting the whole political (ElAkawy, Zaki S.). ElAkawy states that the political unrest during and after the Arab spring has only caused disorder within the region, thus weakening the Middle Eastern nations and making them unstable. The Middle East is now facing various security challenges from neighboring countries such as Israel, Turkey and Iran, and in their socioeconomic dynamics and national policies (ElAkawy, Zaki S.). It is now widely evident Shoukry 7 that after the Arab spring the Middle East is under pressure from neighboring countries, who have gained leverage after the Arab spring. The discussion of the Arab spring has shifted from a glorification of the effort to overthrow the regimens to an analysis of the underlying interests and true decisive factors of the Arab spring with regards to the military. In Michael 2016 report, he discusses the role of the military in the Arab spring and why some forces stayed loyal and some defected. Makara elaborates on how the intentions tie in with the causes of the Arab Spring when he says, variables that constitute military institutionalization closely correspond to a variety of measures that authoritarian rulers implement in order to maintain their (Makara, Michael.). Makara argues that military response is determined by how close the military is to the ruling regimen. For example, the Egyptian military sided with the people and overthrew the ruling regimen while claiming that it had no personal interest; slowly the Egyptian military solidified position of power and appointed a president from their ranks. The Arab spring was a beam of hope for all the Middle East; it was viewed as the final step before freedom, equality, dignity, and better living conditions. Views have changed monumentally in the post Arab spring period as the consequences and implications of the Arab spring have overshadowed its positive outcomes and many agendas have come to light. The change in view of the Arab spring can be attributed to the fact that not only did it not meet what the protestors were hoping for but it also had many negative impacts the stability of the Middle East. Shoukry 8 Works Cited Campante, Filipe R. and Davin Chor. 2012. Why Was the Arab World Poised for Revolution? Schooling, Economic Opportunities, and the Arab  Journal of Economic Perspectives, 26(2): 167-88. ElAkawy, Zaki S. The Geostrategic Consequences of the Arab  (2014): n. pag. OpenDemocracy. Nov.-Dec. 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Goldstein, Eric. Before the Arab Spring, the Unseen  (n.d.): n. pag. Jan. 2012. Web. Makara, Michael. Rethinking Military Behavior During The Arab  Defense & Security Analysis 32.3 (2016): 209. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017