Rahman 1 Saif Rahman Bob Botkin ENC 1102 29 February 2017 Limiting Refugees and Immigrants in United States Throughout history, international migration has brought both positive and negative impacts, including internal and external security concerns. These security risks apply to countries that are accepting in refugees and transporting refugees. Since there is a global immigration crisis, it does not only affect the country which they are currently residing in but also other countries which they are trying to migrate to. It is a global crisis; therefore, the global community should try to solve these problems because it will eventually damage the global community (Weiner 3). The most recent international immigration crisis was the Syrian crisis. The United Nation High Commissioner of Refugees (UNHCR) estimated that 6.5 million people where displaced during the crisis, by the end of August 2014. This event impacted the global community but it manly affected the counties which were close to Syria. Turkey and Germany were the most generous nations to welcome refugees. Turkey took in about 2.7 million refugees while Germany took in about 600,000 refugees (Hunt 30). Neighboring countries such as Lebanon, Saudi Arabia additionally Jordan also took in a high number of refugees. These nations got received outstanding recognation from the global community for aiding the people who were in a dangerous situation. The United Nation High Commissioner of Refugees (UNHCR), is a global organization dedicated to saving lives, protecting human rights and building a better future for refugees, forcibly displaced communities and stateless people. This organization has been active since 1950, and has been a prominent figure in helping refugees since then. main objective is to protect and Rahman 2 support refugees at the request of a government or the UN itself and assist in their voluntary expulsion, local integration or resettlement to a third country. By showing these images, the UNHCR desires to portray the suffering of the displaced immigrants to find a solution for this global issue. The first image depicts the reality that Syrian refugees are currently facing. This picture was taken in one of the Greek islands. It demonstrates how the Syrian refugees are desperately migrating to a different country in order to seek a better life. They are arriving in a small boat, taking major life-threatening risks in order to escape their inevitable death. By analyzing the first image, the refugees are crossing the sea in a miniscule, overcrowded boat carrying only a life jacket. This image appeals to pathos, as it can be seen that a little child is going through so much hardship, as his innocence is ripped away from him. It catches the attention of the audience because an average child should be in a safe environment with a joyous smile but instead he is trying his best to survive. The picture has a bluish background which sets an emotional tone to the picture. The roaring and churning sea acts as a metaphor for the struggle that the refugees have to face whilst migrating to a new place to settle in. Rahman 3 Also, it appeals to logos because it lets the audience witness how the refugees are struggling as the picture is taken in a real-life situation. The image also acts as an evidence that strengthens the claim that this issue is non-frictional, it affects the lives of those in varying countries. Furthermore, the contrast in the picture is pale, which creates a gloomy feel. The audience may sympathize with the picture. The child who is tightly gripping the rocks underneath him sends a powerful message to the audience that the refugees are in a miserable condition. The child is crying which shows how much of a shocked state he is in at the moment. By using rhetorical elements such as logos and pathos, the UNHCR wants to illustrate that the refugees are in hostile and agonized conditions, therefore developed countries such as United States of America should take in more refugees. The second image illustrates how Germany is welcoming refugees and integrating them into their society. In this image, the UNHCR is portraying Germany as an example country. The children are shown leading an ordinary life like they are intended to. After struggling for a long period of time, they are now settled in Germany. In the picture, there are a number of students and a teacher who looks appears to be asking a question. The children are attending Rahman 4 a German school where they are being taught to integrate into society. Some of the students are from Syrian origins and they are attending the same class with Germans. Integrating into the host society is indeed an important part as it would be hard for the refugees to function properly otherwise. Without knowing the culture of the host country, the refugees would feel alienated. In order to function properly the refugees should learn the language, culture and history of the country where they reside in. The second picture appeals to pathos, with the children looking happy in contrast to the first image and thus draws attention from the audience. The contrast of the image is bright, making the image look warm and peaceful. Logos is also conveyed through this image. The host country is utilizing refugees and the text refugees breathe new life into shirking German written in bold white, tells the audience how Germany is utilizing the refugees. The population of the German village is declining so the Syrian refugees are bringing back the life of the dying village. The text is written in bold white color because the UNHCR wanted to catch the eye and show the positive aspect of allowing in refugee because white represents peace this can be applied to peace between the two cultures. Ultimately, both of the images appeals to logos and pathos in order to persuade the audience and change their opinion about refugees. The images provided by the UNHCR draw attention from the audience by focusing on real life pictures and situations. Both of the pictures shows different aspects of the same topic: refugees. The first image demonstrates how the refugees are migrating in abhorrent conditions. By showing this, UNHCR has earned the sympathy of the audience. The second image is the complete opposite of the first. When viewing the second image, the audience will find it pleasing that the children are trying their best to integrate in the host society. The second image coveys a core message, that there is still hope for the refugees. The host countries will benefit from the exposure because there are lots of bright children, who might bring positive changes to their society once they Rahman 5 get a proper education. UNHCR, by showing these images, wanted to indicate an important point which is that refugees are not a liability to the host country if they are incorporated properly. Rahman 6 Works Cited Hong, Gihoon. Examining the U.S. Labor Market Performance of Immigrant Workers in the Presence of Network  Journal of Labor Research, vol. 36, no. 1, 2015, pp. 9-26. Hunt, Jennifer. Immigrants the Most Skilled US Computer and Engineering Journal of Labour Economics, vol. 33, 2015, pp. 30-77. Matsongou, Elizabeth. are an Economic Benefit, Not a Burden, in World finance.http://www.worldfinance.com/infrastructure-investment/government- policy/refugees-are-an-economic-benefit-not-burden-to-europe. Accessed 29 February 2017. Rissing, Ben A., and Castella, EMILIO J. Testing Attestations: U.S. Unemployment and Immigrant Work  Industrial & Labor Relations Review, vol. 69, 2016, p. 1081. Ross, Ashley D., and Stella M. Rouse. Economic Uncertainty, Job Threat, and the Resiliency of the Millennial Attitudes toward  Social Science Quarterly (Wiley-Blackwell), vol. 96, no. 5, 2015, pp. 1363-79. Rahman 7