Sherer !1 Julie Sherer Professor Pearlstone ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Educate Before You Vaccinate According to the World Health Organization, vaccines are biological preparation that improves immunity to a particular Within the past few decades there has been a serious concern of whether or not vaccines are completely safe. Even though something is administered by a doctor does not necessarily mean that it is safe. Companies spend millions of dollars researching vaccines in hopes of creating a cure to contagious diseases, but what they do not do is publish the side effects that vaccines can have on the human body. This controversy can be attributed to the health concerns that are associated with the numerous toxic ingredients and the increase of vaccines given to young children in America. Despite the fact that drug companies and doctors believe that vaccines are essential, research shows that vaccines have caused severe negative impacts, and therefore, patients should consider conducting more individual research in order to be the safest as possible. It is necessary for Americans to become educated on the negative effects of vaccines and to take action by supporting anti-vaccine advocacy groups. Essentially, the argument of whether or not vaccines are completely safe will always be up for debate; this is due in part to the legislation passes in 1986, which conflicts the point that vaccines are completely safe. The debate of safety of vaccines has been recognized by the government. In 1986, the government passed a law called The National Childhood Vaccine Sherer !2 Injury Act which acknowledges that vaccine injuries and deaths are real and those who are injured and their families should be financially supported. By passing this law it created a legal bubble around the companies creating the vaccines and the doctors giving the vaccines, there by establishing a no-fault compensation policy. Within this court system, two out of three applicants are denied compensation. So far 3 billion dollars has been given to families of the injured, and that is only a third of the applicants. This shows that medical professionals are aware of the risk that vaccines hold and choose to ignore it National Vaccine Injury Act of Since there are potential health risks associated with vaccines, it is important for doctors to inform their patients so that they can be fully aware of what is being put into their bodies and be aware of the possible side effects that come along with being vaccinated. The primary health concerns are toxic ingredients in vaccines and the increase of disorders connected to the increase of vaccines. There are numerous toxic ingredients in vaccines that have severe side effects. Some of the most toxic ingredients known to mankind are delivered into our bodies through vaccines including: Bovine Cow Serum, Formaldehyde, Aluminum, Egg Protein, and Human Albumin (Wells). For instance, Formaldehyde is a fluid that is used to embalm corpses and has also been named one of the most hazardous compounds to the human body. It can cause liver damage, respiratory discomfort, kidney damage, reproductive issues, and cancer (Wells). Another health risk associated with vaccines is the direct correlation between the increase of vaccines given and the increase of Autism in America. In 1950, there were five doses of vaccines given; compared to in 2017, there are now sixty-eight doses of vaccines given by the age of eighteen amount of Vaccines has Increased over 400 With the intense increase in vaccinations, there is a great deal of children diagnosed with autism. In 1978, the prevalence of autism was about 1 in Sherer !3 15,000 children From Cover-Up to According to the National Vaccine Information Center, CDC estimates that one in fifty children, between the ages of six and seventeen, have been diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) Reports 1 in 50 American Children Diagnosed with This array of toxic ingredients being put into bodies at such a young age is resulting in an increased rate of Autism in America. Honestly advertising the ingredients and the possible negative side effects will lead to an increase awareness and will potentially increase the research of vaccines. Not all research is released to the general public, and most research is hidden from the public by federal agencies, such as the CDC due to unfavorable results. For example, just recently in 2016, a film was released called Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Catastrophe which explains in great detail that the CDC had committed fraud on the research of the MMR vaccine. There was a whistleblower from the CDC who came out and admitted to knowing that the MMR vaccine was causing autism From Cover-Up to Federal agencies and drug companies withholding research from Americans is the main reason why America is so misinformed. Those who run our health agencies have an obligation to make sure that the research is complete, thorough, and accurate. Therefore, it is crucial that individual research is done in order to be fully informed. This will bring awareness to the issue of the safety of vaccines which will ultimately provoke more research to be conducted on vaccines. Although there are many risks when it comes to vaccines, there are also many advantages that have created a great impact on the world. When effective, vaccines not only prevent terminal diseases, but they also prevent the spreading of infectious diseases. For example, the prevention Sherer !4 of polio is not taken lightly and has shown to save many lives. Polio is an infectious disease that is causes by a virus in the throat and intestines. Some symptoms include: fever, upset stomach, sore throat, and flu like symptoms. In 1988, there were 350,000 cases of Polio reported, versus in 2015, there were only seventy-four cases of Polio reported. Not only has the polio vaccine shown to prevent cases of widespread diseases, but the measles vaccine has as well. The Measles is an infectious virus, usually found in children. Some symptoms include: fever, dry cough, runny nose, sore throat, skin rash, and spots on the inside of the mouth. Globally, deaths caused by the measles has decreased approximately seventy-nine percent from 2000 to 2015. Overall, the measles vaccine has prevented an estimated 20.3 million deaths between the years 2000 and 2015. These highly impressive statistics shows that vaccines do in fact help prevent diseases from spreading and initially starting in the first place (World Health Organization). Americans should take action by becoming more educated on the possible risks of vaccines and supporting anti-vaccines advocacy groups. Americans have a right to know what is being put into their bodies and the potential side effects. Individual research is a must in order to form an educated opinion on vaccines. Americans should take advantage of the research on this topic that is readily available online and in books. Taking the time to become educated on vaccines is extremely important and can help motivate others to become informed as well. Simply spreading the word by mouth or through social media can help increase the community of those who are informed. In addition, by supporting anti-vaccine advocacy groups you are supporting organizations like the National Vaccine Information Center, is dedicated to the prevention of vaccine injuries and deaths through public education and to defending the informed consent ethic in Through their non-profit work, the NVIC Sherer !5 works to inform the public by monitoring vaccine research, development, regulation, and policymaking. They believe vaccine safety and protection should be a human right and informed consent to vaccination should be a national health policy priority in America. Through their outreach, they have successfully created many databases so people are able to get involved and share their stories. Overall, informed consent is an ethical foundation for American rights and ensuring product safety. Sherer !6 Works Cited CDC Reports 1 in 50 American Children Diagnosed with Autism - NVIC  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., 10 Apr. 2013. Web. 29 Mar. 2017.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, Mar. 2017. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Our  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, Apr. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. The amount of Vaccines has increased over 400  VIC Fellowship (Vaccine Information Coalition). N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program -  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Catastrophe, Andrew Wakefield, Performances by Del Matthew Bigtree, Mark F. Blaxill, and Micheala Blaxill, Cinema Libre Studio, 2016. Wells, S. D. Health Basics: The 11 Most Toxic Vaccine Ingredients and Their Side  Natural News. N.p., 29 Feb. 2012. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Sherer !7