Moretti 1 Raquel Moretti Mark Nusspickel ENC 1101 3/5/17 Outline I. Introduction a. Key points: In 2009 there were at least 1.7 million teens without a home. Being homeless is a risk factor for students who might not graduate high school. It is harder for youth to get back on their feet after becoming homeless at such a young age. b. Thesis: Studies about the of homeless adolescents have shown similar results throughout 2000 to the present year, but new organizations meant to help these youths and the growing amount of jobs has changed the outcome. II. Body a. 2000-2010 i. Source 1: A Dimensional Model of Psychopathology Among Homeless Adolescents: Suicidality, Internalizing, and Externalizing Disorders. 1. Evidence: made an average of nearly 2 lifetime suicide (Yoder) Moretti 2 2. Evidence: of these youths met lifetime criteria for the five psychiatric diagnoses: major depressive episode (30.4%), PTSD (36.0%), conduct disorder (75.7%), alcohol abuse (43.7%), and drug abuse (Yoder) ii. Source 2: Exploring the Relationship Between Homelessness and Delinquency: A Snapshot of a Group of Homeless Youth in San Jose, California 1. Evidence: Eighty-eight percent of the participants reported some form of current drug and alcohol use, with the most common substances being alcohol (76%), tobacco (76%), and marijuana (69%). Significant numbers of participants reported using methamphetamines (26%), LSD (23%), cocaine (10%); mushrooms, ecstasy, heroin, and Vicodin were also listed. 2. Evidence: percent of the youth interviewed were gang (Schwartz 263) b. 2011-2017 i. Source 1: The Immediate and Lasting Effects of Adolescent Homelessness on Suicidal Ideation and Behavior 1. Evidence: of runaway and homeless youth at particularly high risk for suicide (e.g., lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgendered (Hadland 407) Moretti 3 2. Evidence: established associations between HIV risk behavior and depression and suicidal ideation among homeless youth suggests that the integration of youth mental health services with HIV prevention programs may indeed be of mutual (Hadland 407) ii. Source 2: Predictors of Residential Stability Among Homeless Young Adults: A Cohort Study 1. Evidence: who had sought psychological assistance, who had earned a high school diploma and who were working during follow-up were 40 to 50 % more likely to achieve stability than the other (Roy 4) 2. Evidence: a man, injecting substances, and having an informal sector activity were associated with a decreased probability to reach residential stability in multivariate (Roy 3) III. Conclusion a. Studies about homeless adolescents have found complementary results regarding the health (emotional, mental, and physical) and residential stability. Moretti 4 Adolescent Homelessness In 2009, there were at least 1.7 million teens without a place to sleep at night. Being homeless is dangerous, but having to face this dilemma at a young age can entirely change a mental, physical and emotional well-being. Dealing with such a serious issue during your teenage years much more difficult to comeback from. Adolescent homelessness increases the risk of not completing high school; therefore, making it harder to come across a job that has a livable income. Studies about the of homeless adolescents have shown similar results throughout 2000 to the present year, but new organizations meant to help these youth and the growing amount of jobs has changed the outcome. In the years before 2010, it was proven that there is a correlation between adolescent homelessness and suicide attempts as well as, a correlation between psychiatric disorders and adolescent homelessness; made an average of nearly 2 lifetime suicide (Yoder 6). Suicide is one of the top ten causes of death in America, this changed, but new discoveries in medicine and the increasing amount of research about psychiatric disorders has provided the right precautions and sometimes solutions to this horrific mental illness. The five most common disorders among the adolescent homeless population are of these youths met lifetime criteria for the five psychiatric diagnoses: major depressive episode (30.4%), PTSD (36.0%), conduct disorder (75.7%), alcohol abuse (43.7%), and drug abuse (Yoder 7). After 2010, new evidence suggests that homeless adolescents are still at great risk for suicide attempt, of runaway and homeless youth at particularly high risk for suicide (e.g., lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgendered adolescents) merit special attention and increased focus for intervention (Hadland 407). Although research is continuously done about this specific population and their risk for suicide, there still a prevention Moretti 5 for homeless youth. The sad truth is that youth in the general population have more resources that can help them through their psychiatric disorders like going to a therapist and taking medication. Along with making a prevention it would also be in the best interest to educate these adolescents about sexually transmitted diseases, established associations between HIV risk behavior and depression and suicidal ideation among homeless youth suggests that the integration of youth mental health services with HIV prevention programs may indeed be of mutual (Hadland 407). Therefore, HIV prevention services should be available globally in order to decrease the amount of homeless adolescents that are risking get infected with the virus. There is a positive correlation between homelessness and delinquency. In a study conducted in San Jose, California percent of the participants reported some form of current drug and alcohol use, with the most common substances being alcohol (76%), tobacco (76%), and marijuana (69%). Significant numbers of participants reported using methamphetamines (26%), LSD (23%), cocaine (10%); mushrooms, ecstasy, heroin, and Vicodin were also (Schwartz 263) Drug use is very common among the homeless community for a variety of reasons, the sale of drugs is also very prevalent. Some of these adolescents have even turned to trading sex for money, food or even a place to stay; Whitbeck and sample, 6% of the young men and 3% of the young women reported having traded sex for food or for (Schwartz 263). Although the likeliness for this is low, prostitution is an unacceptable way to let homeless adolescents survive. Another ongoing issue in the adolescent community is gang activity. Homeless youth might turn to being in a gang to feel a sense of belonging or a way to make quick cash. In the study previously mentioned, of the youth interviewed were gang affiliated (Schwartz 263). In the years after 2010, there was Moretti 6 evidence to prove that even though some adolescents go through these appalling experiences there is a way to come back from it; who had sought psychological assistance, who had earned a high school diploma and who were working during follow-up were 40 to 50% more likely to achieve stability than the other (Roy 4). Of these subjects 40% had a mental illness. Whereas early research focused on the problems of being homeless at such a young age, more recent research has discussed the more positive outcomes after being in this particular situation. There can be greater outcomes after going through so many unpleasant experiences, sometimes adolescents can be better and work harder to make sure that they never have to go through it again. But the negative outcomes still outweigh the positives, because it is hard to get your life together when you have a stable residence. Without a stable place to live it is difficult to get an adequate amount of sleep, seek medical attention or even just have a place to relax. Without an address, you apply for a job, and getting a job is the first step to reaching a place of stability. Although the definition of successful is different to every person, it is obtainable no matter the situation. Moreover, the effects of adolescent homelessness can be drastic, but it is still possible to overcome this unsatisfactory conditions. My boyfriend Zach has personally overcome homelessness with an incredible amount of dedication he was able to survive. Moretti 7 Works Cited Scott E. Hadland, and Marshall, Brandon D. L.. The Immediate And Lasting Effects Of Adolescent Homelessness On Suicidal Ideation And  Journal Of Adolescent Health 51.5 (2012): 407-408. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Roy, et al. Predictors Of Residential Stability Among Homeless Young Adults: A Cohort  BMC Public Health 16.(2016): 1-8. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Schwartz, Marci, et al. Exploring The Relationship Between Homelessness And Delinquency: A Snapshot Of A Group Of Homeless Youth In San Jose,  Child & Adolescent Social Work Journal 25.4 (2008): 255-269. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Yoder, Kevin A., et al. A Dimensional Model Of Psychopathology Among Homeless Adolescents: Suicidality, Internalizing, And Externalizing  Journal Of Abnormal Child Psychology 36.1 (2008): 95-104. Education Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.