Rehman 1 Tauseef Ur Rehman Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 03/26/2017 Outline Introduction: People have been consuming substances to lift their spirit for ages. They are most likely to begin drug usage with substances like tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana, but this habit might evolve to misusage of more substantial and prohibited drugs. Alcohol vs. Marijuana is the hot debate in the world and folks want to know which is more harmful to your health? Marijuana is the most common illegal drug smoked by millions of people in the U.S. and around the globe. Whereas alcohol is legal, but there is a limit on underage drinking. Although both are intoxicants and used recreationally, their forms of use and long-term outcomes on the body make two drugs challenging to compare. Thesis: Before 2010 researchers were not able to come to a conclusion and they have the final word about which substance is more harmful to human beings. However, alcohol and marijuana are the two most commonly used recreational intoxicants in a modern day. Due to each substance having different effects on the human body, there is much debate about which one is better for your health. Early Research: 2000-2010 The writer has discovered that marijuana is most popular drug to be shifted upon among all other drugs as it has a low level of addiction as compared to alcohol. It is easy to Rehman 2 use and manage while having the good relieving effect. Her research findings state that 40% people use cannabis as a substitute for other drugs, 26% as an illicit drug while 66% use as a replacement for medically prescribed drugs (Reiman). She states that although cannabis or marijuana is far less harmful than alcohol and it is better than other illicit drugs, however, it is still harmful to be shifted upon for medical purposes. Wenk, narrates that an brain is more vulnerable to the malfunctioning of the hippocampus, a part of the brain involved in neurogenesis, due to chemical insults, which results in decreasing brain capacity (Wenk). In contrast, marijuana works quite the opposite to the alcohol. The researcher found marijuana having healing effects to neurogenesis and hippocampus recovery, which has been damaged by the use of alcohol. The researcher found marijuana having healing effects to neurogenesis and hippocampus recovery, which has been damaged by the use of alcohol. Research in the laboratory found that stimulating the marijuana receptors restores neurogenesis. Later Research: 2011-2017 Short, who conducted research in 2015, writes that alcohol is anyway more dangerous than marijuana, both in the case of mental as well as physical health. He describes that 37,000 annual deaths reported in America are caused by alcohol, while marijuana is not fatal (short). Alcohol is more dangerous for the brain as it blocks its thinking and memory part. Marijuana does not harm the brain physically. The writer states that drinking excessive alcohol can kill a person immediately. It shuts down the brain areas those are mainly involved in heartbeat and respiration. In contrast, Rehman 3 marijuana affects cardiovascular system increasing blood pressure and pulse, but cannot prove fatal by overdose as alcohol does. Constant use of alcohol leads to liver disease leading to fibrosis of liver and ultimately results in liver cancer in the long term, while regular use of marijuana results in Bronchitis, coughing and chronic inflammation of air passes. Conclusion: Before 2010, researchers found marijuana entirely harmless and beneficial for human health. However, later researchers found advanced facts with narrations that marijuana is doubtlessly less harmful as compared to alcohol, but it is not entirely harmless as it also possesses mild but negative impacts on human health. Rehman 4 Alcohol vs. Marijuana: Which is worse for your health? People have been consuming substances to lift their spirit for ages. They are most likely to begin drug usage with substances like tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana, but this habit might evolve to misusage of more substantial and prohibited drugs. Marijuana is the most common illegal drug smoked by millions of people in the U.S. and around the globe. Whereas alcohol is legal, but there is a limit on underage drinking. In the US, some states have legalized the medical and recreational use of Marijuana to control the illegal selling of pot; some research studies confirm that marijuana is not harmful compared to alcohol. The question of which is worse for the health, alcohol or marijuana is being debated once again. Former US President Barak Obama in a recent interview with The New Yorker magazine said: think marijuana is more dangerous than (Brownstein 2) But how appropriate is the comparison among these matters? Although both are intoxicants and used recreationally, their forms of use and long-term outcomes on the body make two drugs challenging to compare. Before 2010 research shows that marijuana is not bad for your health as compared to alcohol, but after 2010 research showed that marijuana has some side effects but not as much as compared to alcohol. However, alcohol and marijuana are the two most commonly used recreational intoxicants in a modern day. Due to each substance having different effects on the human body, there is much debate about which one is better for your health. The research was conducted in 2009 by Reiman, who is a manager of marijuana law and policy at the Drug Policy Alliance California, to find out the level of the harmfulness of different drugs including alcohol and marijuana and inclination of usage of these drugs Rehman 5 among populations. She has investigated in the recent times; people in the western countries are switching among different drugs, mostly from alcohol to marijuana while primary reasons behind shifting drugs among adults are perceived safety of the drug, level of addiction potential, access and level of acceptance and effectiveness in relieving symptoms. The writer has discovered that marijuana is most popular drug to be shifted upon among all other drugs as it has a low level of addiction as compared to alcohol. It is easy to use and manage while having the good relieving effect. Her research findings state that 40% people use cannabis as a substitute for other drugs, 26% as an illicit drug while 66% use as a replacement for medically prescribed drugs (Reiman 11). Here, primary reasons for shifting to patients to cannabis are its fewer side effects, relief, withdrawal potential and better symptom management. She states that although cannabis or marijuana is far less harmful than alcohol and it is better than other illicit drugs, however, it is still harmful to be shifted upon for medical purposes (Remain 17). To verify the findings of the above discussed research, in 2010, Wenk conducted a study of relative impacts of the use of alcohol and marijuana on the brain of adults. He states that with the passage of time, usage of alcohol among adults is increasing rapidly despite the fact that it has horrible effects on human body. This finding Wenk is opposite to that of Reiman, who says that people are switching from alcohol to marijuana rapidly. The reason behind difference of results is the sampling population. research in 2009, talks about western population consisting of U.S and European people, who are independent of using alcohol; while in 2010 Wenk speaks of the general population of the world where alcohol usage is illegal in most parts of the world. Secondly, he narrates that an brain is more vulnerable to the malfunctioning of the hippocampus, a part of the brain involved in Rehman 6 neurogenesis, due to chemical insults, which results in decreasing brain capacity. In contrast, marijuana works quite the opposite to the alcohol (Wenk 3). The researcher found marijuana having healing effects to neurogenesis and hippocampus recovery, which has been damaged by the use of alcohol (Wenk 4). Research in the laboratory found that stimulating the marijuana receptors restores neurogenesis. The finding of his research that marijuana usage has fruitful outcomes in medical purposes verify the results of research of Reiman, which had been conducted a year before. The reason behind same results of both types of research is the analysis of marijuana in the medical context in which marijuana users are observed in the laboratory through scientific methods that have shown the similar outcomes. Moreover, after 2010 the researchers conducted more deeply research and find out, that alcohol is anyway more dangerous than marijuana, both in the case of mental as well as physical health. He describes that 37,000 annual deaths reported in America are caused by alcohol, while marijuana is not fatal but overdosing of alcohol is even more fatal, but excessive use of marijuana does not result in a death as it is the mild and manageable drug (Short 12). Secondly, alcohol is more dangerous for the brain as it blocks its thinking and memory part. Marijuana does not harm the brain physically. Thirdly, it is also medically proved fact that alcohol causes cancer of stomach, liver, pancreas and lungs. In this case, excessive use of marijuana sometimes causes bronchitis and cough, but it does not result in cancer. Hence, discussion proves that alcohol is all the way more dangerous than marijuana. Results of research findings before or after 2010, have some similarities because mainly research has been conducted by all researchers in the laboratory in similar ways along with the same purpose of finding impacts of both drugs on human health. However, Short has also pointed out harmful effects of marijuana that makes his research more advanced. Rehman 7 Research conducted by Brownstein, on a comparison of the harmfulness of alcohol and marijuana keeping the fact in view that both drugs are usually used interchangeably. The author says that deaths by use of marijuana are insignificant while alcohol causes some 88,000 deaths per year worldwide (Brownstein 3). However, this is the bigger reality that research on marijuana is yet in its infancy stages. The writer states that drinking excessive alcohol can kill a person immediately. It shuts down the brain areas those are mainly involved in heartbeat and respiration. In contrast, marijuana affects cardiovascular system increasing blood pressure and pulse, but cannot prove fatal by overdose as alcohol does (Brownstein 5). Constant use of alcohol leads to liver disease leading to fibrosis of liver and ultimately results in liver cancer in the long term, while regular use of marijuana results in Bronchitis, coughing and chronic inflammation of air passes. Here, results of research conducted by Brownstein are advanced than that of Short, Reiman and Wenk as they also show the adverse impacts of marijuana on human health in detail instead of only alcohol. It means that more research in future can verify the results of Reiman in 2009, who shortly found that marijuana is less harmful than alcohol yet not free of harm. From the comparative analysis of the findings of subsequent researchers conducted within the period of almost seven years, it is concluded that majority of researchers establish alcohol as the more harmful drug as compared to marijuana when it comes to context of human health and fitness, in all age and sex groups. Alcohol has short term and long term adverse impacts of human organs including brain, liver, and pancreas while also causes plenty of immediate deaths yet legal in most of the world. Before 2010, researchers found marijuana entirely harmless and beneficial for human health. However, after 2010 researchers found advanced facts with narrations that marijuana is doubtlessly less harmful Rehman 8 as compared to alcohol, but it is not entirely harmless as it also possesses mild but negative impacts on human health. Rehman 9 Works Cited Brownstein. J. vs. Alcohol: Which is worse for your Live science.com. Jan 14, 2014. Web. March 05, 2017. Reiman, A. as a Substitute for Alcohol and other Harm Reduction 1qqJournal. December 3, 2009. Web. March 05, 2017. Short, M. Facts that Prove Alcohol is Way more dangerous than Salon. July 8, 2015. Web. March 05, 2017. Wenk, G. L. vs. Marijuana in the Psychology Today. Dec 13, 2010. Web. March 05, 2017.