Zeinab 1 Talal Zeinab ENC1102 Noah Pearlstone 1 April 2017 Social Media and Teenagers The repercussions of social media on teenagers and the American population in general is an underrated topic that has not yet received the attention it deserves. The contemporary world became greatly influenced by the establishment of technology and technological products, and these products grew to become somewhat of a necessity in the regular lives of human beings. Cars, computers, television, the internet and countless other technological commodities are all things that a person craves and needs in the 21st century. Due to the prosperity of technology and its products, the way was established for the introduction of social networking sites, which grew to become as equally successful as other forms of technology. The importance of social networking sites today is completely axiomatic, as the benefits they have to offer to the consumer are immeasurable. Although the virtues of social media are abundant, the side effects they discharge on their users are alerting. According to Suren Ramasubbu of the Huffington Post, While social networking undoubtedly plays a vital role in broadening social connections and learning technical skills, its risks cannot be overlooked. The lack or difficulty in self-regulation and susceptibility to peer pressure makes adolescents vulnerable to such evils as Facebook depression, sexting, and cyberbullying, which are realistic  (1, par. 2). Based on this notion, parents or legal guardians must be mindful and educated on the defects of social media and how the exposure of the younger populace to social networking sites is threatening to their Zeinab 2 general well-being. Combating the threats of social media by advertising their flaws or by enforcing an age restriction will not only protect the younger populace, but will lead to their healthy growth, and resultantly, the prosperity of America. In prospect for the objective to be achieved, parents or legal guardians must realize the seriousness of the matter and become more educated on the threats of social media. According to a report produced by Common Sense Media, 75 percent of teenagers in America currently have profiles on social networking sites, of which 68 percent use Facebook as their main social networking  (20). Evidently, a great majority of American teens are active on social networking sites, a statistic that raises distress. Doctor Larry D. Rosen, professor of Psychology at California State University, believes that just as there are positives offered by social media, the negatives are as equal or even greater. In his article, Rosen  Daily overuse of media and technology has a negative effect on the health of all children, preteens and teenagers by making them more prone to anxiety, depression, and other psychological disorders, as well as by making them more susceptible to future health  (1). Based on the studies performed by prolific scholars, the likes of Larry Rosen, and with the analytical studies performed, the matter becomes unclouded and clearer for the audience to comprehend. The negative impacts of social media on children are prevalent, and will only keep growing in severity if the subject is left unattended. The most overwhelming effect that social media has on teenagers and children is its ability to impact their character and personalities. exposure to the downsides of social media leads them to developing feelings of depression, incompetency and unreliability. These symptoms are detrimental to the character and in the bigger picture, will cause the downfall of a generation, and correspondingly, the downfall of society. The future of America is Zeinab 3 heavily dependent on the proper nurture of these teenagers and children, and because of that reason, the subject at hand requires greater attention and consciousness. Social networking sites, the likes of Twitter and Facebook, are very popular between teenagers and children, and they form a great percentage of the active users. According to a study performed by Gwenn a strong representative of the American Academy of Pediatrics, seventy-five percent of teenagers now own cell phones, and 25% use them for social media, 54% use them for texting, and 24% use them for instant  (800). Clearly, through the provide statistics, engrossment in social media is immense. The entertainment provided through these platforms make it almost impossible for teenagers to stay away. Social media users are constantly connected with peers and acquaintances and always kept updated on local and global. These features that are offered by social media platforms are what make it hard to resist for teens. In a plight such as this one, the involvement and intervention of parents is necessary. Amanda Lenhart, research specialist in the Pew Research Internet Project, believes that the role that parents can play in a matter such as is this one is pivotal. In an article produced by Lenhart and co-authors, she  Teens rely most heavily on their parents and peers for advice about online behaviors and coping with challenging  (Lenhart et al. 78). Therefore, parents should get involved by empowering their relationships with their children, for them to be able to intervene in their more sensitive problems. The reason that pulls the attention of the audience and forces them to become engaged in the topic is sentimental, as this is an issue that could be impacting their own adolescents and children. In order to reach the objective and contain the harmful defects of social media on teenagers and children, parental intervention is necessary. If the matter is left unanswered, the problems will only keep growing and the younger populace in America will become harmed. Zeinab 4 There are two solutions that can help resolve this serious issue. The first solution is pressuring social networking sites to advertise their own weaknesses. For example, daily notifications reminding the users to seek other priorities, or to not waste more time on the social media platforms. When the users become aware of the downsides, they will instinctively become accustomed to becoming less active on social media. The other solution is the enforcement of a legal age restriction that does not allow anyone under the age of 15 to create an account on a social networking site. The restriction will require a legitimate form of identification that proves that the user is who he or she claims to be, and that the identification they use is valid. The American Academy of Pediatrics also offer to help on the matter by giving useful advice, such as, Advising parents to work on their own participation gap in their homes by becoming better educated about the many technologies their youngsters are  and Clarke-Pearson 803). If parents manage to properly get involved and give aid to their children on the matter, the settlement of the issue will become a much easier task. However, the matter can no longer be brushed away and must be attended immediately, as with the passage of days, the predicament will only grow and keep harming the youth of America. Conclusively, the complete elimination of social networking sites from the lives of teenagers and children is not an option, because there are still plenty of positives that are offered from their use. The rational solution is working to contain the issue and minimizing its threats by having parents get more involved with their personal lives and personal matters. If the given solutions are enforced and practiced with care and caution, the lives of teenagers and children will dramatically change and will only become better, which will ultimately lead to the healthy prosperity of America. Zeinab 5 Works Cited Lenhart, Amanda, Mary Madden, and Aaron Smith. How American Teens Navigate the New World of digital  Teens, Kindness and Cruelty on Social Network Sites (2011): 1-86. Pew Research Center, 9 Nov. 2011. Web. Gwenn, and Kathleen Clarke-Pearson. The Impact of Social Media on Children, Adolescents, and  Clinical Report 127.4 (2011): 800-06. American Academy of Pediatrics, 28 Mar. 2011. Web. Ramasubbu, Suren. Influence of Social Media on  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 26 May 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Rosen, Larry. Social Good and Bad Impacts on  Pardon Our Interruption. American Psychological Association, 6 Aug. 2011. Web. Social Media; Social  How Teens View Their Digital Lives (2012): 1-46. Common Sense Media. Web.