Stone 1 Jacob Stone Instructor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric Visual media is a very effective way to install ideas into the general public. People are always interpreting what they see, and many images are made to make the person feel a certain way. Many stakeholders use this method of swaying the thoughts by creating images that appeal to ethos, pathos, and logos. One of the biggest stakeholders in nuclear energy is the general public. World health organizations are inspiring riots and creating propaganda images that appeal to the general public through Ethos, Pathos, and Logos. Picture one and picture two install the general opinion that nuclear energy is a bad idea and humans should stay away from researching it as a power source. Anti-nuclear organizations produce images that can easily persuade the general population into being against nuclear energy by appealing to their ethos, pathos, and logos. Anti-nuclear organizations such as greenpeace.org and even the Arms Control Association are strongly against the development and continued use of nuclear power plants. Their main focus is the expenses and the health concerns that come with nuclear energy. These organizations and protestors create photographs that spread anti-nuclear propaganda that appeals to the ethos, pathos, and logos. They take advantage of the general naivety when it comes to believing pictures to be true. The main goal of such images are to sway the general public from siding with nuclear research and development. Stone 2 Ethos is the ability to create a sense of trust and credibility to the audience. Picture one and picture two both have visuals that appeal to the ethos. In picture one, it appears there is a riot against nuclear energy, there are scientists/workers carrying a barrel of what can be assumed to be toxic waste. The workers carrying the barrel give the audience a sense of trust simply because they work with nuclear waste. This picture however is not the correct way of storing nuclear waste. World-nuclear.org reports wastes are stored so as to avoid any chance of radiation exposure to people, or any meaning it is highly unlikely that a group of workers would be carrying real nuclear waste in public. This image can be used to trick the audience into thinking nuclear waste being moved through a crowd is a common occurrence. The audience would be falling for the Straw Man fallacy because they are lead to believe that this is protocol for toxic waste removal. Picture two is a cartoon of a man in a suit with the devil as his shadow trying to sell the concept of nuclear energy. Anti-nuclear energy organizations use the general opinion of the devil to try and persuade the public. The public is taught to never trust the devil, and this picture implies that the devil is trying to make a deal. On top of that, it also strikes the audience to question who they are truly making the deal with. They have no idea if the information given to them is truly credible. They must always ask what the true intentions are of the deal maker, because they can obviously be tricked as portrayed in the photo. Pathos is ability to appeal to the emotions and values through any form of media. Picture one and two both have strong visual aspects that create a sense of dread in the viewer. Picture one appears to be in a state of emergency. Obviously the situation these people are in must be fairly dire if the workers are carrying a barrel of toxic waste through a crowd. This makes the general public afraid of any sort of problems that come with nuclear energy. Interestingly, this scene is exactly what not to do if there is a nuclear emergency. The NRC Stone 3 reports that in the event of a nuclear emergency a broadcast will be sent out with instructions. instructions may include directions for evacuating or for remaining where you (NRC.com). The legitimacy of picture one is inaccurate, however it is successful if the audience has no prior knowledge of emergency protocol. In picture two, there is a man in a suit holding up the nuclear symbol with a shadow of the devil. This picture is pure propaganda meant to instill fear into the audience. The public does not trust the devil and the image is successful in swaying the general public into thinking nuclear energy is evil. In the shadow, the devil is holding a contract which implies that further research into nuclear energy is the same as making a deal with the devil. The text at the top of the image that says Buyer reminds the audience of the feeling of remorse. remorse effects the emotions of the induvial who feels cheated after they make a deal. The anti-nuclear organizations rely on the previous experiences to install a sense of negative emotion when it comes to nuclear research. Logos is the ability to appeal to the audience logically by providing what seems to be irrefutable proof and reason. Logos is a very effective way to persuade the opinion because they feel a sense of satisfaction when they make logical connections. In picture one, the audience sees a large barrel of the nuclear symbol with crossed bones. They can logically deduce that whatever is in the barrel is a deadly side effect of nuclear energy. The general public does not want whatever is in the barrel to be carried through their city. The anti-nuclear energy organizations are successful in displaying the negatives to the public. Picture two makes the general public think that the devil is behind nuclear energy. Essentially, the statement at the top saying refers to the public as the of nuclear energy. The organization that created this propaganda makes the public think that they are buying their own doom by Stone 4 investing in nuclear energy. It also suggests that the public could be buying propaganda which could result in them feeling buyers-remorse. Anti-nuclear energy organizations argue that nuclear energy is not only unsafe, but it is also expensive. They argue that nuclear power plants will create an everlasting potential for widespread devastation similar to the Fukushima meltdown in 2011. On top of that plants are also expensive to set up and decommission, and the costs of storing radioactive waste (effectively indefinitely) also have to be (Arguments for and against nuclear power). The audience feels that not only are they paying for an expensive project, but they are also buying their future doom. The general public is always visually interpreting every form of media presented to them. They are constantly analyzing and applying ethos, pathos, and logos to their thoughts even if they do not consciously realize it. Organizations abuse this information by setting up images that invoke a certain feeling to nuclear energy. Pictures one and two are great examples of how anti- nuclear organizations persuade the general public who have no prior knowledge into being against nuclear energy. By staging events such as in picture one and creating cartoon images in picture two, can create a sense of dread when the topic of nuclear energy comes up. The general public must learn when to trust and not to trust information. Visual propaganda has been used throughout history to ingrain certain opinions into the general population. They must beware that without further research into the matter, they could be tricked over and over again. Stone 5 Picture 1: Picture 2: Stone 6 Works Cited What Do I Do in a Nuclear Emergency?  United States Nuclear Regulatory Commision. NRC, 27 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Arguments for and against nuclear  DebatingEurope.eu. Debating Europe, 1 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Storage and Disposal of Radioactive  World Nuclear Association. World Nuclear, 30 Oct. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.