Nicole Trantina Trantina 1 Bob Botkin ENC 1102 11 March 2017 Universal Healthcare and the right to Healthcare in the United States of America 7,487,185,500 and counting. That is the total population of the Earth as of 24 th of February 2017. With as many people as there are on Earth, some are dying due to the fact that there is no healthcare to help them heal. With over 319,000 births Around the world today and 132,000 deaths just today as well, healthcare does help in making the birthing process easier for some as well as the process of death a bit less frightening for some. Many different organizations support the implementing of universal healthcare such as, Public Health and Social Justice, the people of America, and some government officials. This paper is going to explain why Universal Healthcare in the United States would be a practical idea with pictures as to why it would be practical. Healthcare is a Human Right. Bold, debatable, but in the end true. Looking at the first picture below, a bold choice in color is shown. The three colors seen are blue, yellow, and white. Color choice not only can catch a attention, but it helps to tell a story. The first color, blue is normally associated with sadness, which could very well be the case here, but the color blue also associates with tranquility, and promotes cleanliness and health (Parker). The blue is also in the background of the picture which could mean various things. A reason it could be in the background is to symbolize that after healthcare becomes a human right, calmness and tranquility will come to the people of the United States. The blue could also symbolize wealth. Using it in the background could symbolize that once healthcare is treated as a right, wealth will Trantina 2 come to the government as well as the United States in general. The word stability and blue go and in hand. This poster is showing the that with healthcare as a right, the United States would become more stable. Joy, energy, warmth. Those are three very good descriptive words on the color yellow. In the image below, yellow is used on the wording. This could be used to show the warmth and joy of healthcare being a human right, as well as the high energy to get healthcare to be known as a human right. Yellow is known for grabbing a attention whether it be in the form of a warning or just to highlight something important. Using yellow for the words created a sense of emergency and importance for viewers because of the darker blue background making the yellow stand out more prominently. The Yellow also creates a sense of childhood, which could also lead a reader to believe that it is not only saying healthcare is for the adults, but for the youth who will one day grow up to support a family of their own one day. This color represents every type of person who would have a right to healthcare without any discrimination. Purity, light, goodness, safety. All the beautiful words that comes with the color white. The color white is the border of the picture because it symbolizes the purity of being healthy. Healthcare and the right to healthcare will allow many people treatment which would put them in the white border area of the image below. The border could also represent the people who have been treated or the healthcare professions who have helped treat the ill. The font used in the image below also represents that they are not trying to force this statement down the throat. They are simply trying to show the importance of healthcare. Without forcing the statement with harsh, capital letters, it was only capitalized with the First letters of words. With the use of these letters being normal, it allows time for people of power and the rest of the United States to change. Trantina 3 Universal Healthcare and the right to healthcare work hand and hand. As seen in the second image below, Universal healthcare gives the power of healthcare to every person in a country such as Austria, giving all Austrians the right to use their healthcare. The image has a color scheme that would catch an eye. It would catch the eye of an American because it has the look of an American Flag. Giving it the look of an American flag also gives the image a sense of freedom. Freedom is something everybody strives for. This could symbolize that with the use of Universal Healthcare, it will allow more citizens of the United States freedom to make themselves healthy. The United States does not make health a big priority and falls behind on its health care rankings (debate). Action, energy, passion. Those are three key terms anyone would imagine when talking about the color red. The image below shows three colors; red, white, and blue. Blue and white have been talked about in previous paragraphs and in both images, they help to convey the message of healthcare rights. With red, it is one color that really pops out at a reader. Red was used in this image to portray action. The red is there to help grab the attention of the reader and call the reader to action. Calling the viewers and readers to action is extremely important when trying to implement Universal Healthcare because the more people on board, the quicker it may be brought on to the American people. When looking at the image below, It can be seen that it is circular. Looking more in depth, a circle symbolizes wholeness, perfection, and movement. A circle could also be used to show the circle of life because that correlates with health. It correlates with health because in life babies are born and people die, but both of those could happen in a hospital, and both of those have to do with health. The circle is also white which could symbolize the purity of the life cycle. Trantina 4 When looking at the images below, it can be seen that they are all about Universal Healthcare. The images are trying to tell a story. The story they are trying to tell is about healthcare in the Unites States of America. If the United States would start ranking healthcare as an important part of American society, the right to healthcare would be easier to obtain. Universal Healthcare could also be implemented so that the people of the United States of America are able to use or discard their right to healthcare. Both of the images tell a story and call the American people and government to action. Implementing Universal Healthcare would benefit the United States because it would be helpful to many people who are in need. Trantina 5 Image 1: Public Health and Social  Public Health and Social Justice. N.p., 2015. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Image Two: Should a universal health care system be implemented in the  Debate.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Trantina 6 Works Cited  University of Michigan. N.p., 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Current World  World Population Clock: 7.5 Billion People (2017) - World meters. N.p., 1 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Public Health and Social  Public Health and Social Justice. N.p., 2015. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Should a universal health care system be implemented in the  Debate.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.  The Meaning of Colors. N.p., 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.