Velez 1 Madison Velez Professor Smith Comp 1 Scholarly Conversation Regarding Animal Agriculture Over recent years, people have begun to take notice of the effects that animal agriculture has on the environment. There has been a global push towards more eco- friendly practices, including dietary changes like vegetarianism and veganism. This push came with the revelation that animal agriculture truly is contributing to the destruction of the planet, and although it is not the only factor causing this, it is a major contribution. Before 2010, most scholarly conversations focused on the idea that all animal agriculture was beneficial and positive. There had not been much research done on consequences such as global warming. After 2010, however, things became clear that it was not all good. Scientists are now able to prove through facts and statistics just how much of an impact livestock have on the Earth. The overall attitude of animal agriculture has shifted from that a general state of ignorance and being somewhat oblivious to its effects (Eisler), to immense distress and a call to reverse the damage it has already done to the environment (Hyner). Before 2010, the attitude was fairly positive and focused heavily on how humans benefit directly from animal agriculture. Conversation was mostly concerned with the way the human race was able to expand because of animal agriculture- the creation of more jobs, more food, and more economic activity. Another major source of positivity seen in this point was the fact that farmers could alter their livestock through selective breeding. With this process, it could be almost guaranteed that whenever the calf was Velez 2 born, it would be the meatiest and therefore create more of a profit. Farmers could also use this technique to manipulate the probability of diseases among cattle. All of this was looked at as a benefit because it was literally the act of playing with DNA. Doing this could result in many beneficial outcomes- livestock free of illness, animals producing more meat by being larger, and being almost positive that all newborn cattle would have no issues because farmers could breed the strongest bulls and cows. As Professor Mark C. Eisler of the University of Bristol put it, genomics could guide selective breeding to boost production of animals that are already adapted to their climates and resistant to local (Eisler). However, after 2010, scientists and farmers both began to notice the toll that raising millions of animals at once has on the Earth. First came the concern of disease, both resulting from eating meat and those already present in meat supplies. As told by Farm Foundation, a non-profit organization that provides more research concerning agribusiness than any other group, continue to express concern about antibiotic and chemical residue in (Farm Foundation, page 1). This revelation sparked a massive movement towards diets which were free of animal products, because one cannot make certain that their source of meat is free of harmful chemicals such as hormones. Then came the realization that the killing of these animals at such an alarming rate was resulting in dangerously small populations, most noticeably in fish. As told by Dr. Christopher Hyner, graduate of Stanford Law, to the FAO approximately 75% of the fisheries are either exploited or depleted due to fishing, which will likely lead to the complete depletion of currently fished fish stocks by (Hyner). This statistic is alarming because there are billions of fish, so for the Velez 3 supply of fish to be depleting is almost impossible to imagine. Also, 2048 is only a mere 31 years away. The latest find, however, is possibly the scariest- the production of so much cattle has caused an abundance of manure to sink into the soil, poisoning groundwater with nitrogen and phosphorus. This water eventually makes its way into the homes of unsuspecting Americans, who have no idea they are drinking, bathing in, and cooking with contaminated water. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, an agency of the federal government created for protecting human health and the environment, agriculture manure is a primary source of nitrogen and phosphorus to surface and (EPA). Just by cutting back on meat consumption and production, people would not only live a healthier existence, but a cleaner one as well. As shown in the articles, scholarly attitude towards animal agriculture has shifted from positive to negative. This is largely due to the findings of research that suggest the practice of raising livestock is depleting the health of our Earth. However, with enough effort, these negative effects could be lessened, or even reversed. Velez 4 References Cullman, Constance. Farm Foundation. Future of Animal Agriculture in North America -  Farm Foundation. N.p., 2012. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Eisler, Mark C. Agriculture: Steps to Sustainable  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, 2010. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Hyner, Christopher. A Leading Cause of Everything: One Industry That Is Destroying Our Planet and Our Ability to Thrive on  Stanford Law Review 27.1 (2015): 209. Web. Pruitt, Scott. Estimated Animal Agriculture Nitrogen and Phosphorus from  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 11 May 2015. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.