Dean 1 Daniel Dean Bob Botkins ENC1102 1 April 2017 Yes, Hydraulic Fracturing is Detrimental In a world increasingly concerned about the availability of natural resources, scientific innovations have opened the door to new methods of obtaining gases and oils. One of the most recent methods used to extract natural gases is hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing acts as a double-edged sword. It permits energy companies to have the ability to obtain previously unreachable sources of natural energy, but poses an environmental risk in the long term (Weinstein). Hydraulic fracturing is the process by which energy resource companies inject fracturing fluid (primarily water mixed with salt and other chemicals) deep into the earth shale plates, in an attempt to open veins within the shale plates to bring oil and natural gases to the surface of the earth, to be extracted. Once the veins are open, the veins are kept open by the solutions in the fracturing fluid. Once the fracturing fluid is removed a decent flow of natural gases and crude oil rises to the surface of the earth to be stored and processed by these government funded energy searching companies; such as: Chevron Corp, ExxonMobil Corp, Cabot Gas and Oil. The hydraulic fracturing experiment was first publicly attempted in the early 1940s in a small town in Oklahoma. The hydraulic fracturing experiment was later publicly proven successful in the early 1950s. Recent reports state that there have been over 2.5 million attempts of hydraulic fracturing in the U.S. alone. Because of the nature of the fracturing process it can only be applied in rural areas of America, helping North Dakota to become the second-largest oil, producing state in the U.S. Due to the rise in demand for energy sources, the energy source companies are prompted to begin to attempt Dean 2 fracturing closer to populated regions, which can be very hazardous to the occupants of the nearby towns. The two photos that are to be discussed in this essay are those that portray the negative effects of the fracturing industry. Based on the research, it can be argued that the hydraulic fracturing process is more detrimental than helpful to the environment. Though it can be argued that it is a reliable energy source, the negative effects are harsher than that of the benefits. The picture I am explaining is the picture above. The first thing the picture says is WATER? this statement was used to tug on the logos side of thinking because it is simple and easy to associate with. In the picture, the word water is blue with a bright red offset showing the high alert that the water is in danger. And in between the two statement they list some of the fatal gases that are found in the ground water due to faults in the hydraulic fracturing process. The list of fatal gases between the statement and the DRINK GAS OR MONEY is a way to transition to the fact that with these chemicals in the water is not safe. It is targeting the faults in the fracturing industry, and the contamination of the ground water due to faults in the fracturing process. That though hydraulic fracturing is profitable humans can not drink the profits. Dean 3 The We drink means that though the fracturing industry is very profitable economically, from a stand point it very profitable. The photo also states that it is not worth the money to throw away an essential component to the health of the common man. Studies show that a human being can go about three weeks without food, but water is a different story. Water makes up about 60 percent of a body, so a normal human being cannot go three days without water or that person would surely perish. Is it really that important to continue to endanger the world just to make a quick profit? No, because at the rate the contamination of the ground water due to the hydraulic fracturing process, there will be nothing left on the earth to enjoy the profit, that the hydraulic fracturing process produces. Notice in the photo that the protester use of the bright red writings is a means by which the letters are an attempt to convey to the viewers the urgency of the matter. This photo also lists the different chemicals that are highly fatal to a human being, these are the same chemicals that leak into the groundwater due to the faults in the fracturing process. In this photo, it is an attempt to appeal to the ethos side of rhetoric. Ethos represents the credibility or ethical appeal which usually involves persuasion by the character involved. This picture was able to Dean 4 capture a very famous actor (Mark Ruffalo). Mark Ruffalo stated that fracturing is an extreme form of oil and gases extraction that leads to water contamination, air pollution, earthquakes, illness, exacerbates climate change and turns communities upside down (Ruffalo). Using Mark Ruffalo to foreground this protest makes the public more likely to take the problem at hand, serious. Due to the stage that actors are set upon, Mark Ruffalo is able to use this stage to spread the word for more protests and to influence people who generally be interested in this subject matter. Because in the mind of the common man, who is in pursuit of the lifestyle of these celebrities, they associate everything endorsed by them to be something legit to look into or start caring about. Another noticeable feature in the picture is the dirty jug of water that Mark Ruffalo is holding. On the jug of dirty water, there is a label. The label reads Dimock water is one of the alarming results of hydraulic fracturing. The term Dimock water comes from a small town in Pennsylvania, that the hydraulic fracturing has affected severely as seen in the picture. The tap water of Dimock is a greenish color which is usually associated with gas. The greenish color comes from the high concentrates of methane gases that are leaked into the ground water. This was a result of a faulty hydraulic fracturing well that was owned by Cabot Gas and Oil. The highest profiled event surrounding the Dimock water case was when a local resident lost her home due to the explosion of her water well that was underneath her house. The water well exploded due to the high concentrates of methane gases in the well water caused by a faulty hydraulic fracturing well, that leaked into her well water. The home resident filed a federal lawsuit because of the damage. Cabot gas and oil tried to deny their role in the explosion. But when further investigated the scientist working the cases could prove that the motorized well underneath the home turned on and flick a spark that caused a blast. The blast easily moved the concrete foundation of the house, that weighed several thousand pounds (Dimock). Luckily the resident home at the time or things been a whole lot worse. Dean 5 Further in the background of the picture are protest signs with FRACKING in big bold letters to capture the eye. Right next to the word BAN is a symbol of fire. Fire symbolizes that hydraulic fracturing causes the groundwater and the atmosphere and everything else affected to become flammable because of the methane component. Though it can be argued that hydraulic fracturing, brings in profit and helps build the economy, by bringing in jobs, it helps the nearby communities. The fatalities outweigh the benefits, because even though hydraulic fracturing brings in revenue, if the hydraulic fracturing kills and sickens the people of a community then there is no one to enjoy the revenue. What good is money to dead people? And as seen above in the case of the Dimock Water, hydraulic fracturing is very harmful not limited to the climate, but the resident towns that are nearby hydraulic fracturing wells. Hydraulic fracturing should be stopped because the only party that gains anything from hydraulic fracturing is the oil and gas companies. They are not looking out for the public, but rather for the profit that comes with the sales of these energy resources. Hydraulic fracturing is a dangerous and short-sighted energy procedure and is only profitable to the oil companies (Mcrae). Hydraulic fracturing needs to be stopped before it is too late. Dean 6 Works Cited PA: In The Fight Over NPR, NPR, 25 May 2016, stateimpact.npr.org/pennsylvania/tag/dimock/. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Mcrae, Maria. Earthjustice, 23 Sept. 2015, earthjustice.org/climate-and- energy/oil-gas-drilling/fracking. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Ruffalo, Mark. The Guardian. 13 Feb. 2016 http://www.ecowatch.com/mark-ruffalo-theres-no-fracking- that-can-be-done-safely1882173665.html Weinstein, Mark. Wisconsin International Law Journal (2013): 881.document