Adair 1 Paul Adair ENC 1102 Sensei Drugan 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Marijuana has been quite a controversial topic throughout recent years. Multiple groups have formed in support or against the legalization of the drug. Each group is a stakeholder because they could either benefit or fall based from the outcome on such a debated topic. Each stakeholder has their own forms of publicity, but online advertising through picture has proven the most effective with the recent technological advances and everyone who uses the internet. These advertisements all address the four rhetorical pathos, logos, and kairos. This allows for the audience to relate to the visuals associated with the ad on a more personal and deeper level, causing them to have more interest in the topic. Publicity often determines which stakeholders have the most power and the most support, therefore the National Organization for the Reform for Marijuana Laws (NORML) has taken certain measures to market themselves as much as possible. NORML is the stakeholder organization presented. They stand for the full recreational legalization of marijuana in the US, fighting on a day to day basis to reform the laws and regulations regarding the use of marijuana. Their stake in the topic is that they will lose everything if marijuana officially gets labeled as illegal all over the states. The image presented in one of their Adair 2 advertisements shows a politician with a speech bubble showing him admitting to smoking weed. NORML wants the audience to feel as if they are not alone if they smoke marijuana and that actually quite Also, on their website, NORML has another photo of a marijuana dispensary from a state which legal in. Both images are there to back their claims and what NORML stands for. Ethos focuses on the cultural side of the appeal. Society is created of many different classes of people based on financial and social status. Politicians are typically viewed as well-established individuals in society. The fact that one is on ad and admitting that he smokes weed is supposed to make the ad more credible and intends for people to say, okay for me to smoke marijuana too On the other image, NORML shows a dispensary and a jar full of marijuana. Dispensaries are becoming part of society as weed is becoming increasingly more legal across the states. By using a dispensary as a model, it shows people what they could have in their own neighborhood shopping center. The image is appealing to the audience by showing them what others have access to and they do not. Culture and society around people can often mold their opinions and stakeholders use it to their advantage. Pathos uses a more emotional approach towards the viewers. first image is aimed to make the audience feel relieved. When they find out that politicians smoke marijuana, supposed to ease up on the idea of smoking pot. Also, his face looks mellow and relaxed, which portrays an image that he may have been high in the picture. The second image aims at making the audience feel like marijuana is within reach. NORML wants to spark a feeling of Adair 3 jealousy in the audience. If other states have that type of access to marijuana then obviously the viewers will be jealous that they go run to the store and buy some drugs and push for legalization as well. Logos is the appeal to logic. The first image has a claim that says, NORML to smoke This is supposed to demand to the logic of people and shape it so they too believe that it is normal to smoke it. If NORML wins the ongoing debate on the issue, it most likely will be. The second image is all about what people first think about something when they see it. The logical thing to think when seeing a picture of something one have is to want it. Per Affinity study, if a person sees the same number/numbers repeatedly then they will be kept in the back of their head and link all the occurrences they see those numbers together. 1 If people repeatedly see pictures of dispensaries, want them more. This is the tactic both stakeholders are trying to use to alter logic when marijuana is brought up. Kairos fortifies both advertisements by letting people know that there is no better time to act than now. It says on the image, last, an honest This portrays an image that says to the audience that no need to hide the fact that they smoke anymore and if they admit it to their friends and others, everyone will realize what they are doing is not bad. It tells them to hurry up and act now because the longer they wait, the longer take for it to be normalized into modern culture. The image of the dispensary works with kairos as a reminder. Every time people see it be reminded that now is the time to act if they want to have a 1 http://affinitynumerology.com/faq/seeing-a-certain-number-again-and-again.php#maincontentcontinue Adair 4 dispensary where they live. Although kairos is definitely not the most present rhetorical appeal, it still makes a big difference for advertising a cause. NORML proves themselves good at publicizing their goals through their visual representations online. The images stick to the core values of the organizations and are very clear in what they are trying to do. These images prove that rhetorical appeals are essential considerations every organization should make before putting any publicity out into society. Stakeholders are at a constant battle with each other to push the law one way or another and must use all the support they can get. NORML is on the right track with their advertising and correctly uses rhetoric to make their images relevant to everyone. 1. 2. Adair 5 Works Cited About NORML. 29 June 2013. 26 Februry 2017. <http://norml.org/about>. Author, Volunteer. 2006. 26 February 2017. <https://calmusa.org/>. Brontrager, Will. affinitynumerology.com. 1998. Research . 26 February 2017.