Shabbir 1 Moiz Shabbir William Drugan ENC 1102-072 25 February 2017 Euthanasia, the matter of life and death. Shabbir 2 These pictures express the view on voluntary euthanasia. These images convey a message to others to know that they should have right to end their life if they suffer from terminal illness. The main purpose of this picture is to convey a message to the government across the world to give, terminally ill patient, the right of choice to end their life, instead of suffering from an incurable disease which will eventually lead to death. These pictures show that if a person has the disease and they decide that they do not want to live their life not being able to control their body, euthanasia would give them an opportunity for a peaceful, relaxing death (William 1). These images contain lots of meaning and logic behind it. Rhetorical techniques are effective in these visuals because of proper use of emotions as a person in a hospital bed suffering and struggling from an incurable disease and people of United Kingdom protesting and asking for the right of choice to end their life. This makes the perfect use of pathos and logos co-existing with each other and the use of weak ethos. Shabbir 3 In picture 1, pathos is used effectively by the woman reflecting the pain of having terminal sickness and showing that is so painful that it is not worth (William 2). By describing pain, emotional appeal is attained. Her suffering also expressed in the way that she want her family to see her like this, and to undergo the suffering with him as well. She also tries to emphasize that she is not the only one who is suffering but her loved once is also suffering without any illness. Pathos is also effective in a way that her family can endure the pain of losing her and seeing her in pain. Her situation in a hospital bed also reflects that she want anyone to suffer the same pain; she is going through and also give a message to their loved once that how it feels to have someone, who you love more than anything else, is suffering and struggling from the incurable disease which will eventually lead them to death. This makes audience sense the pain of the patient and grieves them that not easy to suffer pain or to live an artificial life on the machine. In Picture 2, people of Great Britain were protesting and asking for the right of the terminally ill person to die due to voluntary euthanasia. People are showing their emotions by wearing pink t-shirts. Pink color mostly symbolizes for love and peace. The people wearing pink color t-shirts in the image imitates that they love their loved once and they do not want them to suffer the pain due to an incurable disease. The love and the pain both combine to form an emotional appeal effective as pathos. Another way this picture shows the emotions that patients who are suffering pain from the terminal disease have no right to choice to end their life dignity. While it is clearly stated that about 82% of the population of the United Kingdom supports the idea of assisted dying but still the government allow to practice euthanasia which makes the suffering more painful. The people in the picture are trying to convey the message to other, Shabbir 4 especially government, that people should have the right of choice over their death and try to sense the pain. Logos expressed in picture 1 when the terminally ill woman says that is so painful that it is not worth 2). The picture says it all that throughout in life we made lots of decisions such as going to school to become an engineer, drinking, getting married, choosing to what to wear, and many other decisions. It also logical for us to say made my final we just need the government to listen (Exit International 2010). The thought of having wish of ending his life is also logical to himself. As I stated above that not only the patient is suffering from pain but also his family and loved once are also suffering without any illness; that means that families are worried about his pain and loss. To prevent family suffering and burdensome on family, Patient makes a wise decision to practice euthanasia. Logos expressed in picture 2 when the majority of population support euthanasia but the government is hesitant to legalize euthanasia. The logic behind people supporting the idea of assisted dying for a terminal ill person is that it would not only end suffering, but it also saves the health care system a lot of money which can be used for other patients who have a chance of survival (Marshall 3). We could also look at euthanasia a different way, if the person agrees to be euthanized, their body can be used for science to treat life-threatening illnesses and could prevent a lot of deaths. Also, medical student use bodies to learn about becoming a doctor (Marshall 4). better to die a peaceful and more natural death than living off a machine that keeps alive. Ethos in both pictures is weak. Since the information provided come from the credible source. Picture 1 shows an old lady wearing life support breathing mask and asking a simple question is this life? While picture 2 is said to be little credible because it shows the Shabbir 5 United Kingdom flag waving at the top of the building and people protesting for their rights of choice over their death. This protest also got famous on Dailymail.co.uk and a most debatable issue for the former prime minister of the United Kingdom, David Cameron. David Cameron also states that want to see an expansion of euthanasia in our country. I think there are dangers and so I support Minister David Cameron. To conclude, these pictures are a message to the government for the legalization of euthanasia. Thou, there are many other factors that the government support the practice of euthanasia. Such as suicide rate become higher and abuse of euthanasia may lead to increase in crime rate. But, there are more positive factors of euthanasia that better to spend money on terminal disease than to spend it on poor and needy people. The body may be used for diagnostic of that incurable disease by which we can treat that disease, in future, easily. Therefore, the United States government has legalized the practice of euthanasia in just five states and gave terminal ill the right to end their life with dignity. Shabbir 6 Work Cited Matt Chorley, Political Editor for MailOnline. Shock as to for the Terminally Ill Law Is Overwhelmingly Defeated by MPs after Highly-charged Four-hour  Daily Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 11 Sept. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 Marshall, Robert, Euthanasia - Infogram, Charts &  Infogr.am. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Exit International. (2010, September 10). Banned exit euthanasia ad [Video Retrieved from http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qRDZFwlWU1s Web. 25 Feb. 2017.