Alnour 1 Hamza Alnour William Drugan ENC 1102.070 26 February 2017 Campaigns Against SeaWorld In the fight for rights and animal captivity the biggest organization that is on the side of the animals is PETA. PETA has been in legal fights with SeaWorld for years now over the captivity of orcas and other marine mammals. By using advertisements and different projects to try to get people to stop going to SeaWorld theme parks, PETA hopes to get sea world to change its ways for the betterment of the animals. PETA uses different ways of getting attention towards this issue, the first image is a graphic cartoon poster that was placed in the San Diego airport and the second image is from a project that is trying to get information to people in a fun way, that is through virtual reality and voiced by actress Edie Falco uses Google Both of these images are completely different and yet they serve the same goal, that is the freedom the orcas deserve. Peta has been fighting for rights for over 30 years now and in 2011 they went to court to release orcas from SeaWorld to the wild for the first time ever, and been trying to get people to boycott SeaWorld and free the captive orcas ever since About ). stance on the issue is stated on their website believes that animals have rights and deserve to have their best interests taken into consideration, regardless of whether they are useful to humans. Like you, they are capable of suffering and have an interest in leading their own PETA also has a reputation in using graphic, intense, or fun advertisement for their campaigns like the first and second image and their famous advertisements that feature nudity. Alnour 2 The first image is of a poster that was hung in the San Diego airport before the comic-con convention, it was presented in that spot to urge the goers of the convention to not go to a SeaWorld theme park during their stay in San Diego for the convention (Stone). The second image is of a virtual reality tour of the united states of how the orcas live in the open ocean and why they be living in small tanks like tanks. The main part from this image is the poster of a baby orca in a small fish tank with crack in the glass and a hammer in front of it that is meant to be perceived by the viewer that they are able to smash the tank and set the orca free. Although the first image is powerful in its own unique way, it offer a form credibility because its goal is to give the viewer an impression that SeaWorld treat its animals in a good way, that impression is similar to a first impression acquired when meeting a stranger. The first image is focused more on that first impression more than showing any type of credibility. The only thing remotely related to showing credibility in the first image is using logo, yet that show how the information they are trying to pass on to the viewer is in any way credible. While the second image also show much credibility, the use of a known actress like Edie Falco shows that someone that is well known is backing this organization and back it up unless there is sufficient credible information given. uses Google The PETA logo is also present in the second image, while it is unnecessary and show credibility it is used so that people know that the poster or campaign is done by PETA, and it was made by a legitimate organization. One of the strongest and distinct parts of the first image is the use of the color red in about half of the poster. The color red is used to convey the emotion of anger from the viewers towards the poster and also convey anger from the orcas for their bleak living environment. The Alnour 3 color red is also used as blood, it is used as the blood of the orca and also the blood of the human that the orca is dragging down. While for the second image, the phrase them be in the second image is used so the audience feels empathy and guilt that they are the only people that can help the orcas and free them from these unjust living environments and that they done anything yet, also that they need to act on these emotions. The man in the suit in between the teeth in the first image is assumed to be CEO, the man is also used so that the viewer looks at the issue in a different light, the viewer is supposed to put himself in the shoe of the CEO and try to help in this issue. While in the second image, the logo, which is a man and an orca side-by-side, is used so the audience sees the orcas as equals rather than just brainless and emotionless animals and we should care about them the same way we care to other humans. Moreover, the use of a baby orca in a small fish tank in the second image, as opposed to a normal fully grown adult orca, is supposed to make the audience think about how will the orca grow in that small fish tank that is not appropriate for the development of a massive animal like that. The air bubbles that are coming from the human on the opposite half to the color red in the first image is used to convey urgency and that time is running out to help the orcas and the CEO; Also, if no action takes in affect over some time in the near future then the negative news and words might bring down the SeaWorld company. The placement of the hammer in front of the fish tank and the broken glass from the fish tank in the second image are used to show the viewers need to act now, while also showing that anyone and everyone can help the captive orcas towards a better and less harmful life. Finally, even though these two images were completely different and came from two different campaigns against SeaWorld, they both served the same main topic and goal. They both Alnour 4 gave information to the public about why they should stop going to SeaWorld parks. The first image is a graphic cartoon poster that was placed in an airport to make people not go to a SeaWorld park when in town. The poster was also made to make the viewer feel anger towards SeaWorld and to show the urgency in this issue. The second image is from an informational virtual reality tour about the ways orcas live in the wild, it was made so people know more about orcas and stop supporting SeaWorld. Alnour 5 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Peta uses Google Cardboard in SeaWorld  Hypergrid Business. N.p., 1 June 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Stone, Ken . SeaWorld Strikes Back at  Times of San Diego. N.p., 22 July 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Alnour 6