Cabal 1 Manuel Cabal February 16, 2017 ENC 1102-072 Project 2 Intermediate Draft How the U.S. Military Gets You There has always been war all throughout history and when there is war you need an army of soldiers to protect what you are fighting for. The United States of America has always used different types of ads and other means to recruit for our Military so we can have men and women protecting us at all times. During wars such as World War I, World War II, and the Vietnam war you would see flyers and all sorts of advertisements about enlisting in the Army or help support the war by either buying war bonds or working in factories to make weapons and ammunition for the men overseas. The United States Military needs smart and strong people in order to make sure that they have employees that are well equipped for the tasks at hand that include, but are not limited to, investigating terrorist acts, protecting the United States from people who want to do harm, and making sure that terrorists attacks are stopped before they are even started. Both photos from the United States military that I will discuss about both contain similar rhetorical appeals. The first picture uses red, white, and blue to show patriotism and the picture also make the audience feel wanted or special when they look at the ad and it points at them saying they are wanted for the Army. In the second photo that is being analyzed also makes the person looking at it feel the need to help and without their help the soldiers have supplies for the war. The United States military Cabal 1 makes sure pictures like these go through rigorous testing to ensure that they get people to support the war or enlist a serve their country. 1 st image The first image is a classic ad when it comes to the United States of America recruiting for the Army. This image uses the United States colors (red, white, blue) to show patriotism and attracts American citizens to wanting to serve their country. When you look at the front it is in big bold letters so it ca stand out and make it seem very important to the person looking at this ad. Also the word is the only word that is completely red, which makes it pop out in comparison to the other words in the picture. This can make the person looking at this picture feel as if directed at them. Uncle Sam is also pointing in this picture to the direct of the person looking at this image which also makes them feel like they are wanted. The appeal of big text and the finger pointing is part of pathos because it tries to appeal to emotion because humans like to see big things and it draws their attention as well as making Cabal 1 them feel wanted by pointing at them and making the stand out in red. Having the recruiting in the image tells people where to go to enlist for the United States Army. The people that this picture appeals to is almost every American over the age of eighteen and that is able to fight to protect our country. When the image uses our colors (red, white, blue) it also appeals to pathos due to it relating to our country and wanting to find brave soldiers willing to put their life on the line to protect our country and its citizens. 2 nd image The second image is from World War 1, and in this image it has our troops in trenches firing at the enemy. This image deals with the same criteria as the first image but instead of enlisting as a form of helping our country during a time of war, the image wants the person Cabal 1 reading it to support our troops by buying war bonds to help pay for the war cost. In this image it shows the war bonds being used as ammunition, this appeals to ethos because it is logical if you buy war bonds it helps supply the military with weapons and ammunition. bonds are a mean for governments to borrow money in times of (International Encyclopedia of the First World War). The font of this image makes the message stand out more to get the point across. This makes the font pop out more and draw attention to the text. The appeal of big text is part of pathos because it tries to appeal to emotion because people like to see big things and it catches their attention. In this image it has every phase in different colors and the front size gets smaller as you go down the image. This is because of the importance of each phrase, it goes from most important to the least. The United States treasury department wants you to feel like you need to help the soldiers by getting the war bonds so they can keep fight the war to keep our country safe. This appeals to kairos, because it make the American citizens want to pull out their wallets and buy war bonds to help our men overseas. On the bottom of this image it appeals to ethos because the image says by the United States treasury which gives the ad more credibility and make it a reliable source. War has always been around throughout history and that makes the need for soldiers a constant demand as well as the help from the average citizen. In order for the United States of America to get either the smartest and strongest soldiers or get average everyday citizens to help support a war our government and its departments must create advertisements to draw the attention of its citizens. The two advertisements by the United States Government appeal to two different types of people. The first image appeals to the people that want to serve their country by putting their life on the line to protect our country. The second image appeals to Cabal 1 the average citizen that chooses not go to war but still wants to support the war and our troops buy spending money on war bonds. In the time of war, United States Government is pressured to create new ways to get people to join the Military or help support the Military to make sure our country is safe. Cabal 1 Work Cited - War Bonds International Encyclopedia Of The First World War . Encyclopedia.1914-1918-online.net. N. p., 2017. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. - U.S. War . U-s-history.com. N. p., 2017. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. Uncle Sam Poster - Propaganda: Influencing War . Sites.google.com. N. p., 2017. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. - The Posters That Sold World War I To The American . Smithsonian. N. p., 2014. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. - Army To Spend $300 Million On Bonuses And Ads To Get 6,000 More . USA TODAY. N. p., 2017. Web. 1 Mar. 2017.