C a r d e n a s 1 Christopher Cardenas Professor William Drugan English 1102-085 26 February 2017 Project 2: Analyzing Visual Rhetoric Essay The Tampa Bay Rays Owner making Decisions about Moving out of St. Petersburg Within the Tampa Bay Rays Organization, the Owner, Stuart Sternberg, strongly wants to consider on relocating the team to a whole different location rather than remaining in St. Petersburg. The whole purpose of making this decision is to hopefully generate more of a fan base, receiving more money for the franchise, and even making a greater future for not just the Owner, but for the Team as well. While using the first visual image, which is saying will let Rays move out of Trop. City still Hopes to keep team in St. the information given seeks a goal for the Owner, Stuart Sternberg, with having an opportunity to actually consider of being able to move out of the St. Petersburg area by having a better chance for his future. Using the second visual image, which is saying get Green Light to look for New the probable goal here is the Owner and the Team itself will finally get the chance to search for new possible locations with hopefully receiving a better economic rise in their business, such as receiving a better and larger fan base and even earning a lot more money for the franchise as well. Overall, while using the four rhetorical appeals, Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos, it contributes well with discussing about how the Owner of the Tampa Bay Rays, Stuart Sternberg, wanting to establish a new ground with making a decision on moving out of St. Petersburg and even with searching for a new location to build the new stadium for his team. C a r d e n a s 2 To begin with, the Owner of the Tampa Bay Rays, Stuart Sternberg saying it pass, doomed to Sternberg said in San Diego, where attending Major League winter meetings. not taking this team out of the area. But me, and the chances of me owning this team in 2023 if we have a stadium are probably nil. Somebody else will take it and move it. not a threat, just the Stockfisch, and Mooney). The information given about what Stuart Sternberg is considering to do is if they move out of St. Pete then by saying all he wanted to do was to make a better future for not only himself, but for his team as well do him any good towards the future. To be able to get this problem resolved in his case is likely making threatening proposals to the St. Petersburg City Council that if the team have a new stadium plan by 2023 in the Tampa Bay area then the owner would resign from the ownership and sell the team to a new person who wants to own the Rays. Although, if the person takes ownership of the team then they will mostly likely have the chance to move out of the region if the St. Petersburg City Council give the green light of finding a new location for the Rays to play. Meanwhile, the first visual image had words saying will let Rays move out of Trop. City still Hopes to keep team in St. with the stadium in the background. The first rhetorical appeal to be talked about is ethos, which appeals to credibility or morality. First off, reaching an agreement between the St. Petersburg City Council and the Rays franchise can be beneficial for one another because it will let the Rays go their separate ways by making more revenue somewhere else then by staying in St. Pete. For the city of St. Petersburg, they have to worry about all the problems they were facing with the Rays if they planned on moving elsewhere. For the city itself, it would mostly likely make a lot more money with developers wanting to invest on the Trop site because be no longer in use with the Rays absence. Also, C a r d e n a s 3 having the Rays fans is important because with all the fan support, the Rays organization will need them to hopefully accept the possible outcome of changing stadium locations. The second rhetorical appeal used is pathos, which is appealing to emotion. It would make a great deal for the Owner and the team itself by moving out of St. Petersburg because staying in the St. Pete area is just not creating enough revenue for the Rays organization to accept and even the lack of attendance is harshly unaccepted as well. Considerably, many of the Rays fans that live far from or live by St. Pete will like the idea of changing the location of the stadium because many of the fans actually live far away from St. Petersburg and it would make perfect sense to save the peoples time of driving such a far distance by making the location for the new stadium a more reasonable spot for everyone to go to. Even the St. Petersburg City Council probably like this decision, but the Tampa Bay Rays need to make a change and set forth a better future for themselves and care less about the bad circumstances of leaving St. Pete. Furthermore, the third rhetorical appeal used is logos, which is appealing to logic and reason. With the reason on wanting to move is Bay Rays owner Stuart Sternberg said today that having one of the best teams in baseball has not improved the attendance at Tropicana Field, and he is convinced that his team will never be financially successful in downtown St. (Perry). Also, considering what the Ray fans think about a new opportunity of a new stadium location away from the St. Pete area, will benefit not only them but also the team as a whole. Even Stuart Sternberg was told that the Rays would do well in the box office if they won many games, but to eventually find out that winning itself bring in many fans to the Trop, it remains to the fact that the location of the stadium is a bad choice of place to hold the games. Mainly, there is a potential loss of money for the city of St. Pete if the Rays plan to move, but the Rays are a business and need to make money to keep everything rolling smoothly for the C a r d e n a s 4 future of the organization. The last rhetorical appeal is Kairos, which is appealing to timeliness. The time it will take for the Owner of the Rays and the St. Petersburg City Council to reach a final agreement will take some time due to the back and forth disagreement between one another on who will benefit a better future than the other. If the Rays plan to stay in St. Petersburg more than a given time, many of the fans and even the people who work for the Rays organization like that kind of decision because of the driving time for the fans getting to the games and the money loss for the franchise. Accordingly, the second visual image had words saying get Green Light to look for New with the stadium in the background. Going with the rhetorical appeal of ethos, having the fans trusting the Owner and the team to make a smart decision of choosing the right location of the new stadium is the right thing to do. Even making the Tampa Bay Rays a more announced team in a different location would be a wonderful thing to do because a lot of people would recognize this team and most likely come to the games more often and support their team as loyal and dedicated fans throughout many years to come. Rays, despite putting a quality product on the field, are at the bottom in the area of attendance. Their facility and its location are often cited as part of the (Sparks). With the Rays seeing the problem right here in front of them, something has to be done with this outrageous situation and with hopefully leading to a more successful organization later on. The second rhetorical appeal is talking about pathos, which deals with the Owner, Stuart Sternberg being very excited to hopefully land a deal with having a new stadium for his team to play on and going with a brand new change for the business by making bigger profits in the future for his team. Most of the fans will be thrilled about this decision of changing the location of the stadium, but for sure, many living in St. Pete already will not like the decision at all because it would be taking something important away from them since the Rays C a r d e n a s 5 have been in St. Petersburg since the late The thing is though the city of St. Petersburg will be nervous about losing money for the city if the Rays left, but the Rays have to sometimes make hard decisions throughout their business career to make it for the better of themselves. Mainly, the third rhetorical appeal is logos. This has to do with say this place, this place or the other place means we have any he said. need to know which is No. 1, and what we need to shoot for. The idea is to get that place and make it work (Topkin). The reason for the movement is finding a better location for more people to come and watch the Rays play, but finding the right location is definitely key in getting more sales in and receiving a greater fan base in return. There will be a lot of money for not only the team itself, but surely for the owner as well with the movement of the old stadium to the new one. For the last rhetorical appeal, which is Kairos, it plays well with searching and time needed for a new stadium location with researching and figuring out if the area has a lot of people that are interested in enjoying or committed to a new baseball town to come. Also, be better for the organization to start looking around for locations for the new stadium as soon as possible because to start on gaining and looking for more fans to come to the games, it will bring up the money problem from low to high for this teams income towards the future. In conclusion, while using the four rhetorical appeals, Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos, it contributes well with discussing about how the Owner of the Tampa Bay Rays, Stuart Sternberg, wanting to establish a new ground with making a decision on moving out of St. Petersburg and even with searching for a new location to build the new stadium for his team. With all the statistics given, Stuart Sternberg has a reasonable reason of potentially moving out of St. Pete to another location because if having to stay in St. Pete, the franchise will crumble from the lack of money lost and fan base as well. C a r d e n a s 6 Works Cited Page Chris, Stockfisch, Jerome R., Mooney, Roger. Rays to without new stadium TBO. http://www.tbo.com/news/breaking-news/sternberg-rays-doomed-to- leave-without-new-stadium-soon-20141209/. Web. 10 Dec. 2014. Accessed 26 February 2017. Perry, Mitch. owner says will not work in downtown St. Creative Loafing. http://www.cltampa.com/news-views/article/20734967/rays- owner-says-baseball-will-not-work-in-downtown-st-pete. Web. 21 Jun. 2010. Accessed 26 February 2017. Sparks, Bob. Sparks: St. Pete plays hardball. Could Rays be on way out of Florida Politics. http://floridapolitics.com/archives/tag/stuart-sternberg. Web. 22 Dec. 2014. Accessed 26 February 2017. Topkin, Marc. owner Stuart Sternberg optimistic about stadium search, Tampa Bay Times. http://web.tampabay.com/sports/baseball/rays/rays- owner-stuart-sternberg-optimistic-about-stadium-search-team/2312114. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Accessed 26 February 2017.