Torres 1 Carlos Torres Prof. William Drugan ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Rhetorical Appeals in printed advertisements have become one of the most commonly used strategies in the past few decades. Many advertising experts have successfully learned how to use the appropriate strategies in different types of advertisements. Whether the ad be on television, social networking websites, or magazines and newspapers, it is almost certain that either ethos, logos, pathos or kairos will be used to convey the purpose of the advertisement. In society, each of these rhetorical strategies are implemented into advertisements to provide the audience with a different perspective of the art. Each of these appeals allow a viewer to visualize and interpret the ad in a way that would not be possible by simply looking at an ordinary photo. Both of my advertisements are from the Ktech Corporation, a company that is devoted to encouraging children to use technology that will help guide them through their early education. This stakeholder provides and develops new gadgets that accommodate children who have suffered from life changing accidents, struggle with learning disabilities, or ones who simply need an extra push in their academics. In my first advertisement, a young boy by the name of David is shown through a small screen on a device that appears to allow him to see through it. The device is used to allow him to maneuver around as if he were physically present in the classroom. In this advertisement, it is evident that pathos is being used because of how the young boy is portrayed. He is shown to be around the age of preschool to kindergarten and it is Torres 2 mentioned in it that illness keep him out of As viewers learn that David is a young boy who has struggled with school because of illness, their emotion is triggered and the whole aspect of the advertisement in shifted. While reading the bottom of the ad, it says that the is used for students who physically attend school due to an illness, accident or medical condition. This type of rhetorical strategy is most successful for companies such as this one when using a vulnerable subject. One of the main reasons why Vtech used David as their subject was because he appeals to the audience more than if he was a grown man. Most often, highly successful advertisers who use choose to use pathos as their appeal will use children, animals, or cartoons to reach their audience at a different level of emotion. As many researchers may argue that technology has become one of the biggest distraction to children in school, others will say the complete opposite. some people worried that the computers were taking over too much of the that was the proper domain of the students, experience suggest that, in fact, students began internalizing the kinds of questions and attitudes embodied in the (Janie Hydrick 520) Overall, pathos can have one of the biggest impacts on an advertisement because of the attention it attracts to the subject of the ad. Similar to the young advertisement, the Ktech corporation also printed an advertisement of a young girl using a computer to do her homework. The girl is shown to be concentrating quite hard, and pathos is also present when analyzing the rhetorical strategies for this advertisement. The ad says discovered that computer + time = This is similar to the advertisement with David, they both use a young child to appeal to the audience. In generation, it is very important for the female gender to be powerful and make sure they are independent in their studies. As many female activists fight for equal rights, they often refer to young girls in school as the future of the country. Most feminists and other rights Torres 3 advocates may connect with this advertisement on a different emotional level than anyone else. Besides the fact that she is young and independently doing her homework, this advertisement can appeal to many parents, as it can remind them of the way their own children do their homework. Not only does this ad positively appeal to the audience, but it can also cause some controversy in the sense of a child spending too much time using technology. The advertisement clearly mentions how time is an important factor in how children do their homework. digital technology rapidly invades more aspects of human life and culture than ever before, our ideas of art, art making, and art education are continually (Taylor and Carpenter 84) According to this article, the quality of online resources is questioned to be as successful as they are meant to be. Many parents can agree that more time on the computer for children can lead to negative effects in their health. This can include things such as strain on their eyes, deprivation of sleep, or distraction from school work. All in all, pathos in advertisements can have just as much negative effects on their audience as there are positive ones. The second advertisement also can be considered to use logos as a rhetorical strategy because of what is stated at the bottom of the ad. When reading the bottom of the advertisement, there is a small paragraph that describes the text hidden under the girl: and technology: it all It is stated that using computer technology for tasks such as reading and writing documents, communicating with others, and searching for information on the internet, students with disabilities are capable of handling a wider range of activities independently. (Ktech) public generally agrees that for children to participate socially, economically, and politically in this new and different world, they must acquire a certain level of comfort and competence in using (Shields and Behrman 5) This rhetorical appeal is considered to deal with giving the audience facts, or using logical evidence to portray the overall purpose of Torres 4 the advertisement. This is also one of the most commonly used strategies because the logical perspective allows the audience to read and visualize the purpose of the advertisement without thinking about it too much. When an audience catches a glimpse of the ad and are immediately caught up with abstract concepts and complex diction, their interest can become lost and they no longer care about what the advertisement says. I personally prefer advertisements similar to this one because they are very simple to understand and they convey their purpose by stating what they stand for. Generally speaking, advertisement all over the world have continuously used many different rhetorical strategies not only to provide a deeper meaning to their ads, but to enlighten their audience and keep their mind active while engaging in their ads. Ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos can be found individually or together in many types of advertisements, and interpreting them can be crucial to how the someone perceives the ad. Torres 5 Works Cited HYDRICK, JANIE, and STEPHEN MARCUS. KIDS AND TECHNOLOGY REVELRY OR Language Arts, vol. 67, no. 5, 1990, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/41961770. Shields, Margie K., and Richard E. Behrman. and Computer Technology: Analysis and The Future of Children, vol. 10, no. 2, 2000, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/1602687. Taylor, Pamela G., and B. Stephen Carpenter. Art Education: Digital Kids, Art, and Visual Arts Research, vol. 33, no. 2, 2007, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/20715451.