Xie 1 Mingxuan Xie William Drugan ENC1102.085S17 26 February 2017 The Environment Problem and Chinese People This research about the environment problem and Chinese people, and what the attitude that people think about the pollution. As we know, China became the fastest developing country today, through achievements in technology and science. However, the environment polluted as the most serious problem in China, it has restrict the developing such as the economic and health. The high speed of development makes China wealthy, but backward modes of production cause the pollution, such as polluted air, water, and soil; because for the problem has occurred, more professional person have make a research about this, but the research finding cause the people have more misunderstand to the Chinese government, the wrong censure from people make the government hardly to explain and reformation. What reason that make Chinese people have misunderstanding to the environment problem. For make research and analysis, two images has found to make a research, this two images can be connect together which can make an analysis. The first image is a scientific comparison picture; it is about the PM 2.5----the most dangerous air pollutant source in China, have make a comparison to hair, explain how size between them each other; the second image is a photo, the audience can found a child running on the way with laugh, and beyond the child, a power plant is working, the Xie 2 chimney is smoking, the power plant use coal as energy source, and the overcast sky look like denaturalization. Although the Chinese governments have done some compromise to people that will limit or stop some high pollution industry company, depend on this to decrease the pollution level, however, some company use the legal loophole, continue illegal producing, because for they will discharge more harmful rejected material to cause the environment polluted, the people put the mistake to the government, that the government have not supervise seriously, make the illegal company still producing. The people are right, but they ignore a problem, the law always have loophole. During the Chinese government solve the problem, the environment pollution become the most problem in China, among them, the air pollution as known to all. After 2010s, the news about polluted begin increase, the most known by everybody is the is mean the Atmospheric particulate matter, the source from industrial, especially chemical industry, if use the fossil fuel, it will affect the air environment, and increase the particulate inhalation in air; the consistence increase, the air polluted is more serious. The first image has made a detail analysis to explain the grain, fine particulate matter refers to the aerodynamic equivalent of 2.5 microns in the ambient air; in the image, a message can be known, that the grain less than hair diameter 1/20, this grain can suspend in the air long-term, until it be inhalation in and lung, the grain can easily adsorb heavy metal grain and organic contaminant grain, it will cause respiratory disease, more serious will cause the cancer(Zhang 2016). In 2010, a serious, Xie 3 persistent fog weather Beijing, after several months, the number of news account about the respiratory disease started to increase, because people began notice this new health danger, and the government also noticed the venomous fog (Casey 2016). The air polluted although had been relieve in China, but it still not enough to optimistic, the air polluted still as a label that China have. The second image can illustrate the present situation in China. The photo have showed that a child laughing to running in the way, behind him, a power plant working, and the chimney smoking to the sky. Although the air pollution level have decrease because for the limit, but in winter, the heating apparatus need working again, in north part of China, nearly all family have install the water heating apparatus, this is common heating mode in north of China, it is heat by boiling water, the thermal power plant can use the coal to electric power generation, the water be used in water cooling device, some moments later, the used water was transmit to every family (Woodford 2017). However, the thermal power plant can make heating and generate electricity, the energy consumption cannot be ignore, as the image have showed, the massive smoke appeared, it always means the fuel have not full combustion, also means more inhalable particles along with smoke, these inhalable particles will as suspended matter in the air, when the winter monsoon move to south, the particles also move to the south of China, in final, it cause large-scale air polluted. Two images have a connection, that unclear air is cause by the grain, and how that the phenomenon be occurred. By understand the Xie 4 source and harm, it is easy to know why the Chinese people want the Chinese government to solve the problem imminently, the inhalable particles is harmful to everyone who live in China; however, more country solve the polluted problem have spent huge number of time and money, to solve the polluted problem is not easy work, the people do not want to wait long time, some of them start think some method to decrease the pollution emission. At first, the environment polluted occurred in China, more people think that government have not work on solve the problem, the misunderstand and noncooperation cause the problem solve in slow speed; today, although the misunderstand still existence, but more people try initiative to solve the pollution problem, especially air polluted. In future, it will be long time to cure Xie 5 This is cause the China air polluted primary pollution source, named Xie 6 Industrial coal use is a critical component of the rapid economic growth, but it has also contributed to air pollution. Xie 7 Work Cites Watters, Casey. Blue Skies Over Beijing: Economic Growth and the Environment in China. Library Journals, LLC, June 1, 2016, Vol. 141 Issue 10, p103, 1 p. Edward, Wong. Polluted skies heighten challenge for Chinese government. The New York Times. December 10 2015, Web, February 17 2017. Jam, Zhang. What is China doing to tackle its air pollution? BBC News Asia, 20 January 2016, Web, 17 February 2017. Chris, Woodford. Power plants (power stations). Explain That Stuff, 11 February 2017, Web, 26 February 2017.