Pennell 1 Melissa Pennell Professor Drugan ENC 1102 072 26 February 2017 Prostitution Sex work is a dangerous profession with limited protection under the law in the U.S. government. Many images or television shows portray prostitutes as drug addicts or someone who creates a rift in a life. However, sex workers are people too who should have rights. The English Collective of Prostitutes have been fighting since 1975 to abolish laws that put prostitutes in jail. The images on their website show the various rallies that they have participated in and includes their logo. Therefore, the two images on their website helps contribute to the decriminalization of sex work by the positive use of rhetorical appeals The use of ethos in both images from the English Collective of Prostitutes creates credibility for the abolition of laws against prostitution. The first image depicts a hand inside of a heart shaped Venus symbol to represent females. Furthermore, the Venus symbol also represents unity which establishes credibility and trust because it reminds the women looking at this image that these women are similar to them. The image displays the hand clutching money; the nails are painted which allows for people to look at the image and associate it with a regular woman. Similarly, the money establishes credibility due to the association between currency and power. Lastly, the Pennell 2 image states that there are bad women, just bad This is used to establish credibility by stating that the government is the problem and the law system not the women. The use of ethos in the second image that exhibits a woman holding a pink flag is the woman herself. She is meant to represent all women who may be in the lives and the women in this profession which then stablishes trust. According to an article written by Katy Steinmetz, a journalist for TIME about a study conducted by professors at Haverford College, women are more trustworthy compared to men especially when it comes to lies (1). The mask over her eyes is considered a symbol of power similar to a superhero. Furthermore, this is interpreted as her strength and independent especially since she has a flag which is her symbol for the decimalization of prostitution. The application of pathos in both images from the English Collective of Prostitutes makes the audience feel sympathy for sex workers. The first image uses the Venus heart shaped symbol to represent a sense of sisterhood and power. This makes the audience feel a connection with other women which then evokes sympathy. Also, the audience may feel like the fist in the image is meant to be a sign to revolt against current enforced laws. Furthermore, the phrase on the image implies that there are bad women, just bad and the black and white contrast implies that the removal of laws against sex work is black and white. The answer is yes; the government should remove the laws against them and protect prostitutes. Moreover, the black nails allow the image to stand out. They are not cream colored and it makes it seem like sex workers are different but in a positive way. Additionally, the audience will begin to think and try to relate themselves into the shoes of this person. Sex work may be the last resort for people who Pennell 3 have families to support. However, the organization did not just want to evoke sympathy. They wanted to evoke power within the audience and show that prostitutes are not weak people rather they are the opposite. The use of pathos in the second image of the woman with the flag is that the woman itself is supposed to represent the average woman. It is supposed to make the audience feel a connection to the woman and sympathize with her. Her powerful stature allows the audience to respect and feel a sense of entitlement while gazing upon her. It also shows that the women are not broken and are stronger. The more the prostitutes have to fight, the stronger they feel and they more they are heard. In addition, the red lips and mask, and pink flag evoke a sense of warmth and power. The red mask may be a way for the woman to hide her profession from the world and her loved ones. Pink is related to femininity and is also associated with and objects such as cotton candy or pink Red is the shortest wavelength so it draws attention to her lips and the mask. Furthermore, it represents a sense of power especially in social media. The application of logos and Kairos in both images from the English Collective of Prostitutes makes the audience believe that the decriminalization of prostitution is logical and urgent. The first image indicates logos by stating that there are bad women, just bad Including this statement allows the audience to think about their stance on the legalization of prostitution and use reasoning to determine if this statement relates enough to them as well as make the connection that the laws are the problem and not the people. The first image demonstrates Kairos by stating that there no bad women, just bad which creates a sense of urgency to change the laws enforced by the US government. Pennell 4 The integration of logos and Kairos in the second image is the use of the flag. It states sex workers which allows the audience to know what the cause is and think about her position in this movement. There is also a little embroidered mask on the banner that creates a sense of logic as to why sex workers have to hide their profession from the world. Also, the mask can also be seen as an urgency to change the laws because these human beings have to hide their professions from the lives of their loved ones. Moreover, it creates a humanistic approach by showing the images from a point of view. The woman is fighting for her rights and it is only logical and ethical that she should receive the same benefits. Sex workers have no laws or regulations that help them advance in their lives or protect them from various situations such as abuse, sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), and sexually transmitted infections (STIs). According to a website that discusses the statistics of sex-crime related laws in the United States, of prostitutes throughout the world have contracted the HIV virus [and the murder rate 204 for every 100,000 (1). Prostitutes need the use of positive rhetoric appeals to advance their push on the decriminalization of sex work. This organization used this strategy to their advancement by focusing on logos, ethos, pathos, and Kairos. In conclusion, rhetorical appeals are one of the ways an organization can promote their cause or issue. Rhetorical appeals allow for the persuading of an audience through ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos. The use of this type of strategy has been evident throughout the images presented for the abolition of laws against sex work. The strongest and most evident appeals in these images are pathos and ethos. The English Collective of Prostitutes ensured that their images were credible and that the audience had sympathy and a sense of respect for the Pennell 5 prostitutes. In the chosen images, it displays sex workers as everyday women and not just people who want money for sex. Pennell 6 Works Cited Logo of the English Collective of Prostitutes. English Collective of Prostitutes. Web. N.P.d. 19 Feb. 2017. http://prostitutescollective.net/ Steinmetz, Katy. Why We Think Women Are More Trustworthy Than TIME. 13 Dec. 2010. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. http://healthland.time.com/2010/12/13/study-why-we-think-women-are-more- trustworthy-than-men/ Prostitution Statistics You Have To LAWS. 10 Feb. 2017. Web. http://sex-crimes.laws.com/prostitution/prostitution-statistics Woman with pink mask. English Collective of Prostitutes. Web. N.P.d. 19 Feb. 2017. http://prostitutescollective.net/