Chen 1 Annie Chen William Sayers Drugan ENC 1102 Section 072 1 March 2017 Life Verses Hobby The relationships between animal and human are quite complicated. Animals and humans could be traders such as animal become house pet. Whereas some people even treat their pet better than people would treat their children, and as a return animal brings happiness to their owner. Another situation is when animals and humans are competitors for instance, people seek to gain valuable body parts from the animal; therefore, the animal must be killed. Logically, when people invade territory, animal species will defend themselves by attacking human; however, animals end up in affliction most of the time. Yet, the People for the Ethical Treatment Animals (PETA) organization designed comic pictures that show examples of how cruelly animal suffers due to human hobby and avariciously gain their body parts through the uses of pathos, logos, and ethos, educating children not to become a character of the scary scene. PETA teaches parents and children lessons about caring for animals by establishing pathos in their advertising images. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that relates to emotion. The first image shows a man as the role of a father, detouring fishes that he hooked from fishing. The captions on the image states, DADDY KILLS and YOUR DADDY WHY HOOKED ON these words convey fear to toward the children acknowledging that their father pursuit in a hobby that requires the death or pain of animals. Chen 2 Children are innocent and once notified that going fishing will hurt the fish, then that will trigger their naive mind in the matter of protecting fishes from getting injured, is to not go fishing. The use of colors is another form of emotional signal. The image consists of many darker colors that successfully indicate the negative effect of injuring animals for benefit. The background of the image is covered with the colors of black and lilac purple, which indicates the darkness and evil spirit of animal slaughtering. The skin color of the father is shaded in colors of light brown and yellow, which shows the emotion of craziness or someone who is out of their mind doing something insane. All the unease feelings formed by the image prevent children from becoming an adult that has a similar characteristic like the one in the image. Pathos in the second image is similarity demonstrated as image one, informing the female style of abusing animal to desire for fun. The image shows a woman as the character of a mother in the center of the page, stabbing a bunny with a sharp, bloody knife. The facial expressions in this image indicate the relationship between the bunny and the woman. The woman is smiling evilly and wickedly, excited to rip off the skin to make a stylish new fashion product, such as clothing and other accessories. The mother lifts the bunny by its ear with one hand and a knife in the other hand and red blood splashing Chen 3 everywhere. The plot and setting are quite terrifying for young children to comprehend the situation that harming animal is bad. The scene reaches out to parents and children of how heartless and sick they look when they perform such a treatment toward the little helpless animals. Furthermore, viewing this picture emotionally isolates and discriminate the relationship between people. Children usually enjoy seeing neither people nor animal getting hurt; therefore, identifying the fear and discomfort on the face generated by their mother who wears animal fur clothing, emotionally distanced the relationship between heartwarming children and uncaring parents. Logos is the rhetorical appeal relating to logic. In the second image, logos are presented precisely and straight forward. It has a caption that states, MANY ANIMALS SHE KILLED TO MAKE HER FUR COAT? THE SOONER SHE STOPS WEARING FUR, THE SOONER ANIMALS WILL BE These words are very direct in what PETA is trying to reach out into the world of ending animal abuse. Animal mistreatment begin with the cause of applying basic human needs, such as making clothing by peeling off animal skin and constructing jewelry from body parts. For instance, based on the website, EleAid, human hunters seek for tusks to make products such as balls, piano keys, identification chops, and many other items for human Yet, how many people even consider about the valuableness of the elephant tusks for the elephants themselves and the amount of pain it caused toward the elephant when people hunt them down. Elephant uses their tusks as a weapon to protect themselves from predators and part of their tusks are deep in the how painful could that be when ripped off. In contrast, people who understand the afflicted situation these animals are in and the limited rights of animals probably will not take actions in these activities. PETA demonstrates the use of logos through a Chen 4 form of educating children of not becoming one of the adults who trade life for their happiness. Also, parents usually do not like their children to think of them as a negative influence. As of result, parents will try to stopping themselves from buying animal fur products and reduce the number of time going fishing. In both images, PETA is the developer of the comic details so the credibility and truthfulness of the information also known as ethos, can be higher quality trusted by audience. logo is printed on each of the two images. PETA is quite a popular global animal rights preserving organization. In contrast, people who understand the afflicted situation these animals are in and the limited rights of animals probably will not take actions in these activities. The use of dictions such as, and specifies the targeted audience of these images is targeted toward younger age children; therefore, communication should be more specific and simple to understand. Also, the younger the audience, the easier it would be to persuade the innocent mind of audience. In conclusion, PETA produced two images that describe the situation of animals in terms of how mistreated due to selfishness through the uses of pathos, logos, and ethos. Educating children to learn that having a kind heart toward animals is a good habit and provide a lesson for the parents that engaging the suffer of animals as part of their enjoyment is not acceptable. Animal saving is never too late, if the sacrifice continues, then eventually the animal species will become endangering. Chen 5 Works cited People for The Ethical Treatment of Animals. PETA, 2017, http://www.peta.org. Assessed 28 January 2017. EleAid. Elephant Tusks, 2017, http://www.eleaid.com/elephant-information/elephant-tusks/ . Assessed 5 March 2017.