Charity 1 Richard Charity ENC 1102-071 Professor Drugan February 16, 2017 Analysis of Visual Rhetoric used in Campaign and Presidency Ronald Reagan was the 40 th President of the United States. campaign for president was unprecedented. It used methods, theories and tactics that were unlike any campaign before time. presidential campaign of 1980 succeeded a period of low economic growth and stagflation. The Arab-Israeli War caused oil prices to rise and cause a significant recession that impacted the global economy. The combination of inflation and high unemployment rates caused much discontent across America. The discontent with stagflation caused Socialist and Communist reform parties to gain support across all parts of the world. This became a conspicuous threat to the wealthy elite class who felt the need to protect their power from decimation. Demand for restoration of the elite class led to the development of the platform that Ronald Reagan advocated; a neo-liberalist platform that forever changed the republican party. Neo-liberalism is an array of economic policies. These policies include the tax cuts, privatization of state owned enterprises, deregulation of trade and environmental policies and any other policies that associate with laissez-faire economic liberalism. The United States as a neo-conservative one, and to cast as a consolidated project present efforts to intensify U.S. military capacity, increase U.S. global hegemony, dismantle the welfare state, retrench civil liberties, eliminate the right to abortion and affirmative action, re-Christianize the state, de-regulate corporations, gut environmental Charity 2 protections, reverse progressive taxation, reduce education spending while increasing prison budgets, and feather the nests of the rich while criminalizing the poor. (Brown 2) These kinds of policies originate in the 19 th Century when the wealthy elite class were experiencing great economic prosperity with the rise and development of motor car companies and oil companies and monopolistic businesses. The beginning of the 20 th century saw the reformation of economic liberalist policies particularly due to economic turmoil caused by laissez-faire economic policies succeeding the Great Depression. Ronald Reagan and his campaign sought to win the 1980 presidential campaign in order to restore these economic policies and revive the upper class. To achieve this Ronald Reagan and his campaign supporters used visual rhetoric expressed in his campaign pin and his campaign posters that suggested that the presidential campaign was the best time to elect Reagan to make adequate change, bring jobs to American economy, stand up for traditional family values and drive the way to prosperity for the American people. Ronald 1980 presidential campaign suggest that 1980 was the perfect time to elect Ronald Reagan and his administration. This relates to the word kairos, an ancient Greek word that means that now is the right moment, the supreme moment. When kairos is applied to a paper or an image it is intended to use rhetoric appeals to persuade the audience to take action between or at a certain time; it suggest that taking action between or at that certain time is the right, most perfect time. Ronald 1980 presidential campaign unquestionably used the rhetorical tool of kairos. The campaign exploited American citizens desperate need to do the thing, right The right thing being to vote Reagan into office, right now because he will lead America out of the state of declining economic prosperity. Economic status is a major Charity 3 aspect of choosing who to vote for in American elections, incumbent party lost the only 1980s presidential election held in the context of a declining (Hibbing 197). It makes sense that Americans choose to vote for politician that will make good change to economy and create jobs, this is why campaign exploited discontent with the economy of that time. The Time is campaign poster is one of the most memorable images displayed by the Reagan campaign. The poster blatantly calls out that the time is now to vote for Reagan. The poster displays the considerable immense four worded sentence that expound time is in vast bold lettering at the forefront of the imaging. The poster subliminally determines that Reagan is the one to make the great change by placing an enlarge portrait of face smiling underneath the text. The America Great pin is a hallmark of campaign. Underneath every pin an imprint of the text, suggest that the 1980 election was the time to vote for Reagan. The poster and the pin are a part of a legacy that Reagan left on American politics. His ability to get Americans to consider time when choosing an administration has been greatly valued and has made a significant impact on the elections to come. As a result of campaign, you better off today than you were four years  became standard fare in 1980s presidential (Hibbing 197). Ronald 1980 presidential campaign suggested his administration would stand up for traditional family values. The statement Make America Great featured on the well-known pins for the Reagan campaign have profound meaning and significance. The connotation of the words Make America Great was different for every American in 1980, but the term was directed to appeal to one particular group of American. As Ronald Charity 4 Reagan was a member of the Republican party with a neo-liberal agenda direct at benefiting the small percentage of wealthy upper class. The Republican party needed a base. The Republican Party needed, however, a solid electoral base if it was to colonize power effectively. It was around this time that Republicans sought an alliance with the of the Christian right. It appealed to the cultural nationalism of the white working classes and their besieged sense of moral righteousness (besieged because this class lived under conditions of chronic economic insecurity and felt excluded from many of the benefits that were being distributed through affirmative action and other state programs). This could be mobilized through coded if not blatant racism, homophobia and anti-feminism. Not for the first, nor, it is to be feared, for the last time in history has a social group voted against its material, economic and class interests for cultural, nationalist and religious reasons. From then on the unholy alliance between big business and conservative Christians steadily consolidated, eventually eradicating all liberal elements (significant and influential in the 1960s) from the Republican Party and turning it into the relatively homogeneous right wing electoral force of present times. (Harvey 7) Reagan and his campaign achieved this with the slogan, Make America Great The concern for making America great again was a social affair for Christian right. It was about a war on drugs, suppressing gay rights and civil rights. Making America great again was about making America socially conservative and restoring the social order. The Make America Great pin was about using the visual text on the pin to evoke feelings in socially conservative Americans, it was about making the Red White and Blue work for their way of living. Ronald Charity 5 Reagan like other politicians used the colors in their campaign visuals to co-align with the sentiment of American prosperity. This is a logical appeal to the psychology of the American citizen who yearn for a politician who defend the constitution and the colors on the American flag. Ronald presidential campaign was unprecedented. Ronald Reagan was the first of a consequential list of Republican president who used rhetorical appeals to advance a neo- liberal agenda that benefited wealthy elites. Reagan used the rhetorical appeals kairos to allure to social conservatives to vote him into the white house. Logos to appeal to social conservatives pushed to make the logical decision to America Great and stand up for traditional family values. Traditional family values that declare that anything that oppose it are adversary to Constitution and Bible. Ronald campaign and presidency left a legacy that every American citizen can say is noticeable and active in modern day politics. Everything from the visual rhetoric used in his campaign to his policies have molded and shape the world we live in today hopefully our generation of American use the successes and failures of the politicians of the past to make smart decisions about the direction of the United States on policies. Charity 6 Charity 7 Work Cited Blanchard, Olivier Jean, et al. Economic Policy, vol. 2, no. 5, 1987, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/1344620. Brown, W. Neo-liberalism and the End of Liberal  Theory & Event, vol. 7 no. 1, 2003. Project MUSE, doi:10.1353/tae.2003.0020. Harvey, David. Neo-liberalism and the restoration of class  D Harvey, Spaces of Global (2006). Hibbing, John and Welch, Susan. Conditions, Gender, and Voting in American National The Journal of Politics, vol. 54, no. 1, 1992, pp. Jessop, B. (2002), Liberalism, Neoliberalism, and Urban Governance: A Perspective. Antipode, 34: doi:10.1111/1467-8330.00250 Charity 8 Charity 9