Eric Hiser Professor Drugan ENC 1102.072 25 February 2017 The Ever Growing Comcast Comcast is a company that is built up their services they provide. These services range from Internet connectivity, Cable, and TV service. Since they offer these three specific categories, we can classify Comcast as an Internet Service Provider or ISP. Now any ISP be an ISP without extensive bragging and heavy advertising to say they are the best around. This is just simple business tactics. In the wake of Comcast though, they do seem to stride ahead of a lot of the competing in terms of their variety of plans they offer for each service. While there are many different choices one could choose when picking the right ISP, Comcast is always in the back of head. Is Comcast the right pick for the majority of customers in the United States? Between all of the out there, the one that stands out the most has to be Comcast. This happens not only because they were under fire recently from the FCC with net neutrality, but also because they advertise heavily unlike a lot of the competitors. With a company the size of Comcast, it is hard to really see an expanse in customers because they are already so big. This is where the Advertising can really come in handy to draw in some extra customers. While searching for an ISP, one should be trying to fill all of their wants and needs such as TV, phone, and internet access. Some only offer internet service while others can do Hiser 1 bundles and save the customer a lot more money over time. This could be extremely beneficial when it comes to long term contracts like ones that get created at The top that are in most areas of the United States are generally Time Warner Brothers, Comcast, Verizon, AT&T, and CenturyLink. Between all of these, consumers will need to dwindle down who has access to the service lines and in which area. After that, you can choose to compare. The Majority of the US has access to Comcast which is going to be the starting point in most searches. Should you consider Comcast as an ISP and what is it up against? biggest competitor would be Verizon and their FIOS service. It is near rivaling download speeds of Comcast and does offer faster upload speeds. While the much more important speed is download to the average consumer as this is what Netflix, Hulu, or any browsing of social media uses. Verizon also is a bit steeper in their price tag which is a huge benefit in persuading someone to take Comcast as their ISP. This is currently why the suggested ISP to go to would be Comcast. Comcast likes to brag and show off that they are the fastest internet provider which could be very true considering they offer a speed which is two times that of gigabit internet which is currently 1000mbps. According to an article from pcmag.com, certainly is a PCMag Speed Index is in an almost perfect tie with Xfinity (Griffith, Eric, The Fastest ISPs of 2016). This directly corresponds to one of the pictures at the end of the text which is showing off jets speeding through the air with a Comcast logo in the mix. Comcast decided that they would show off their internet speeds by giving a visual appeal to the consumers which is a perfect way to express yourself when what they say is true. As seen in the ad below one could also notice the chemical trails that are left behind the jets as they are soaring through the air lightning quick. This could in turn represent how Comcast is so vastly Hiser 1 ahead of the competition that there is no competition of who is the fastest. The other image shown below is simply a showoff ad to exclaim to the consumer that they are the fastest of 2011 as well. This goes hand in hand with the other image as they both are very expressive in the way the company wants to sell their service. This type of appeal Comcast is showing is very much logos. When taking a deeper look into these images, one could definitely find that having a bolded price tag with right next to it is an easy turn on for any consumer looking to get the best bang for their buck. This is a great way of introducing kairos into an ad to peak interest in the consumers. Since Comcast has the fastest internet and the this should be a no brainer to jump on the bandwagon. Why would anyone want to jump ships to another ISP such as Verizon FIOS who offers close to the same speed but for much more money? According to broadbandnow.com, speeds always translate to real-world performance, and no point paying premium for a gigabit fiber connection if you only use the internet for email and some light This goes to show why one might stay clear of Verizon as their base prices for fiber internet is nearly double that of the offering of Xfinity service. If the consumer is only after a reasonable speed, Comcast offers the best price to performance ratio. Comcast does not expect its customers to do too much research on whether or not they are the fastest but they do use their kairos to guide their potential customers in the correct direction by giving real statistics on performance and pricing. Comcast uses their (top) image below to bring in a friendly environment. This friendly environment could be seen as a way of them expressing pathos. This would help Comcast show that having their service could be used for family fun and to have a good time. In print on the laptop screen of the (top) image, is which is there purposefully because the TV show Hiser 1 is meant to be funny and bring joy to the viewers. Comcast chose this image on purpose as it appeals to consumers emotions and how they want to feel enjoyment. By also having the best price and the rating from PCmag, Comcast can effectively create ethos inside their ad. Between the two advertisements Comcast has made, it can be convincing to customers that they offer the best performance to price ratio for budget seekers. While this may not be the top of the top that some consumers seek or it is easily enough for the average consumer looking to expand on their internet service capabilities. The images below are extremely beneficial in getting point across where they bring in pathos, kairos, logos, and even some ethos making them hit on all the appeals a consumer would look for. When searching for your next internet provider, Comcast should be in your search when looking at the price to performance. Hiser 1 Hiser 1 Works Cited Griffith, Eric. The Fastest ISPs of  Pcmag. N.p., 31 Aug. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. VERIZON FIOS VS XFINITY: SIDE BY SIDE  Broadbandnow. N.p., 15 Feb. 2017. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.