Sackey 1 Tyrique Sackey ENC 1102 Prefessor Grugan Intermediate Draft Tobacco Free Cigarettes are commonly known for not being healthy. It causes lung cancer, gum disease, and can actually lead to death. There are many organization out there against smoking cigarettes and create ads to spread a tobacco free lifestyle. important to understand that tobacco causes around 480,000 deaths a year in the U.S alone; meaning that tobacco causes one out every five deaths in the U.S. With statistics like this people need to be inform of all the harms and dangers presented when smoking tobacco. Ever since the FDA has came down hard on all the major tobacco companies been label on boxes. The are now required to put the health hazards on boxes. Cigarettes are very addicting and you may want to rethink before you take a puff. All these things have to do with my two visuals.Each visual explains why and how cigarettes negatively affects the body and why their needs to be more control of cigarettes and how produced and consumed. Cigarettes should be regulated everywhere and people need to be aware of the risk. Smoking Cigarettes has many side effects and will kill you slowly,but surely if you continue smoking them. Smoking causes lung cancer. Lung cancer is the most death among all cancers in the United States. My first photo uses smoking kills as metaphor. The picture depicts cigarettes as ammo for a revolver. This depicts cigarettes companies as murderer killing people with their cigarettes. This appeals to ethos and gives you the sense that cigarette are very deadly Sackey 2 and can kill in mass. They also depict a man smoking a cigarette with a decayed face. The photo uses pathos to show that smoking cigarettes are literally decaying you skin. gives you the feeling that if you smoke you will end up skin and bones. One of the side effects the photo points out is dull sense of smell. comparing smoking cigarettes to losing your nose. Smoking causes wrinkle skin and in the first photo the depict a man smoking with half of his skin off. Also this photo presents logo with all the statistics and information on smoking cigarettes. The image also states kill so why bother appeals to kairos and gives you a sense of urgency by asking why start. Organization such as Truth Initiative look inform people of these hazards and make sure no one is negatively affected and if they are help them change their lives. Cigarettes are known to be very addicting. With all the addition of additives and chemicals cigarettes are made to have you coming back for another one. In my second image it presents a kid smoking cigarettes. The kids smoking appeals to pathos. It gives you the sense of pity for the child and its health. The kid is two years old and lives in Indonesia. Under the photo of the kid smoking it reports that he smokes around 40 cigarettes a day. This appeals to ethos making you understand how addictive tobacco really is and how dangerous it may be in the wrong hands. He was on this smoking regime for almost 3 years and it took help from the indonesian government to get him into rehab. To date he reportedly now only smokes 6 cigarettes a day. still outrageous for a 2 year old kid much less any kid. This points one of the major flaws with cigarettes company outside the U.S. which is regulation. In countries such as indonesia little to any regulation on cigarettes. Regulations and information on tobacco is essential not only in the U.S, but all around the world. As of recent the U.S has crack down on cigarettes and have pressure them to Sackey 3 put caution labels on their boxes. There are also pushed for the minimum age required to smoke cigarettes to 21. In areas such as Indonesia or any developing country their are little regulations and kids like the 2 year old in the picture are getting addicted to tobacco . Indonesia has the highest youth population smoking cigarettes in the world. Little do these parents know that their kids are slowly getting addicted and are ruining their lives. There are many side effects of cigarettes. Cigarettes can cause cancer, strokes, and gum disease. When you have a kid at the age of two smoking cigarettes only inevitable for it to happen. important to take these things serious because failing to do so is a failure to protect kids which is a failure to the government. In places such as Indonesia smoking cigarettes is more seen as a social norm. You go around town seeing countless cigarette ads and men,women, and children consuming it carefree with no repercussions. Cigarettes are very serious health risk and should not be taken lightly. Its very important that we spread awareness and keep everyone inform of these health risk. Many people are in critical condition due to smoking and some wish they were better inform of the dangers. With countries allowing underage children to smoke tobacco their will need to be a change and a movement in these countrie to ensure safety of the future generations and the health of these kids. Sackey 4 Sackey 5 Sackey 6 Work cited Tom Gillespie. Remember the Boy Who SMOKED 40 A DAY Aged Two? This Is Apparently Him Six Years  Sun . The Sun, 28 Sept. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. U.S GOV. Health Effects of Cigarette  for Disease Control and Prevention . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.