Gottfried1 Zachary Gottfried ENC 1102.70 William Drugun 26 February 2017 From the beginning of the 20th century, and performance enhancing drugs (PEDs) have been a big ordeal in professional athletic leagues. Athletes are doing all they can do to gain a competitive edge over their components. These desire for incredible abilities is blinding them from the negative effects caused by steroids. Anti steroids has been a huge stakeholder for years with a mission to have professional sports played drug free with an even playing field. These images represents the goal of scaring players away from steroids and PEDs. The two images display the negative effects of the abuse of steroids through ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. The stakeholder are players that want to keep the ban on steroids and PEDs, they believe that the game is meant to be played by athletes that have the best natural ability or work ethic for the sport. They feel that if performance enhancing supplements were to be legal, they would be pressured into taking them in order to keep up with players that use them. These players have worked so hard throughout their life so they can the be top athletes. They do not want other players to take a shortcut to get to where they are, when they dedicated so much time and effort to get to the top. They do not want to throw away all their talent just to have their natural talent hidden in the shadows of players that are excelling due to the use of PEDs. In addition. The steroids will increase the risk of short term and long term injuries drastically. Steroids are banned from professional sports such as baseball, basketball, and hockey, because steroids are detrimental to health and they give an unfair advantage to the user (Anabolic Gottfried2 Steroids 2). The first image is an advertisement from the National Institute on Drug Abuse. The goal of this advertisement is to warn the audience on how dangerous the abuse of steroids can be. The image wants the athletes to stay away from steroids and be natural and true to oneself. This image lists the potential risks of using steroids in order to spread awareness of the dangers of steroids. The second goal is to scare people of the effects of steroids by showing them that it destroys the human body. This image wants the athletes not to use steroids, it wants the athletes to feel as if the steroids will kill them. The diseases that have a higher chance of death that are displayed in this image, is brain cancer, heart attacks, stroke, liver cancer, and kidney disease. Elements of ethos in the images. The first image has ethos or credibility, because it is an advertisement from the National Institute on drug abuse (NIDA). The National Institute on Drug Abuse funded research allows experts and researchers to utilize the most advanced and complex technology when studying drugs (NIDA 1). The NIDA is credible, so when people see this advertisement, they are going to believe it because the NIDA does research on drugs such as steroids and PEDs and the get accurate date from the research. The NIDA studies the long term and short term effects of drugs and construct messages that prevents people from abusing drugs (NIDA 1). On the other hand, the second image does not have very strong evidence and credibility. It is just an image that is displaying the harmful effect of steroids through a kid, it is not an advertisement from a respective institute such as the NIDA. Pathos is present in the first image, because it appeals to the feeling. The advertisement makes people believe that athletes that use steroids are frauds and cheaters. The first image also states the setbacks and side effects of steroids, this can influence the audience and make people think that succeeding while Gottfried3 on steroids is not worth their health. The first images uses black and white as the color of the image in order to display that the negative effect of steroids is a serious matter and that everyone should know about them before considering on taking them. The second image contains elements of pathos, as well. The second image displays that steroids can riddle body with tumors and other serious health problems. This display of the negative effects of steroids has the power to appeal to the feeling and turn them against steroids. The second image does a good job showing that steroids destroys the human body. The first image contains elements of logos because it persuades people and athletes to stay away from steroids by stating that cheaters and frauds use steroids and that the only way to win with true self is to be drug free and use natural ability. Likewise, the second image contains elements of logos, because the image of the kid that is going through the disturbing side effects of steroids persuades athletes to not use steroids. The first image contains elements of kairos, because successful steroid users, such as athletes are going to see it and want to get off of the drug because they are going to want credit for succeeding without cheating, but by being true to themselves. The first image also talks about the setbacks of steroids, and an athlete may feel like they have to get off of it, or in no time they will start getting acne and balding or possibly contract HIV from the needle, when looking at this advertisement. The second image has strong elements of kairos, because it displays the problems and dangers of steroids through a steroid user. Other steroid users are going to to look at the advertisement and be like, need to get off of this drug as soon as possible, destroying my In conclusion, there are professional athletes that are taking drugs in order to gain an advantage over their components, however they are not aware of the dangers and side effects of Gottfried4 them. They are blinded by the insane abilities that comes from steroids. These images do a good job spreading awareness of the dangers of steroids through ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Gottfried5 Gottfried6 Gottfried7 Gottfried8 Gottfried9 Cited NIDA Notes. [Electronic . [Rockville, : U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health, National Institute on Drug Abuse, 2006. ,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=cat00847a&AN=usflc.032538802&site=eds-live. United States. Drug Enforcement, Administration. Anabolic  (2004): . Web. 29 Jan. 2017