Kranjcec 1 Sydney Kranjcec ENC 1102 Mr. Drugan 26 February 2017 Intermediate Draft Show Me The Money Football is one of the most watched sports within the United States but do we has the fans truly know what goes on behind all the plays? Little do the fans know that most of their favorite teams as well as their players, are playing a sport that put them in positions where they are at risk for severe neurological damage. This neurological damage is otherwise known as a concussion which can be defined as a blow or jolt to the body or head resulting and/or causing the brain to shake. This may not seem all that important due to the fact that a large majority of individuals have grown up watching this sport, and it been up until recently that this issue has become a more prevalent problem within our society. With that being said increased media on this topic has pushed awareness from not only the neurological doctors that are treating these patients but also has finally caught the attention of the stakeholder the NFL itself. The main goal of the NFL is to provide their fans with the highest quality entertainment in a way that is consistent with their core values. Through these images they are exposing the severity of concussions and putting pressure on the NFL to address this issue and appeal to emotion, logic, ethic, timelines of the audience. Kranjcec 2 An increase awareness about the long term as well as the short term effects on the brain has forced the NFL to listen and look into all of the data and complications that come with this injury that has become so frequent within society. With this type of injury individuals can experience symptoms such as headaches, nausea or dizziness, sleep complications, difficulty concentrating as well as individuals can experience extreme symptoms such as mood disruptions or abnormalities and these can all be linked back to concussions. But on a much larger scale, one can experience long term memory loss as well as the individual may experience a harder time retaining information. With all this information becoming available to the public eye there has been a push to have the NFL create a solution as well as look back into the reported cases of past individuals that have been affect by this type of injury that they have for so long been turning a blind eye to. The mission statement of the NFL is, provide our fans, communities and partners the highest quality sports and entertainment in the world, and to do so in a way that is consistent with our When taking that mission into consideration the NFL had to come up with a solution that would not only help the athletes of our future but also recognize the ones of our past that have been affected by this type of injury. This solution is the NFL Concussion Settlement which states that the NFL is required to pay 675 million into a monetary award fund for retired NFL players depending on their diagnosis and at least 75 million for a baseline assessment program that would offer neurological evaluations that would test for and determine any major cognitive deficits (Harris 2016). This settlement also states that it is going to fund another 10 million to establish an education fund to promote safety and injury prevention to all football players, including any potential players entering into the league (Harris 2016). Lastly, it states that the NFL offered to pay the attorney fees of the players, but not to exceed 112.5 million dollars in the total law suit costs (Harris 2016). Through the use of the rhetorical appeals in the Kranjcec 3 images they are displaying the recognition as well as the urgency that was needed regarding this type of injury. Through the use of Pathos within the advertisements the author is trying to appeal to the emotions of the audience. In image one the author is trying to show the responsibility as well as the accountability that the NFL has finally owned up to. Essentially the audience has a feeling of sympathy due to the fact that the NFL is apologizing for the long overdue apology needed for the player that have been affect by this type of injury. As a result of this the NFL owned up to the neglect they have given for so long and have made a settlement that is going to give money back to the players that are affected. There is little to no pathos within the second image other than the fact that it is illustrating a brain that has little to no brain damage (right), and a brain with large accumulations of brain damage (left). With that though the author is most likely trying to make the audience feel awareness as well as recognition for how detrimental this injury truly can be. The author of the first advertisement uses the rhetorical appeal of logos in the first image to address the issue of frequent concussions within the NFL and it is estimated that there are 1.8 reported concussions per 1000 player hours (Benson 2011). With that statistic in mind those are not even taking into account all the unreported concussion that occur during this high impact sports. In the second image there is little to no logos it is just further enforcing the statistic explained earlier due to the fact that it is illustrating helmet to helmet contact which is ultimately how these injuries occur. Kranjcec 4 Ethos is the rhetorical appeal that deals with ethics or credibility. In image one the author uses the advertisement to voice the fact that the NFL has finally made a settlement after a very long time whereby the NFL is required to pay 675 million dollars to a monetary award fund for retired NFL players depending on their neurological diagnosis. This is also reinforcing the fact that the NFL has finally taking credit and responsibility for this issue. In the second image it illustrates ethos in the sense that it is emphasizing the brain damage that is caused when this contact sport is played, and as a result it is reinforcing the urgency needed for a solution. One of which is the NFL concussion settlement that is giving back to the players as well as putting programs in place in order to help future athletes. The overall message they the author of image one is trying to broadcast to the audience is that of they are using a very well-known spokesperson in order to communicate that the NFL is becoming aware of the lasting damage that concussions leave on the individual experiencing them. As well as it is communicating that the NFL is finally owning up to the fact that they have some responsibility when it comes to this injury and as a result they came up with a solution to compensate those affect. The general message of image two this that of the fact that it shows a player that has brain damage from concussions as well as a brain with little to no brain damage. The goal that is most important to the NFL is to provide their audiences with the best quality entertainment in a way that is consistent with their core values. Through the use of the images they are exposing the severity of concussions and putting pressure on the NFL network to address this issue and appeal to the audience. Through increased media attention and research the Kranjcec 5 NFL has finally come up with a the NFL Concussion Settlement that will give back to the players affected in the past as well as protect the athletes of our future. Kranjcec 6 Works Cited Benson, Brian W., et al. A prospective study of concussions among National Hockey League players during regular season games: the NHL-NHLPA Concussion  CMAJ: Canadian Medical Association Journal 2011: 905. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Harris, Jay Barry. Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays After The Approval Of The NFL Concussion  Defense Counsel Journal 83.2 (2016): 156-164. Business Source Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Hudson, Rob1, rhudson@ussa.edu, and Brandon1 Spradley. Concussions: A Sport Ethics  Sport Journal (2016): 1-7. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kranjcec 7