Emrick 1 Ashley Emrick Dr. William Drugen ENC1102.072 22 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Equality in Theatre The theatre industry has a history of inequality, both in hiring practices and the works that it supports. The majority of creative team members such as directors, designers, and casting are given to men; and the majority of works produced are written or composed by men, often white men. Stories by women and people of color are statistically underrepresented onstage, particularly on Broadway, which is the theatre center of the United States. Women in the Arts and Media Coalition is an organization that is dedicated to furthering the work of female artists and reaching gender equality in theatre and other forms of entertainment. Formed in 1989, the Coalition works help women connect across (womenartsmediacoalition.org) by creating a place for female artists to network and work together on projects. The Coalition also provides access to partners in the arts that are working towards the same goal, such as Equity, SAG-AFTRA, New York Women in Communications, and the Writers Guild of America; funding resources; and events celebrating diverse works of art. Emrick 2 The logo depicts a large, multi-coloured W in the center, with the silhouettes of three women in each of the lines of the W. One woman is singing, one woman is striking a pose with her fist to the sky, and another woman is taking photos with a camera. The name of the Coaliton in the Arts & Media frames the W. By using a well-designed graphic, the Coalition appeals to the sense of ethos. An audience will often judge the credibility and professionalism of an organization based on the appearance of their website, and this image creates an official and polished look for the Coalition. To solicit the pathos of the audience, the image features women in action and creating art in their own way. Not only does this make the people who are artists in the same discipline feel connected and displayed, but it reminds the audience that the Coalition is made up women in action and working. Another way this image appeals to the pathos is by having the middle woman, who immediately draws the eye when first looking at the image, thrusting her fist in the air. This is a recognized sign of protest, of resisting, of fighting for something. This reminds the audience that the Coalition is both protesting inequality and fighting for equality. Emrick 3 Calling upon logic, the logo connects the three individual women with the letter W, which will suggest to the audience that by being connected and working together that women can do more and achieve greater things than if they were working alone. equality is an issue that has been around since the beginning of civilization, but the issue of equality for women in the arts and media is a much newer and more relevant conversation for modern society. The name of the Coalition reminds the audience that the issue it is addressing is modern and timely, which is an element of kairos. The second image used by the Coalition is to promote an event that is discussing the experiences of Broadway performers who are people of color and the challenges that they have faced along their path. By using well-known and Tony award winning Broadway actors and actresses in the image, the Coalition is appealing to the sense of ethos. Most people who have even a passing interest in Broadway and musical theatre would know these performers and the shows they are representing, making the event seem credible and important. Emrick 4 One that the Coalition uses to appeal to pathos is using photos of the performers in onstage, looking towards the audience, suggesting that the discussion is coming from what the performers see and experience from where they stand. Another way of appealing the sense of pathos is the use of a green overlay over the photos. Green is often used in advertising to symbolize hope or growth (color-wheel-pro.com). By using this color in the image, the Coalition is suggesting that a discussion of the experiences of performers of color can promote growth and change in the industry. Appealing to logos is the title of the event itself, It asks the audience to consider that the perspective and experience of performers of color is different than white performers. Also, by using photos of both female and male performers, it depicts that it is an issue not just for women, but both men and women of color. The image uses performers of color to remind the audience that diversity in theatre is still an extremely relevant and timely topic, as well as the shows that are represented in the photo. The photos depict performers from the musicals Hamilton and The Color Purple. Hamilton has been a massively successful musical, partially for the statement made by casting people of color in the roles of historical figures who were white, and The Color Purple is a musical about the oppression of black women and their struggle for freedom. These two shows embody the belief of the Coalition that diversity in stories and performers are important. The Women in the Arts & Media Coalition uses these two images to support their belief that equality, diversity, and inclusion within the arts and entertainment industry is an important and relevant issue in the world today. Appealing to their ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos with these images is a way of furthering their message and their mission. Emrick 5 Works Cited Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. Color Wheel Pro, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. WOMEN IN THE ARTS AND MEDIA  Women in the Arts & Media Coalition. Women in the Arts & Media Coalition, n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.