Beausejour 1 Bedjina Beausejour William Drugan ENC 1102- 071 26 February 2017 A Good Source of Energy: Red Bull In a society where success is defined by position in society, the amount of money one makes every year, their achievements, their rank and net worth, everybody is trying to make sure they get these qualifications checked to be successful. To achieve that goal, the gathering and stocking of energy is vital, whether physical or mental. An American writer, Denis Waitley said in his book extra energy required to make an effort is the secret of in other words, the more energy, the better. Energy is found everywhere in the planet, but the type of energy the body needs to function biologically is found in the food one consumes. Energy drinks are a quick and easy way for somebody to get energy without eating actual food. They are flavored beverage containing stimulant drugs, for example caffeine, and some other chemicals essential for the human body. Red Bull is one of the most known and successful brand of energy drinks, created in 1987, Red Bull is now available and in 171 countries. Red Bull is a functional beverage that can vitalize the body and mind, and be consumed anytime and everywhere that demands consumption of energy. In the first image, they show Albert Einstein writing the equation Energy = mc 2 , but replace energy by a Red Bull can. Ethos, it uses Albert Einstein for credibility; pathos, it makes one feel ridiculous if they are having second thoughts about Red Bull being a good energy drink by asking the question you think better than Logos, they use the actual equation to demonstrate that Red Bull is a good source of energy. The second image shows a lady in her sport apparel t- Beausejour 2 confident after drinking a can of Red Bull, and the image says can, you Logos can be explained by the fact the lady is an athlete, she needs energy, ethos be the fact she is number one, it is credible; pathos is shown by the writing saying can, you Both images are trying to promote the idea that drinking Red Bull makes the consummator feel better, be smarter and be the best. Energy drinks, such as Red Bull, are a great source of energy that can help one achieve their goal in life and be successful. Red Bull is an energy drink sold in a tall and slim can in more than 168 countries around the world. The energized drink is manufactured by a private Australia-based company named Red Bull GmbH, created in 1987 by Austrian entrepreneur, Dietrich Mateschitz. Red Bull contains caffeine, taurine, B vitamins (B3, B5, B6, B12), sucrose, and glucose. The caffeine content of a single can of Red Bull is 80 mg/250 ml (32 mg/100  (Red Bull GmbH). Red slogan was it gives you  until they were hit with a $13 million class-action lawsuit in late 2014 and changed it to Red Bull gives you . The company markets sells its drinks across the US, Western Europe, Turkey, Japan, Brazil, India and China, the product has the highest market company Profile). Red international marketing campaign targets young men mostly with extreme sport ranging from mountain biking to breakdancing, share of any energy drink in the world, with 6.062 billion cans sold in  (Red Bull GmbH MarketLine Co). By associating the image with these activities, the company seeks to promote a  public image and raise brand power. In the first image, Albert Einstein is shown writing the equation energy equal mc squared, this image entails ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. They have Albert Einstein in the first image as an intelligent and smart figure, people will instantly consider something said by Albert Einstein. His presence is giving the consumers assurance and conviction that Red Bull really and clearly is Beausejour 3 the real energy, because Red Bull being an energy drink really balances the equation can interpret logos. Using Albert Einstein is ethos, because he is used for credibility and reliability. Kairos is the relevance of the purpose overtime, and is shown as the black and white picture of Albert Einstein in the first picture, and the fact that they go back to the time of Albert Einstein. Black and white photography dated from the earliest days of motion pictures, the switch from most films being in black-and-white to most being in color was gradual, taking place from the 1930s to the  (In Black and White: ABN Zooms in on the Captivating Appeal of Black-And-White Photography, p. 16). Pathos is shown by the question asked you think you are better than this is a way for them to force the public to agree with Red Bull being the source of energy, and to play with the subconscious by knowing the person reading it does not consider himself more intelligent and smarter than Albert Einstein. The second image is an anime type of picture, displaying a scene of a female athlete wearing a number one Jersey shirt, proudly and confidently standing in her locker room with a Red Bull can next to her stuff. The confident athlete is used for credibility, and her wearing a one t-shirt gives the audience the feeling of security and certainty about the product. On the side of the image is written can you which means you can do everything after drinking a can of Red Bull, this is the interpretation of pathos, the message is telling the audience that after drinking a Red Bull can, they would have the motivation, the energy and power they need to achieve their athletic dream. Logos is Red Bull being an energy drink is supposed and did supply energy to the athlete right after she drank it, which also represent kairos. The Red Bull company, through its commercials and advertisements clearly state its goal and purpose which is to give , which means that the energy drink make the consumer fly. By flying, they mean being at the top, being the best in the field, and the energy drink gives you Beausejour 4 the energy necessary for that. In both images, rhetorical appeals are strongly represented and interpreted, pathos seen in the question do you think better than , and the statement one can you . They use qualified figures to earn the trust. Each image specifically and genuinely portrays the goal, their purpose is very clear and well described. Beausejour 5 Beausejour 6 Works Cited Mullen, Daniel. In Black and White: ABN Zooms in on the Captivating Appeal of Black-And- White  Art Business News, no. 10, 2009, p. 16. EBSCOhost,  Red Bull Ingredients :: Energy Drink :: Red Bull. Red Bull.com, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Red Bull  Red Bull Gmbh Marketline Company Profile, 13 Aug. 2015, pp. 1-11. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=b ah&AN=109301738&site=eds-live.