Davison 1 Neckodemos Davison Professor William Drugan ENC-1102-085 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft Demilitarize with Demilitarize All around the world, and especially in the United States of America, war sucks up large amounts of government money. An organization called Demilitarize works reduce the global military spending thanks to the cooperative works made by the organizations of civil (Global Campaign on Military Spending). They do this by leading global campaigns on military spending worldwide and by holding discussions on how to move military funds away from war and towards development, climate, peacemaking, and humanitarian action. The first image by Demilitarize shows the currency of all different nations and silhouettes of soldiers made out of the currencies. The second image shows a military jet dropping bombs on the left and a baby on the right with facts directly underneath both. The two images created by the Demilitarize organization encourages the audience to support the reduction of military budgets worldwide through the use of logos, pathos, and ethos. Logos is the art of persuasion with the use of logic or, according to Merriam-Webster, that in ancient Greek philosophy is the controlling principle in the The logos in the first image, with currency, lies behind the representation of military funds by the soldier silhouettes. This uses symbolism to show how all countries around the world pour large amounts Davison 2 of their resources into military activities. Which is accurate because on average the world spends over 1600 billion U.S. dollars each year on military budgets (Global Campaign on Military Spending). The second image, with the air plane and the baby, uses statistics as form of logos. Right underneath the plane it states, military spending is worth $245 per person every This statement serves to tell the audience how much money is being funneled into the world militaries every year and shock the audience into agreeing with Demilitarize. The quote underneath the baby states, 1 million children die on their first and only day of These statistics use logic to support the emotional side of this image in case someone in the audience needs reasoning to sympathize with the children of war. An appeal to human emotion is known as pathos or element in experience or in artistic representation evoking pity or  Merriam-Webster). Demilitarize has a lot of potential to use pathos in its advertisements simply because the organization takes action on such a touching topic and these images reflect that. The first image, the one with currency, uses the silhouettes to put the images of tired soldiers and war into the audiences head. These images paint a depressing picture when thoughts of wondering troops comes to mind. The bold, white, caption then works as a call to action that tries to solidify the imprinted negative feeling behind military spending. The way the caption is written, with the use of ellipsis and is meant to make the audience that supports military spending feel guilty for doing so. The image is making them question whether war and violence or human needs and peace should take priority in regards to resources. The second image, the one with an air plane and a baby, uses the image of a baby to bring out the empathy of the audience and to make them feel despair for the children born in waring nations. The air plane has bombs in mid drop that appear like they are heading towards the child. This combination of pictures brings up the fact that even today in Davison 3 warzones babies and their families can get caught in the crossfire of two combative groups. The quote by the emphasizes the lack of longevity by stating first and only day of This quote further plays on the emotions of the audience in an attempt to make them feel sorry for the children that never get to enjoy even a sliver of life. Ethos is distinguishing character, sentiment, moral nature, or guiding beliefs of a person, group, or  Merriam-Webster). This may also be known as the use credibility through morality or other means to provide support for an argument. The first image, the one with currency, tries to take the moral high ground by using the FOR HUMAN statement. This is a rhetorical question that is meant to make the audience think about the topic and which side of the argument is more ethical. The use of ellipsis puts the word against in a way that should make the audience favor the latter. The negative connotation of in comparison to the level of importance of is where this image get most of its power. The second image, the one with an air plane and a baby, uses statistics and quote from Save the Children to establish credibility. Save the Children is an organization with beginnings as far back as 1919 that children a healthy start, the opportunity to learn and protection from USA Site Save the Children). By quoting an organization, Save the Children, that is nearly one hundred years old, argument and its credibility dramatically increase. Another thing that adds to the credibility of this image is the fact that the website in the upper left corner ends in rather than which typically makes people who search through the internet a little more trusting of any site with that domain name. The Demilitarize organization not only works to make the world a safer place by reducing the size of the militaries but also to make the world a better place to live by Davison 4 redirecting military funds to reduce human needs. These images are trying to sway the audience into believing that the priorities of government budgets needs to be shifted towards nonmilitary organizations and projects. In summary, the image that has the silhouettes made out of the various currencies uses logos by representing that the military is made from all of the money. Ethos is present in the bold, white, all capital letters that say FOR HUMAN This statement is meant to make the reader question the ethics behind whether putting money into the military is more justified than using it to help society as well as feel guilty for supporting military spending, if they did. The second image, with the air plane and baby, uses logos by stating how much money per person global military spending is worth every year. The picture also uses pathos by displaying a picture of a baby with a caption that states how 1 million children die on their first day of life. By using all three modes of persuasion; logos, ethos, and pathos; Demilitarize makes a very strong argument through these images. Davison 5 Works Cited  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. Date accessed 26 Feb. 2017.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. Date accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Official USA  Save the Children. N.p., n.d. Web. Date accessed 26 Feb. 2017.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. Date accessed 26 Feb. 2017. The  Global Campaign on Military Spending. N.p., n.d. Web. Date accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Davison 6