Li 1 Runmin Li William Drugan ENC 1102.072 February 26, 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft The Benefits of Biofuel in Aviation Field Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) is a highly respected not-for-profit association that represents all sectors of the air transport WE The ATAG organization is trying to appeal all aviation corporations to use jet-biofuel instead of petroleum-based fuel for reducing greenhouse gas emission and other various pollution. The organization published two images to illustrate the benefits of jet-biofuel in economy and the environment. The first image is about the data of airplane, and the second image is about the comparison of lifecycle emission between airplanes which use jet-biofuel and airplanes which use petroleum-based fuel. The two images support each other to show the importance of jet-biofuel for aviration corporations and the environment. Therefore, it is important to analyze the multiple rhetorical appeals in the two images, like ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. The first image contains three rhetorical appeals which are ethos, pathos, and kairos. First, the image shows the ethos by data. The ATAG organization collects all the greenhouse emission and other data from their members, like American Airline, Emirate Airline, and Li 2 Delta Airline and so on; so, all the aviation corporations provide their data to the organization and they all admit the accuracy and facticity of the data. Also, the carbon dioxide emission of airplanes provided in the image is consistent with the data collected by NOAA Climate Government. For example, 781 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emission is about 2% of total 40 billion metric tons of human carbon dioxide emission (Scott). Furthermore, the image shows that the jet-biofuel can reduce the carbon dioxide emission by 80%, which the data is almost consistent with the data provided by the U.S. Department of Energy. The department stated that use reduces carbon dioxide emissions by 74% compared with petroleum Alternative Fuels Data ). In addition, B100 is a pure form that only contains biofuel which is not best for normal engines; so, the efficiency is low and it will affect the emission as well. Therefore, the data of the image is credible and trustable and contains ethos; also, it can be tested with data. Second, the image contains a few pathos, like surprise, sadness, ashamedness, and consolation. The huge number of carbon dioxide emission can be very surprising, 781 million tonnes. Also, it makes people feel sad due to the air pollution and global warming; meanwhile, they may be ashamed that they cannot give up the benefits of airplanes. However, it is consolable that the aviation industries create 9.9 million jobs and nearly 63 million related or subordinated jobs for people. Moreover, these jobs contribute 3.8 times higher to the global economic than other jobs. Therefore, the image contains pathos and illustrates emotions by using dramatic data. Third, with the severe environmental problem, the image is published at the right moment; so, it contains kairos. The air pollution is getting worse every day. The air quality Li 3 decreasing at a fast rate and it can cause many problems to human health and other species. For instance, the air pollution in China is very serious, and the fresh air becomes fog and haze which contains many heavy metal and chemicals. Also, the haze increases health problem, such as heart disease and cancers Effects of air pollution ). Also, the global warming is an important issue nowadays, it has destroyed many habitats, such as polar bear, and has a negative impact on human life such as the high temperature and the rise of sea level. Those countries which consisting of one or more islands are facing many serious problem due to the rise of sea level. Therefore, the image contains kairos because it is very important to reduce the greenhouse gas emission to protect the environment and ourselves right now. The first image does not contain logos because it is only about the data. The second image contains three rhetorical appeals too which are ethos, logos, and kairos. First, the two lifecycle emission paths provide the ethos of the image. The left-side lifecycle shows the emission of airplanes which use petroleum-based fuel, and the corban dioxide goes into the atmosphere. Also, the right-side lifecycle shows the emission of airplanes which use jet-biofuel, and the sector of feedstock growth absorbs the carbon dioxide produced by airplanes instead of going into the atmosphere. The ATAG organization builds the two-lifecycle emission based on the data they collected, and those data are trustable. Also, each sector of industries and transportations is accurate because the organization contains all sectors of aviation industry and it knows how the airplane and operation work. Therefore, the image is credible and contains ethos. Second, the image contains logos through the lifecycle emission. In the left-side lifecycle, each stage contributes a small amount of carbon dioxide emission to the atmosphere Li 4 with small blue arrow showed in the image. The main contributor of carbon dioxide emission are airplanes as the image illustrates with blue curve that has passed through every single stage. This is logical because the aviation industries and transportation processes produce less carbon dioxide emission compare to airplanes which use petroleum-based fuel. Also, the nature system cannot absorb the great amount emission without any human activity. In the right-side lifecycle, four sectors contribute a small amount of carbon dioxide emission to the atmosphere and the of feedstock growth absorbs the carbon dioxide emission of the main contributor, airplanes. This is also logical because the stages of extraction and ship transport change to feedstock growth and processing, this changes reduce some carbon dioxide emission and increase absorption of the nature system by planting more trees and vegetable for biofuels. Also, the road transport use biofuel and airplanes use jet-biofuel instead of petroleum-based fuel, which it dramatically decreases the carbon dioxide emission by at least 74% Alternative Fuels Data Then the nature system can absorb the emission produced by airplanes and the lifecycle emission becomes a circle. Therefore, the two lifecycle is logical and the image contains logos. Third, the image shows the kairos too due to the environmental and economic issues. The importance of alternative resource can reduce the impacts of human activities and environmental impacts. The jet-biofuel reduces the carbon dioxide emission and air pollution to decrease the rate of cancer and other diseases. Also, the new resource can create many direct and related or subordinated jobs for people by building new industries and product lines. It can increase the local and global economy to narrow down the economic gap Li 5 between countries or people since the global economy gradually slows down. Therefore, the image is at the right moment. The image does not contain any pathos. In conclusion, the ATAG organization provide two images to point out the importance of jet-biofuel and the benefits of it. Also, the two images contain multiple rhetorical appeals based on the information provided by the images. The first image shows ethos, pathos, and kairos, and the second image shows ethos, logos, and kairos. Therefore, the images are credible, convinced ,and emotional to the audience. Li 6 Figure 1 Data Li 7 Figure 2 Sustainable Circle Li 8 Work Cited Alternative Fuels Data  Afdc.energy.gov. U.S. Department of Energy, 21 Sept. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Effects of air  Defra.gov.uk. Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs, 10 June 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Scott, Michon, and Rebecca Lindsey. Which emits more carbon dioxide: volcanoes or human  Climate.gov. NOAA Climate.gov, 15 June 2016. Accessed Web. 27 Feb. 2017. WHO WE  Atag.org. Air Transport Action Group, n.d. Web. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017.