Bora 1 Marcel Bora Professor Drugan ENC 1102.08 25 February 2017 Intermediate Draft No Cage is Big Enough The majority of humans care for other animals; it be helped. why advertisements, such as the animal cruelty videos that show around Christmas, tug at heartstrings and help bring awareness to the subject, in this case: animal cruelty. PETA and NOAH, two organizations for the care and freedom of all caged animals, are attempting to bring this care for other animals to focus on zoos. In the following two ads, the two organizations mostly use pathos as the method of appeal. The first advertisement is a photo of an elephant scrunched up into a poster frame that it too small to fit it. Written across the poster are the words Cage Is Big NOAH is a German animal rights organization that commissioned the creation of this advertisement. The advertisement is meant to show that animals, such as the elephant in the photo, are not meant to be in cages and that no cage is as big as their natural environment. It is also meant to give the feeling of being cramped or squished into a small area. The unnatural twists in the photos are also slightly unsettling as one could imagine an actual animal being squished and crushed into shapes like this. The main appeal that this advertisement contains is pathos. This can be seen because the ad creates an emotional reaction to this photo of a squished elephant. The majority of people have compassion towards animals and wish them harm so this image speaks to many people strongly. This advertisement also contains some logos, as it is Bora 2 not logical to keep a large elephant in a small cage or container, considering it is the largest terrestrial animal. There is no kairos to be found as there is no sense of time or urgency in this advertisement. There is also no sense of ethos in this advertisement because there is no sense of credibility. It is plain to see that this advertisement mostly relies on pathos to get its message about elephants in cages across. The second advertisement was created by PETA or the People For The Ethical Treatment of Animals. This ad features the Malaysian International Model, Amber Chia (Chia 1), painted as a tiger and placed in a very small cage. The words Wild Animals are written across the front of the photo to send the message home. This ad is a mix of both pathos and ethos, though it leans towards pathos. This is because it is unsettling to some to see a human in a cage, especially where said human has to crouch and bunch up to fit into that cage. This creates an emotional appeal because it creates a sense of sadness seeing a human in a cage. The advertisement is also an example of ethos because it features a celebrity who can create credibility and confirm that this organization is doing what they say they are. Amber Chia, the celebrity in the photo is painted as a tiger to show her support for campaign to end zoos lending to the authenticity of the advertisement. There is little to no logos in the ad, only the knowledge that humans do not belong in cages, but this is more emotionally orientated. There is not Kairos as there is no sense of time in this ad. Once again, this advertisement is mostly pathos. Both advertisements contain mostly a pathos appeal. However, the ads also contain another appeal; the NOAH ad containing logos and the PETA ad containing ethos. These two companies are trying to get their message about the unjustness of animals being in zoos through emotions more than anything else and it seems to work as one help but feel sad when they look at both of these ads. Bora 3 Bora 4 Works Cited Amber Chia - Supermodel, Actress &  Amber Chia - Supermodel, Actress & Ambassador. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.amberchia.com/about> CJ.  Juesatta (CJ Photography). N.p., 21 Feb. 2001. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. <http://www.juesatta.com/amber-chia-strips-down-to-her-stripes-for-animals-in- zoos/600-amberchiaad/>. Gurp, Marc Van. No cage is big  Osocio. N.p., 24 Jan. 2015. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. <http://osocio.org/message/no-cage-is-big-enough/>. Zoos: An Idea Whose Time Has Come and  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/zoos/>.