Alex Rhoads Drugan ENC1102-085 25 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft More Than Just a Cartoon? Native Americans across the United States have been abused and treated poorly for many years. are being destroyed by relentless violence and (Culp-Ressler 1). The Native Americans have had enough of some of the blatant abuse in some of the United most popular sports icons like, The Indians, Chiefs, Braves and the most obvious, The Washington Redskins. Being represented by a term like the is no longer acceptable as ethics and morals have evolved among Americans, which encourages a solution to an ongoing issue. Native Americans have been represented unfairly by teams like The Washington Redskins, who use Indian logos and names in a negative light, these teams need to realize the error of their ways and resolve the issues. Native Americans have dealt with numerous amounts of adversity and recent studies have brought many issues to light. Indians have many issues to battle with and discrimination from major sports franchises offers no relief. Today, large amounts of American Indian and Alaska Native children live in communities with shockingly high rates of poverty, homelessness, drug abuse, alcoholism, suicide, and victimization. Domestic violence, sexual assault, and child abuse are widespread and contribute to the long list of issues (Culp-Ressler 3). This shows the unfortunate struggles that Native Americans face even at a young age. The abuse can become quite horrific for young Indians who reportedly experience post-traumatic stress disorder at almost the exact rate as service members returning from the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars. And are also twice as likely as any other race to perish before the age of twenty-four (Culp-Ressler 2). Native Americans also face the psychological issues that stem from the teams and their mascots. It is believed through extensive research that there is a strong correlation between the teams and the rate of alcohol related deaths and suicide among Native Americans (Rasul 12). Unfortunately, it stop there, psychologists followed the history of Native American caricatures to the 1950s, when there was a clear separation of Native Americans and the rest of American society. Because Native Americans were forbidden to leave their reservations, society was able to ridicule Native Americans without facing any political or financial backlash (Rasul 13). Indians have been treated as second class citizens for an extensive period of time and still need to break some barriers in society. The last example of psychological issues results from prejudice on Native Americans which is consistent with the impact on the aforementioned oppressed groups, proven by Native Americans having the highest suicide rates in the country. Indeed, the American Psychological Association has recognized this harm towards Native Americans, and in 2005, endorsed the banning of all Native American mascots for sports teams (Rasul 14). There are steps in the right direction that are occurring but not often enough yet. Although the Redskins may be the top offender, there is a situation in Florida that has a unique situation which also ties in with the Redskins controversy. Florida State University uses the Seminoles as their name and Chief Osceola as their logo and mascot. What makes this situation unique is that the Seminole tribe in Florida endorses the use of the name and logo because of the publicity and honor the tribe receives, while tribes in other states strongly disagree. The Seminole Tribe of Florida passed a resolution to support Florida State use of the team name, mascot, and tribal images, while Seminole tribes located in other states, have strongly disagreed with the Seminoles in Florida. For example, The Oklahoma Seminoles, oppose the use and portrayal of Chief Osceola as a mascot and logo due to the fact that Chief Osceola despised the American expansion into Florida (Rasul 20). While the Seminole tribe in Florida is amused by the portrayal by Florida State, other tribes strongly disagree. There are many examples of Native Americans being used as mascots and names all over the world, and the Redskins and their logos top the list. The first image shown is a political type drawing of the Redskins logo with the Indian in the middle speaking about the use of the name and logo. In this image, there is a high amount of pathos shown throughout. The Indian in the image looks upset and sad in the drawing, also because the image is a drawing it can make individuals feel sympathetic for how Native Americans have been depicted by the Redskins. It shocking to see the amount of money the Redskins have made by using these demeaning images. Team owner Daniel Snyder insists that his name honors Native Americans and refuses to change the name, meanwhile the organization has accumulated a fortune so immense that Snyder could give every Indian in the country $400 and remain a multimillionaire (Cox 9). Snyder has generated too much money off an organization that uses a racist depiction of an Indian to represent it. There is evidence of logos in the image with the Indians skin very dark red which is inaccurate and unethical today. As well as the image having a cartoon like feel to try and make people realize how hurtful and damaging this logo has been. This image also shows ethos through the second saying from the logo which tries to explain that the moral and ethical code in Washington is very poor and no person should want to be associated with anything that goes on in the city because Washington does not have a great image or track record of doing the right thing. The second image chosen has various things going on and after reading it makes a person realize how ridiculous the Redskins name, logo and representation are. There are obvious signs of logos in this image because the man in the image is dressed like an Indian with a headdress, Redskins jersey and a skins foam finger and he is complaining about the former Eagles player Riley Cooper. Cooper was caught using racist terms toward African Americans and was sentenced to sensitivity training by the NFL, the image has a twisted logic because it shows a fan dressed up in an Indian uniform that is racist and he is complaining about a situation of racism. There is also ethos in this image because the man has no ethical standards and is oblivious to the fact that his own representation is very racist towards Native Americans, so this man has no credibility because he is shown as no better than Riley Cooper. Finally, there is pathos in this drawing because people are left confused by the fact that the man does not realize his own racism while complaining about another. This image also leaves individuals with no sympathy for the man and could have people angry because the man is so inattentive to how racist his portrayals are. Native Americans have been represented poorly by teams such as The Washington Redskins, who use Indian logos and names in a negative light, these teams have to realize the issue with their representations and resolve the issues. Native American suffering has gone on too long and society needs to wake up and realize that some of its most beloved sports franchises have piggybacked racism for many years. Teams like the Redskins have made too much money and have affected too many Native Americans to be able to continue the use of the derogatory names and logos. The images shown are clear examples of how ridiculous the Redskins morals are, and the examples of metal issues have proven that the need for an Indian mascot is long overdue. Works Cited Cox, John Woodrow. Redskins foundation gave $3.7 million to more than 20 tribes, the team  The Washington Post. WP Company, 15 Jan. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Culp-Ressler, Tara. The Shocking Rates of Violence And Abuse Facing Native American  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 18 Nov. 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Rasul, Hammad . FOURTH AND LONG: THE TIME IS NOW FOR THE TO PUNT THE  University of Maryland Law Journal of Race, Religion, Gender and Class (2014): n. pag. Thomson Reuters Westlaw. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.