Betti 1 Alexandra Betti ENC1102 Professor Drugan February 25, 2017 Different Worlds, Same Problem We second guess ourselves on different subject matters everyday; we ask ourselves I have said that have been executed will I come back from But what we second guess ourselves on is when we help others, when we do community service, or when we donate money to people in need. Freedom from Hunger works on stopping hunger in twenty-four different countries, including South Africa and India which the images below focus on. Their aim is to start from the bottom up, by helping those in poverty and that are poor work their way to a hunger-free life. Rather than just giving them the money they need for food, they walk them through the steps it takes to making money and crops. What the two images provided below are asking the audience to feel is realization that they too can help people and children fight hunger. The four elements found in each of these pictures work to make the audience realize how much worse things can be and how the simple things like food and drinks in our everyday life can seem like a luxury to others. In the first image featured below are children in the sub-Saharans of Africa gathered around waiting to be given a handful of food to eat. The pathos in this case would be the children, they are made to pull more emotion out of people because youth often symbolizes Betti 2 helplessness. The kids cannot help that they are poor and have not been given the opportunities in life that adults have. This tactic makes people (especially those with kids themselves) want to donate, help, and become actively involved in helping these children find the opportunities in life that their own children have. The image itself is displaying a small preview of the logos, or logistics, in this image. It shows just a little portion of the 75,000 children that are suffering from hunger in the sub-Saharans of Africa Boko 2016). It is logos that usually startles people into helping organizations like Freedom from Hunger. Though the image itself grabs attention, it is the facts that are hidden within the picture that push people to give aid and support. Eight thousand miles away in Kolkata, India there is a festival that occurs every Spring called the Annakut Festival. This festival is meant for people who wish to have enough food to last them for the rest of the year. The people in this photo are not just reaching for grains of rice being thrown down upon them, they are reaching in hopes that their God Krishna will bless them with food and water for one more year to come in 2015). That logos in itself connects us with people seemingly half a world away by showing how all societies celebrate and have festivals. Not only is this ritual intriguing, but it teaches us of the hunger that Indians suffer from yearly. If you focus on the expressions of the people reaching Betti 3 from below you can see the pathos, their faces show hope and elation during the festival, they are excited to be receiving rice. The rice that symbolizes ability to procure food and nutrients for the Indian people. Found in both pictures is the same Kairos affect; with any hunger and/or poverty situation the to act is generally used. More importantly is the connection between the logos and Kairos and how it helps to create an urgency. The facts shown in the image alert people that acting quickly will help save the hungry they see before them on a poster, on the news, or in a magazine. Additionally, the collections of color and patterns in both of these images show how people are coming together from different families and different parts of where they live. That is what Freedom for Hunger advocates for, helping a collection of people fight hunger no matter where they are in the world. Betti 4 Works Cited Boko Haram: 75,000 children dying of Topic BBC News, 15 Nov. 2016, http://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-37991798. Accessed 25 February 2017. Maulik, Sudipta. in 25 Jan. 2015. National Geographic, http://www.nationalgeographic.com/photography/photo-of-the-day/2015/1/annakut- kolkata-india-food/. Accessed 25 February 2017. from https://www.freedomfromhunger.org/. Accessed 25 February 2017.