Meghan Peck Professor Drugan ENC 1102 070 27 February 2017 Project 2 Draft Rhetorical Analysis of DAPL images The Dakota Access Pipeline has been a source of controversy for the past few months. This controversy was exacerbated when the Trump administration signed an order to push the pipeline forward without the consent of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe that sits between North and South Dakota. The existing pipeline route is set to travel through four states and uncomfortably close to the Sioux border. This location poses a threat to Lake Oahe, connected to the Mississippi River, which is the main water source for the Sioux tribe and millions of Americans downstream. One of the main concerns is the threat to water safety this pipeline poses. The threat to water safety and conservation is eminent in the photos attached. The photos contain rhetorical appeals to invoke a reaction to the viewers. Rhetorical appeals include pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. Pathos is the appeal to emotion and the goal is to invoke an emotional response from the viewer. Ethos is the appeal to credibility. People will likely choose to side with those with credible sources. Logos is the appeal to logic. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness, which motivates people to act quickly because time is limited. The two photos used for analysis contain rhetorical appeals to convey the message that the DAPL is infringing upon the treaty rights of the Sioux tribe people. The treaty rights of the tribe include the rights to water, fishing, and hunting on their land. The first image 1 is the cartoon by Marty Two Bulls entitled, No DAPL: Pipe Truck and Rail. The skeleton in the image is quoted, oil industry tells you that pipelines are safer than trucks or rail to move their oil to the consumer. But the reality is that even if they build the Dakota Access Pipeline, they will still use trucks and railroads to move their This cartoon points out that the big oil companies claim that their pipeline is safe and environmentally friendly, which is not the case for trucks and railroads. However, these companies will still be using trucks and railroads to move oil regardless of the pipeline. The rhetorical appeals found in this image are pathos, logos, and kairos. The skeleton is sitting atop a pipeline discharging directly into a body of water that has become black and murky from oil. The fish on the end of the line is also a skeleton. The major themes in this image are death and darkness, which provokes an emotional response. The pipeline threatens the Sioux water supply and this cartoon captures the fear the tribe has regarding the pipeline. Also, the cartoon appeals to logos. The skeleton is using logic to convey that regardless of the pipeline, oil companies will still use trucks and railroads to move oil so how much safer is the pipeline really? The cartoon uses rhetorical appeals to discredit the claim made by big oil companies that pipelines are safer and more environmentally friendly than trucks and railroads. However, logos is overpowered by the emotional appeal of the cartoon. The cartoon contains death, decay, and destruction. The skeleton appears to be a soldier, wearing a helmet and combat boots. The main purpose of the cartoon is to elicit fear and panic in the viewer. This is where kairos comes in: if we do not act now, this is what could happen. Death is imminent, which is portrayed by the dead soldier, fish, and the pollution of the water. The second image 2 was taken by Larry Towell a Canadian photographer known for documenting land issues. The photo is captioned, during a prayer ceremony at a roadblock in Standing Rock, North Dakota, on Nov. 18, Towell, in an interview with TIME magazine, stated, you lose your land, you lose your (TIME). In the photo, a woman is seen holding a sign that reads, It In The referring to the oil that the pipeline would carry dangerously close to the water supply. All of the other people in the photo seem to have their heads held down in prayer. Pathos is the main rhetorical appeal found in the picture, with kairos presented as a secondary appeal. photo evokes an emotional response to the viewer in order to raise awareness of the struggles the Sioux face. Protesters are photographed blocking a road in peaceful protest in order to prevent the construction. The woman appears to be frozen in prayer, which portrays a disturbing and solemn reality of what is currently happening in the Sioux nation. This woman is clutching the sign in desperation, which is in itself a direct appeal to the emotions of the reader. Kairos is the appeal to timeliness. Protests typically signify a call to action; we must act or else death, decay, and destruction could become a reality. In this photo, we have an appeal to appease the masses. There is a mass discontent with the construction of the pipeline that reaches far beyond the Sioux border. Both the images used for rhetorical analysis use pathos and kairos to convey the idea that the Dakota Access Pipeline infringes on the rights to water. Ethos and logos are overpowered by the overwhelming emotion in both images. The cartoon represents death and decay, leaving no room to analyze the appeal to logic or credibility. In the second photo of the prayer protest, the somber and desperate theme distracts the viewer. There is a lack of credibility due to the extreme emotional appeal and lack of factual foundation and evidence. The overall theme of both images is to depict the threat to water safety, with the skeleton fishing in a body of contaminated water and the woman clutching a sign reading, it in the According to these images, the Dakota Access Pipeline risks infringing on the treaty rights of the Sioux nation, which are the right to water, fishing, and hunting. Works Cited Marty Two Bulls. DAPL: Pipe, Truck and Cartoons. Indian Country Media Network, 26 Sept, 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Rock Pipeline Protests: Photos by Larry Losing More Than Land at Standing Rock. Time, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.