(903 words) 1 DANIELA BIGOTT BRENDEN JACKSON ENC1101 MARCH 5, 2017 Child Abduction Child abduction has often been described as a crime. Reasons why some victims choose to stay in the hands of their abductors often goes overlooked or merely repressed. Before 2010, it was incredibly difficult to be able to diagnose a victim of child abduction with Stockholm syndrome due to there being a limited amount of published literature and support on the subject. Because of this limited access, most researchers were skeptical to consider Stockholm syndrome as a legitimate condition. Before 2010, it was believed that the child was the only victim in a child abduction crime. There was no conversation regarding the feelings and psychological setbacks experienced by the family and loved ones of said child and no satisfying understanding of the feeling of hopelessness. Child abduction is moving away from being viewed as a one victim crime and more support has surfaced to support the claim that both the child involved and their prospective families need support and therapy to recover as a unit. Recovery only works if both the child and family cooperate through the incredibly hard times. Even though they suffered individually, they can recover together. The way child abduction is viewed has shifted with the new research that has surfaced since before 2010. There has always been an ongoing conversation debating whether Stockholm syndrome is real or simply fabricated and romanticized by the media. Before 2010, it was hard for researchers to validate Stockholm syndrome as being a true psychiatric diagnosis due to the lack of studies and publishes articles. According Namnyak et al, few of the studies attempted to explain why 2 may develop in victims, but several theories were put (7). Before 2010, it was difficult to answer the portion of child abduction which led others to believe that it had to be a Due to this negative notion, research on Stockholm syndrome seemed like it ceased to exist. However, new research has come into light that suggest that Stockholm syndrome is the fundamental reason why some victims develop emotional with their abductor (Goodale 2014). Robert Epstein, a senior research psychologist at the American Institute for Behavioral Research and Technology and an expert on Stockholm syndrome suggests that explaining Stockholm syndrome goes beyond physical torture claiming that convince their victims that they have eyes so that the victim is then unable to life beyond  (Goodale 2014). The question is clearly addressed which was uncommon before 2010. Professor Epstein continues the conversation supporting Stockholm syndrome as as to why victims choose to stay when she says, people often develop strong emotional bonds to people who make them feel  (Goodale 2014). Clearly, there is more explanation and flowing conversation regarding the validity of Stockholm syndrome since 2010. Child abduction has been called a victim and there has not been discussion regarding how families and loved ones are affected by it. Before 2010, there was an incredible amount of support and research regarding the own emotional and physical damages. According to Dr. Terri children in such situations kick into survival what needs to be done to keep yourself going It is clear that children feel a sense of hopelessness and dread being home in fear that the abductor can still harm him/her and their families. The stand on this changes however after 2010. There is now consideration for the feelings of both the child and the families. The transition process is both challenging for the (903 words) 3 child coming home and to the families welcoming him/her back. According to Judge et al, reunification has emphasized the needs of the central victim with only a perfunctory focus on the (232). It is clear that family is not as strongly considered in the transition process before 2010. Now, there is now a specific therapy (TFTRM) to those families struggling with the homecoming of their child. The Transitioning Families Therapeutic Model (TFTRM) main purpose is to families in transitioning from crisis, challenge, or conflict to connection and via integration of solution focused family therapy (Judge et al. 234). Over the years, there has been more connections made between the internal battle and psychiatric diagnosis. Before 2010, researchers knew that children felt helpless while and after they were abducted. Dr. Butterworth explains that sometimes tell their captives that if they try to escape, others dear to or even be hurt. They use psychological chains, which can be just as bad as (Snow 83). an understanding that children do feel hopeless on situation like these but before 2010, there was no psychiatric diagnosis to link it back to. After 2010, Children that experience helplessness during their abduction are susceptible to feeling vulnerable and becoming attached to their abductor is fear of punishment or consequences. Charles Williams explains this concept by saying If the abductor can convince the child that nobody cares for them but him, then he begins to have control over  he says, adding that once you control her mind, you control her  The conversation has shifted regarding child abduction in light of new research and perspectives over time. Over the years, the ideas of child abduction being a victim Stockholm syndrome being counterfeited by the media, and hopelessness being an untreatable emotion has drastically changed. 4 Works Cited Goodale, Gloria. California Kidnapping Case: Why Woman Seek Help Years  The Christian Science Monitor, 2014. EBSCOhost, Retrieved from http://search.ebscohost.com Judge, Abigail M., et al. The Transitioning Families Therapeutic Reunification Model in Nonfamilial  Family Court Review, vol. 54, no. 2, Apr. 2016, pp. 232-249. PsycINFO, doi: 10.1111/fcre.12215 Namnyak, M., et al. Psychiatric Diagnosis or Urban  Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica, vol. 117, no. 1, Jan. 2008, pp. 4-11. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/j.1600-0447.2007.01112.x. Snow, Robert L. Child Abduction: Prevention, Investigation, And Recovery. Westport, Conn: Greenwood Publishing Group, 2008. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Retrieved from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com