Maximiliano Lopez Instructor Townsend ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Project 2 Final Draft Going to the beach is a pastime that many families have shared for many generations. Imagine a world where they are no longer able to go to the beaches because the water is too hot to go into or there is a vast amount of oil in it. Well one organization, Oceana, is a stakeholder whose goal is to rid the oceans of any oil-drilling activity by big oil corporations. Oceana is an international organization focused solely on oceans, dedicated to achieving measurable change by conducting specific, science-based campaigns with fixed deadlines and articulated goals Oceana). They have organized themselves on pushing forward legislation to stop oil companies from freely exploring for oil in the Arctic region, and have done this by advertising through social media to convince people to join their cause. Oceana, through media posts on social feeds, advocates for anti-oil exploration, and through the usage of rhetorical appeals, actively continues to successfully fight off big oil companies and make their message known. In one of the two images that were used during social media campaign, there are two polar bears that appear to be in their natural environment. One is looking off into the distance while the other is on the ground in a playful position. On the top right, logo is displayed. The bottom left displays a message that is a call to those viewing it to the wild Next to it reads up to speak against reckless rush to drill Both messages imply a strategy that appeals to viewers on an emotional and logical level. They Lopez 2 imply a sense of urgency as it makes it seem like Shell is close to achieving drilling for oil in the Arctic. The next image used in social media campaign displays only one polar bear, but this time it is in a roaring position. This time, logo is placed on the bottom right. The message in this image is on the top left and it is a plea to the view to as loud as a polar The message under it is another plea to people to to stop Shell from buying up the Arctic for the next five years. The image uses a sense of urgency because it urges people to sign up to stop Shell from buying up the Arctic, and it gives a specific time on long it will stop them. It also is a play on words because the polar bear also happens to be in the image and it asks the viewer to roar as well. One of the rhetorical appeals used in media campaign against oil drilling is Pathos, a rhetorical appeal that evokes emotion through an image. In image 1 (Wilson- Facebook), there are two polar bears in their natural environment in the Arctic region. One is looking in the direction away from the camera, making it seem dramatic for whoever is viewing the image. The other polar bear is on the ground, in what seems to be a defenseless position looking up at the sky. The position of the polar bears in the image makes them to be more appealing to the viewer. The message in the image uses the words and to evoke emotions in the viewer to act to stop oil companies from harming them. In image 2 (Wilson-Facebook), there is a similar message portrayed in it. The way that the polar bear is almost standing up in this image empowers those who are viewing it to act upon something, and in this case, to stop oil companies from buying up the Arctic region. The phrase as loud as a polar in the message of the image also brings out an emotional response in people to act. Lopez 3 Ethos, the credibility of information or images, is another rhetorical appeal that is prevalent in the images in the media campaign by Oceana. Both images have a similar form of Ethos in their respective ways. In image 1, there is the logo of Oceana at the top right, which makes it seem official to the viewer. The messages at the bottom of the image also insinuate that they are official by pointing out that they are trying to stop one of the oil companies trying to harm the Arctic environment. It asks the viewer to with them, making Oceana an organized voice against offshore drilling. In image 2, the logo of Oceana appears as well, but this time, it is at the bottom right. The image builds up credibility by showing that the polar bear is fine in its natural habitat without the hindrance of Shell being there, which shows to the viewer that Shell does not belong there like a polar bear does. It also gives a specific amount of time of how much they are going to stop Shell from going into the Arctic, which implies that there is an official voting process going on about this topic or situation. Logos, another rhetorical appeal prevalent in the images, is the logic of information or an image. Oceana uses this appeal in both the images to instill in the viewer a sense to make it more reasonable for them to support their cause. In image 1, all the letters in the message are in big, black, and capital letters to make their message more viewable for the reader to relate it to the image. On the left, the image has a message to the wild and on the right a justification is given to the reader on how to the wild The message on the right also gives a justification to the reader on why to defend the polar bears because the oil companies that put them in danger are which has two meanings in the image. In image 2, the image of the polar bear in a position has a double meaning. The double meaning is from the message saying that the viewer should or be as loud as the polar bear when it roars to create a voice advocating against oil companies. The message in the image also Lopez 4 gives an amount of time on how much the protection will last, insinuating that it is related to vote for a law of some sort. Another rhetorical appeal shown in both the image is Kairos, the usage of time or opportunity in images. The images were both used in social media, and were posted around the same time an official voting process was going on about the issue at hand. In image 1, there is a sense of rush that is instilled into the viewer when they are seeing the image. The image is taken at the right moment to show one polar bear looking off into the distance, and the other in some sort of playful, defenseless position. The following of the word is placed right under the image of the polar bears so that it is more likely to be seen right after the viewer is done looking at the two polar bears. In image 2, there is a form of Kairos where it goes along with the image of the polar bear The message in the image tells the reader to help stop oil companies from buying up the Arctic. The image was created specifically to advertise to the public on stopping oil companies from drilling in the Arctic for the next five years. In conclusion, Oceana created a social campaign to release images to advocate against oil drilling in the Arctic region. Through the usage of many rhetorical appeals like Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos, Oceana successfully instills their message to whomever is viewing their images. The importance of these images in campaign to stop oil companies from drilling in the Arctic. This is a highly controversial topic because on one end, oil is an important widely-used resource, but on the other end, the exploration for it can lead to many horrible consequences. The campaign created by Oceana effectively puts out the importance of saving the polar environment from oil companies. Through the usage of various rhetorical appeals, Oceana is able relay what they truly feel about oil companies drilling in the Arctic, which does have a big impact on not only the Arctic region, but the entire world as well. Lopez 5 Image 1 <https://www.facebook.com/oceana/photos/p.10152442954672253/10152442954672253/?type= 3&theater>. Lopez 6 Image 2 <https://www.facebook.com/oceana/photos/p.10152259314842253/10152259314842253/?type= 3&theater>. Lopez 7 Works Cited About  Oceana. Oceana, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://oceana.org/about-oceana/about us>. Wilson, Alan D. Roaring Polar Bear. Digital image. Oceana Facebook Page. Facebook, 25 July 2014. Web. 12 Mar 2017. <https://www.facebook.com/oceana/photos/p.10152259314842253/10152259314842253/ ?type=3&theater>. Wilson, Alan D. Reckless Polar Bears. Digital image. Oceana Facebook Page. Facebook, 24 Oct. 2014. Web. 12 Mar 2017. <https://www.facebook.com/oceana/photos/p.10152442954672253/10152442954672253/ ?type=3&theater>.