Gill1 Kaytlyn Gill Krista Townsend 12 March 2017 Comp 2 Visual Rhetoric of The Dove Real Beauty Campaign The stakeholder chosen for this visual rhetoric the Dove Real Beauty Campaign. The Dove Real Beauty campaign is a campaign for young girls and young women to celebrate and embrace the bodies they were given and to feel confident and comfortable in the skin they are in. This was created in 2004 by Ogilvy & Mather. Ogilvy & Mather is an advertising company in New York, but started in London. Doves motto is, We believe beauty should be a source of confidence, and not anxiety. why we are here to help women everywhere develop a positive relationship with the way they look, helping them raise their self-esteem and realize their full (Our Vision) This campaign today is featured on billboards, videos, commercials, and more. To get the real beauty to come out they interviewed many women of different backgrounds and diversity. Campaign stands for real beauty and It encourages women of all ages, race, color, size, and more to embrace their beauty and be happy with the skin they are in. Also, not to care about the stereotypes around. Their stake in my topic is to promote and stand for real beauty. The images chosen appeal to the audience through ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos by helping one understand the purpose of the whole campaign. Multiple women got together and took this picture in undergarments to take images so audience can see what Dove really stands for. All of the women were different shapes, colors, and ages. The images shows they are comfortable in the skin they are in. They also have little to no makeup on, and no edits. The images ask the audience to maybe hop on board with the campaign. easy to explain what Gill2 the campaign stands for, but ten times better to see than to just imagine. When young people and older people see this happiness and comfortableness they will too, feel they can accomplish anything. Dove picked brave women to take these pictures and it shows anyone can do it. It shows them photoshop is unreal and not necessary. The images are trying to get an emotional reaction out of the audience. It could make someone feel excited, or nervous, anxious, and even happy to see women care. Image number one is a straight line of women in white undergarments. They are smiling and showing off what they have. The Ethos of image one is the Dove trademark that appears above the woman. Dove is a popular, well known company that has a lot merchandise sold around the US. Ethos is the credibility of the image or work. This image is very credible and get any more credible than it already is. Once one sees a trademarked image, it automatically becomes more credible than any other normal picture. The audience believes in the promotion of the cause more. Rather than just a few women getting together and taking a photo to try and start awareness of something. The next element is the pathos of the image one. Pathos is the emotional appeal that the visual rhetoric gives off. There are many feelings Dove is trying to get the audience to feel with these images. One main one being happiness and joy. In the picture the women are in undergarments and they are smiling, you can see the happiness in their eyes and smile. This makes the audience see they are comfortable taking picture like this which is the main goal. They see happiness and joy you automatically feel it with them. Another feeling is the feeling of comfort. When someone not knowing anything about the campaign sees this image number one, they will feel comfortable and see that anyone can pose and be comfortable, then they can do it as well. Comfort is a big emotion when it comes to this campaign. Dove wants women to be able to feel comfortable and this image portrays that well. The logos of the image one is next. Logos is the logic used behind the visual rhetoric image. The logos of my images are why they took these pictures. The campaign stands for being comfortable in the skin in. So the reason for the picture is to show the audience possible to accomplish that. They are leading by example. easy to say things and say that women need to be more confident but to Gill3 actually do the action. Before the images the audience aware of people acting on what the campaign stands for. The images give the audience more reason to hop on board. Another logical reason behind this image is the way they stood. The women were all standing together as a team and this is giving off the impression that women should stick together. Image one for sure, has some great methods of ethos, logos and pathos, but on the contrary image two really shows what dove is trying to do. The second image just an image, it was a video. The video featured a few women telling an FBI forensic artist how they see themselves and comparing that drawing to how he sees them through his own eyes. The ethos in this video is simply the trained FBI forensic artist. Its one thing to get a regular street artist, but this guy is certified and gets paid to draw people to perfection. The ethos in this video also are the real women that took part in the activity. The Dove Real Beauty sketches experiments greatest appeal is the pathos. The different woman shared the negative thought they had about their looks and all of the flaws they hated about themselves. As they did that, the artist drew what they described and then he drew what he saw with his own eyes. Dove made this video very emotional for the audience. Women were shocked and surprised at the final drawings of how other people saw them. It was an immediate confidence booster for them all. Dove wants the audience to feel empathy for the women as the cry and get emotional, and for women who actually feel that way watching the video they too, might get emotional. An appeal for logos would be for the organization to give logical reasoning for the argument. In the video made by Dove there are a few logical elements throughout. There are not as many logos as there was pathos, but there is some logical reasoning to going on. The dove website at the end of the video is very logical. After watching the emotional video, women are more interested in the organization, and will most likely feel like they want to join. Also, the logic is clearly In the paintings. A real FBI artist drew the images of the women and make it up himself. Gill4 Kairos is the appeal that used time and or opportunity in a visual rhetoric. Dove wants the audience to see the kairos by making the campaign about having an opportunity to change, no matter the age or time period you are in, in your life. One can be the age 70 and feel really insecure about their image, but Dove reaches out to all ages, and says not too late or too early to change how you feel about yourself, and to stop comparing yourself to another. Also another example of kairos is the time period all of this has come into play. Fifteen years ago, women have the high beauty standards they have this day in age, simply because there was no type o social media platform. This generation is a big difference. Yes women have always been insecure, but its been more apparent since all of the social media sites and platforms. In conclusion for visual rhetoric is requires all four of the theories, ethos, pathos, and logos. All four of those appeals might not be in a certain advertisement, but there is always at least one. One appeal might override the other ones. ultimate goal is to get women to feel comfortable in the skin they are in. The image and video chosen to go along with the visual rhetoric piece are great examples of visuals that need to be featured for this whole campaign. The visual aids sum up all of what Dove stands for and they message they want to create for women of the world. Dove thought about how they are going to make the images credible, how they are going to get it to appeal to the audience emotionally, the logic behind it all, and the time and opportunity. Visuals Gill5 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=litXW91UauE Gill6 Works Cited Why Real Beauty Campaign Is The Best Thing On  Odyssey. N.p., 04 Apr. 2016. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Doveunitedstates. Dove Real Beauty Sketches More Beautiful than You Think  YouTube. YouTube, 14 Apr. 2013. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Our  Dove UK. N.p., 22 June 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. ANNO