Townsend 1 Kiera Townsend Krista Townsend ENC 1102 11 March 2017 Rhetorical Strategies used by the National Rifle Association In 1871 the National Rifle Association (NRA) was created by General George Wingate and Cornel William C. Church. The purpose of the NRA when it was founded was to and encourage rifle shooting on a scientific Brief History of the Since 1871, the National Rifle Association has focused on creating shooting ranges and competitions for American youth, and providing gun safety education to all of its members. The NRA believes that the citizens of the United States, according to the Second Amendment of the Constitution, have the right to own a firearm. The National Rifle stance on gun control is that the United States government should not increase background checks on gun sales. Through advertisements published by the NRA, rhetorical strategies are used in order to effectively persuade their audience not to support an increase in background checks on gun purchasers. The first advertisement that the NRA published states the claim that of Police say background checks will have no effect on violent (Gertz) in large blue font, against a plain white background. Underneath this statistic is a police badge with blue banners on the front that states National Survey, 15,000 Respondents, March Underneath the police badge is a large red sign that reads your Senator to listen to police instead of Bloomberg and in bold white font. The fine print found at the bottom of the advertisement is in white font, against a light grey background that states for by the Townsend 2 National Rifle Association Institute for Legislative Action (NRAILA.org) and not authorized by any candidate or The second advertisement that was published by the NRA to counteract those who lobby for universal background checks was an advertisement that used a senator as the main spokesperson against background checks. This advertisement is found against a plain black background with the quote be honest, criminals going to buy a gun and go through a background check. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) New York Times, (Friedman). The quote be and the citation of the senator who spoke this quote is written in blue, whereas the rest of the quote is in white. A picture of a smiling Senator Kirsten Gillibrand is next to the quote, and a white logo for the National Rifle Association Institute for Legislative Action (NRA-ILA) is found in the bottom right hand corner of the advertisement. Both advertisements rely on ethos as part of their rhetorical appeals used to persuade their audiences. For the first advertisement, there are two sources of authority present. The more obvious form of ethos is the large police badge found in the center of the advertisement. By presenting this badge in their advertisement, the NRA is relying on the audience believing the police officers have to say on the issue of background checks. Most people would agree that the police have an authority on the matters of criminal activity and gun violence. The second form of ethos found in this first advertisement is the fine white print at the bottom. The advertisement states that this advertisement was for by the National Rifle Association Institute for Legislative (Friedman) and provides a website that the audience can go to for more information on the subject. By providing this information at the bottom of the advertisement, the NRA is asserting their authority in this matter. Townsend 3 The second advertisement also includes two forms of ethos. The first authority presented is Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, whose picture is on the advertisement. Gillibrand also stated the large quote found on the majority of the picture. Having her picture and quote, as well as identifying her as a democrat from New York provides an authority on this issue, and that whatever she has to say about background checks should be trusted. The second form of authority presented in this advertisement is less obvious, but is the logo NRA-ILA found in the bottom right hand corner of the advertisement, providing an organization that has an authority on the subject of firearms. Pathos is another rhetorical appeal that is used in these advertisements published by the National Rifle Association. In the first advertisement, the color scheme for the whole ad is red, white, and blue. These colors usually elicit a patriotic feeling among the people of the United States, providing an emotional reason as to why the audience should not encourage an increase in background checks. Most of the text on this advertisement, including the banners on the police badge itself are in blue font. The color blue is associated with police officers, again, providing a sense of authority, and that police officers approve this statistic that of police say background checks will have no effect on violence (Gertz). The second advertisement also exhibits certain aspects of pathos in order to persuade their audience to disapprove of increased background checks. First of all, the second advertisement shows a picture of a smiling Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. Most people associate happiness and being trustworthy with someone who smiles, making the audience feel good about trusting what she is saying about background checks. The first part of the quote by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand that states be (Friedman) is in blue font, whereas the rest of the quote is in white text. This provides emphasis on the word honesty, which plays on the Townsend 4 emotions of the audience that desire honesty in politics. The color blue is also used in the font for the citation of the quote, which also states that Senator Kirsten Gillibrand is a Democrat, and most Americans associate the color blue in politics to the Democratic Party. This color blue shows party unity, and Democratic Party pride that the audience may relate to. A third rhetorical appeal that these advertisements that the National Rifle Association uses is logos, or the appeal to logic. In the first advertisement, a statistic is used that states that 80% of police officers do not approve of background checks, and believe that they will not work (Gertz). The logical argument presented here is that if a large majority of police officers believe that increasing background checks will not prevent gun crime, Congress should not institute increased background checks. Police officers know how criminals act, they deal with gun related issues every day, and the majority of them do not believe an increase in background checks will reduce gun crime. The second advertisement uses the quote from Senator Kirsten Gillibrand to have the audience think about what will an increase in background checks actually do. This is shown in the quote be honest, criminals going to buy a gun and go through a background (Friedman). The logical argument attempted here is to appeal to the reason, and common sense of the issue. This argument is based on the idea that criminals will be criminals no matter what you do. Increasing background checks on guns will not change the amount of guns sold on the black market to criminals. These arguments effectively present the stance on increasing background checks for firearms. The last rhetorical appeal used in these advertisements published by the National Rifle Association is Kairos, or the appeal to opportunity. In the first advertisement about the Police disapproving of an increase in background checks, the advertisement was most likely shown on television, since most television ads have the same sort of fine print at the bottom as this one Townsend 5 does. However, since this advertisement states your senator to listen to police instead of Bloomberg and (Gertz) we can assume that this advertisement was published around 2013, and that this advertisement would not particularly work today, since President Obama is out of office. The second advertisement with Senator Kristen Gillibrand looks as if it would be most effective in a magazine, or perhaps a television commercial. Since Senator Kristen Gillibrand is still a senator of New York currently, this ad would work well today, if it were not for the date (Friedman) written at the bottom of the advertisement. Both of these advertisements show the views of the National Rifle Association in regards to background checks on gun sales, and how they should not be increased. These advertisements use rhetorical strategies in an effective manner to persuade their audience that an increase in background checks should not be implemented. The use of pathos in the form of friendly, approachable Senators, and the patriotic colors used in both advertisements provides an appeal to emotion. Logos is used in the statistics and quotations used in the images, and ethos is used to present the authority of the National Rifle Association, the Police force, and Senator Kristen Gillibrand. The most likely location of these advertisements are found in magazines or on television around 2013. Townsend 6 Works Cited Brief History of the NRA, National Rifle Association of America, 2017. Web Accessed 29 January 2017. <home.nra.org/about-the-nra/>. Friedman, Dan. Kirsten Gillibrand Does Not Agree With the NRA on Background  NY Daily News. NY Daily News, 02 May 2013. Web. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.nydailynews.com/blogs/dc/kirsten-gillibrand-not-agree-nra-background- checks-blog-entry-1.1661822>. Gertz, Matt. NRA Distorts Suspect Survey to Attack Background  Media Matters. Media Matters for America, 17 Apr. 2013. Web. Accessed 20 Feb. 2017. <mediamatters.org/blog/2013/04/17/nra-distorts-suspect-survey-to-attack- backgroun/193668>. Townsend 7 http://mediamatters.org/blog/2013/04/17/nra-distorts-suspect-survey-to-attack- backgroun/193668 Townsend 8 http://www.nydailynews.com/blogs/dc/kirsten-gillibrand-not-agree-nra-background-checks-blog- entry-1.1661822