Fish 1 Mason Fish Instructor Townsend ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Direct-to-Consumer Drug Advertising: the Imagery Advertising is an integral part of the business world, raking in billions of dollars annually. When watching television, it is nearly impossible to make it through an entire program without bombardment from a drug company presenting their newest product. One company which participates in this form of advertisement is Mylan. They are an international drug company which places many of these drug ads due to correlated increased profits. This company specializes in generic medication alternatives, but is infamous for the controversy related to the rising prices of the EpiPen, a product used to treat severe allergic reactions. In 2015 alone, Mylan spent over $43 million dollars in advertising just for the EpiPen (Ventola). In the same year, profits for the EpiPen and EpiPen Jr. were over $1.5 billion, a huge proportion of their overall $9 billion revenue (Ventola). Through direct-to-consumer drug advertisements, Mylan effectively uses rhetorical appeals to encourage their audience to purchase more of their products. An appeal to ethos is important because it brings credibility into the advertisement. The image presented by Mylan mentions how the EpiPen is the most prescribed epinephrine auto- injector for more than 20 years. Included in this image is a graphic of the EpiPen and EpiPen Jr. enclosed in the yellow and green boxes. These graphics are present on the box given to the patient when the medication is prescribed, and reminds them of the product. Fish 2 Within the video advertisement, appeals to ethos mainly stem from the speakers themselves. Each speaker is listed with their job title and credentials. Most of the speakers chosen for the advertisement are highly trained and educated people. Not only were these experienced people advocating for Mylan, they were also featured in the video in their respective work environments. For example, a scene was shown with a Pharmacist who was in the pharmacy, and a doctor in their office consulting a patient. In summation, both the print and video advertisements effectively present the credibility of their products and their brand as a whole. As it relates to their staff, manufacturing, standards, and product, the video was better at instilling trust in every element in their company because of the expert testimonials. In general, more appeal can be provided in a commercial or video because of the amount of time and content it contains. However, the print image also did well in representing credibility specifically with their EpiPen product. An appeal to logos gives logical reasoning to an argument. In the image presented by Mylan, logical elements of the advertisement are shown through the text. By providing the phone number and website for the EpiPen, Mylan is giving their audience access to more information about the drug and their brand. By using the bold statement of only it were this Mylan is reaching out to those in their audience who are logical those who can sense the see the obvious. Because this statement is written in bold letters and located at the top of the ad, it attracts the attention of consumers to read further. As mentioned above, the graphic including the EpiPen and EpiPen Jr. logo is present. In this graphic the active ingredient of epinephrine and strength of 0.3/0.15mg is included. This appeals both to the logic and credibility of the company who understands in their product and how it works. Fish 3 In the video advertisement, the beginning introduces the statement that products pertain to all 7 billion people in the world today. They mention how their products are manufactured using strict quality standards in high quality and technologically advanced facilities. It only seems logical that medications which need to function properly in the body should be manufactured with the highest standards to guarantee their safety and efficacy. Lastly, Mylan mentions that their products are helping treat 40% of all those who are being treated for HIV/AIDS. Therefore, both the print and video advertisement effectively present logical reasons to buy their products. However, the print advertisement stinks of the slippery slope fallacy. This fallacy assumes that if one action is taken, another more serious reaction will occur through sometimes illogical means. In truth, not all birthday parties will have a cake which contains nuts, and not all nut allergies will kill children. Most likely, the parents of a child with severe allergies will already be aware of their reaction to nuts and aware of items that may contain nuts. By using pathos, an organization can appeal to the emotional side of their audience. Because the EpiPen is used for severe allergic reactions, Mylan is providing the assumption that without their product, a child may die from anaphylaxis. In this way, the advertisement applies most to parents because presumably no parent would want their child to die from an avoidable allergic reaction, or any other reason for that matter. Mylan also uses scare tactics to sell their products. They mention that allergies can surprise the parent at any time, even when they least expect them. The three layers of the cake contain words which are meant to stand out to parents. The biggest word on the cake is an allergy which affects over 3 million of Fish 4 Americans Many People Have Food This word alone can remind parents of a scary moment when their child was suffering with an allergy. The video advertisement first introduces pathos while showing the Harris family. This family talks about how both of their sons have a rare disease which Mylan is helping treat. This showcases Mylan as a company that cares about families. Next, Mylan speaks about how one of their missions is to combat HIV/AIDS, especially in third world countries. Their goal by showing videos of children in rural third world country environments implies that they spend not only time but also money in these countries. Mylan intends to convince their audience that they care for all people, not just the ones who purchase their products. Once again, both the print and video advertisement appeal effectively to the emotional side of the audience. When analyzing the video, a rhetorical fallacy of ad populum can be seen. By including the scenes of third world nation children, Mylan is distracting their audience. The real reason for their commercial is really to sell drugs, not to help people in need. In fact, CEO Heather Bresch received an increase in salary over 600% from 2007 to 2015 (Popken). This money could be spent helping more children in need, but instead is going toward executives in the company. Lastly, kairos is an appeal to opportunity or time. In the image advertisement, Mylan plays on the sense of urgency by mentioning that an allergen may come in the form of a surprise. They highlight the importance of always being prepared, because any time could be the time a child has a life-threatening allergic reaction. After viewing the advertisement, parents with children who have severe allergies will be more inclined to go out as soon as possible to receive a prescription from their doctor so they can always keep an EpiPen on hand. Fish 5 On the other hand, the video advertisement has less of an appeal to kairos than the image, but it is still present. When speaking of their goal to help third world countries with HIV/AIDS treatment, Mylan mentions that their ability to do so starts and ends with the customer. In this way, there is a slight urgency to influence customers to buy products sooner in order to help those in need more quickly. There is also a failure to appeal to kairos. Found on YouTube channel with only around 600 subscribers and 600 views, the video has not been seen by many people. It may be used in other locations as well, but this location on YouTube was not a good source of opportunity for Mylan. Unlike every other appeal, the picture appealed well to kairos but the video did not. By instilling urgency in their consumers, parents of children with severe allergies are more likely to receive the EpiPen. In regards to the video, if it were shortened and used as a television ad or on another platform it would yield more views due to a better opportunity and audience. As a whole, both advertisements were filled with text and images which appealed to all forms of rhetorical argument and analysis. Through ethos, Mylan solidified their credibility both in their products and in their brand. Through logos, Mylan presented logical reasons why a consumer should choose their products and ways to find out more information. Through pathos, Mylan pulled on the heartstrings of its potential consumers. Through kairos, Mylan provided a sense of urgency to customers to persuade them to buy their products. Overall, only a few rhetorical fallacies were found from either of the advertisements. For these reasons, Mylan successfully created advertisements which encourage viewers to purchase their products, possibly even over another brand with a similar product. Fish 6 Works Cited Many People Have Food Food Allergy Research & Education. Matrix Group International. 2017. Web. Retrieved from https://www.foodallergy.org/facts-and-stats Goldenburg, Elizabeth. Specialty EpiPen Print One Spot Allergy. May, 2012. Web. Retrieved from http://blog.onespotallergy.com/2012/05/misleading-and-dangerous- epipen-ad-campaign-launched-by-mylan-specialty-continues/ Mylan is Your Youtube. Mylan. Retrieved from dLR0O6AVPTCohUvs Popken, Mylan Pay Rose Over 600 Percent as EpiPen Price Rose 400 NBC News. Sept, 2016. Web. Retrieved from http://www.nbcnews.com/business/consumer/mylan-execs-gave-themselves-raises-they- hiked-epipen-prices-n636591 Ventola, Pharmaceutical Advertising Therapeutic or U.S. National Library of Medicine. Pharmacy and Therapeutics. Oct, 2011. Web. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3278148/ Fish 7 Mylan Specialty EpiPen Print Ad: