While watching a sport, everyone has seen the typical prima donna athlete laying down maybe just to catch a break. Or maybe even seen one player seriously brake a bone, pull a muscle, or maybe pass out for some unexpected reason, but later eventually get back to playing as if nothing had ever happened. While many times, to a fan injuries really viewed as something too important (and as fans we selfishly are eager for a player to return to the field), many injuries are beginning to be taken very seriously and the most important of them all are injuries dealing with the head and neck area. The topic of those injuries, specifically concussions and other serious head injuries, are beginning to bring up some serious talk and the importance of them have started to shift. The importance and focus on concussions and other head injuries has greatly changed over the years. It has mainly shifted from just another injury to an important, very serious issues that can cause multiple life problems. Although plenty is still being down many new steps in the concussion process are taking place to better improve the safety of an athlete. To begin with, in the to be more precise 10-20 years ago, injuries were looked at as a kind of pride thing. Many athletes would get injuries and brag about it. If you were to talk to an older athlete you would hear something like in my youth when I played ball I had at least 5 concussions a year, but every time I would strap up and get back out Although that specifically would be very hard to believe, that is also sort of how concussions were treated back in those days. In the earlier times concussions were being taken serious but at the same time they were being mildly treated. It was believed that not much could be done but a player who had sustained the injury mostly just needed to be carefully monitored for future problems. Per Current Issues in the Identification, Assessment, and Management of Concussions in Sports-Related Injuries by Catherine Mckeever, number of sports-related concussions appears to be increasing, causing a greater need for appropriate identification by That alone proved that the seriousness of concussions was starting to shape out but still much of what needed to be done was not being done. Over the years that began to greatly change. Now many new things are being done to keep a player safe like new policies being introduced, more research and, critical steps a trainer or doctor would need to take. In the article The era of sport concussion: Evolution of knowledge, practice, and the role of psychology, Julie Guay argues that, of the high stakes of mismanaging these injuries, professional sports organizations, federal/state government, and various health-related disciplines have responded with efforts to educate the public and improve treatment and management of this This statement proves that once needed work, is now being done and many things are taking place to help further prevent concussions, and or limit them. Another very important step that is taking place is the research behind it, and finding ways to prevent them. Before the new great technology and findings there was not too much that could immediately be done to prevent concussions from happening. The focus then before the research was equipping the players with the right head gear. Have you seen an old retro NFL helmet? be real those helmets were not protecting anything but a hair from falling in their faces. With Andrew McIntosh in and head protection for the athlete as a means to prevent argues that, is important that the sports can convey their needs to the standards organizations and manufacturers, e.g. a helmet to prevent intra-cranial hemorrhage and skull In that piece, he is calling out for more work to be done on the head gear a player uses. Now that the helmet problem seems to be taken care of but concussions are still a problem, many are doing their own research to better find out what more could be done. In The Massachusetts School Sports Concussions Law: A Qualitative Study of Local Implementation Experiences. Mitchell Doucette believes that goal is to strategize methods (starting with the youth) to help during the implementation process of a head He seems to believe that better education on the whole head injuries and the steps on the process would help to further maintain it. Another of many great changes is the knowledge of the effects and what can be done about it. In the past, as I stated before much was not being done to prevent concussions. Many times, an athlete could have sustained a concussion and nothing at all would have been done about it. Recently studies have found out that, that is a huge reason many older athletes are having psychological problems due to concussions sustained during their athletic careers. To prove how little things were being done, in the article Current Trends in Athletic Training Practice for Concussion Assessment and Management, Andrew Notebaert argued that sports trainers and doctors were not going by the ground rules of treating an athlete with concussion or head injury type With that being ignored it is obvious why many athletes are suffering now. Today many must follow the policy due to further information on the effects one might have due to poor treatment. (Hellen Ling 2016). In conclusion, the issue around concussions has changed big time over the years. From what is being done, the research, and the known effects all are being reconsidered and used to further combat the problem. Of course it will take plenty of years and effort to completely find a perfect solution for the problem, it is still showing great progress with everything that has changed over the years and all that is being done. WORKS CITED: Guay, Julie L. The Era Of Sport Concussion: Evolution Of Knowledge, Practice, And The Role Of  American Psychologist 71.9 (2016): 875-887. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Doucette, Mitchell L., et al. The Massachusetts School Sports Concussions Law: A Qualitative Study Of Local Implementation  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 44.3 (2016): 503-513. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McKeever, Catherine K., and Philip Schatz. Current Issues in The Identification, Assessment, And Management of Concussions in Sports-Related  Applied Neuropsychology 10.1 (2003): 4-11. Academic Search Premier McIntosh, Andrew S. Helmets and Head Protection for The Athlete as A Means to Prevent  International Sportmed Journal 4.1 (2003): 1-9. Academic Search Premier. Notebaert, Andrew J.1, Current Trends in Athletic Training Practice for Concussion Assessment and  Journal of Athletic Training (National Athletic Association) 40.4 (2005): 320-325. Ling, Helen, John Hardy, and Henrik Zetterberg. Neurological Consequences Of Traumatic Brain Injuries In  Molecular And Cellular Neuroscience 66.Part B (2015): 114-122. ScienceDirect.