Saito 1 Yuki Saito Krista Townsend Composition II 19 February 2017 Visual Rhetoric of Bitcoin People have been using currency to trade commodities and make profits, and the currency always represents value in every commodity transaction. The currency has evolved from basic trading systems and materials of currency have been changed. In the very early stages of currency, people used animals and grains to trade or buy other commodities. In the next stage, paper money was introduced, and people made different sizes of paper that represented various values. The biggest change was that paper itself have a high value like gold, and it cannot be consumed like grains. In this modern society, bitcoin, the newest currency system was invented due to several flaws regarding to the paper currency. According to his article of 2016 Mysterious Satoshi by Ian Steadman, it was introduced to the world by one unknown programmer, Satoshi Nakamoto. The Bitcoin network is not owned by anyone and it is only controlled by its users around the world, because Nakamoto designed Bitcoin based on his philosophical reasons that currency be under any kind of central control (Steadman 1). Therefore, unlike the paper currency, bitcoin has flexibility, high security and transparency, which make people in different countries to do money transactions without currency exchanges. Bitcoin organization promotes bitcoin usage and distribution of it as a worldwide currency by creating advertisements with rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. Saito 2 The first image regarding to bitcoin asks audience to feel that bitcoin is taking the place of paper currency or credit cards, and that today is the time that people in the world will start using bitcoin. The image is trying to accomplish the change of currency system from paper to bitcoin by using rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. First, ethos appeal to credibility and establish trust with readers. According to their article of 2016 Really by Allyson Hoffman & Kimber Wiggs, ethos includes references to symbols that represent authority. This image has a symbol of bitcoin on the right that represent the bitcoin organization. The image also shows that bitcoin is in the line with one-dollar bill and a credit card, which builds a credibility that people can use bitcoin as a method of transaction. The second image regarding to bitcoin asks audience to see bitcoin as an actual worldwide currency like dollars or euros. The image is trying to accomplish the credibility of bitcoin. In terms of ethos, this image has a symbol of bitcoin in the middle of a gold coin and on the left corner of 1- bitcoin card, which represent the bitcoin organization, since ethos reference to symbols that represent authority. Pathos appeals to emotion. The first image uses two colors, yellow and green. Yellow is a color of sunshine and it represents happiness and energy. Green is a color of nature, which symbolizes growth and fertility. It also has emotional appeal towards safety and money. Therefore, this image appeals to emotions by showing that Bitcoin is safe currency that has a potentiality of its growth as a new currency. Secondly, in terms of pathos, the second image appeals to emotion by showing a shiny gold coin, that represents wealth. Bitcoin organization refers them that you can make money by using bitcoin, or that bitcoin is a great currency that provides a good method of controlling money. Saito 3 Logos appeal to logic and reason. The image uses logos by showing the logic of transformation from a cow to bitcoin as a method of transaction. The image makes audience aware of a possibility of bitcoin as a new currency in the modern economy system, even though a lot of people still think that bitcoin is an unstable currency that no one uses. the second image shows that bitcoin is a worldwide currency by displaying with other currencies such as, American dollars and euros. Bitcoin can be used all over the world without any foreign exchanges. While an American dollar can be used only in the United States, bitcoin can be used in different countries or continents. People can do transactions anywhere in any countries. Kairos appeal to timeliness. This image uses Kairos by showing a time transition from when people used to use cows as a currency to when people start using bitcoin as a currency. It shows that our currency system is about to change to bitcoin now. The second image appeals to timeliness by referring to exchange money to bitcoin from dollars or euros now. In the image, bitcoin is on top of all the other currencies, and it tells that bitcoin is a better currency than the others. Since the value of bitcoin can be skyrocketed when it comes to currency exchange rate, exchanging to bitcoin as soon as possible is needed. In summary, Bitcoin organization shows that bitcoin is a new prospective currency that can be replaced instead of paper currency. It can be the first world-wide currency that can be used in various countries and continents without any foreign exchanges. Bitcoin is also safe and it has a room for its growth and development, which can bring wealth to people in the future. However, there are rhetorical fallacies and logical fallacies, the use of logic misleads the audience, uses flawed reasoning, or simply does not make (Hoffman, 53). For instance, the second picture misleads the audience. Bitcoin exist in shapes of a coin or a card, and it only exists on the Internet as a virtual currency, which means you cannot have bitcoin as cash Saito 4 like paper currencies. Besides, these pictures have credible sources to prove their points. They show logos of bitcoin but they show any website links or organization name in the images. They show that bitcoin is a new currency, however, there is no evidence that it has a possibility of being a new currency in the images. In conclusion, both images have a room for improvement of efficiency. The first image could have URLs to its website to let people know more about bitcoin instead of just showing the transition of currencies. It could also have an official bitcoin logo next to the image to increase the credibility of this image. The second image could also have URLs or a logo to show its credibility more. In addition, it can use another color for background color to use pathos more as a rhetorical appeal. Bitcoin is still a young currency and there are not many advertisements. The advertisements of bitcoin are not effective enough, however, by using more effective ethos and pathos, bitcoin organization can improve its effectiveness more and promote the usage of bitcoin to the world. Since three main advantages of using bitcoin are flexibility, high security and transparency, bitcoin organization can also mention these aspects in their advertisements. Lastly, since money laundering is the biggest issue related to bitcoin, bitcoin organization should claim more that bitcoin is not just a money laundering machine that promotes cyber climes. Saito 5 Works Cited Bitcoin-money. Digital image. Complete Bitcoin Guide. Bitcoin Guide, 28 Dec. 2015. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Gilbert, Avery N., et al. The Color of Emotion: A Metric for Implicit Color  Food Quality and Preference, vol. 52, 01 Sept. 2016, pp. 203-210. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.foodqual.2016.04.007. Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters : Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, Massachusetts : XanEdu, 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t00847a&AN=usflc.034570613&site=eds-live. Steadman, Ian. The Mysterious Satoshi  New Statesman 145.5313 (2016): 17. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Why-use-bitcoin. Digital image. Coindesk. Coindesk, 20 Feb. 2014. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Saito 6