Santa 1 Lorena Santa Jackson ENC 1101 3 March 2017 Changes in mitigating human-wildlife conflict People and humans have always had conflict. Now more than ever the population of people grows larger as many animal species get closer to extinction. To prevent the further decline of animal populations, there have been many strategies deployed to reduce conflict. Before 2010, people went straight to killing animals to protect themselves and their livestock. The tolerance of living with predators was low and compensation programs were used to repay farmers for damage. However, most compensation programs did not pay for full damages and this was found to only be a short-term solution as these programs did not prevent depredation from happening again. While there were a few non-violent strategies before 2010, new techniques to mitigate conflict have emerged and have been used more often. Attitudes of sharing land with predators have shifted and people are more willing to work with those trying to protect animals and leave violence as a last resort. The decline of animal species has become more noticeable as more species are added onto the endangered species list and those on the endangered list are being relabeled to critically endangered. Through the years there have been more experiments on different strategies to prevent predation and crop damage which are the predominant reasons for human-wildlife conflict. Demonstrating that farmers are starting to shift from lethal to nonlethal means of protecting livestock from predators. As human populations grow larger and more farms are being developed, the land available for wild game populations grows smaller. This cause a shortage of natural prey for carnivores and leaves carnivores like lions, hyenas, and leopards with little other Santa 2 choice than to go after farm livestock. To farmers, raising livestock is their way to make a living. The predation of livestock causes farmers to lose hundreds of dollars and this instigates conflict and causes humans to retaliate for the damages that the predators caused. According to Dr. Bernard Kissui, a researcher on alternative strategies for wildlife conservation with a PhD in Ecology and Evolution and behavior the retaliatory killings of predators is the biggest threat to large carnivores. Before 2010, tactics like shooting and poison were often used for killing lions, hyenas, and leopards (Kissui 422). After 2010, new strategies of deterring wildlife emerged such as, improving livestock pens/bomas, guard dogs, and disturbance (Bauer 363). All of these strategies were tested and found to be effective in preventing depredation and damage to crops by Dr. Hans Bauer who has been working in lion conservation for the past 25 years and is employed at Oxford WildCRU (wildlife conservation research unit). The non- violent strategies the Dr. Bauer used in his experiment not only have the potential to save animals lives but also the livelihood of farmers too. To try and assuage agitated farm owners, compensation programs were made to reimburse landowners for the damages caused by animals but were then abandoned for more efficient methods. Before 2010, these programs were used but this does not mean that they were effective. According to Dr. Rodney Jackson, a researcher and member of the Snow Leopard Conservancy, farm owners in Hemis National Park, India were only paid 35% or less of market value and payments would take up to two years. The initiation of this program had good intentions, but they still did not help prevent the retribution of predators, and only incited further retaliatory killings of snow- leopards which are already a critically endangered species in the Himalayan region. After 2010, compensation programs were seen as short-term solutions that are ineffective towards mitigating human-wildlife conflict. In a research study done by Dr. Laurie Santa 3 Marker, the founder and executive Director of the Cheetah Conservation Fund (CCF) with a Doctorate of Philosophy in Biology, she and her team found that conservation efforts have moved from short-term solutions, to long-term coexistence (302). This means addressing the attitudes of people towards predators and trying to get them to change their perceptions instead of trying to fix the issues on the surface with monetary compensation. Speaking about changing attitudes, tolerance of sharing land with predators has changed too. Before 2010, there were not so many educational programs to teach people how to coexist with predators. According to Kissui et al., due to losses of livestock and damage to farmlands, pastoralists have had a long history of intolerance towards predators. However, this intolerance could be cured with educational incentives. After 2010, the effectiveness of educational programs was study and in an experiment done by Marker et al., it was found that higher education was associated with higher tolerance. The programs that these researchers studied were three tiered, children, current farmers, and conservation and agricultural professionals (Marker et al 302). The purpose of these programs is to encourage farmers to control predation using non-violent strategies, teaching healthy management of natural prey populations, and promoting the tolerance and understanding of sharing land with wildlife. As people become more aware of how dire the animal conservation issue is, the strategies and attitudes of mitigating human animal conflict have changed. Now, non-violent strategies are more predominant, compensation programs are being replaced with more long term solutions for assuaging the retaliatory behaviors of farmers and pastoralists, and the tolerance of people towards sharing their land with wildlife has increased. As time goes on, more and more new strategies for preventing predation and retaliatory killings of wildlife will be developed and Santa 4 animal conservation will have a greater impact. With all this, many animal species will continue to roam the world and be enjoyed by future generations. Santa 5 Works Cited Jackson, Rodney M. and Rinchen Wangchuk. A Community-Based Approach to Mitigating Livestock Depredation by Snow  Human Dimensions of Wildlife, vol. 9, no. 4, Winter2004, p. 307. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/. Retrieved from http://www.lib.usf.edu/ Kissui, B.M. Livestock Predation by Lions, Leopards, Spotted Hyenas, and Their Vulnerability to Retaliatory Killing in the Maasai Steppe,  Animal Conservation, no. 5, 2008, p. 422. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/. Retrieved from http://www.lib.usf.edu/ Marker, Laurie L., and Lorraine K. Boast. Human-Wildlife Conflict 10 Years Later: Lessons Learned and Their Application to Cheetah  Human Dimensions of Wildlife, vol. 20, no. 4, Jul/Aug2015, p. 302. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/. Retrieved from http://www.lib.usf.edu/ Ndlovu, Mduduzi, et al. Responses of African Elephants Towards a Bee Threat: Its Application in Mitigating Human-Elephant  South African Journal of Science, no. 1-2, 2016, p. 52. EBSCOhost, doi:10.17159/sajs.2016/20150058.