Cavil 1 Nicholas Cavil Instructor Krista Townsend ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Anti-Vaccinations Did you know that Autism has been on the rise over the past decade? This strange phenomenon is currently baffling scientists but, according to the Vaccine Resistance Movement the issue is far more clear. The VRM have faith that a Health Movement will eventually relegate the Vaccine Industry, and all similar aberrations of nature, to the dust-bin of (Lord). In other words, they believe the main cause for this autism spike is due to the pharmaceutical industry and their shady activity. A slogan of the VRM is to a spade a spade now your (Lord). They want the reader to use common sense when approaching the issue of vaccinations. The organization and its constituents believe that the use of vaccinations in our clean and sanitary society is (Lord). Ergo, it would not make sense to inject a potentially harmful vaccine to a disease when there is a microscopic chance of catching the disease itself. The Vaccine Resistance Movement encourages joining their organization through their effective use of rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, in their images. Ethos is a rhetorical appeal that leans toward using a credibility as a source to drive argument. Image one is especially effective at using this appeal because it exhibits several elements of ethos. The image illustrates a group of people who are seemingly welcoming the viewer into the Vaccine Resistance Movement organization. This is known as a bandwagon appeal because it wants you to believe that others have faith in in the organization, and therefore you should too. Another usage of ethos can be seen by their logo which spreads apart the image Cavil 2 in a banner like manner. This gives the image credibility because the organization is credible as being one of the only legitimate anti-vaccine associations. Their mission statement which includes the phrase, call a spade a reveals ethos because it asks for the viewer to use common sense. If something is commonly held to be true it is often credible and therefore it can be trusted. Thus, the presence of ethos in their images give the viewer a sense of trust because of the several elements of credibility. This rhetorical appeal, among others, are used by the organization to further their resistance agenda. Pathos is more of an appeal to emotion and the second image is very effective at creating such emotion to achieve its goal of anti-vaccination. The image shows a pair of fists breaking a vaccination needle while being surrounded by the emphasized phrase, THE JAB, SAY NO TO COMPULSORY Another important feature of the ad is that it sports a red outline with a white interior that appears to pop out at the viewer. The closed fists can be synonymous with anger and that is exactly what the VRM wants you to feel in regards to vaccinations. Additionally, the VRM wants you to feel rage as the ad is covered in a red which is usually associated with fury in our American society. According to the Scientific American, red can be associated with anger because as humans it is natural for our faces to turn red when overcome with emotion (Martinez). The slogan, THE is also very pathos- oriented as it demands that you resist. It ask you to fight the jab it stresses it with very bold cap-locked print. These elements are deliberately put in to create pathos in the ad and it is done quite successfully because they activate a lot of emotion. Logos is an appeal to the logic of the information in the image which is typical done through text. The second image uses text that is short and clearly gets the point across, and thus it is more logical because the ad is very clear on its prerogative to THE Likewise, Cavil 3 the first image is also indicative of this with its statement to a spade a The phrase is based on the idea of syllogism; a very logic-based sense of reasoning where one compares several things, and forms a logical conclusion. The Vaccine Resistance Movement is basically stating that because vaccines can cause autism, and autism is on the rise, then vaccines are causing autism. However, there any empirical evidence that supports this stance, but autism has spiked dramatically in children since the (Doheny). Their ad essentially represents a false cause fallacy because they cannot directly prove that vaccinations caused autism. Regardless, both of these images do take on a logical approach when trying to get their argument across. These images, therefore, accurately present the rhetorical appeal of logos. An article by Web MD states that the rise in autism, and the rise in people who believe vaccinations cause autism, stems from the complexity of the science. The article can be quoted as saying, often hedge about saying whether their findings prove or disprove anything. because the scientific method proceeds by constantly modifying theories rather than accumulating  (Downs 2). Scientists, therefore, cannot prove that vaccinations either do or do not cause autism. They only make educated assumptions based on case studies that they conduct themselves. This has currently scared several parents into believing that the VRM may have some proof behind what they say. Ergo, the ads the Vaccine Resistance Movement put out appeal to timeliness because this is a very current issue in American society. These ads as a result are using kairos. In the first ad an element of kairos can be directly seen in the quote a spade a now your The use of the word was directly used because it is an appeal to timeliness. The ad wants the reader, who is probably a concerned parent, to actively join the movement at this very moment. This moment being one that shows vaccinations as the obscure, and dangerous entity they really are. Cavil 4 In conclusion, the Vaccine Resistance Movement believes that vaccines are ominous, insecure, and potentially dangerous. Despite the acumen of prestigious doctors, even they cannot prove to the public that vaccinations are entirely safe. With this is in mind, is it therefore wrong to strike away the stance that the Vaccine Resistance Movement proposes despite their lack of empirical evidence? Perhaps the VRM does have a logical stance. Their creation of advertisements that use rhetorical appeals bolster their numbers as people start to resist compulsory vaccinations. If the organization is correct in their beliefs, then they have saved thousands of children from being damaged by the grasp of autism. Work Cited Doheny, Kathleen. Autism: Cases on the Rise; Reason for Increase a  WebMD. WebMD, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Downs, Martin. Autism-Vaccine Link: Evidence Dispel  WebMD. WebMD, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lord, Joel. Vaccine Resistance  Vaccine Resistance Movement RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Martinez-Conde, Susana, and Stephen L. Macknik. How the Color Red Influences Our  Scientific American. N.p., 10 Oct. 2014. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Link (IMAGE TWO) Link (IMAGE ONE)