Kyaw 1 Aung Myo Kyaw Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 3.5.2017 Attitudes on The Impact of NAFTA Attitudes of researchers on the impact of NAFTA (North America Free Trade Agreement) on the economic growth of participant countries (USA, Canada, and Mexico) have changed frequently based on their research since NAFTA has been one of the most controversial and debatable topic for many years. Before 2010, research showed that NAFTA has positive effects on the output growth of Mexico while, after 2010, research suggested that Mexico needed to reform its foreign trade policies to fuel economic growth. Moreover, before 2010, one aspect of NAFTA, FDI (Foreign Direct Investments), could grow economy but, after 2010, it had been described as negative effect for Mexico economy. Before 2010, research showed that NAFTA did not have any effects on work force of the United States while, after 2010, research showed that it has positive impact on the workers over workers. Attitudes on the impact of NAFTA have changed from positive before 2010 to negative after 2010, except from attitudes on the workforces that has changed from no effect to positive, because of changes in participant countries economic growth rate and living standard of workers. Throughout the years, researches have showed that NAFTA has positive impact on output growth of Mexico but later, it has changed into negative impacts. Before 2010, research showed that NAFTA had positive impact on output growth because Mexico had changed its economics system from protective trade system with higher taxes and tariffs to NAFTA. NAFTA is a free trade system with lower or no taxes and tariffs on exports and imports. According to Vasquez, an author of an academic article, Liberalization and Kyaw 2 NAFTA Had a Positive Impact On Output after Mexico changing its trade system, only exports have increased but also distribution has changed in favor of manufactures and against oil (162). New manufacture industries such as automobile products, machinery and equipment had been established by both domestic and foreign companies. In 2005, Mexico had become of the top 10 leading exporters and importers of (automobile products, machinery and equipment) in the world (Vasquez 162). After 2010, research has shown that NAFTA has negative impacts on the output and economic growth of Mexico because of lack of regulations on foreign companies and educations system. According to Casey, an author of the article, Effect of the North America Free Trade Association On Foreign Direct Investment Flows and Economic Development in NAFTA allowed and Canadian MNCs (Multi Nation Cooperation) to order supplies from suppliers from their own that was why suppliers had gotten less orders from MNCs (9). workers were also not hired by the cooperation for higher positions because of lack of education and human resources development. As a result, more than half of the Mexico economy have been controlled by the foreign companies and most profits from imports and exports go to the foreign countries GDP. Moreover, researches have also shifted the impact of NAFTA on the area of FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) in Mexico economy. Before 2010, researches showed that FDI had positive effects on economics growth of Mexico because it can fuel output and exports growth of Mexico by using advanced machineries and training workers to increase their productivity. FDI can also improve infrastructures and communication of the country. Vasquez said that the case of Mexico, FDI has an overall positive effect (at macro and micro level) on exports, outputs, wages and (165). After 2010, research has shown that FDI has more negative Kyaw 3 impacts on Mexico economy than positive because it can cause damage, wage rate suppression, and competitive damage in small domestic Mexican companies unable to compete with the subsidiaries of (Casey 8). It can also cause unbalanced growth in Mexico. Casey also said that NAFTA did promote substantial increases in FDI inflows into Mexico, the investments did not produce balanced (9). Most of the foreign cooperation (FDI) have made investments only in regions (like border regions) where infrastructures, communication, and transportation are better that is why most cities in Mexico are underdeveloped expect from some cities have above facilities. Finally, researches have also changed on the impact of NAFTA in the area of living standard of workers. Before 2010, research showed that NAFTA did not have any impact on living standards of workers from participant countries (especially, the US) even though people thought that increasing exports from Mexico could increase jobless population in the U.S. Burfisher, an author of an The Impact of NAFTA on the United said that had no discernible effects on living standards of workers and aggregate employment in the (130). After 2010, researches have shown that although workers from the participant countries have gotten paid better than before, the workers have more benefits from NAFTA than workers from Mexico because of wage policies and strict in the USA (Cervantes-Martinez 20). Workers from the USA have been paid better than workers from Mexico because most of them were educated and working in higher managerial positions. On the other hands, most workers were physical workers or labor and hired to work low paid jobs. Even low level workers from the USA have been paid more than those from Mexico because of minimum wages policy in the USA. Cervantes-Martinez, an author of an article, Trade (And Some Extra NAFTA Trade) In Value Added and Its Distribution, Kyaw 4 said that most significant gap between the USA and Mexico economy were how the workers get (20). In conclusion, attitudes of researchers on the impact of NAFTA on the participant countries have changed over time in term of economic growth rate of the countries, the impact of FDI on the country economies and living standards of the worker force. Earlier researches showed that NAFTA had positive effects on economic growth rate of participant countries and the impact of FDI on these economies (especially economy). In contrast, recent researches have shown that NAFTA has negative impact on above factors of participant countries (especially Mexico). NAFTA did not have any impact on living standards of the worker in early research while it has positive effects on living standards of the workers in recent research. Kyaw 5 Work Citied Burfisher, Robinson, and Thierfelder. Impact of NAFTA on the United The Journal of Economic Perspectives, vol. 15, no. 1, 2001, pp. Wed 22 Feb, 2017. Casey, Jr., William L. The Effect of the North America Free Trade Association On Foreign Direct Investment Flows and Economic Development in  International Journal Of Business & Economics Perspectives 11.1 (2016): 1. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rosario, Jorge and Romero-Morett. NAFTA Trade (And Some Extra NAFTA Trade) In Value Added and Its Distribution, 1995-  Journal of Economic Structures 5.1 (2016): 1-22. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. DOI: 10.1186/s40008-016-0059-2 Vasquez Galan, Belem I., and Olajide S. Oladipo. Have Liberalization and NAFTA Had a Positive Impact On Output  Journal of Applied Economics 12.1 (2009): 159-180. EconLit. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.