Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Genuinely Understanding and Approaching the Homelessness Epidemic Homelessness is an issue not only native to the United States, but a global problem as well. The United States and other countries continue to reevaluate the homelessness epidemic and how to make improvements. According to Rayburn and Guitar has been a problem and social issue for over the last two (Rayburn & Guittar 2013 159). The surrounding metropolitan areas and patrons have different attitudes about the homeless. Many programs, organizations, and governmental policies have been put into place for the last twenty years with little improvement. Federal investments are not keeping up with inflation and the growing population, continuing the problem of unaffordable housing (Tjomsland 2016). By combining empathy, advocacy, and responsible intervention communities can aspire to have a public that truly understands the homeless population, as well as eliminate the stigma and generate promising solutions for homelessness epidemic. The Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness (AZCEH) is a non-profit organization that is dedicated to ending homelessness in the state of Arizona, through the implementation of advocacy, education, and coordination with local communities (Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness). The primary argument seen with this organization is that there is a significant problem with affordable housing and poverty, both major contributors to the homelessness epidemic. Senior citizens are among one of the fastest growing populations affected by the unaffordable housing crisis. The estimated seniors will have doubled in the homeless community Student 2 by 2050 (Tjomsland 2016). As stated by Brinegar citizens are sensitive to structural causes of homelessness and support humane measures to reduce homelessness, raising the questions regarding homeless (Brinegar 2000). The AZCEH offers a variety of online educational materials consisting of the overview of homelessness, solutions, volunteer opportunities, donations, and charitable tax credits. Although these are important aspects of the organization, they lack a personable appeal. The AZCEH is composed of board members and those who are experts in their fields of social work and economics. These people aim to teach others how to be an advocate for the homeless and help the community facilitate a program to end the homelessness epidemic (Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness). The study that was published in Urban Geography claims, simply stated, the problems that are directly creating homelessness are the rise of an extremely poor population and housing that is not affordable (Brinegar 2000). It is critical to educate the local community on how and why homelessness is a problem, in turn there is a better understanding of homelessness and improved solutions. Invisible People is a homelessness awareness project dedicated to making these invisible people, visible again. Mark Horvath, the founder of Invisible People, was once homeless himself. He now aims to show the public what it really means to be homeless. Short interviews of several hundred homeless men, women, and children are produced where they are asked to tell their story and answer a few questions (Invisible People). This special production is seen on every multimedia platform. The goal is to erase the stigma that has surrounded the homeless population and broadcast the how, why, and answers to some very simple wishes. In the pilot study done by nurses Mary Boylston and Rosemarie they confirm the stigma that surrounds the homeless population and how it affects aspects of healthcare and general attitudes the rest of the population acquires. In this pilot study, a number of nursing students evaluated their Student 3 preconceived attitudes toward the homeless and poor. One student answered, people take advantage of free services and do not pursue ( ). While this stigma of the homeless population is lingering within our healthcare system and other establishments, it should also be recognized how the homeless deals with stigma within their own populous group. Rachel Rayburn and Nicholas Guittar produced an article taking a closer look on how this stigma and these attitudes from the public affect the homeless. The article states: causes individuals who are homeless to change how they portray themselves to other homeless and housed (Rayburn & Guittar 2013). They found the homeless use distancing, embracement, and fictive storytelling as coping mechanisms of the stigma surrounding the homeless. Over the last twenty years, there have been many programs, policies, and proposed solutions that have been implemented to help end the homelessness epidemic with little to no success. In fact, there has been an increase in city and state legislation prohibiting the behaviors of the homeless, such as prohibiting panhandling, camping or sleeping areas, and loitering (Rayburn & Guittar 2013). So the question has to be asked, what effective strategies can be used to reduce homelessness? Both stakeholders strive to serve the same purpose: to put an end to homelessness. How can these two organizations work together to solve the ultimate problem? AZCEH is a local organization, only working towards ending homelessness in the state of Arizona. While working locally is a good groundwork, the need to recognize homelessness as a nationwide and global issue is also important. The organization, Invisible People is reaching out to gather the stories and hardships of the homeless. Alone these organizations serve to support an independent mission. However, the collaboration of these two organizations could aid in combining empathy, advocacy, and responsible intervention to end homelessness. Student 4 With over twenty-one thousand subscribers and several hundred videos on YouTube, Invisible People is uploading very personal interviews of the homeless for everyone to see, experience, and develop an opinion for themselves. While AZCEH uses the YouTube platform, they have only fourteen subscribers, twenty-five videos, and the media lacks personal interviews or experiences with the homeless community and little to no recognition of the common problem of unfordable housing. A realistic and practical compromise for these organizations would to combine YouTube videos on both sides. The combination of forces on just one media platform could have dramatic positive changes in these organizations. While the AZCEH provides video content on advocacy, resources, and staffing to assist the homeless, the integration of Invisible personal interviews could reel in empathy and understanding from the community. The best of both organizations are put to use in one place, easy for everyone to access with the simple search of As Jennifer Chernega states, by implementing the ethical belief (every human deserves safe and stable housing) and the practical belief (all-encompassing health issues including substance abuse, are easier to treat when a patient is in stable housing) actually resulted in a dramatic decrease of hospitalizations, days spent in the hospital, and emergency room visit (Chernega & George 2014). This is an idea of material that could be represented on the YouTube platform involving both organizations. The simple recognition from the community of the ethical and practical beliefs that every human deserves safe and stable housing could have a positive influence and response for supporting the homeless. Another proposed idea to accomplish the reduction in homelessness would include, conferences where both AZCEH and Invisible People are present together. Alone, these organizations spend significant time educating the community and press about their individual goals. However, together these organizations can learn from each other. Mark Horvath can Student 5 genuinely be an attribute to organizations such as AZCEH. Together they can provide solutions to the common problems such as, homeless people having difficulty accessing resources, problems activating community involvement, problems homeless individuals face inside shelters and on the streets, problems with the city and state funding resources, and problems with the stigma of the homeless. Both Invisible People and AZCEH share the common understanding that homelessness is a serious problem. Both organizations are currently operating in entirely different manners. Both organizations even share different attitudes and solutions. With the combing of forces on a media platform, such as YouTube and nationwide conferences, these two organizations can have a lot of momentum behind them to win the fight to end homelessness. Alone, both organizations serve a good purpose. However, combine efforts and experience from each stakeholder, can only lead to progress for the homeless and the patrons of the metropolitan communities. African American fathers providing support for their children are amongst one of the most intense rising populations within the homeless community. They face significant hardships for affordable housing and stability. The demographics and challenges of homelessness continues to change and often go underrepresented (Turner 2014). Without amalgamation of these special organizations, the problem could continue to remain stagnant, inadequate, and ill-informed. Without combining forces and the best of both organizations, the stigma of the homeless and within the homeless community could remain and the information about poverty and lack of affordable housing may not reach where it needs to go. Successful integration can lead to tolerance, access to resources, empathy, and improvement of the homelessness epidemic. (WC: 1,458) Student 6 Works Cited  Invisible People. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness -  Arizona Coalition to End Homelessness - HOME. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Boylston, Mary T., and Rosemarie Second-Degree Bachelor of Science in Nursing Preconceived Attitudes Toward the Homeless and Poor: A Pilot  Journal of Professional Nursing 29.5 (2013): 309-17. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Brinegar, Sarah J. Response To Homelessness In Tempe, Arizona: Public Opinion And Government  Urban Geography 21.6 (2000): 497-513. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Chernega, Jennifer, and Christine C. George. Works in Progress: Searching for Solutions to the Difficult Problems of  Journal of Poverty 18.3 (2014): 227-30. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Rayburn, Rachel L., and Nicholas A. Guittar. Is Where You Are Supposed to How Homeless Individuals Cope with  Sociological Spectrum 33.2 (2013): 159-74. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Turner, Georgia A. The challenges faced by homeless African American fathers in  N.p., (2014): 1-231. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Tjomsland, Tyler. The number of older homeless people is growing, spurred by low-wage jobs and lack of affordable  Spokesman.com. The Spokesman-Review, 23 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Mar. 2017.