Shackleford 1 Serge Shackleford Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.059 12 March 2017 Analyzing Visual and Rhetoric Appeals in Advertisements Animal abuse is often a subject addressed in advertisements in order to sway an perception of the meat industry. Because of this, there are organizations like PETA that are dedicated to stopping the inhumane treatment of animals. PETA is a stakeholder whose mission is to protect and save the lives of animals because they believe we, as human beings, do not have the right to eat, test on, wear, or be entertained by animals. main mission is to focus the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (PETA, 2017). These strong values PETA maintains translate to the idea that eating meat not only causes harm to animals, but also harms people. The unethical treatment of animals does not benefit humankind and, instead, causes negative side effects for people. For PETA, the abuse of animals is akin to abusing children in that killing animals and using them for food is detrimental to a health. Not only does meat-eating harm humans, it harms the animals itself in an unethical of central arguments. PETA runs ad campaigns that illustrate their point of view. Two different advertisements PETA of a child smoking a cigarette and the other of an obese child eating a part of its mission to reduce animal and human suffering in the world. These two different advertisements by PETA illustrate in multiple ways the detrimental effects consuming meat can have on health. Shackleford 2 message that eating meat is unhealthy effectively reaches its audience through the use of strong visual and rhetorical appeals. The visual appeals of the first advertisement effectively creates the argument that eating meat is bad for health. For the first advertisement of a child laying down, casually smoking a cigarette, the caption reads let your child along with the smaller text of smoking, eating bacon, sausage, and other processed meats is linked to The bold placement of the words immediately grabs the attention before allowing the reader to then process the small child. The black and white words, however, can detract from the message since there is a liking and slightly better ratings of quality for the differences were quite (Hoyer, Leone, & Cobb 1986). The open book lying in front of the child also brings about the idea that children are open in of the world and it is the responsibility of adults to protect and nurture them. This young period in a life is meant to explore and to period that would come to an abrupt halt sooner if a child were to smoke. This is presented in a negative tone as it is an image that can be repulsive to anyone who knows the effects of cigarettes. The purpose is to alert the audience and to educate about the detrimental health effects of their dietary choices. The child smoking a cigarette and comparing it to eating meat illustrates the negative health consequences smoking creates compared to the consumption of fact in which the advertisement illustrates these points through a variety of rhetoric appeals. Rhetorical appeals for this image include the use of logos since a nurturing parent allow his or her child to smoke a cigarette. So, logically, why would one allow them to eat meat since the health effects are negative in that way as well. The appeal to pathos concept is used here as well because the image of a child smoking a cigarette triggers feelings of shock and same Shackleford 3 feelings PETA would want people to have when seeing a child eat meat. It is these rhetorical appeals that help bring shock-value to the advertisement and helps grab the attention. The second advertisement is that of an overly obese child eagerly eating a hamburger which uses visual appeals to further message that eating meat is detrimental to health. The first effect of looking at the advertisement is to see the chubby cheeks and then him craning to fit a large hamburger into his mouth. This is illustrated because must be cognitively processed, rather than absorbed peripherally or (Scott 1994). This image, along with the PETA slogan, alludes to the idea that obesity is partly caused by eating meat and that losing weight is possible by not consuming meat and dairy products. The idea is also conveyed in other visual ways. The eager expression along with the distortion in size of both the hamburger and the boy highlight that meat causes obesity. The caption kids meat is child has the word highlighted in red, much like a stop signals a hazard. These little visual components of the advertisement further message that obesity is a byproduct of eating meat and therefore people should not allow their children to eat meat and dairy products. The child eating a hamburger effectively illustrates, in a variety of ways, the negative impacts consuming meat can have. Rhetorical appeals for this argument include the appeal to logos since most people know that obesity is caused by the overconsumption of calories and poor food choices. Meat is a high calorie food packed with hormones, so it makes sense that meat contributes to obesity. The appeal to pathos is used here as well as many people are sensitive to weight gain and connecting the idea of obesity to food is sure to grab attention. The advertisement was shocking in the UK since the ad a whopping 68 complaints to the Advertising Standards Authority in (PETA, 2013). Choosing to utilize a Shackleford 4 society naturally wishes to through the suggestion that giving children meat is abuse since it can cause physical harm, PETA spreads its awareness to various areas of society. Both the image of the child smoking a cigarette and the image of a child eating meat provide shock value and allow the audience to see that eating meat, a daily activity, may in fact be outrageously bad for health. However, although both advertisements bolster claims that eating meat is bad and that it is healthy to refrain from consuming meat and dairy products, the child smoking a cigarette advertisement is the most effective in conveying this message. This first advertisement used multiple visual cues that spark a strong pathos argument to wish to protect and nurture the child. One truly even think about giving a child a naturally, why would one want to give him/her meat? The other advertisement, although effective, can be associated with more of a junk food association than a meat eating one. Unlike the smoking of cigarettes which society deems as without has been attributed to eating junk food and maintaining a nonactive lifestyle. In a variety of ways, these ad images are effective at promoting message as they are shocking, attention-grabbing, and bring up scientific facts all at the same time. PETA often uses surprising, edgy advertisements to capture the attention that eating meat is bad for health even though it is often consumed in majority of daily meals. PETA acknowledges that they to make actions colorful and controversial, thereby grabbing headlines throughout the this approach has proved amazingly (PETA 2017). Through the use of multiple rhetorical and visual methods, PETA is able to better promote its mission statement. Often PETA uses visual cues that are surprising and socially inappropriate. This shocking aspect at first grabs the attention and then allows the reader to recognize that maybe not all their everyday usual food choices are as beneficial as once Shackleford 5 thought. In the future, people will consider eating meat as something that was once promoted but is now looked upon as backwards and like how smoking and the fast food industries are declining now due to increase of knowledge and availability of healthier options. Shackleford 6 Works Cited PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 Hoyer, Wayne D., Robert P. Leone, and Cathy J. Cobb. The Effect of Color Versus Black and White Advertising Formats on Affective Ratings and Perceptions of Product  NA - Advances in Consumer Research Volume 13. N.p., 01 Jan. 1986. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. UK Ad Makes Top 10 Most PETA. N.p., 14 Oct. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Scott, Linda M. Images in Advertising: The Need for a Theory of Visual  Journal of Consumer Research 21.2 (1994): 252. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Why does PETA use controversial  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Shackleford 7