Choi 1 Jimin Choi Instructor Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC 1101.903 10 March 2017 How have gun control changed over time The problem of firearms has been occurred constantly. What we have to focus on is that what is difference of situation of firearms between past and even by 2017. The reason is that especially America has been always happening regarding firearms. The only thing for sure is that almost accident is related to firearms in the us. While the accident of the firearms was happened, no one suggested clear solution by now. Basically, we should compare to and contrast to past and nowadays for improving situation of accident regarding firearms. the main point we have to focus on issues about firearms in terms of perspectives and purpose of using firearms between 2000-2010 and 2011-2017? Most importantly, all using firearms depend on person who has been affected from national mood and person who has individual purpose as well. In 2008 article, gun control laws reduce crime? Do they save lives? Is it possible they even cost (Adam 29). This question implies that regulating gun control is no meaning for everyone. The reason why the accident was not reduced although America made specific laws regarding gun control. Moreover, even the past as well, since over 1997, there was the problems of 36,000 firearms related deaths a year. Basically, 51 percent were died by suicide and 44 percent was killed from homicides. In other words, firearms can bring about suicide as well as murder. Also, We know the D.C. handgun ban reduce (Gary Kleck 28). This mention could remind of people about firearms. Since the ban took Choi 2 effect in 1976, rather the rating of murder was higher than before. This happening showed us that the gun control brings about opposite result which means accident has been increased. Likewise, this problem has been continued with 2016 article which is control the answer. We already know how to stop the The main point is that nothing has been changed until now. In 2016, the people used to say like they already know why firearms are very dangerous and how to stop the violence as well as other accident about using firearms in many ways. question is which candidate is smart enough to simply promote what we already know (Power Lunch 10). This mention looks like we need some other alternatives for reforming the situation of accidents. However, everyone talked about making better society about reducing accident of firearms and nothing has been changed. Eventually, this meaning is that making alternatives are tough for everyone who use firearms. Also. for preventing firearms from somebody who abuse is that everyone has to struggle with making alternatives about firearms as well. By 2002 article which is Gun Twisted , we can recognize that the problem about firearms has been happened other countries as well as America. According to statistical resources in the article, crimes of firearms were doubled when they compare 1991-1995 and 1997-2001. When it comes to deaths vs. domestic terrorism deaths in 2015 article, gun death was way higher than domestic terrorism death between 2005 and 2015. Gun death mean include worldwide accident as well. Basically, the numerical value is almost same with past. Moreover, Gun death is way higher than overseas terrorism. In other words, gun death compare to terrorism in the world. Basically, gun death is the most problem. However, the 2002 article focused on only gun control problems. Therefore, we distinguish other firearms with gun. Because of this reason, we just can Choi 3 judge only gun control without other materials. This article have specific materials. However, as my saying, we can find out the accurate numerical value by seeing like stick graph in the article. Because the gap between using the visual resources and explaining only by sentence is big gap. This makes me very confused and even for others could be. Eventually, concentrating only for firearms in 2002 has been changed as 2015 article which also compare firearms with worldwide terrorism. Overall, In 2008 of gun control laws is tough to which showed us that the gun control change for crime is almost same story with 2016 article which is control the answer. We already know how to stop the which said that even nowadays has been generated from somebody who abuses firearms. Even we can find out the people who kill someone by the gun as well as suicide. Of course, the detailed evidence is not perfect same with each article, eventually the thing that I realized is that the accident has been generated constantly. Second, comparing 2015 article showed us that the gun death is way higher than terrorism which happened anywhere. Therefore, gun death is the most dangerous accident in the world. By looking at these materials, we can realize that using visual materials is very important for making people understand easily. In contrast, the 2002 article showed us only sentence without visual materials. It could be hard to understand to everyone who read this article. The main thing is that 2002 article issue about comparing with only gun control is clearly difference with 2015 article which include other accident of terrorism. By this, we will be able to find out the situation and specific clear solution in the world regarding firearms more specifically in many ways. Choi 4 Works Cited Liptak , Adam. of gun control laws is tough to Journal of Social Perspective, June 29, 2008. Web. Qiu, Linda. a comparison of gun deaths and terrorism Oct 5, 2015. Web. Malcolm, Joyce Lee. Gun Twisted  Reason.com. N.p, 01 Nov. 2002. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Jake Novak. control the answer. We already know how to stop the One file. Web. Jun 29. 2016.