[Type [Type Doran 1 Brooke Doran Instructor Townsend ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Are the Advertisements Produced by Dead Effective? Not Dead Yet is an organization that is against the legalization of euthanasia, also known as physician assisted suicide (Not Dead Yet). This organization has spread worldwide and has many followers willing to put in the time to share their views on physician assisted suicide. This organization connects physician assisted suicide to causing the increase in elderly and disabled abuse (Not Dead Yet). Not Dead Yet believes that physician assisted suicide opens the possibility to the elderly and disabled to being coerced into participating in physician assisted suicide (Not Dead Yet). Some doctors may have a different view on a treatment for a certain patient, in the aspect of physician assisted suicide. Not all doctors have the same view on or may misjudge the quality of life; this is another concern of this organization (Not Dead Yet). If one doctor lets a patient do physician assisted suicide while a different doctor may have offered a different treatment, because usually doctors have different opinions, then the patient may die instead of getting another chance to live like they deserve (Not Dead Yet). The top priority of this organization is to protect the patients; they believe the best way to do that is to get rid of physician assisted suicide all together. Not Dead Yet holds many protests to get their message to be herd and to gain more followers; they also use advertisements, like images and commercials to accomplish this as well. The advertisements used by Dead campaign are focused on the abolition of physician assisted suicide through the use of rhetorical appeals to persuade their audience to do the same. [Type [Type Doran 2 In many advertisements the rhetorical appeal pathos is used to pull at the audiences heartstrings. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that can persuade an audience through their emotions. The image I chose was produced by Not Dead Yet and is written in a bright red bold lettering, this is so the words pop out and are the focus of the advertisement. The color red being used is meant to make the audience feel angry for the people that feel as though they are being oppressed. The word in the statement on the image is the biggest word on it compared to the others, this is to show the audience that the patients want to live and not die, giving the audience a personal connection with the patients (N.d). The commercial I chose that was produced by Not Dead Yet relies heavily on pathos. In the commercial the use of dark and gloomy colors is to make the audience feel sad, and even sympathetic toward the people the commercial is referring to. The commercial also has short stories of a few patients to make the audience feel a connection with them, in turn making the audience more likely to have stronger emotions toward this cause. Also the commercial shows empty wheelchairs, empty hospital beds, and an unused walker. This implies that people used to use them, but then they died and left those items behind empty. This is to make the audience feel empathy for the patients and their family. Making the audience feel empathy or sympathy the only way to persuade them, using credibility and authority is also a successful way to persuade. Persuading an audience by using a celebrity or verified organization in an advertisement to endorse a product or statement is called ethos. Ethos is a rhetorical appeal used to persuade an audience through credibility and authority. Both the image and the commercial have the Dead logo. This shows the audience that both of these advertisements have credibility through this organization. Showing the logo of the organization will make it possible for the audience to look it up to gain more knowledge of Not Dead Yet itself or their stance on physician [Type [Type Doran 3 assisted suicide. Toward the end of the commercial there is a quote that says cannot improve our quality of life- it is not a solution to from an avid campaigner for Not Dead Yet (Youtube). Adding that quote from an expert toward the end of the commercial adds to its credibility. Credibility is a great way to persuade, but facts and reasoning can also do this. Using facts and reasoning to persuade an audience is considered logos. Logos is a rhetorical appeal used to persuade an audience through logic and reason. In the commercial it gives short stories of people who have gone through terminal illnesses. Some of these stories are logical and prove that there is a negative cause and effect of physician assisted suicide. However, some of the stories told in the commercial are not directly caused from physician assisted suicide, but Not Dead Yet is misleading their audience in order make physician assisted suicide look bad. By misleading the audience, they are taking away from their credibility. The image uses the phrase us to live not this is a command and in a way telling the story of all the people it relates to. When people are saying this quote or holding it on a sign in a protest they are telling the world that they want to live and not die. It is expected that people want to live, so this is a logical statement. Using logos along with kairos can make for a very effective advertisement. Kairos is a rhetorical appeal used to persuade an audience to immediately take action. In the commercial it states that 11 September 2015 you and your fellow MPs will decide whether to allow the Assisted Dying Bill to progress to the next they posted the commercial itself on YouTube at September 9 th , 2015 (Youtube). This statement appeals to kairos because it is stating that there is a deadline. They posted this video because if people act in time then they cannot accomplish their goal, being to deny the Assisted Dying Bill to pass. The statement us to live not from the image expresses that the people this [Type [Type Doran 4 applies to do not have much time. Death is a timely manner and to them if this issue is not resolved soon they might die. Using all of the rhetorical appeals together can create an effective advertisement. Overall, both of the advertisements expressed pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. Using all of these rhetorical appeals can be effective when they are used in the correct way. The commercial having a few logos fallacies takes away the credibility from this source and ultimately made the commercial not as effective. Also, this commercial would not be as effective in the United States as it would be in the United Kingdom. This is because they state that they want the audience to vote against physician assisted suicide on September 11 th in 2015; this voting event was not being help in the United States, nor will it directly effect American citizens. American citizens could not actually participate in giving their opinion on the matter at hand at the voting event, but citizens of the United Kingdom can. This commercial would most likely only be effective on people who live in the United Kingdom, however overall it is not effective because of the fallacies it presented as truth. However, the image produced by Not Dead Yet could be effective on everyone partly because it does not single out a specific event. The image made a direct statement and used bold red lettering to get the point across, making this image very effective. At the bottom of the image the logo of Dead also has a symbol, so it can be recognized that that is where it is from. This element does not take away from the effectiveness of the image because the statement being made is universally recognized by this organization. The analysis of these two advertisements concluded that the image was effective, but the commercial was not. [Type [Type Doran 5 http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-TCbO72KfkDU/VfLmbz97f- I/AAAAAAAAWY8/PlQHz6m4WcI/s1600/Not%2BDead%2BYet%2BUK%2Bslogan.png (N.d) Commercial at (Youtube) [Type [Type Doran 6 Works Cited N.d. Blogspot. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Not Dead Yet Disability Activists Oppose Assisted Suicide As A Deadly Form of  Not Dead Yet. N.p., 05 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. YouTube. YouTube, 09 Sept. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.