Bangyan Lin Instructor Carr ENC1101 29 January 2017 Sustainable Consumption is Necessary and Beneficial for Our life Project 1 Intermediate Draft Sustainable consumption refers to the use of minimal natural resources and toxic materials. Sustainable consumption is about not to jeopardize the consumption of future needs. We have only ONE Earth. Humans can only live on earth. However, the old factories mainly relies on using a lot of oil energy. But future and long-term development will set up higher requirements for those enterprises. They have to seek a way to reduce the environmental cost and creating a new mode of sustainable consumption. Since the industrial revolution Human activities have resulted in significant greenhouse gas emissions and rapid global warming. The resulting consequences are global warming, water scarcity and other multiple dilemmas. Works Cited . Another one is big business save the earth? Some of the companies that people love to hate are actually among the strongest forces for protecting the environment. (Diamond. J, 2010)New York Times Upfront, (11). 14.  New York Times Upfront 2010: 14. Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Author research shows that large enterprises are working to protect the environment. They are using energy - saving equipment to reduce environmental pollution, at the same time they improve their economic interests. With the understanding of the human environment, more and more people realize that to protect the environment is to protect themselves. Responsible companies have to start protecting the environment. In the article. The authors discuss the idea of large companies: Coca-Cola beverage company, Wal-Mart Supermarket and Chevron car company. At Wal-Mart, they have a large number of trucks, annual consumption of large quantities of oil. They decided to save gasoline and to reduce packaging costs. For example, they only sell concentrated liquid detergent, which will save a lot of space and get more money. For Coca-Cola beverage company the biggest problem is that some areas of water pollution it can not be used for drinking. Coca-Cola beverage company uses desalination from seawater and use of used bottles to reduce energy consumption. As we know, green environment is conducive to human development. Although green investment means that we have to spend large amount of money to buy green machines, but in the long term, the company will save costs from the procurement of raw materials, energy and so on. Borthakur, A. (2016). Health and environmental hazards of electronic waste in India. Journal Of Environmental Health, (8), 18. The author believes that environmental pollution caused by e-waste is harmful to health. With the development of science and technology, more and more product replacement time is shorter, many electronic products used only a few years will be dumped and replaced by their new generation. This will cause a lot of waste. Some companies have these electronic products recycled by sending them to India. In India, workers only put it into the fire. Because while burning, the metal will not melt, but worthless plastic shell will be burned. They use water to rinse so that the metal will stay and then they can collect metal for sale. By doing so, workers can recover metal for profit. However, since the country is underdeveloped, there is no perfect measure to ensure that pollutants will not leak. Many are simply burning open, Workers do not have any protection. The children were playing in the rubbish. Because the simple disposal of garbage, No environmental protection, No sustainable consumption, Resulting in a very large amount of land each year excessive heavy metals, plant death, workers heavy metal poisoning, The next generation of children were found blood lead exceeded. This is why sustainable consumption is good for our live. If we do not pay attention to environmental protection, the victim is their own. Wu, S., & Lei, Y. (2016). Study on the mechanism of energy abundance and its effect on sustainable growth in regional economies: A case study in China. Resources Policy, 1. Research survey found that mineral resources have little effect on the economy. Most of the economy comes from the processing industry, rather than exports of minerals. Some scholars believe that China is relying on the sale of oil and coal to obtain resources. If there is no coal, the economy will decline. In fact the impact of coal and oil on the economy is very small. In most developed cities, these cities are far from coal and oil, but close to the sea. However, those cities rich of oil and coal are often sparsely populated, and not particularly developed. On the other hand, if the city is by the river, the traffic will be more convenient. People will be able to get more resources and new information, so that they can better develop the next generation. Another aspect is concerned, exports of non-renewable resources will be a dangerous practice. Once the resources are used up, the economy will collapse. I think the government should advocate sustainable consumption, Development of clean energy to replace the old energy. So as to effectively avoid the above problems. It will protect our future generations a better environment for life. Quoquab, F., & Mohammad, J. (2016). Sustainable Consumption: Sacrificing for the Future. Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences, 224(IRSSM-6 The 6th International Research Symposium in Service Management), 599-604. doi:10.1016/j.sbspro.2016.05.449 The author argues that consumption has become a part of modern life. It promotes social development, factory progress, access to work. But everything is two-sided. Crazy consumerism ignores the future of sustainable development and leads to waste of resources. The author believes that consumption is two way, one is the basic consumption, one is hedonic consumption. Hedonic consumption often leads to excessive waste, a lot of things used only once as garbage. While that consumerism is constructive and destructive, it is destructive for the destruction of nature, causing various problems and environmental pollution. The author believes that consumers should adopt appropriate consumption----do not waste, but concentrate on the quality of life. But the problem for the largest over- consumption from the Internet. The author believes that e-commerce makes people start to compete with each other. Promote people crazy consumption, waste a lot of material. I think we should strengthen education, which will help to solve the problem of waste. Let the children develop green environmental awareness. This will reduce the unnecessary consumption of children, protection of the environment. Sustainable energy supply and consumption by 2050 and outlook towards the end of the century: Possible scientific breakthroughs. (2016). Ambio, (Suppl. 1), 1. doi:10.1007/s13280-015-0735-8 In the article .The author discusses the future energy supply. He believes that the current main source of energy supply is thermal power, hydropower, and nuclear energy. And the author discusses the equipment efficiency, new energy advantages, and energy consumption. The authors believes that thermal power will be replaced by new energy development, such as solar, water, wind and so on. In countries such as Germany, solar cells have been used in large areas to reduce the environmental pollution and to increase the sustainable consumption. However, many places still use gasoline-powered cars, which will consume a lot of energy. It should be replaced by new energy vehicles, such as electric cars. At the same time new energy equipment should be developed, such as long-life lights, long-life mobile phones, long-life battery. This will slow down the device update cycle and reduce resource consumption. I think we can buy new energy equipment, such as electric car. The government should guide consumers to carry out sustainable consumption activities, to choose green, low-carbon products and consumption patterns. Sancho, F. (2010). Double dividend effectiveness of energy tax policies and the elasticity of substitution: A CGE appraisal. Energy Policy, 38(6), 2927-2933. The authors discuss the tax levied by the government, that the environmental protection tax can promote fiscal revenue, but not the best way. In Europe, several countries have introduced energy taxes, they use a mathematical formula to calculate the fees paid by enterprises. This can promote enterprise energy conservation. This will promote social green development. I think to limit the use of non-renewable energy, governments can encourage and reward sustainable consumers at different tax rates, and high punitive rates for unsustainable consumption. At the same time we should establish consumer demonstration. Starting from the high-income groups, the establishment of consumer demonstration, Guide the lower income class to change the consumption concept, then people will think the green consumption concept is good for our live. Enterprises in order to reduce tax costs, they will have to change the process, This will become even more energy savings, improve the degree of utilization of resources, to help protect the planet. Sustainable consumption can help us conserve energy, Reduce environmental pollution and protect animals, If we do not pay attention to environmental protection, our children will be hurt. Such as food poisoning, leukemia, cancer and so on. Sustainable consumption is good for our life. Therefore, we should advocate this idea.