Gainer 1 Christion Gainer Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101.903S17 29 February 2017 The Conversation About Salaries Over Time How has the conversation about salaries changed over time? The main belief that fuels this discussion is the argument that teachers are being underpaid. The two sources from the years between 2000-2010 concluded that there is a positive correlation between student accomplishments and teachers salaries, and that hiring more qualified teachers improves the quality of education for students. Between 2011-2017, the focus was directed on the factors that draw teachers to a specific school district, and how these factors affect a education. Therefore, the conversation regarding teachers salaries has changed over time, beginning with a focus on determining how teachers wages affect the quality of education, and shifting toward the discussion about how to draw qualified teachers into a specific school district. In the time period between 2000-2010, the conversation was centered around how a experience affected student success rates, and the correlation between a level of experience and their salary. The article, Teacher Salaries And Student Achievement: The Case Of  (Tin-Chun, Lin 547-550), performed a study which tested the relationship between a salary and its impact on the quality of education and students accomplishments. The study used 500 school districts and analyzed them over the course of three years. Students SAT scores and grades were used to compare educational accomplishments to teachers salaries. The study concluded that there is a positive correlation between student Gainer 2 accomplishments and teachers salaries. This may be because teachers salaries increase the more qualified they are. The more qualified the teacher, the better education a student may receive. The article Can Public Schools Buy Better-Qualified  (Figlio, David N 686-699) supports the ideas of the first article. It focuses on the idea that hiring more qualified teachers can improve the quality of education that students receive. In particular, hiring teachers who teach subjects that they majored in, makes them more qualified to teach that subject. However, these more qualified teachers often request for increased salaries. This article also briefly discusses how teachers unions control teachers salaries and preventing them from receiving a raise based on their level of education and the quality of their students performance. Overall, this study also found that there is a positive correlation between the level of of education a teacher has and the salary. Between 2011 and 2015, the discussion on salaries focused on how to recruit qualified teachers, as well as the increasing wage gap in teachers salaries. The first article, Can A District-Level Teacher Salary Incentive Policy Improve Teacher Recruitment And  (Hough, Heather J., Susanna Loeb), analyzes the effect of the Quality Teacher and Education Act (QTEA) of 2008 on teacher recruitment, retention, and overall teacher quality, in a specific school district. According to the article, they had proof that as the salary for teachers increased in a specific district, the more attractive the job offer to the local teachers. This lead to a larger pool of teachers to pull from, and therefore, the most qualified teachers from that pool could be chosen. They also provided proof that an increase of salary can boost the potential of new-hires. According to Hough and Loeb, the higher the salary the more potent the chances of getting a quality teacher. Additionally, the article The Teacher Pay Gap Is Wider Than Ever: Gainer 3 Pay Continues To Fall Further Behind Pay Of Comparable  (Allegretto, Sylvia A., Lawrence Mishel), focuses on the importance of recruiting good teachers. The article firmly believes that a good teacher is the center of an effective learning environment. The article states that while the supply of qualified teachers is decreasing due to low wages and early retirement, the demand for qualified teachers has never been higher. This article examines the decline of teachers salaries and how this decline compares to the rest of the working class. It was found that the biggest factor that contributes to the decline in these wages is mostly due to the trade between the benefits and wages for teachers. From 2000 to 2010, the conversation about salaries examined how experience affected student success rates, and the correlation between a level of experience and their salary. In this time period, the conversation was mostly focused on positive correlations between teachers salaries and student accomplishments. This means that more qualified teachers receive a higher salary, and because they are more qualified, the successes of their students are also higher. Between 2011 and 2015, the conversation on salaries focused on the recruitment of qualified teachers, as well as analysing how the increasing wage gap impacts teachers salaries. The articles from this time period studied the relationship between the financial demographics of the school district, and how it affects the quality of teachers that apply to work in the area. Additionally, these articles studied the factors that contributed to the decline in teachers salaries and the benefits they received. In conclusion, the conversation regarding salaries has shifted toward the discussion on how increasing salaries can help to recruit more qualified teachers, whereas the Gainer 4 first time period, focused on how a experience impacts their students. However, the issue still remains that teachers are vastly underpaid. Gainer 5 References Allegretto, Sylvia A., Lawrence Mishel, and Institute Economic Policy. The Teacher Pay Gap Is Wider Than Ever: Pay Continues To Fall Further Behind Pay Of Comparable  Economic Policy Institute (2016): ERIC. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Figlio, David N. Can Public Schools Buy Better-Qualified  ILR Review 55.4 (2002): 686-699. Business Source Premier. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Hough, Heather J., Susanna Loeb, and (PACE) Policy Analysis for California Education. Can A District-Level Teacher Salary Incentive Policy Improve Teacher Recruitment And Retention? Policy Brief  Policy Analysis For California Education, PACE (2013): ERIC. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Tin-Chun, Lin. Teacher Salaries And Student Achievement: The Case Of  Applied Economics Letters 17.6 (2010): 547-550. Business Source Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.