D a u n d i 1 Herdomina Daundi Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101 March 26, 2017 The Life of Factory Labors Since the first time the factories were built, factories have had many great impacts on the country and one of them is from the economic point of view. For that many people have migrated from the rural area to the urban area to fulfil this development of the industrial world (Roberts, 2002). Even though factories have been good providing the society with their consumerism lifestyle, the factories seemed to ignore the life of their laborers especially women and children. The workers used to live at the place called tenement house which provided by the factory owner where there are no air ventilation and very minimum hygiene which made the spreading of any infectious disease faster (Sinclair, 1906). Therefore many people came up together and started to form organizations to protect the right of the factory laborers (McKormick, 2011). These organizations fought for the government to pass the law to protect any worker in the factory which brought a critical question : how the life of the laborers have changed overtime from progressive era to this era after the government take a role in protecting the factory labors? According to Reich, in his book The Work of Nations, he explains how the lifestyle of the society has changed as they live in the development of the industrial world. The community of people in the progressive era were based on productivity and also consumerism which means the factories have to be more effective to take advantages of this lifestyle. Therefore, to achieve this, D a u n d i 2 the factories needed a huge amount of work force which came from all over the country sides especially the rural areas (Roberts, 2002). In 1980, many people form the rural area of China moved to the industrial cities or the capitals to make a better life. Based on a data collected from an interview, almost 80% of them were farmers and the main reason of them moved out of their village is to get a better life, financially (Roberts, 2002). In the data collected by Roberts from Yang in 1996, the factories took advantage of the single or unmarried women in the factories. These women are not married because of some social or education issues which makes them cheaper to be hired. This means that these factories will have little outcome for huge income. However, these incidents happened before the 21 st century which probably caused by the lack of government attention. In the recent century, China has established an organization called China Labor Watch which created to protect the legal rights of the China workers. Then in October 2000, the Labor Watch caught three small-scale production factories in China hired children age ranged from 11 to 15 (China Labor Watch, 2011). After interviews done from these children, they explained the condition of the work place given by their manager that mimics the condition of children in the gilded age. There are many factories with this kind of incidents and the very famous incident which triggered many people was the Triangle Shirt Factory fire. This incident brought many people together to create movements for the factory labor (McKormick, 2011). The death of hundreds of young women could have been prevented if the factory has more emergency exits and also more access to the main door (McKormick, 2011). Other than that all the women who worked here got much less salary than any unskilled men in the factory. However, this is the movement where many people came together to create a movement to protect the rights of the laborers from their wages, working hours to their working condition (McKormick, 2011). D a u n d i 3 From the progressive era until these days, factories still be the main source to provide the goods for the people. According a study done by an assistant professor at the Temple University, Zhang, he exposed the life of the horrible working condition of seven massive automobile factories in China. These people were forced to work more than the usual hour for the company because the company was trying to branch overseas. After linked all the data from the interview done by Zhang, he found that the way the factory treated their employees is the same way the working class treated back in the 20 th century. Overall, even after all the movement people created for the working class to protect them in their work place there people still treated the same way. As the conversation flows from the condition of the workers in the gilded age to the 21 st century, it seems that there are not so man y changes happen to the working class. From their wages, working hour and working condition and also the most critical one, child-labor. Either small or huge-production factories, their working condition has not changed very much from time to time. D a u n d i 4 Sources McCormick, Marcia L. Consensus, Dissensus, and Enforcement: Legal Protection of Working Women from the Time of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire to  NYUJ Legis. & Pub. 14 (2011): 645. Roberts, Kenneth. Labor Migrants to Shanghai: Temporary or Potential The International Migration Review, vol. 36, no. 2, 2002, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/4149462. Gabriel, S.J. Zhang, Lu. Inside automobile factories: the politics of labor and worker  CHOICE: Current Reviews for Academic Libraries 2015: 1557. Literature Resource Center. Web. Watch, China Labor. Child laborers in Chinese supplier factories for american  (2011).