Chillura 1 Michael Chillura Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 9 April 2017 Gun Control Is Not the Answer-Education Is. Thirty-three people were killed Monday April 16 th , 2007, on the campus of Virginia Tech University in what appears to be the deadliest shooting rampage in American history. Allowing guns on campus will not make it safer for the students and faculty. Adding a weapon into the mix will only create fear and intimidation. Guns should not be allowed on college campuses because of poor judgement, drinking and drug use, and the likelihood of homicides and suicides attempts. Guns should not be permitted on college campuses due to the poor judgement of students. Gun-owning college students brain have not been fully developed their judgement is not developed yet because last to (Dickerson). Due to the brain developing back to front, the judgement portion would not be fully matured until about mid therefore allowing guns on campus college students would increase many bad outcomes because of the lack of their judgement. From studies, it shows that late teens and early poor planning and judgement, often fail to consider negative consequences of their actions, and seek riskier impulsive (Dickerson). Knowing that they fail to consider negative consequences, if they use a weapon the wrong way they will think they get into trouble because either they are impaired and just realize what is going on or they care because how they feel. alcohol and other drug use among our student population represent the number on risk for our (Dickerson). When a gun enters the mix where students are drinking and taking drugs, their judgement is often pushed aside and tend to let the alcohol and drugs take Chillura 2 over which causes problems and issues. If you add a gun to that it would not be safe because the students would want to use it just to have fun or they may end up hurting someone in the process of having fun and celebrating. It all ends up going back to them having poor judgement and not realizing what they have done after doing it. Guns should not be allowed on college campuses because of the drinking and drug use already happening on and off campus. Alcohol and drug use can brain development and also have long term negative affect and (Dickerson), and adding guns into that will inhibit good judgement and inhibit good behavior. Using drugs and alcohol is already an issue because of the complaints of sexual assault and students getting to wasted to even remember what they are doing. With students drinking and using drugs allowing guns on campus they would just end up shooting off the gun to have fun and or end up hurting someone by accident but they will not even realize what is happening because of all the alcohol consumed and drugs in their system. imagine all the things that could go wrong with gun-carrying students at a fraternity party or event on (Fry). Students are unintentionally influenced by alcohol and if guns were allowed on campus there will be a risk for other students because the students who are drinking even know what they are doing. At guys are drinking so much as well as girls they are consuming so much alcohol they understand what they are doing or saying, they even remember what happens the next morning. is a risk for students even if they drinking or taking drugs because they can or are victims of others (Dickerson). By allowing guns into that it will only hurt others because they will fear even going to class. College is a place for learning and for students to experience things but mostly a learning environment where people choose to come and get an education not to have to fear going to class if guns were allowed on campus. Chillura 3 Authorizing guns on campus will increase the likelihood of homicides and suicides. school each day knowing that anyone could be armed with a deadly weapon can create a hostile environment which could cause students to use the weapon for bad and or the weapon can end up in the wrong (Fry). The reality is that guns would create fear and disrupt the learning environment. guns on campus will likely lead to more accidental shootings and (Fry). You never know what a student is going through. Their grades could be bad and they give up or they are being harassed by another student. accessibility to guns will likely lead to additional incidents of self-injury, accidental shootings, and (Dickerson). Students who like to have fun and be reckless would most likely to cause self-injury because they are careless, just want to have fun and do whatever they want. guns only lead to more homicides and suicides, you would think that allowing guns on campus would stop someone from doing something bad but picture seeing two students having an argument about drugs and they pull guns out on one another and start (Taylor). Guns will only cause someone to get hurt. What if child got hurt because of accidental shooting, that parent would probably be mad and want to press charges and that look good for a college or university. Students should not be in contact with guns on college campuses. Campus police cannot be everywhere. guns on campus could put a stop to an active shooter, and if the weapon is truly concealed as it should be then no one will see it so it cannot get into the wrong (Hardy). Students would feel much more safe and comfortable while away at college if they had a concealed weapon but yes campus police cannot be everywhere having a gun on campus could lead to someone stealing it, someone committing suicide or homicide, and scaring (Taylor). It is like when the USF football student was Chillura 4 off celebrating with his friend is Holly residence (Johhnson), he scared the other students that live in that same residence hall because they know what was going on. Guns should not be accessed on college campus. Guns should not be allowed on college campuses because of poor judgement, drinking and drug use, and the likelihood of homicides and suicides attempts. The need to prevent guns is a major thing because students are not fully aware of the consequences that come with having a gun on campus and potentially using on someone, themselves or just for fun. Guns are not safe and they should be prevented from college campuses. Chillura 5 Works cited 1.) Dickerson, Darby. should not be allowed to carry guns on college link.galegroup.com/ NaBita.org. 17 Feb. 2011. Web. 2 April. 2017. 2.) Fry A John. guns make campuses Philly.com. 2015. Web. 2 April. 2017. 3.) Hauser Christine and Anahad. Tech Shooting leaves 33 www.nytimes.com. 16 April 2007. Web. 2 April. 2017. 4.) Taylor, Langston. make college campuses www.tampabay.com 9 June 2016. Web. 2 April. 2017. 5.) Hardy, Mark. reasons concealed weapons should be allowed on www.americanconcealed.com 14 November 2016. Web. 2 April 2017. 6.) Johhnson, Joey. football student arrested for gun shooting on www.tbo.com. 16 Oct. 2015 Web. 2 April. 2017.