Final Draft Comp I NANCY CARR Majed Beirkdar INRTO: Automobiles, we all use them, but which type of automobile is the best? In automobile industry, there are three major powered cars. This paper will explain and compare two of these types of vehicles, electric cars and gasoline powered cars. The true creator of the first gasoline powered engine is a highly debated topic. However, many researchers agree that Nicolas-Joseph Cugnot was the creator of the first legitimate automobile. He manufactured two steam-propelled tractors that were made extensively in the transportation of ammunition. The first was created in 1769 and the second was created in 1770 Nicolas-Joseph Cugnot French ). The creation of the first gasoline automobile was truly innovative as it allowed for a much quicker form of transportation than its competitors. As with gasoline cars, the creation of the first electric car cannot be pinpointed to a single individual. In the United States, the first electric car was created by William Morrison sometime around 1890 The History Of The Electric ). To summarize, the creation of the electric and gasoline cars sparked a competition between the two to find the most practical and resourceful car. Even in world, both types of cars are compared and both have their respective pros and cons. The research question is as follows: To what extent is electric cars more practical as compared to gasoline cars? Bibliographic entry #1 Deal III, W. F. (2010). Going Green with Electric Vehicles. Technology & Engineering Teacher, 70(3), 5-11. Electric cars were available a long time ago, as a matter of fact electric cars were dominating the vehicle industry. Companies such as Packard, Hupmobile, Hudson, Frazier, Cord, and DeSoto, were the famous electric car manufacturers that everyone bought their cars from. Late 1890s was when the electric motor companies started to develop electric motors in America, where a company from Philadelphia started to manufacture a fleet of electric-powered taxis for the city of New York. Unfortunately, that did not last long, since starting the 1900s brands like Ford, Dodge, and Chrysler started taking over, and you would barely see the electric showrooms or even see them on highways. Walter F. was useful, and had a lot of good points. I liked how Deal was broken down into different parts, like starting with the history, going through the battery technologies, and explaining the future of what is predicted to happen for both electric, hybrid car, gasoline and petrol powered cars. Including the advantages and disadvantages to the topic mentioned in the article was a great addition to it, where it gives a great breakdown to the readers to go through the different points and decide what he thinks is better. Overall Deal had solid points with great explanations. Bibliographic entry #2 Rudolph, C. (2016). How may incentives for electric cars affect purchase decisions?. Transport Policy, 52113-120. doi:10.1016/j.tranpol.2016.07.014 Electric and hybrid cars, are a step forward to the end of Global Warming, countries around the world are promoting the purchase of hybrid and electric cars. Germany for instants has claimed that the target they are going for is a million cars by their year 2020. Reality speaks, and the numbers now does not show that Germany is getting a million cars on German roads anytime soon. Countries around the world are giving privileges to those who purchase a hybrid or an electric car, ranging from free parking spots all over the city to free charging stations. Mathematically proven owing an electric car is way cheaper than owning a petrol or diesel car, in the long run. article had a lot of statistics, and detailed percentages which I like, because it gives you a great understanding of the points they are trying to deliver. also showed solutions and ideas the countries had to promote the purchase of the electric and hybrid car to start eliminating the global warming issue. Reading made me think about getting a hybrid car, because Rudolph uses a great detailed chart that shows you, that by owning a hybrid for electric cars the odds are in your favor. Bibliographic entry #3 Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & Ching, T. W. (2015). A positioning- tolerant wireless charging system for roadway-powered electric vehicles. Journal Of Applied Physics, 117(17), 17B520-1-17B520-4. As stated in the title of Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & journal is about a wireless charging system designed for roadway-powered electric vehicles. A roadway-powered electric vehicle can accumulate energy even while the vehicle is in motion. Therefore, reducing the dependence of a battery or for that matter even battery charging specific stations. Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & Ching provides a solution of sorts that utilizes a positioning tolerant wireless charging system that can be used for roadway- powered electric vehicles. The said technique implements a gapless alternate- winding topology. At the end Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & Ching stated that the solution is feasible and therefore is very much implementable. Zhen, Z., Chau, K. k., Chunhua, L., Chun, Q., & journal is from a credible source as published by students from the department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering. This is a useful resource as this is applicable to my research and allows for a greater understanding of my work. This is an essential field of research. Overall the usage of a feasible outcome goes to show that is is indeed a viable solution. Bibliographic entry #4 K. G. (2008). The history of alternative fuels in transportation: The case of electric and hybrid cars. Utilities Policy, 16(2), 63-71. doi:10.1016/j.jup.2007.11.001 Everyone nowadays think that hybrid or electric powered cars are the latest ever or is the newest add to automobiles, but hybrid and electric cars have been there since the history of the batteries. Electric cars had a great period which was called the golden age, where electric based cars were popular, that period was from about the 1880 to 1900. Electric cars were also used in war back then; they were usually used to clean the streets and garbage collection. By the 1980s electric cars boomed again and in 1990 California announced their first zero- emission regulations to the public. Fast-forward a couple of years 2001 start of seeing hybrid cars on the road. article was well organized, and had great detailed historical points. broke down the article to 11 different subtitles that helps the reader with understanding the points better. I also like how included great quotes. I think this helps the reader while trying to get all the different points of the article. started with the history of the electric cars and ended on how nowadays are a lot of different hybrids and fully electric based cars on the roads, and the electric cars transformed from being garbage collectors in the war to being cars that they use day to day. Bibliographic entry #5 Fernandez, R. A., Cilleruelo, F. B., & Martinez, I. V. (2016). A new approach to battery powered electric vehicles: A hydrogen fuel-cell-based range extender system. International Journal Of Hydrogen Energy, (8), 4808. doi:10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.01.035 Here and there innovation and improvement of society run somewhat unique streets. This circumstance is currently occurring because hydrogen as a vitality bearer in the car world. In Fernandez, R. A., Cilleruelo, F. B., & Martinez, I. article displayed here, the writers propose an adjustment in the structure of the power plant of Battery Electric Vehicles The goal is that these vehicles can be directly utilized until the advancement of an electric as well as hydrogen energize/refuel arrange permits being valuable with the present status. Fernandez, R. A., Cilleruelo, F. B., & Martinez, I. idea of an Expanded Range Electric Vehicle situated in a Power Device Electric Vehicle (FCEV) sets model is exhibited. A review is then created keeping in mind the end goal to decide the working conditions that will prompt to better effectiveness and execution, alluding to limit of both vitality sources: power put away in a Lithium-Particle battery and hydrogen gas in high weight tanks. The conceivable outcomes here demonstrated open the way to vital points of interest and advancement for auto planners later. I like Fernandez, R. A., Cilleruelo, F. B., & Martinez, I. article and think it is creditable because it is trying to make a change in the community and make batteries work more efficiently. Fernandez, R. A., Cilleruelo, F. B., & Martinez, I. V. breaks down the problem statement and gives you a great solution with a detailed figure, that completes you mindset to understand the problem how it will be solved. It also has great 3 detailed tables talking about, technical specifications of commercial main characteristics of the best-selling and alternative fueling station counts in U.S.A. Bibliographic entry #6 Chau, K. T., & Zheng Wang1, z. (2006). Design of permanent magnets to chaoize doubly salient permanent magnet motors for electric compaction. Journal Of Applied Physics, 99(8), 08R306. Chau, K. T., & Zheng Wang proposes and actualizes a class of turbulent engines for electric compaction. The key is to build up an outline approach for the perpetual magnets (PMs) of doubly remarkable PM (DSPM) engines in a manner that disordered movement can be created. The bifurcation chart is utilized to determine the limit of chaoization regarding PM flux, while the relating stage plane directions are utilized to describe the clamorous movement. A down to earth three-stage 12/8-post DSPM engine is utilized for representation. The proposed riotous engine is basically evaluated for application to a vibratory soil compactor, which is demonstrated to offer preferred compaction execution over its partners. Both PC recreation and trial results are given to show the proposed tumultuous engine. Chau, K. T., & Zheng Wang is credible as it is from the Journal of Applied Physics. The implementation of permanent magnets to chaoize doubly salient permanent magnet motors for electric compaction is essential to this draft as it discusses the feasibility of said products. This is an interesting an important field of research.