luosang1 ZhuoGe LuoSang Khawaja,Anastasia ENC1101 2 April 2017 Immigration And Technology Research shows that massive immigration has been a common occurrence in the history of the world. Most of the countries that are considered to be politically stable and at a high level of industrialization have experienced massive immigration of skilled and unskilled labor in search of employment opportunities in other countries. The massive immigrations by skilled workforce has had an effect on the industrialization, economic development and technological advancement milestones in the USA. Immigrants into the united states have played an important role in the process of industrialization and technological development. This has resulted to the united states being considered as the superpower. In the recent years, there has been heated debates on the effects of migration to the host countries. The negative versus the positive effects of the immigrants have been discussed by many countries in an effort to try and find a sustainable solution to control immigration in future. This research paper is focused on discussing the changes in immigration that have occurred in the united states over the years. Also, the paper seeks to find out positive and negative impacts on technological development caused by the people migrating to the united states. Research findings reveal that immigration trends in the united states have changed over time forming various transitions that have been referred by historians among other scholars as of An article written by Martin and Midgley explores the luosang2 various major waves of migration that have been witnessed in the US history. As described by Martin and Midgley (10), there have been four major immigration waves in the history of America. The first wave as cited by Midgley and martin (10), occurred between 1790 and 1820. The main contributive factor that caused the immigration included various political, religious and economic issues. By the year 1790, more than 60% of the US population was composed of the English settlers who had immigrated from Britain (Martin and Midgley 12). Further, the second wave of migration took place in the years between 1820 and 1860 (Martin and Midgley 13). The main reason for this immigration was the agrarian revolution which occurred in Europe. The agrarian revolution advocated for the enclosure system which resulted to most of the peasant farmers being left landless and jobless. Therefore, they were forced to immigrate to the US in search of new land and jobs that could sustain them. Upon arrival in the US the peasant farmers utilized their agricultural mechanization skills to start off farming in US. This was a step that led to the people living in the US adopting the technology and mechanization of agriculture that was brought by the English settlers. The thirst wave of migration occurred in the years between 1880 and 1914. This was as a result of many people seeking job opportunities as well as looking for religious freedom (Martin and Midgley 13). As described, most of the immigrants in the third wave were comprised of the Chinese, Japanese among other Asians. The immigrants mentioned were well skilled and specialized in meat packaging, mining and steel manufacturing. After their immigration into the united states, such experts were employed and used their skills to bring about development in the mining and steel manufacturing industries. By the year 1910, about 24% of the labor force in the US industries was comprised of immigrants(Martin and Midgley 14). This immigration was of advantage to the US as new technology was introduced fromother countries making it develop positively. Further, between 1965 and the present, the US has been experiencing the fourth wave of immigration. This has mainly been luosang3 due to the change in laws restricting immigration of persons. For instance, people who had families in the US are given more priorities than immigrants. (Martin and Midgley 14). Also, people who are highly skilled and technological experts are given more priorities as immigrants in the US. This has thus, motivated many people to continue migrating to the united states. It is therefore, clear that the fourth wave of immigration has immensely contributed to the great technological advancements that have been recorded over the years. Further, it has been revealed that continued massive migration of experts and labor providers in the US has greatly contributed to there being a high level of competition. Thus, this triggers innovation and creativity which is an advantage to the technological as well as the economical development of the country. Card and David have also focused on analyzing the positive and negative impacts that the immigration waves have had on the economy of the country. They have tried to identify possible threats by immigrants that could cause the deterioration of the economy. They argue that the kind of competition that the immigrants bring about triggers positive innovation and creativity thus economic development (Card and David 116). The availability of highly skilled labor provided by the immigrants causes the locals to have the urge to upgrade their level of competence so as to match their competitors in the labor market. This then translated to more income for the government through taxation which is then transferred to the provision of social amenities for the residents of US. Immigration has also resulted in labor glut reducing the minimum wage and increasing more income for technological advances. Boreas and George (1335-1374) also emphasize on the impacts that immigrants have on the demand curve of the labor. Their evaluation is largely focused on how the change in population resulting from the high rates of immigration has resulted in a reduction of labor wages and salaries by the employers. These scholars argue that when the skilled workforce is abundant in the market the demand curve luosang4 for their skills reduces significantly. The nature of workforce imbalance changes over time. They develop a new approach to estimating how the immigration impacts a shift in demand for experienced and skilled workforce across different education fields. The analysis concludes that an increase in the supply of workforce by ten percent reduces the remuneration of the workforce by approximately four or three percent (Borjas and George 1335-1374). In the history of USA, immigration has been acclaimed for the increasing innovation and skills in the labor market. An article by Gagliardi discusses the impact that skilled labor from immigrants has on the innovation. The author focuses on the various history of civilizations and the factors that resulted in such significant developments. As cited by Gagliardi, Luisa (773-794), the skilled labor from immigrants provided good ingredients for great innovations in most of the industrialized nations. Great Britain and America are some of the best examples provided in the study as they have achieved various development in the field of innovation during the industrial revolution and under the current age of globalization. Such innovations cuts across various sectors such as manufacturing, agriculture, trade and technological development (Gagliardi, Luisa773-794). Samovar and et al. (307-315), also looks at the positive and negative impacts of immigration primarily on cultural perspective. These scholars observe that massive immigration has resulted in significant change in culture due to the influence of foreign cultures. The country hosts people from diverse cultures across the world, and this has resulted in negative and positive consequences. From the positive development, the change and integration of culture have created innovation that results from diversity. In conclusion, the analysis above indicates that various scholars have contributed towards the heated immigration debate. Similar debates are still ongoing, but the main focus of the debate have revolved more or less around the positives and the negativities impacts of immigration of labor force to industrialized countries. Some scholars have argued in support luosang5 of the immigration while those opposed to immigration support their arguments from the negativities. Works cited Borjas, George J. The labor demand curve is downward sloping: Reexamining the impact of immigration on the labor  The quarterly journal of economics 118.4 (2003): 1335-1374. Card, David. Is the new immigration really so  The Economic Journal 115.507 (2005). Gagliardi, Luisa. Does skilled migration foster innovative performance? Evidence from British local  Papers in Regional Science 94.4 (2015): 773-794. Martin, Philip L., and Elizabeth Midgley. Immigration: shaping and reshaping  (2003). Samovar, Larry A., et al. Communication between cultures. Nelson Education, 2015.