Smith 1 Jeffrey Smith Professor Anastasia Khawaja ENC 1101 04/02/17 How Sweden Came to be The Happiest Place on Earth. Sweden is recognized as one the happiest countries in the world, in large part due to the socioeconomic policies that it has become known for; however, none of this happened overnight and economy has faced numerous hardships over the years, as well as weathering the tides of public opinion - since the new millennium, the public opinion of socialist economic policies has experienced a profound uptick, bringing growth and further enriching the lives of the citizenry, and has only just begun to see decline in the face of the world socioeconomic climate.In the there was nearly a catastrophic failure of the economy, one that needed changes, immediately. (Brown, 36). After this, economy experienced a growth along with overall happiness and quality of life as a direct result of more socialistic welfare policies being put in place. (Brown, 36 - 37). Not everything was sunshine and rainbows, however, as in the early the high rate of private sector socialization started to become a major problem for the economy and it came dangerously close to collapsing yet again. (Feng, 32). After this near collapse the economy stabilized after a handful of new regulations were put in place. Now, in the last half of 2016, there has been a slight decline in happiness which has progressed over the past year or two due to a large influx of immigrants escaping the war in Syria in addition to immigrants escaping hostile muslim territories in the Middle East. (Larabell, 18). Part of this unhappiness is caused by Smith 2 culture, culture is similar to that of the of (Larabell, 17) which states: to treat others as they are equal and not to expect entitlement. the Sweden was richer and more equal than any other (Brown, 36). economy seemed perfect and was flourishing at the time until it hit a snag that almost brought it crashing down. The economy hit a point where it needed fresh new socialist policies and needed to remove many of the outdated ones as well. (Brown, 37-38). This brought some much needed changes to the economy, which in turn allowed it to rebound and flourish once more. Happiness was still growing exponentially as well at this time, as it eventually broke into the top 10 best countries to live due to the ratio of GDP to Quality of Life. The new policies in place held up well against time until the early where more changes were needed if economy was going to continue growing. Due to the many social policies put in place within the private sector of the economy, inflation started getting way out of control. in 1993, the humming Swedish system was tested by troubles that had long been overlooked. The model welfare state could no longer handle the artificial employment rate created by the injection of government jobs into the system, massive government spending, and inflation that governmental policies had not (Feng, 2nd Paragraph). Government spending was way too much for the private sector to support it on its own. Spending was over half the GDP at 58%, the government employment rate was above 33%, and inflation was a whopping 10% (Feng, 2nd Paragraph). The economy was on the verge of crashing after a massive wave of unemployment hit in 1992-1993 and it was decided that the private sector needed to be un-socialized, hereby creating current quasi-sociocapitalist economy that is still thriving today. Smith 3 Today, economy is still thriving and by all accounts still one of the best countries to live in the world. (Larabell, 18). However, recent influxes of refugees from all over the world are causing a slight rift in the economy. These refugees are causing a massive strain on the economy by necessitating all the basic amenities that a regular Swedish citizen would need, but most of these refugees barely know the language and acclimated to the culture enough to be able to work or be a productive member of the economy yet, causing the government to lose money by providing subsidized housing and the social welfare that all of the Swedish citizens get as well. (Larabell, 20). This in turn, is causing the government to raise taxes, in one of the most taxed countries in the world already, even higher. This is decreasing the quality of life for many of the citizens of the country. It may not be a problem currently, but it is definitely something to look closely at going forward. Sweden has been one of the happiest places to live in the world for quite some time. Due to the social welfare policies such as healthcare and education that have existed since the early The social aspects of the economic welfare policies have shifted over time, from being a mostly socialistic economy that nearly crumbled twice, once in the and once again in the early However, the happiness has started to decline in the last few years due to Immigrants putting a strain on the economy. The inability for the refugees that they are accepting into the country to work or be a productive member of the economy until they can overcome the cultural and language barriers that have arisen due to their displacement into a foreign land. This has caused taxes to rise, in one of the most taxed places in the world already, causing citizens quality of life and overall happiness to dwindle a little bit. This is not a big problem at the moment, but one that will need a solution to keep it from getting too out Smith 4 of hand. Another cause for concern is the increasing costs of the sociocapitalist political structure, Sweden raise taxes any further in fear of political blowback. This is caused by the increasing healthcare and education cost for lots of the Immigrants coming into the country and Sweden is now having to deport Immigrants to keep their people happy as well as to help decrease the burden on their economic structure.