Echeverria, !1 Javier Echeverria Emil Smith Composition I January 29th , 2017 Tracing Arguments Over Time: Genetic Engineering Despite seeming like a new and innovative field of science, genetic engineering has been around for thousands of years. Humans have successfully been able to alter the genetic code of species through selective breeding or artificial selection. It was up until the Nazi regime that genetic engineering was recognized as a controversial topic, this is due to its ties with eugenics which was prominent during that period of time. Following the Second World War, the science had a relatively quiet period but experienced a resurgence in the when researches saw the benefits of modifying the human genome. Soon scientists possessed the capability to eradicate genetic diseases in human embryos that could present harm during the lifetime. Currently, one of the main purposes of genetic engineering is the implementation of specific genes from some species to another to enhance their capabilities. One example is the implementation of a bioluminescent gene in trees with the intent of conducting them to glow at night thus reducing the use of electricity to illuminate certain areas. Despite the benefits that genetic engineering presents, the stance and opinions of scientist have varied throughout the years. Many of these researches question how the modification of the human genome can affect a human throughout their life time. Other concerns come from an ethical standpoint questioning what authority do humans have to interfere with the natural state of species. Although views of genetic engineering were optimistic at the start of the 21st century, initial concerns became more prominent and skeptical over time. Echeverria, !2 Between the years of 1970 and 2000, the rise and discovery of processes that modified DNA was seen as a breakthrough by the scientific community. Before such breakthroughs arose, the modification of genomes could only develop through selective breeding or artificial selection. Despite this optimism towards genetic engineering, by the early there was a surge of researchers that had developed a cautious and skeptical view of the field. One of these researchers was John C. Avise, who manifests this cautious ideology in his book The hope, hype, and reality of genetic engineering: remarkable stories from agriculture, industry, medicine, and the environment. Through the duration of his book, Avise discusses various genetic modification projects such as GMO (genetically modified organisms) on the dinner table and microbiological terrorism as well. To illustrate the potential damage genetic engineering might induce on humanity, Avise illustrates the horror of genetic modification on deadly diseases in order to weaponize them. This can be observed when he states that it is possible to modify a strain such as benign bacteria and allow GM (genetically modified) strain to move throughout the body quicker. With deadly speed, it could invade the liver, spleen, lungs, and other organs, overwhelming the immune defenses. People could die agonizing deaths as their lymph nodes balloon into ugly masses, or their lungs fill with (Avise, 5). This illustrates the potential of modifying deadly diseases in order to make them even more lethal. In the example presented by Avise, he states that the already deadly strain of benign bacteria could possible be modified to move throughout the body quicker thus making it more lethal. Other concerns expressed by Avise include unintended negative effects of genetic engineering such as the modification of a mosquito. Here Avise states that there are projects that intend to modify the genome of a mosquito in order to regulate the amount of diseases spread by the species. Despite Echeverria, !3 the obvious benefits, the author has fears on how the altered species can affect the environment and whether it will have the same or worse unwanted repercussions of those of an exotic species in a new environment. After many notable scientists such as John Avise presented the possible consequences of genetic engineering, there was a domino like effect in which various researchers began finding more unexpected consequences. One of these researchers is Jerry McPherson who presented a similar opinion to in the article of Genetic In this article, similar to opinions in his own book, McPhersson presents various different breakthroughs promised by genetic engineering. This is presented when he states that Genetic engineering can improve the health of society tremendously then as it is known today. Today genetic engineering is used in the fight against problems such as cystic fibrosis, the bubble  disease, diabetes, and several 2004). Despite these break throughs, McPhersson shares a similar opinion with Avise and warns that there are many possible consequences that need to be accounted for with genetic engineering. This can be noticed when he states that in engineering the genetics of a virus or bacteria could result in a stronger type, which, if released, could start a serious epidemic. Even worse, accidents in human genetic engineering could cause problems ranging from minor medical problems, to 2004). This demonstrates that despite seeing the potential for genetic engineering, like Avise, he shares worries that the science can be manipulated and do legitimate harm. Some other concerns McPhersson states range from ethical conflicts to the fact that once an altered gene is placed in an organism, the process cannot be reversed. Due to these fears, the author recommends a study of all the effects of genetic engineering which can lead to responsible use of the technology. Echeverria, !4 As the debates over genetic engineering reached the early the overall view of the scientific community tended to agree that the future uses of genetic engineering need to be managed responsibly. This is due to the fact that many previous studies, such as those of Avise and McPhersson, have similar conclusions that there are unprecedented risks associated with genetic engineering. In the paper and Precautions of Genetically Modified authors Dhan Prakash, Sonika Verma, Ranjana Bhatia and B.N. Tiwary share this similar opinion while discussing the potential commercial effects of biotechnology. The authors of the paper believe that there is a necessity for risk assessment and management regarding the use of genetic engineering. This is due to the considerations of unprecedented risks mentioned by previous researchers similar to Avise and McPhersson. This can be easily observed when the authors, in regards to genetically modified organisms, state that there need to be caution due to the fact that faster growth of can enable them to have a competitive advantage over the native organisms. This may allow them to become invasive, to spread into new habitats, and cause ecological and economic (Prakash, Verma, Bhatia and Tiwary, 2011). These fears are similar to those expressed by Avise and McPhersson due to the fear that genetically modifying organisms can cause effects that ripple through the environment and disrupt the careful balance between species. The current position of the scientific community in regards to genetic engineering, changed much over the past few years. It is a common within the community to view genetic engineering with skepticism and a belief that there still needs to be strong stance on regulating the practice of genetic engineering to prevent any possible unknown consequences. Zaria Gorvett, who holds a Masters in Medical Microbiology from the London School of Hygiene and Echeverria, !5 Tropical, states in her article Genetic Engineering Risks and Impacts that there needs to be regulations since the absence of a rigorous approval process, there is nothing to ensure that GE crops that cause health problems will always be identified and kept off the 2012). In the article, Gorvett illustrates the possible threats, similar to those presented by McPhersson, that genetic modification presents possible impacts on health and the environment environmental. This can be illustrated when she discusses how of acres of U.S. farmland are now infested by weeds that have become resistant to the herbicide glyphosate due to genetic engineering. Overuse of Roundup  trait, which is engineered to tolerate the herbicide, has promoted the accelerated development of resistance in several weed 2012). This quotation explains that by modifying crops, many weeds have developed a resistance to toxic herbicides. This development has resulted in farmers using harsher toxins which can damage the same crops they are trying to protect. Like the researchers before her, Gorvett agrees that there is great potential in genetic engineering. But despite these bright promises, if the field is not carefully regulated, there will be serious consequences. Despite the immense promises that genetic engineering provides, there has been a change in opinion over the last decade within the scientific and academic community. At first many researchers believed that genetic engineering was going to be science that was going to provide breakthroughs in areas such as agriculture and medicine. But over the decade of the early many in the scientific community began to be concerned with the potential effects that genetic engineering has in agriculture and health. Because studies performed to evaluate these risks are tightly controlled by the industry, many scientist began individual studies to assess all possible risks that genetic engineering can present. Due to these possible unintended consequences, many Echeverria, !6 researchers began opting for more regulation within the field. Even with the skepticism, many are hopeful this science will reach its full potential and possible aid many. References: Avise, John C. The hope, hype, and reality of genetic engineering: remarkable stories from agriculture, industry, medicine, and the environment. New York: Oxford U Press, 2004. Print McPhersson, Jerry. Effects of Genetic  Disabled World. N.p., Aug. 2004. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Prakash, Dhan, Sonika Verma, Ranjana Bhatia, and B. N. Tiwary. Risks and Precautions of Genetically Modified  ISRN Ecology 2011 (2011): 1-13. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Gorvett, Zaria. Genetic Engineering Risks and  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., 4 Oct. 2012. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. failing-food-system/genetic-engineering/risks-of- geneengineering.html#.WKzuZhg7kU0>.