Ancient Egypt Intro:- This is an annotated bibliography about ancient Egypt and their advancements in construction and building. Egypt nowadays is known for their ancient Egyptian culture which existed thousands of years ago, that culture is not completely gone as they had left us traces of what they did thousands of years ago, The ancient Egyptians left us the pyramids which are tombs made to bury the bodies of the kings of that land which were called and they would preserve their bodies in a certain way and those preserved bodies were called mummies and then they would bury those mummies in those tombs with all their wealth buried with them as they thought that humans would be brought back to life so they left their money with their tomb in case they were brought back to life again. The mystery involving ancient Egypt is how they managed to build the pyramids in a period where there was no advancement in technology or modern knowledge and remain standing for thousands of years without being destroyed. How did the Egyptians in that era succeed in constructing something so efficiently that it be replicated until very far in the future? Annotated Bibliography 1-Before the pyramids were built the Egyptians wanted them to last for eternity to serve the purpose of keeping the dead bodies until they were brought back to life again. The Egyptians then decided to make the tombs and the pyramids out of stone which is the most common material they could use. The stones that were used to build the pyramids were granite and limestone. These two stones could last for a long time and could sustain the harsh weather of Egypt without falling apart or weakening. They also used clay-rich mud from the Nile to keep the stones stuck together. The materials used for the construction of the pyramids shows us that the ancient Egyptians had knowledge of their own that bests others at that time and shows that they were smart when it came to construction. The Egyptian pyramids lasted for more than 4000 years in the rough weather of the Arabian desert because of the knowledge in building that no ancient empire had until hundreds of years later. 2-Although the ancient Egyptians were very good at keeping their buildings intact for a long time, they were not perfect at it as one of the greatest buildings of the Egyptians which is the great sphinx of Giza went through a lot of reconstructions through the years. The main reasons for the reconstructions of the sphinx was wind. The wind in the desert brought sand with it which slowly covered the sphinx. The sphinx was completely covered in sand and buried several times and was recovered multiple times and slowly began to lose the colors that were painted on the sphinx the first time it was built. The most recent reconstruction of the sphinx was in the 19 th century which fixed the sand problems on the neck and strengthened the base of the sphinx so it collapse on itself. If the methods of building the sphinx altered it would have fallen many centuries if not ago which tells us that the ancient Egyptians buildings are still standing today because some of them if not all of them were reconstructed and altered several times through the years. 3-According to the author, the Egyptian architects that built and designed the pyramids design it without knowledge of engineering, they built it in a way that could be defined as revolutionary in that era. The extreme size of the pyramids especially the great pyramid of Khufu were designed in a way that could support the weight and sizes of these pyramids. In engineering bigger always mean stronger, a small bridge of ply wood with a span of 16 inches can sustain the weight of humans easily however if the same type of wood was used to make a bridge with span of ten feet will break easily because the bigger size of the wood lacks the strength that is held in the 16 inches. Clearly the Egyptian architects were men of good knowledge in engineering which made the pyramids last a long life without collapsing on itself. 4-as the author from the article states, the agriculture of the land near the landmarks in Egypt played a vital role in keeping the pyramids intact for this long. The practices of agriculture prevented some natural causes that destroyed the Egyptian pyramids such as floods. Floods were common in that area because of the Nile that was somewhat close to the pyramids. The plants and palm trees that were in that area prevented the water from the Nile to get past them and flood the city. This was the case until 300 BC when agriculture as big as it was which caused a flood that wiped some landmarks in near the ancient city. It until the 1970s that the Egyptian government built the high dam on the Nile to prevent such tragedies to happen again. The Egyptian agriculture lifestyle helped keep the pyramids from the dangers of the Nile floods which kept the pyramids alive for a longer time. 5,6-for a long while a great mystery of the pyramids was who were the people who built the pyramids and how were they treated. That was a mystery until 1998 when a tourist found some hidden tomb which was the tombs of the workers who built the pyramids. As the writer in source 5 said the bodies of the workers were not mummified so they were all bones. From the bones scientists discovered that the workers were treated in a good manner to show respect for the workers of the pyramids. The workers body shape was that was found in the tombs were big and strong and well fed to gain the necessary strength to build the pyramids. Most of the bodies if not all of them were either broken or damaged mainly because of the way they built the pyramids and the accidents that came with it. The workers used ramps and sledges to move the rocks and put them in place because the rocks are very heavy, with the weight of the rocks the ropes sometimes sustain their weight which can break the sledge which falls on a worker and hurts them which is the cause of the broken bones. Sources: 1- Klemm, D. D., & Klemm, R. (2001). The building stones of ancient Egypt a gift of its geology. Journal Of African Earth Sciences, 33(African Renaissance and Geosciences), 631-642. doi:10.1016/S0899-5362(01)00085-9 2- Hussein, A. S., & El-Shishiny, H. (2009). Wind flow modeling and simulation over the Giza Plateau cultural heritage site in Egypt. ACM Journal On Computing & Cultural Heritage, 2(2), 1. doi:10.1145/1613672.1613674 3- Fonte, G. A. (2007). Building the Great Pyramid in a Year : An Report. New York: Algora Publishing. 4- Ahmed, A. A., & Fogg, G. E. (2014). The impact of groundwater and agricultural expansion on the archaeological sites at Luxor, Egypt. Journal Of African Earth Sciences, 9593-104. doi:10.1016/j.jafrearsci.2014.02.007 5- Hussein, A. M. (2012). Tombs of pyramid builders. Calliope, (1). 36. 6- EDWARDS, J. F. (2016). The Concave Faces of the Great Pyramid. Technology & Culture, 57(4), 909