Zhengyu Liu ENC 1101 Anastasia J. Khawaja 3.31.2017 Final Draft Today, with the growing popularity of the internet, more and more people begin to touch and use it. In fact, the internet has brought a lot of new things to lives, such as social media. So far, social media has developed surprisingly with a short history and it keeps developing faster and faster. At present, majority of people start to spend most of their time on social media and social media has changed their life styles, such as people begin to choose social media as their way of conversation rather than communicate with others face to face. It brings a lot of new things to the world, and gives people different life style with the life that we did not have social media before. Since 2000s, social media has affected people more than ten years and it has also changed itself a lot during this period. The development history of social media is short, but it has become an important part of modern society. According to Cameron article History and Evolution of Social early social networks are usually considered a kind of simple network platform that allow users to create profiles with their personal information or introduction and contact each other. People consider Six Degrees which was launched in 1997 as the first modern social network. It is the first social media that allowed users to add friends and connect each other. In the early 2000s, social media got some great developments. Social network began to allow users to do more for social contact, such as Friendster, the first really modern social network founded in 2002, people to discover their friend and then friends-of-friends to expend their social 2009). In early 2000s, social media started to provide their users some services to enrich their networks . Facebook was a social media started in 2004, it allowed users to post pictures, share videos, send message and chat with each other. After that, more and more social media began to build specific interests group, such as Youtube, Flickr and Reddit. In 2006, with the appearance of Twitter, real time update became new standard of social media. And the population of smart phones like iphone made the using of social media become whenever and wherever possible. As the result, more and more people begin to use social media and it looks like social media allows people to do everything they can image. There is no doubt that today social media has become a necessary part of many people and they cannot live without social media. So what kind of changes social media brought to us and how it effect our lives? Soren, s article Ways Social Media is Changing Our Daily talks about that ten years ago social media had changed many life styles of people. and Twitter might have been unimaginable for most people at the beginning of this (Gordhamer, 2009). The first change that social media brought to people ten years ago was the way people get news. When social media which allow users to share information and post pictures and video became popular, more and more people began to choose Twitter and Facebook to get news rather than choose newspapers. And another important change social media brought to people was communication. It made people easier to find new friends that they were interested in, and it allowed people to communicate with others over the world any time any where. Ten years ago, social media gave people new ways to touch with people in different areas of the earth and know what happened in the world easily. Today social media has developed much better and it brings more new change to our lives. With the popularization of smart phones and mobile network, social media is not only a convenient way to get information, it is a global platform for everyone to communicate and interact with others. Based on Jessica Carona and Janice article, social media has made great and helpful changes to people, especially in communication. They point that communication plays an important role in helping people who rely on their natural speech to meet their communication needs in face-to-face (Jessica Carona & Janice Light, 2015, p. 680). They give an example about people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. People in this group face speech intelligibility issues that negatively affect their overall communication (Carona & Light, 2015, p. 680 ). Social media provides an efficient and convenient platform for them to communicate with others. It shows that social media has changed into a kind of communication platform for everyone from an information platform used by few people in 2015. When social media brings a lot of great changes to people, it also effects them in some negative ways. So far, although people have more information than before, Information Overload has become a big problem. big concern surrounding social impact is communication how to handle and make sense of this information we now (Maura Keller, 2013). Also, when more and more people prefer to choose social media as their way to communicate with others in a virtual world, real-world social has become difficult to them. Social media is changing our way of conversation and it has effected our lives a lot even though it is only a decade old. But at the same time, when people enjoy the changes that social media brings to them, they also rely more on social media. It is the problem but also the tendency. Overall, it makes people live better in many ways. Works cited Cameron, Chapman. The History and Evolution of Social Media. WebdesignerDepot. 07 Oct. 2009. Soren, Gordhamer. 5 Ways Social Media is Changing Our Daily Life. Mashable.16 Oct. 2009. Maura, Keller. Social Media and Interpersonal Communication. Web. May. 2013. Jessica Carona & Janice Lighta. World Has Expanded Even Though Stuck at American Journal of Speech-Language Pathology (2015):680-691. Print. 01 Nov. 2015.