Guzman !1 Daylees Guzman Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 5 April 2017 Being meat free: An end to the horrors occurring in the meat industry In the past couple decades, animal rights have been a highly controversial topic all over the world. As this topic grew in popularity so did the world populations leading to an increase in the need for sustainable food sources. Ironically, the need for food led to more and more cases of animal cruelty and suffering in livestock, fish, and poultry. According to People For The Ethical Treatment of Animals, in the United States alone than 27 billion animals are slaughtered for (PETA). With all of those deaths, it is impossible to justify the lack of intervention within the public. Sparks continue to fly in the debate over whether the torture and mistreatment of animals is worth the addition of meat into diets. All in all, animals are feeling and sensing animals that deserve more from life than to be born and raised to die for human gain. Eliminating meat as a whole from diets all over the world would finally give rise to a world where animal cruelty is finally taboo. In an ordinary day, hundreds of thousands of pounds of meat are consumed throughout the world. With every stomach growl occurring, animals are slaughtered. In fact, the animals being consumed were born with the sole purpose of being meal. Many were stripped from their mothers and raised in filthy conditions where the only interaction they received was from workers checking to see if they are fat enough for slaughter. Human gratification is the sole reason for many animals births and deaths through out the world. With the stench of suffering Guzman !2 accumulating around the world, vegetarians arose to combat the meat industry and put a stop to animal cruelty one meal at a time. Vegetarians vow to not consume any piece of flesh that came from a living or dead animal. They believe that animals are sentient beings, meaning that they can feel and experience things just as humans can. Although it hard to understand that other animals can feel in the same capacity that humans can, many individuals use that as an excuse to treat animals cruelly. In addition, humans reject the notion that animals have their own rights and excuse the fact that on factory farms are treated like meat, milk, and egg (PETA). The buying and selling of animal products, especially meat, is a confirmation of guilt in which an individual of and collaborates in wrongful acts, even (BBC). Without having to kill a chicken, or a cow, those who consume their meat condone their slaughter and invoke the deaths of many other creatures. Furthermore, the reasons as to why people make the move to vegetarianism. Thomas B. Lund, who works in the Department of Food and Resource Economics in the University of Copenhagen, Denmark, states that the reasons for becoming vegetarian varies widely but typically it is due to for animals and animal welfare, religious beliefs, concern for personal health, concern for the environment, disgust at the properties of meat, or a combination of (90). Although the reasons vary, the biggest motivation converting people is the ethical treatment of animals. The belief that animals have the right to not be tortured and mistreated, as well as the right to their own body, brings people into a meatless lifestyle. Furthermore, government organizations and companies have set up regulations on how farm animals are fed and how they are kept. Those regulations do not stop the unnecessary violence subjected to livestock and poultry. There is currently no way to check if the meat people are consuming is Guzman !3 from a factory that treats their livestock, poultry, or fish in an ethical manner. Also, it is unrealistic to expect food companies to treat animals with dignity and respect from the moment they are born to the day of their death so that consumers can feel better about their choice to eat meat. Therefore, there would be no way to check if the meat people are consuming actually came from a healthy and happy animal that died in a pain free way. Eating meat from an animal that has lived a life of abuse and pain is not worth the ethical and moral dilemma that comes along with it. Being compassionate allows individuals to see the suffering animals are going through and pushes people to bring about change in themselves and in the world around them. In an effort to not support the slaughtering, many people make the switch to vegetarianism everyday. It does not take much effort to understand that the meat industry thrives off the pain and misery of living beings. Similarly, it does not take much effort to take a stand and eliminate meat from your diet. Additionally, different variations of vegetarians exist. The majority of vegetarians exclude any form of animal meat from their diet. However, a minority of vegetarians exist that consumes small amounts of meat, either by reducing the amount of meat they eat or by only eating meat from certain animals. Nick Fox, a professor at the University of Sheffield, explained the difference between some of the different types of vegetarians; Fox states that vegetarians consume dairy produce and eggs, and semi- and pesco-vegetarians eat poultry and fish (1). According to this information, it is clear that vegetarians differ on how committed they are to living an animal cruelty free lifestyle. Fish and poultry are seen by semi and pesco-vegetarian as worth less than the lives of cows and pigs. However, Fish and poultry are abused and neglected just for the sake of making Sunday dinner more appetizing. Guzman !4 Ironically, poultry, such as turkeys and chickens, are currently the abused animals commonly used for (PETA). Therefore, people who consider themselves vegetarians should remove all meat from their diet, not only red meat, it is not doing the animals any favors. To add on, Dr. Hank Rothgerber, a professor at Bellarmine University, states that when exposed to meat a portion of vegetarians he studied felt close or closer to than to (98). No change will occur if people continue to eat meat; buying and consuming animal products allows the meat industry to continuously profit from the suffering of animals. Reluctantly eating meat is not helping the animals suffering and dying everyday. The only way to invoke any change and strip the guilt of allowing animal cruelty to occur is by becoming a true vegetarian and eliminating meat consumption. It is highly important for animal lives to be valued and treated with dignity and respect. With populations growing at rapid rates the number of animals sacrificing their lives to be an ingredient in a salad or a soup rises and rises. With the consumption of meat comes the guilt of the lives slaughtered. For people to feel completely guilt free about what they consume on an everyday basis, they must give up meat and start a vegetarian lifestyle. In fact, with the simple act of eliminating animal meat from an individuals everyday diet they save more than 100 animals a year from this (PETA). The change is simple but the effects are powerful. Guzman !5 Works Cited BBC, Accessed 3 April 2017. Fox, Nick, and Katie Ward. ethics and environment: A qualitative study of vegetarian Appetite, vol. 50, no. 2-3, 2008, pp. 422-429. Lund, Thomas B., et al. Animal Ethics Profiling of Vegetarians, Vegans and  Anthrozoos, no. 1, 2016, p. 89. Rothgerber, Hank. report: A comparison of attitudes toward meat and animals among strict and Elsevier Ltd, 19 October 2013, pp. 98-105. PETA, http://www.peta.org/living/food/vegetarian-101/. Accessed 3 April 2017.