Samsonenko 1 Vladislav Samsonenko Professor Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC1101.903S17 3 April 2017 The Effect of Video Games on Children For the past few decades modern technologies became an essential parts of lives. Electronic devices are now used in almost every aspect of life, whether it is communication or household duties. Therefore, it is not surprising that children also use technology to their advantage. Today, even a three-year-old child knows how to use iPad and X-box. Parents notice that their kids spend a lot of time playing on their devices instead of doing outdoors activities. This change in preferences causes concerns that lead parents to believe that videogames are inherently bad. Some of the opinions about video games focus on the idea that they are addictive, cause violence, and have a negative effect on the physical development of the kids. Nevertheless, more and more parents notice positive effects of videogames on children. For instance, video games can help to increase comprehension or help to learn a new language. With the development in technology quality of video games increased too. This progress leads to many questions, but the answers remain the same. Generally, scholarly conversation appears to support video games if they are used correctly and selected carefully for the appropriate age group. However, the opinions of video games supporters became stronger as more time has passes and more research was made. Major shift in the technology used by teenagers served as a start to the new discussion. In the early 2000 the conversation revolved around the opinions about the perceived impact of video games on younger generation with comparison to the impact of the television. After Samsonenko 2 looking at the research by Sneed and Runco, it can be found that majority of kids during that period of time believed that TV is desirable and stimulates creativity far more often than their parents. On the contrary, both children and adults viewed video games similarly. Both groups believed that video games can lead to the confusion with reality. In addition, author states that held more positive beliefs about the influence of video games than the other adults without (Sneed and Runco). Essentially, parents who got to experience the impact of video games first hand were more confident in the positive influence of video games. In the beginning of the conversation parents and children viewed the issue of video games and their impact on younger generation based on their personal beliefs, without a lot of evidence to support their point. As time had passed researchers tried to critically assess whether computer games cause positive or negative influence on children. In the mid-00s researchers came to the conclusion that there are obvious negative effects caused by video games. They include addiction, distraction from real life and possible aggression (Smith). However, there were also strong evidence that there are benefits such as improved hand-eye coordination, concentration, and spatial skills such as mental rotation, spatial visualization and spatial integration (Smith). The conversation expanded as community began to acknowledge the positive impact of vide games. While research results were a cause of conversations throughout the years, the past 10 years brought a lot of evidence to the table. However, arguments and supporting points remained the same. There are benefits such as improvement in spatial skills, specific knowledge and skill improvement for educational games, and increased empathy and decreased aggression (Prot, Mcdonald, Anderson, and Gentile). Authors emphasize that video games are different and their effects are also different. Some of the dimensions of video games include amount of game play, Samsonenko 3 content, context, structure and mechanics of the game. For example, fast-paced games are good for visual skills, but their content might be negative and cause aggression. And again, the conversation revolves around the idea that video games world is complex and the effect of video games should not be categorized so broadly. Finally, the discussion of the issue moves in the direction of disputing the correctness of the previous research. There is a recognition that there had been numerous researches that failed to account for different factors that distort findings about impact of video games, including family characteristics and measurement error. Suziedelyte actually testes the hypothesis that video games cause positive impact on people. The author goes into the deeper research and analyzes the correlation between the amount of time spent playing video games and comes to the conclusion that video games do positively affect problem solving ability in children. Throughout the years conversation between researchers focuses on one main point - the importance of correctly evaluating the impact of such a huge factor as video games and technology on younger generation. Currently, 90% of American children and teens play video games (Prot et. Al.). Constantly growing use of gadget is certainly causing concern among parents, video game companies and government and leads to a debate among these groups of stakeholder. In the beginning, the conversation was mostly based on opinions about the issues. As many of the researcher has said, it is important to evaluate games, their content, visual graphics and context to come to some conclusion about their positive or negative effect. As the time has passed, focus shifted to the positive impact of video games. But positive effect of appropriate educational video games is what was common among all participants of this conversation, Samsonenko 4 Works Cited Prot, Sara, Katelyn A. Mcdonald, Craig A. Anderson, and Douglas A. Gentile. Video  Pediatric Clinics of North America 59.3 (2012): 647-58. Web. Smith, G. G. (2005). How do computer games affect your children?, Eurasian Journal of Educational Research, April, 2005. Sneed, Carl, and Mark A. Runco. The Beliefs Adults and Children Hold About Television and Video  The Journal of Psychology 126.3 (2000): 273. Academic Search Premier. Web. 17 Feb 2017. Suziedelyte, Agne. Media And Human Capital Development: Can Video Game Playing Make You  Economic Inquiry 53.2 (2015): 1140-155. Web.