1 Saad Alghamdi ENC 1101 January 29, 2017 Global Car Production Success and Decline Through history, people have invented a lot of inventions, such as cars, that helped to make life better and easier. Throughout the process of inventions and success, there were some negatives and positives. However, automobile production in the U.S started around 1885. Furthermore, automobile production had improved over the years for multiple reasons. Since 1885 until our present day, cars have gotten bigger, more developed, and modern with different designs. This paper will discuss the history of car production, investigate car production success and revival between 2000 -2017, and car production decline issues. The research questions are: what is the difference between car production in the past and today? What are the reasons behind success? What are the reasons behind some production decline? Cusumano, M.A. (1988). Manufacturing Innovation: Lessons from the Japanese Auto  MIT Sloan Management Review. Retrieved from: http://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/manufacturing-innovation-lessons-from-the-japanese-auto- industry/ First of all, for the sake of this paper, several sources have been read; one of which discusses the topic of Innovation: Lessons from the Japanese Auto This article talks about how Japan had increased their cars production through the years. Also how did they get higher numbers then the United State. The 1980s was the age 2 when Japan shined and and succeeded; for example, Toyota company numbers increased significantly. One of the reasons behind such success was that Japanese companies had focused on customer satisfaction. Japanese companies gave people what they wanted by producing cars for them by the lowest prices possible. Almost every other car production companies were surprised how Japanese car production companies made this amazing development by only focusing on customer satisfaction. At that same time United states and other none-Japanese countries took a five years study to analyze the Japanese automobile industry on Nissan and Toyota. Cutcher-Gershenfeld, J. Brooks, D. Mulloy, M. (2015) The Decline and Resurgence of the U.S. Auto  Economic Policy Institute. Retrieved from: http://www.epi.org/publication/the- decline-and-resurgence-of-the-u-s-auto-industry/ On the other hand, the U.S automobile industry had faced some challenges and recovery. According to the report on Decline and Resurgence of the U.S. Auto the U.S. auto industry had restored its production and profits in recent years through analyzing the factors and taking action towards better car quality, management, and establishing better rapport among suppliers, managers, and labor. For example, Ford car company production increased between the years 2011 -2014, and as a result, the company profits increased from $6.2 billion in 2011 to $6.9 billion in 2014. Nonetheless, Ford workers had also benefited from this success by earning approximately $6,200 for 2011, $8,300 for 2012, $8,800 for 2013, and $6,900 for 2014 per month. Another factor for the U.S car production success is The United Automobile Workers union (UAW). This union represents autoworkers at the U.S. car manufacturers (Ford, General Motors, 3 and Fiat/Chrysler). The transition in UAW goals from withholding labor to working at establishing work opportunities. The union had also brought the discussions of quality, safety, predictive and preventative maintenance, workforce development, team-based operations, and other topics that had contributed to the U.S Automobile industry success, especially in those Big Three companies. Liu, J. Diamond, J. (2017). environment in a globalizing Retrieved from: http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v435/n7046/full/4351179a.html#a2 Furthermore, Chinese car production and environment effects. China takes the fourth place in the world in size, as well as the first place in production. Chines have detached themselves by being fast workers by working hard and being are number one in the world. They have many companies for car production and many other countries have opened factories in China for several reasons. One of the reason is that Chinese accept low pay rates and they are welling to work eight hours regardless of the low pay rate. Another reason is that number of population in China is huge and people are fast and smart leaners and therefore, their car production is more then As a result to their smartness and working, they are required to take a small course in how to build cars and they interestingly finish it in a short time. In addition to that, car production companies have so much money to provide to the factories machines that helps in making the work faster. On the other hand, the environment getting effect by this. The Chinese environment is getting effected by many ways, some of them are globalization and pollution. As most of us know, China is one of the biggest countries in the world. They have their own pollution and the world pollution is effecting them too. Having those many car factories in China makes dealing with the 4 problem even worse. China has a big population and people are coming to it global-wise for many different business interests, especially cars. Holweg, Matthias. The genealogy of lean  Journal of operations management 25.2 (2007): 420-437. Another point about cars production is that cars production affects the economy. Through time, cars companies are producing cars every minute for seven days a week. Many countries have cars factories in them that changed the country economy, Such as America, Japan and China. Those countries have factories in them since 1850s until the present day. They have developed and made high numbers in their sales. Ford company is one of the largest oldest car production company in the world. They have given so many jobs opportunities for employees and made so much money off of car production and sales nationally and internationally. Ford companies have affect the economy of the United states largely. Another example, is Japan cars production. After Japan took a strong hit in world war II, they have recovered on so many levels. Toyota company, for an example, have changed so much and developed to be one of the best car companies globally. They are trying to get to the best level they can get to. With that happening, the economy had boosted fast and is still. They made good sales deals and gave plenty of jobs opportunities that helped the people to develop their financials which eventually led to the economy development. 5 History (2017). Automobiles. Retrieved from: http://www.history.com/topics/automobiles In addition, the history of American car success was evident in Ford cars industry. Even though that cars were first famous in Europe, the U.S was not far behind in car industry and success. During the 1920s, Henry Ford mass car production techniques and successful management helped his company be as successful as General Motors and Chrysler. Those three companies were referred to as the auto companies by the 1920s. This article states that one of the reasons behind mass car production spread around the U.S is a result to the absence of tariff between states. Another reason is that manufactures used raw and cheap materials available in the U.S, which encouraged standardized and fast production. Therefore, the United States produced 485,000 of the world total of 606,124 motor vehicles production in 1913. Additionally, Ford company outperformed its competitors with a that was sold for a decent price. Ford cars back then were sold for a price between $825 for the first T-Model in 1908 to the price of 575 when the T-model became very popular in 1927. However, other American automobile manufacturers followed mass production techniques which resulted in a huge drop in the number of car manufactures from 253 in 1908 to only 44 in 1929 with approximately most of car industry production accounted for by the companies. Sackman, J. (2016, March 29th). Automotive Companies That Retrieved from: http://www.goliath.com/auto/10-automotive-companies-that-failed/ Throughout the history of American car industries, there had been few decline in some car manufactures and consequently, failure. Those car production companies had 6 failed as a result to unsuccessful administration, changes in attitudes towards their cars since some of them lacked new technologies. This source discusses a list of Automotive Companies That in the history of U.S car companies. First, Studebaker cars were very popular during the in the 1940s and early 1950s. It was only after WW2 when this car company started loosing business and sales as satisfaction was lower than ever. The company, therefore, struggled to overcome such loss until they produced Lark 1958. This car had brought some profit to the company before it officially failed in managing its business in 1967. In addition to Studebaker, a small car company called Stutz that was owned by an engineer called Harry Stutz. This company was famous for its innovative cars and car parts such as the steering wheel. Stutz were the pioneers in steering wheels and then racing cars in 1912. A decade later, specifically in 1927, Stutz built the first racing car with a speed of 106/hr. During the great depression, Stutz industry lost most of its production and profit and the last record of their car production was in 1934. However, the other car companies had failed for similar reasons mainly but with few differences hence why only two car companies were discussed here. In conclusion, global car production industry success and decline are mainly affected by many reasons. The increase in car production was due to good management, innovation, reasonable car prices, hard working labor and management, absence of taxes and tariffs, help of better manufacturing machines, and well trained workers. On the other hand, the decline of some car production industries was a result to poor management, economic issues such as the great depression, and in some cases a shift in consumer sentiment. Finally, car production in the past 7 was mainly as a response to consumer needs for transportation and better living. Nowadays, car production is an answer to a life style and to maintain consumer satisfaction. In regards to car production differences between the past and now, car production in the past focused on manufacturing cars that break down nor need updating, while on the other hand, cars production nowadays heavily relies on profit, innovation, and competition with other car industries.