Staton 1 Zachary Staton Professor Ryan Composition II 12 March 2016 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric: Abortion For the last decade the issue on abortion has greatly increased. All around the country one can look around and see advertisements trying to end abortion and save lives. PROLIFE Across America, a group is fighting to end abortion through various ads. PROLIFE Across America is mainly known for their highway billboards. The main mission of this organization as stated on their website prolifeacrossamerica.org is to reach out through billboards, radio and newspaper ads to people who may not be reached in any other The advertisements use of rhetorical elements is very clear in many ads that they use to get their message across. By examining the advertisements used by PROLIFE Across America one can examine the use of visual and rhetorical appeals to gain more support for their mission. Visual literacy is generally described as the ability to interpret, negotiate, and make meaning from information presented in the form of an image. (Gerdes, Hopton, Rea 332). Both ads from PROLIFE Across America turn their mission from words on a screen to a vivid image and message. Looking at both advertisements from this organization there is one main focal point in each image. The bold red letters in each advertisement emphasize a main focal point for the reader. Having the bold red letters cover the mission of their ads suggest that this is what they want Staton 2 their readers to see first. For example, the first ad is an ad. The red lettering in this ad says Before I was even born I could suggesting that PROLIFE Across America wants to instill a sense a guilt into any women thinking about abortion. The ad wants the mothers thinking about abortion to think about their smiling baby inside their wombs. The second ad is also an abortion ad with red lettering covering the word This seems to be a different tactic than the last ad because the message is more of play on words. This context suggests a catchy phrase that might be a useful tool to get a message across. In both advertisements we can see a common purpose. refers to the overall goal for creating an image (347). Both ads have goals, and both ads use a sense of attitude to catch the emotions of their intended audiences. Looking at advertisement one, the attitude or tone seems to be that of a guilt trip. On the home page of prolifeacrossamerica.com a quote from a woman who was seeking abortion that says, I go through with my abortion after I saw that ad. I never knew the heart was beating at 18 This quote suggests that the mother of this baby felt a sense of guilt after knowing her baby was alive. In the first ad it seems the goal is much of the same, to instill a sense of guilt into the mother by saying, your baby in smiling. Why would you want to kill Lastly, both ads have a phone number at the bottom of the screen. This is an important part in advertising because it gives the organization a chance to reach their intended audience personally. The organization has given their a help line essentially. Staton 3 Equally as important when trying to create an effective advertisement are rhetorical appeals. In ad number one the organization uses examples of pathos, ethos and kairos. Pathos is an appeal to the emotion (Lane, Lee, McKee, Mclntyre, Pantelides 22). PROLIFE Across America uses pathos in their first ad through a portrait of a smiling infant. Using this photo of the baby they can reach the emotion of an audience member that is reading the advertisement because babies are thought to be innocent and pure. The association of this cute baby and death can cause any sort of emotions to rise. Looking at logos, to (23) in ad number one the organization uses a statistic in bottom right corner saying 18 Days from However, looking at the appeal to logos the organization offer any proof that this statement is indeed true. A phone number is left on the ad, so supposedly a reader could call and figure out where he could get proof of this statistic, but odds of that happening are not high. Finally for the first ad we see examples of kairos, an to (25). Although we discussed that information given in this ad may or may not be true the use of 18 Days from and I was even born I could instills a sense of urgency or a deadline. Looking at advertisement number the organization uses much of the same tactics when it comes to Pathos. Seeing how PROLIFE Across America is a organization they believe that abortion is murder. They place an infant on the ad to indirectly make you stop and think that this is what killing when having an abortion. In terms of ethos, it is unlawful to kill someone. a point that this ad is making in terms or morality. Lastly, logos are evident in this ad because PROLIFE Staton 4 Across America is trying to save the lives of as many babies as possible. In logical terms kids are the future and they want to keep the future bright. The two images portray PROLIFE Across mission and vision very clearly and in a way that some other advertisements might not. The images only capture the goal and mission of PROLIFE Across America, but they appeal to more than just one sense of young pregnant mothers thinking about abortion. The ads catch the emotions of the through play on words and through rhetorical appeal. By making their ads emotional they create a connection that could possible persuade a young woman in the direction of what their mission and goal. Through rhetorical appeal PROLIFE Across America has created a connection through there ads that life is precious and that every baby deserved a chance. The ads are ideal for PROLIFE Across America because they capture the essence of what it means to be The images portray a message that creates an atmosphere of innocence and one that makes life look precious. Visual appeal is vital in creating an effective advertisement that clearly portrays mission and goal. The four rhetorical elements are key. Through pathos, the elements of emotion, logos the element of logic, ethos the element of morality and kairos the element of timeliness, these elements can be the difference from having an ad that reaches the intended audience and an ad that your audience just simply skims over. The ads from PROLIFE Across America do just this for their organization. The ads clearly show their intended mission and goal. The ads show innocence and preciousness of the infants, which grasp the emotion of the audience. Thus creating a successful advertisement through visual and rhetorical appeal. Staton 5 Works Cited Gerdes Julie, Hopton Sarah, Rea Joshual, Visual Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 332 & 347, Lane Emily, Lee Kendra, Mckee Jessica, Mclntyre Megan, Pantelides Kate, The Rhetorical Rhetoric Really Matters: Exploration in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. PROLIFE Across America, Billboard 2017, prolifeacrossamerica.org, Accessed 12 March 2008, Web. Staton 6 Image 1 Image 2