Delbecq 1 Paul Delbecq Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101 25 March 2017 Final Draft Project 2 Martial arts have gone through considerable changes during the last hundred years. According to the book Martial written by Neil Horton, martial arts is a sport or skills of self- defense and attack with Asian origin mainly from Japan; Judo, Aikido, Karate, and Kung Fu are some of the examples. Martial arts are systems of combat practices that were originally created for self- defense, military and law enforcement applications, as well as for spiritual and entertainment purposes (Neil 18). It is also considered as a cultural heritage in countries the Far East. According to the book Arts for written by Jenifer Lawler, four decades ago, martial arts were more about forms, katas, and traditions. These forms were often a way to practice without any opponent. This was a problem since practitioners had no real experience when needed to use their skills to defend or to attack in the real life (Lawler 43). However, a lot has changed since then, and people have more resources and options to learn about many different martial arts techniques than before. People around the world now practice martial arts at a young age as a competitive sport or an activity. It is a great sport and activity, because it keeps the martial arts practitioners physically active and has proven health benefits. It is also good for the mind as it instills self- confidence, reinforces the personality, and develops strong values and disciplines to the martial artist. Moreover, it helps to strengthen the character and to maintain life in a more peaceful and stress-free manner. Delbecq 2 Nowadays, there are many martial arts schools available, plus there are also numerous resources online. The rise of martial arts in combat is a reflection of the progress that our society has made based on efficiency, entertainment, and virtue of strength. With the change in social construction and principles, the present-day combat of martial arts resonates in rise. The new systemization of martial arts combat in the spheres of fitness, art competition, art performance are under global spotlight. Martial art possess many great benefits for everyone who practice it regularly such as health and mental benefits, the benefits remained the same throughout the years however the focus has drifted away from spirituality and discipline to efficiency during the last century. Martial arts have many health benefits, especially on cardiovascular health. It is a high-aerobic art that requires good stamina, so the practitioners will improve their staminas if they train regularly. As a result, it lowers their cholesterol and blood pressure. According to the book Arts for written by Jenifer Lawler, it also increases strength, because a martial artist has to use every muscle group in the body while improving balance, as it is the first thing you learn in order to have power in the strikes or to avoid take downs to not lose a fight. As a consequence, all the health benefits that martial arts provide, increases the energy of the practitioner (Lawler 64). According to the book Bruce Commentaries on the Martial Way it also has a great psychological benefits, such as improved self-confidence, because you learn how to keep your composure in different situations when you are sometimes physically in danger or just doing tasks that are difficult for you at first. According to Bruce Lee, concentration is one of the greatest mental benefits that you learn from martial arts to do the perfect movement at the right time. It requires focus when you are practicing with an opponent or in a competition. If you lose your concentration for even a half second, the opponent can take this opportunity and win by knockout or submission. Martial Arts also brings great morals and values to the martial artists (Lee 25). Delbecq 3 Regular exercise routine is a good way to improve your mood because of the release of endorphines that improves well-being and discipline, because the practitioners learn how to respect each other and the instructor. According to Jenifer Lawler, martial arts in the past were more focused on forms and kata. The kata is a great way to install discipline, because it teaches you how to do the martial arts movement, but the disadvantage of practicing without opponents is the lacks in realism when it comes to effectivity in real situation of combat or competition. Discipline, techniques, and spiritual values achieved through the practice of martial arts are great, as they put more emphasize on self-control and in the way of movement. Martial arts teachers were very conservative about the technique and style of combat that they were teaching (Horton, Neil). According to Neil Horton, the teachers were not open minded at all in their approach of teaching their students; they were teaching their students to train in a certain way according to the martial arts techniques, and the students had to do in the same way, otherwise it was considered wrong. Even though this method of teaching instills discipline to the martial artist, it is not the smartest approach to be efficient in competition or real combat situation, because there are different ways to be efficient, and in order to discover those methods, you have to be open-minded (Neil 75). According to Lawler, nowadays, martial arts have lost some of spiritual values and rigid forms. Martial arts teachers are less conservative and focused more on efficiency of combat going, along with the rise of combat sport competition. They are more open-minded and allow more freedom to their students in the way they practice, because they know that there is not just one good way to do a certain kick, but many different ways. Hence, they help the students improving their fighting styles in their own ways, in order to be more efficient in their martial arts. They focus a little less on the spiritual aspect and discipline, so the respect between practitioners is sometimes not as great like it used to be in the past. This is because Delbecq 4 these days martial arts are more about efficient. The trainer puts more emphasis on the physical training in order to improve stamina, power, resistance, and speed. In a technical aspect, there are more open-minded, because they know that an efficient student is the one that finds out his own way of fighting. Efficiency has taken over the moral values (Lawler 65). In conclusion, martial arts provide many health, fitness, and psychological benefits. Martial arts in the past were more about values, spirituality, and conservativeness. However, martial arts are now more about efficiency of combat or competition. Even though martial arts have changed throughout times, the benefits of them have not changed. The martial artists of the past were more focused on well-being, morality and spirituality, while now martial artists are more focused on strength, efficiency, and stamina. Delbecq 5 Work cited Horton, Neil. Japanese Martial Arts, Chichester: ePubDirect, 2005. eBook Collection (E (EBSCOhost). Web.29 Jan. 2017. Lawler, Jennifer. Martial arts for dummies. New York: Wiley Pub., 2003.Print Lee, Bruce, and John R. Little. Bruce Lee: Jeet Kune Do: Bruce Commentaries on the Martial Way: Editorial Paidotribo, 2007. Print. Thomas, Steve. Martial Arts as A Model for Nonviolence: Resisting Interpersonal Violence With Assertive Force. The Conrad Grebel Review 33 ;1 (2015) :72-91. ATLARELIGION Database with ATLASerials. Web 29 Jan. 2017 Lee, Bruce, and John R. Little. Striking thoughts: Bruce Wisdom for daily living. Boston: Tuttle Pub., 200. Print. living.Boston: Tuttle Pub., 200. Print. Ertonghen, Jikkemien, and Marc Theeboom. The Social-Psychological Outcomes Of Martial Arts Practise Among Youth: A  Journal Of Sports Science & Medicine 9.4 (2010): 528-537. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.