Butterfield 1 Brittany Butterfield Ms. Heiser ENC 1102 069 5 April 2017 Join the Fight: Comprehensive Sexual Education a win for all. Preteens across the nation are being taught a controversial curriculum called sexual education. Sexual education, commonly known as is the teaching of human sexuality topics. There are many branches of sexual education, but the two most prominent are comprehensive sexual education and abstinence-only sexual education. Comprehensive sexual education advocates for abstinence, but also teaches about condoms and other contraceptive methods to lower unplanned teen pregnancy rates and risks of STDS/HIV/AIDS. Abstinence- only sexual education teaches the restraint of all sexual activities until marriage and stresses the morality of different forms of sexual expressions in teenagers. As time has progressed, public opinion agrees that comprehensive sex education should be taught in educational facilities and needs to be fought for more. As of 2011, United States ranks as one of the highest among developed nations for teenage pregnancy, abortion and sexually transmitted diseases (National Institutes of Health). To combat the high rates, organizations have formed to educate young adults about sex; These organizations promote comprehensive sex educational programs and act as an outlet for teens, which in turns decreases teen pregnancy and lowers transmitted diseases. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, SIECUS, is an organization that actively advocates for comprehensive sexual education. Their website states that has the right to accurate information and age and developmentally appropriate education about Butterfield 2 (www.siecus.org). SIECUS believes that comprehensive sexual education is a critical course of study that should be taught regardless of the cultural background of each child. Topics including human development, sexual relationships, sexual expression and sexual health are all taught. These topics are positively expressed, encouraging adolescents to be comfortable in their sexuality. In furtherance of ensuring accurate and respectful teachings, SIECUS has a training program for teachers. The teachers learn exactly how to present sexual education information and remain well up-to-date on emerging information. Consequently, adolescents become more prepared for when they choose to partake in sexual activities. Despite the acceptance to comprehensive sexual education programs, federal government refuses to endorse a comprehensive sex education program which would teach the importance of abstinence and effectively address the serious health concerns associated with unprotected sex (Amy The reality is, all young adults should have the opportunity to be able to have all the facts on decisions regarding their body. Sex is an everyday factor in life; therefore, it should not be so controversial to partake in. Programs advocating for comprehensive sexual education opens the conversation to get people talking; this not only educates others but also allows people to become more comfortable with the subject. Furthermore, Comprehensive sexual education has shown to have long-lasting results. It helps educate adolescences about the importance of life decisions, emotionally and physically. It gives adolescents a strong foundation; this foundation can be later used to guide them to building healthy relationships and more comfortable in their sexuality, overall positively affecting adolescents in more ways than one. Dr. Christine Markham, University of Texas Prevention Research Center in Public Health employee, explores the positive effects of comprehensive sex education programs in middle schools. In the article, Behavioral and Psychosocial Effects of Butterfield 3 Two Middle School Sexual Health Education Programs at Tenth-Grade Follow-Up, Dr. Markham reveals that comprehensive sex education delayed sexual intercourse and reduced other sexual risks in ninth and tenth graders. This was uncovered through extensive studying of fifteen middle schools and the conduction of follow-up surveys of the same students that took the course previously. The students were asked how well the sex education was in reducing sexual risks, which all agreed that it played a great role in. This exemplified the importance of continuing the education in high school to increase the success rate of delay of sex and reduced sexual risk behaviors. Society needs to help tear down barriers for affirmative sexual health to be able to continue this success rate nationwide. Since sexual education is still not permitted in many schools, multiple organizations and forums have begun to emerge giving people ample opportunities to get involved. If interested in becoming part of this national movement, there are many ways to. One way is to get involved in your local school district, especially if a parent. Parent involvement is key in changing the way a in a school or district functions. Most schools have PTA (Parent, Teachers, Association) meetings that gather often to as a type of forum where parents, teachers, administrators, and other concerned adults discuss ways to promote quality education, strive to expand the arts, encourage community involvement, and work for a healthy environment and safe neighborhoods Another way to get involved is to contact your state representation. Since education is different in each state, reaching out to your representatives is the most effective way to make sure your voice is heard. The governmental website, http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/, assists in finding legislators based on state and zip code. From emailing, calling, and even voting, citizens can push their agenda to support comprehensive sexual education programs. Many grass root organizations, like SIECUS, Butterfield 4 have petitions available calling for state representation to support laws that enforce schools to teach comprehensive sexual education. Sexual education teachings in schools has been a controversial issue within each state. Since this topic has been polarized greatly by politicians and the media, it causes a divide between people. If society changes its view on sex and allows comprehensive sexual education programs in schools, then young adults will feel more comfortable asking for help. Sex education standards help one partake in sexual activities in an empowered and responsible way. Without any form of sexual education, adolescents have a strong foundation. This strong foundation can be later used to guide them to building healthy relationships and more comfortable in their sexuality. The more comprehensive sexual education is taught the lower the teen pregnancy rate and rate of STDS being carelessly spread. Butterfield 5 Works Cited http://castor.house.gov Palm Parents / PTA, www.browardschools1.com/Page/5103. Accessed 3 Apr. 2017. Markham, Christine M., et al. and Psychosocial Effects of Two Middle School Sexual Health Education Programs at Tenth-Grade Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 54, no. 2, 2014, pp. doi: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2013.10.204. Schwarz, Amy. Current Public law and Policy Issues: Comprehensive Sex Education: Why Youth Deserve the Truth about  Hamline Journal of Public Law & Policy, vol. 29, 01 Oct. 2007, p. 115. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login? url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edslex&AN=edslex041223D 1&site=eds-live. - Comprehensive Sexuality SIECUS - Comprehensive Sexuality Education, www.siecus.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.ViewPage&pageId=514. Stanger-Hall, Kathrin F. and David W. Hall. Abstinence-Only Education and Teen Pregnancy Rates: Why We Need Comprehensive Sex Education in the  Plos ONE, vol. 6, no. 10, Oct. 2011, pp. 1-11. EBSCOhost, doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0024658. 2 scholarly