Jarvis 1 Jelani Jarvis Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 2 nd April 2017 ADHD is not a myth Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) may be defined as a condition whereby individuals have difficulties in maintaining attention and remaining still. A study indicates that due to the lack of certified tests to prove its reality, the condition may just be the result of bad parenting bad parenting the cause of ADHD among Although there is no real, valid, government approved test for the diagnosis of ADHD or any proof that is it due to a brain malfunction, many individuals have turned to drugs to cope with this condition while some even became school dropouts due to it A systematic review and analysis of long-term outcomes in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: effects of treatment and ). Therefore, due to this controversy, schools should have ADHD programs whereby they seek out students with symptoms and provide them with coping mechanisms to prevent the unpleasant long term effects of this condition. ADHD, on a thin line of being a legit mental disorder or not has undergone this controversy for several years. However, regardless of what has been said, there are still individuals out there experiencing its symptoms. ADHD affects individuals of all sorts from child up to adulthood, male and female. A more precise definition of this condition would be chronic, debilitating disorder which may impact upon many aspects of an life, including academic difficulties, social skills problems, and strained parent-child Jarvis 2 effect of ADHD on the life of an individual, their family, and community from preschool to adult Individuals, mostly children suffering from this condition may show signs of hyperactivity and impulsiveness whereby they are quick to respond to situations without waiting for necessary instructions. They are also very often unaware of the consequences of the actions they take. Another hallmark that contributes to the diagnosis of this condition is that of inattentiveness. A child that often comes home with complaints from teachers such as seem to and comments of that sort should be further examined for presence of other ADHD symptoms (Barkley 51-66). Putting a foot into the adult life of ADHD, studies has shown that about 60% of individuals who experience symptoms in childhood go on to have difficulties in adulthood. The effects of having this condition are now more serious being an adult. Faced with this condition, an individual (adult) is more likely to be unemployed, jumping from job to job trying to find the perfect one for them to cope with. The upside to this case is that these individuals, learning to handle this condition tend to become self-employed in the later days. They also experience more issues with interpersonal relationships both professional and personal, which, due to the lack of intimacy runs the risk of drug use effect of ADHD on the life of an individual, their family, and community from preschool to adult Social critics, professionals and mental health organizations often assert that ADHD is a myth. According to them, energetic and spontaneous children are quick to be labeled as having a mental disorder. They also state that this label may be used as an excuse for poor educational environments. Further, they outline that ADHD diagnosed children are actually normal, but are being given such a label due to parent and teacher intolerance. To add to this claim, the National Jarvis 3 Institute of Health (NIH) states that ADHD cannot be considered as a mental illness mainly because for an illness to be diagnosed, there must be some sort of certified test to prove the presence of the condition Institutes of However, if this myth was to be true there should not be any variation in cognitive, behavioral, or social significance between individuals who are and normal individuals. Also, it should be found that having ADHD is not associated with any risks in the development of social functioning and school performance difficulties. This on the contrary is not so, as there have been many research proving from cognitive to social differences between individuals with and without ADHD (Barkley 61-63). The fact that research has proven how ADHD has affected many persons all over the world and the problems these people face having dealt with this condition serves enough to prove the actuality and legitimacy of it as a mental disorder that should be treated accordingly. Due to the controversy surrounding this condition, many persons especially parents tend to ignore the symptoms of ADHD whenever they arise in their children. They do this because of the uncertainty in the air about the actuality of the condition as they may not want to spend money treating something that may not even be an actual disorder. As a result of this ADHD programs should be introduced in schools to provide support and training to cope with the condition. Having this program, the professors would be educated of the symptoms of the disorder which in turn would result in them paying keen attention to their students as to detect any case of it. In detection, the professor would contact the parents of the student and offer for them to partake in the program for the wellbeing of their child, educating them of the long-term effects if left untreated. This has a variety of benefits stringing away from coping with ADHD alone, as doing this would aid in the development of the children to become more responsible, attentive Jarvis 4 individuals which more often than not leads to a successful adulthood. This program may even be open to non-ADHD individuals as to teach them responsibility, calmness and attention. It is a fact that certified tests are not present to prove that ADHD is a disorder, but it is also a fact of the behavioral differences between individuals who are said to be diagnosed and who are not. Therefore, regardless of if there is a test or not, the fact that people are turning to drugs because of this should be enough for one to see it as a legitimate problem facing many people in society. Jarvis 5 Works Cited Barkley, Russell A. Attention-deficit Hyperactivity Disorder: A Handbook for Diagnosis and Treatment. , 2015. Print. Harpin, V; Mazzone; L; Raynaud, J. P; Kahle, J; Hodgkins, P. Outcomes of ADHD: A Systematic Review of Self-Esteem and Social Journal of Attention Disorders, vol .20, no. 4, 2013, pp. 295-305. Harpin, V. A. The effect of ADHD on the life of an individual, their family, and community from preschool to adult  Archives of Disease in (2005): I2-I7. Web. Is Bad Parenting the Cause of ADHD among  Parent. N.p., 18 June 2013. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Institutes of Health National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d Web, 12 Feb. 2017.