Oshman 1 Abbey Oshman Instructor Brenden Jackson ENC1101 March 5, 2017 Education in Developing Countries The way education is run in developing countries and how it affects the children has changed over the years. Before 2010 educators thought it would be more beneficial to enforce health studies and learn about the history of the country in schools, whereas after 2010 schools focused more on teaching entrepreneurship, financial literacy, and empowerment. Also, before 2010, schools focused more on how the family impacted the education of the child, while after 2010, it was more about how the school system itself affected the child. In all, the quality of schools in developing countries started to become a greater priority after 2010. This happened as a result of leaders gaining the understanding of how essential education is and how it is so important to improve the school systems in order for the country to have successful future. Over the years, schools have come up with the best ways to teach students and the subjects they feel are most impactful. Before 2010, the focus was mainly on implementing health knowledge and relating that to their growth later in life. According to author Albert Lee, studies and learning about the history of how education impacted people in developing countries really improves growth later in life (A. Lee et al. He also showed that teaching about health and how choices you make affect your body, decreased the amount of students getting involved with drugs. Teachers found that using health promotion in their lessons worked as a great preventative strategy, that would hopefully stay with the students after school Oshman 2 (A. Lee et al. 400). After 2010 though, schools tended not to focus as much on the health studies side, as they did on the economic and entrepreneurship side. Epstein says that he believes skills like financial literacy (including how to manage money), empowerment, and entrepreneurship will improve the students economic well-being and will contribute to the development of their communities in the long-run as well (Epstein and Yuthas, 8). Changing the focus to knowledge prepared students more for joining the labor force after school. This way they go straight into it as a child, but now they have the education to pass on to their family and co- workers as well. Over the years, researchers have found that more needs to be focused on in school rather than just health education. Adding the new subjects after 2010 has allowed for great educational development. Another idea that changed overtime about education in developing countries was the idea of who had the most influence on the students in school. Before 2010, the main influence on a education was looked at as their family. Fuchs believes that the parents education and how they use that to raise their children is a big influence on how students perform in school. A education can severely impact the life of the child, additional year of schooling was associated with an average 7% reduction in child (Fuchs, Pamuk, Lutz, 176). Fuchs believes that education of the women is so important in these developing countries because they are the primary influence in lives, and it will cause a chain reaction throughout the family and community (Fuchs, Pamuk, Lutz, 181). After 2010, the focus changed on who the primary influence was on children in school. Researchers began to look at the administrators and the school system as the biggest influences on students in developing countries. According to Dr. Tavares, an administration working hard makes students want to work harder as well, so they can one day understand that success (Tavares, 4). This causes the administration to have a direct Oshman 3 effect on the students, leaving them with a better outcome in school. In Dr. study, it showed that the improvement in the administration of schools in Paulo impacted the students so highly that their comprehension test score average went up nearly 40% (Tavares, 2). This showed that the way a school is run makes the biggest difference in the world. The students need to feel that their administration and teachers are involved and that is what will create the drive in the students. Although families do have a great impact on students in developing countries, researchers have showed overtime that the focus has shifted more towards the school itself and the administration having the biggest impact on the students. Furthermore, the quality of schools overall in developing countries has changed greatly over the years. Since 2010, education and improvements in the school systems have been looked at as a greater priority. Before 2010, it was often stated that education needed to change and that was why the workforce was so common for children at a young age. According to author Albert Lee, straight into child labor seems to be the most beneficial thing to do to most children in developing countries, that is why education needs to improve, so children will feel like it is beneficial to (A. Lee et al. 400). Fuchs also believes that if students continue to go to school and pass that on to their children as well, then one day the quality of education will have to develop and become more of a way of learning for students, because the educators will have more experience (Fuchs, Pamuk, Lutz, 183). These statements from researchers prove that education in the earlier years really just needed major advancement and that the school systems needed to focus more on improving the quality of education for the children. After 2010, researchers found that better school systems resulted from administration running schools like a business. According to Dr. Tavares, administration gets more money if their school does well, so this pushes the people running the school system, and also pushes the students (Tavares, 4). The Oshman 4 subjects studied in schools have also changed over time and have become more beneficial for students, this is what is pushing the students closer towards success (Epstein and Yuthas, 8). The quality of education in developing countries has definitely improved over time and has allowed for students to go farther than ones in past generations have. In conclusion, researchers have improved upon their information on education in developing countries over the years. The areas of research which have been transformed are the subjects that are taught in schools, the people who have the greatest influences on students, as well as the quality of education developing as whole over time. Over the years, researchers have found great ways to improve education in developing countries and through the articles read, it is easy to see just how much education has improved since 2010.