Nicolas Saladino Brenden Jackson Composition 1 3/28/17 New Technology in the Field of Prosthetics: Project 2 Throughout the past 17 years, the focus on technology has grown overall. Smartphones, smart watches, smart TVs, smart homes, etc. Everything is getting more and more technologically advanced, and the medical field is falling behind. Prosthetics are starting to show hope that advancements may start coming sooner and sooner for medical equipment overall. Two distinct groups of innovators have emerged and are both advancing the field of prosthetics. One group is the more engineering focused and they are trying to use physical components to improve the field, while the other is more focused on implementing software into the field to improve production and versaltility. Prosthetics are easier to modernize and advance because they are components and pieces that are made of various materials and are, in some cases, easy to modify. Due to most prosthetics being visible to the eye or accessible without surgery, doctors and engineers and easily modify them in a checkup or visit. The problem with advancements in the medical field is that many doctors are not use to modern technology, and changing a working system is hard to do. If doctors are used to performing surgery by hand, it is hard to train them to use robots and implement robotic surgery all across the world. My hope is that the changes in the field of prosthetics are showing insight into what the medical field may experience very soon. First, the engineering focused group argues that advanced materials and production methods will really move the field of prosthetics forward. It was very interesting to learn about rapid manufacturing from Dr. Wagner and seeing how this seemingly century old technology was finally starting to be being implemented to prosthetics in 2008 (Wagner). Prior to 2008 an individual worker would assemble an entire prosthetic and then send it off to be used (Wagner). 2008 finally started the implementation of rapid manufacturing and got the field of prosthetics moving forward faster, so it would seem. It took until 2015 for the production of prosthetics to see another overhaul. This time, it involved using Dr. Mangera and her team using light metals in the production of prosthetics to decrease the cost as well as the weight of the objects (Mangera). These light metals allowed prosthetics to become more readily available in lower developed countries, and increased the amount of people that can use these prosthetics (Mangera). Seven years was a long period to implement new technology, but it was better than a century for rapid manufacturing. The software group has a different approach and believes programming will help the field more than engineering. In 2001, a technology that is used to make practically everything we use today and something that we take for granted was seeing its introduction to prosthetics. Dr. Smith showed how CAD/CAM was this technology and really revolutionized the field of prosthetics. CAD/CAM or Computer aided design/modeling is a software that allows engineers to build a digital model of an object that can then be used to program a machine to build it (Smith). This technology was fairly new at the time and broke the pattern for the medical field taking forever to adapt new technology (Smith). CAD/CAM helped builders quickly produce individual part to then assemble the prosthetic. This was one of the first steps towards ramping up prosthetic production. In 2013, a new software was being tested and making its debut. Researchers were thoroughly testing software for cognitive prosthetics which is still in development today. Dr. Jamieson has started groundbreaking work on cognitive prosthetics that are mainly designed to aid people with memory impairments and the field plans on cementing this aspect before expanding into other cognitive functions (Jamieson). Software has been a very helpful tool in a field that is predominantly mechanical and continues to advance today. The technology changes that researchers have focused on over time show progress in advancements occurring faster and faster. Interestingly enough, researchers seem to be divided into two distinct groups; Those focusing on software advancements, and those focusing on production and versatility advancements. Researchers have shown that software used in CAD/CAM in 2001, and the software being used in cognitive prosthetics, 2013, are making tremendous leaps forward for the field of prosthetics (Smith and Jamieson). Other researchers have shown how rapid manufacturing, implemented in 2008, and light metals developed in 2015, that are more abundant than previously used materials, can greatly shift how the field of prosthetics effects the world and bring the technology of prosthetics to more people. Although the researchers viewpoints vary a common goal can be seen, advancement and adaptation. The technology used in the field of prosthetics is advancing slowly but surely. The two groups of innovators are actually helping each other advance by adopting the software or components that the other group comes up with. This helps both groups advance faster than ever before. New additions in software such as CAD/CAM, more available processors, and even smaller microprocessors are greatly shifting the field of prosthetics. Newer production methods such as rapid manufacturing and light metals are revolutionizing prosthetics and shifting the direction of the field as well. The benefit is that both of these shifts, engineering and software based, are moving forward and are helping each other in the process. Researcher from both divisions discuss how their studies were benefited from studies completed in the other division. The researchers in the field of prosthetics are fortunate to be helping each other move forward and it benefits the entire realm of prosthetics as well. If research continues and all of the trends stay true, prosthetics will be modernized at an increasing rate, we can only hope that the medical field overall jumps on this trend as well. Works Cited Jamieson, Matthew, et al. The Efficacy Of Cognitive Prosthetic Technology For People With Memory Impairments: A Systematic Review And  Neuropsychological Rehabilitation, vol. 24, no. 3/4, 29 April, 2013, pp. 419-444. Academic Search Premier, doi:10.1080/09602011.2013.825632 Mangera, Taahirah, et al. Light Metals For The Functional Requirements Of Developing World Lower Extremity Paediatric Prosthetics: A Review Of Current Material & Technology  Materials Science Forum , vol. 828-829, 11 May 2015, pp. 499-505. Applied Science & Technology Source, doi: 10.4028/www.scientific.net/MSF.828-829.499 Smith, Douglas G., and Ernest M. Burgess. The Use Of CAD/CAM Technology In Prosthetics And Orthotics- Current Clinical Models And A View To The  Journal Of Rehabilitation Research & Development, vol. 38 no. 3, 1 May 2001, pp. 327-334. Academic Search Premier. Wagner, H., et al. The Effects Of New Technology Adoption On Employee Skills In The Prosthetics  International Journal Of Production Research, vol. 46, no. 22, 15 Nov. 2008, pp. 6461-6478. Business Source Premier, doi: 10.1080/00207540701432623.