Friese 1 Meghan Friese Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 Composition 1 2/27/2017 The Great Barrier Reef The Great Barrier Reef has been in constant decline for as long as researchers have studied it. Its extensive ecosystem and ability to enable life has drawn many diverse sea creatures to the coral reef. The main ability the reef gives to its surrounding creatures is life. The reef is off the coast of northeastern Australia and covers nearly 132,974 square miles. The expansive reef is home to over 600 various types of soft and hard coral (Bowen). The astonishing area covered by the reef makes it a candidate for the largest living structure on Earth. The impressiveness of this habitat, enabler of life, and living chain of coral is what drew me to research more about it. While learning about the extensive history of the reef I began to question its origins as well as its effects it has on our world. The change in studies involving the reef prior to the and post vary. Before 2010, scientist believed that human contact destroyed the reef, after 2010 scientist discovered that human contact with the reef aids in defense systems. Before 2010, researchers believed that the reef was being directly destroyed by human contact with the reef, after 2010 researchers discovered that pollution is a large cause of destruction to the reef. Before 2010, the government of Australia believed that efforts implemented into saving the reef were pointless and aggravating to society, After 2010 government realized that efforts to save the reef helps create jobs. The movement that most consider when preserving the reef is removing all human aid. According to the article Ecosystem health of the Great Barrier Reef: Time for effective Friese 2 management action based on evidence, before 2010, researchers believed that any human interaction with the reef would greatly damage it. Scott Wooldridge is considered an expert in oceanography. He has been the author of numerous books about the ecological effects climate change has on the Ocean, specifically living organisms. The startling decline of the reef led researchers to put the idea into head that diving the reef or even studying it will be its likely cause of death. Studies after 2010 contradict the previous idea stating that data found was contradictory in the sense that the coral built up a resilience in the area that was touched by While human contact does destroy the reef (if carelessly applied), it also reinforces the reefs defense system. The human interaction with the reef could be viewed as both a negative and positive effect. Another idea that has changed over time pertaining to the Great Barrier Reef deals with water purity. Before 2010, numerous scientist believed that reef was being destroyed directly by humans(Bowen). However, after studying our progressively heating Earth, scientist realized that water problems could also be a factor. The main problem associated with the bleaching of the reef is water temperature. Pollution has caused the water in the reefs area to become too warm for the coral to survive(Wooldridge). This revelation has led to the government of Australia taking action. Hopeful processes being put into place to save the reef include minimizing waste as well as the reduction of pesticides in the surrounding area. The government of Australia has never been able to of the reef due to the implications it would have on society. Before 2010 the government was held back by citizens upset on the effects aid to the reef would cause them(Pearson). Richard G. Pearson has written numerous articles focusing on climate change and extinction. His works include biodiversity, conservation, ecology, zoology, and climate change. Jon Brodie has been involved in many Friese 3 research projects involving water and the ecosystems both affected by the water and affecting the water. While the intentions are good, they were struggling in implementing plans. Environmental problems in relation to the government typically takes a backseat to other forms of politics. After 2010 the government began to act upon their ideas. Many implications have been added to governmental policy in order to lessen the deterioration of the reef. The Long Term Sustainability plan is the main focus for the Australian government right now. This plan involves many smaller components. To lessen the impact humans have on the reef, the government in focusing on how they can help. Water quality, greenhouse gasses, and human disturbance are all areas that are being focused on(Allen). There have been many changes in beliefs and plans for the Great Barrier Reef. Each of them involve the impending declination of the reef. Over time, researchers have begun to focus on the Instead of focusing on human interaction with the reef, scientist are now focusing on environmental problems as the causation of bleaching. They are now implementing plans involving chemicals and waste instead of plans banning humans from the reef. Hopefully the newfound knowledge and ideology on how to save the reef with be beneficial in years to come. Friese 4 Brodie, Jon, and Richard G. Pearson. Ecosystem Health Of The Great Barrier Reef: Time For Effective Management Dale, Allan P., et al. Research Article: Risk Analysis Of The Governance System Affecting Outcomes In The Great Barrier  Journal Of Environmental Management 183.Part 3 (2016): 712-721. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. James, and Margarita Bowen. The Great Barrier Reef. [Electronic : History, Science, Heritage. n.p.:Cambridge, UK ; New York : Cambridge University Press, 2002., 2002. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Maynard, Jeffrey A., et al. Great Barrier Reef No-Take Areas Include A Range Of Disturbance  Conservation Letters 9.3 (2016): 191-199. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Natalie Stoeckl a,n , Marina Farr a , Silva Larson a , Vanessa M. Adams b,c , Ida Kubiszewski d, Friese 5 Michelle Esparon a Robert Costanza d. Ecosystem Services. Vol. 10. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Science DIrect. Web . Scott A. Wooldridge. Marine Pollution Bulletin. Vol. 58. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Science DIrect. Web.