Nick Cerelli Professor Jackson English Comp 1 2/30/17 Animal Captivity Animal rights is a heavily debated topic and the importance of the issue depends on what humans feel is right for the animals and for themselves. There are various reasons for animal captivity, some of the biggest being behavior testing and maintenance of endangered species. Even though there are a good amount of advantages that can come from these practices, there is a fairly good amount of disadvantages, like neglecting captive animals and when released, these animals having survival issues. Animals over time have maintained a level of stress and other complications when captivated. Over time, there have been many studies on animals and if keeping them captive is beneficial when trying to increase population or otherwise help the animals. Studies over time have consistently shown that even though humans believe they are helping animals by placing them in captivity, they are actually affecting them in a way that causes long-term survival problems. Over the years, the conversation about complications with captive animals has not changed even though different species experience different survival problems. For an example, researchers have tried to help increase the population of cheetahs by conducting many studies to figure out why it is so difficult to enhance their population. According to a 2004 study conducted by Terio, Marker, and Munson, cheetahs in captivity actually show a weaker ability to reproduce. Even though work has been done to help the cheetah population growth, it actually becomes a counterproductive process because of the hindrance to reproduction. Along side that, there have been new diseases that are causing morbidity not known to free-ranging cheetahs as a result of being captivated. Cheetahs are animals that are known to use a large region of land in their daily lives to hunt. The wild habits and running long distances to hunt are large part of their lives. Because of this, keeping them captive can hinder their wellbeing and health. Additionally, still today similar problems exist in captivity for many species. Studies done in 2016 by Ferreira, Renata G., and Michael Mendl on 123 newly captive Capuchin monkeys, in order to get a gauge on how the captivity affects their level of stress, showed people that monkeys are similar to humans in some ways. For an example, monkeys have very adventurous personalities and get very miserable and bored in an enclosure because their range of land they are given in captivity is minimal. They start with being less adventurous and attitude changes occur (Ferreira, Renata G., and Michael Mendl, 2016). These attitude changes hinder the survival tactics; because of this problem, these animals cannot be released back into the wild. Although the complications are different between the two species, these problems still come from the same source: captivity. One of the most unnoticed problems on captivating animals is the development of the s need to survive in the wild. For an example, the Hawaiian crow originated with five major calls to help them communicate with other crows: (1) alarm (2) territorial broadcast (3) aggression (4) submission (5) courtship (Tanimoto, 2017). However, since the captive crows have never needed these calls in a captive area due to culture change, the crow never developed three of these calls. These calls are very important to the crows for survival in the wild. It shows how captive breeding programs can prevent species from going extinct, but it also affects their behavior to the point where they struggle to adapt to different surroundings when released. Because of this, the crows in captivity will never survive when released back into the wild. Since the crow is already extinct in the wild, it makes it practically impossible to get these crows back into the wild successfully. (Jones, Stephanie K. et al., 2017). This process as a result is counterproductive, due to not being able to release the Hawaiian Crow back into to the wild. This situation reinforces the problem of keeping animals captive that are endangered. Along with this, lifespan is also a very noticeable issue when discussing captive animals; many animals have been dying at unusually young ages that are seemingly becoming more noticeable and becoming more of a bigger problem. After recording life expectancy and using different metrics to judge the overall morale of both captive and free-ranging killer whales, the original research team that targeted SeaWorld began discovering some consequences to captivity, especially when done dangerously (Callaway, 2016). It has been much publicized and much of the public has come to realize that not only are captive killer whales shorter, unhealthier lives, but the attitude and morale of the animal is severely (Callaway, 2016). This case is also similar to story, a killer whale captivated between 1979 and 2000. During these years, he developed social complications with other wild whales, and experienced problems diving depth greater than 4 meters (Similar to a captive tank) (Simon, M et al., 2009). Not only was his life span cut short like the Sea World killer whales, but the problems he developed in captivity affected him in the wild. With past history and studies done by professional researchers, captivity stress and personality changes have been a consistent problem when captivating animals. This consistency has proven that the scholarly conversation about the negative effects about animal captivity has not changed over time. When people get to the bottom of beneficial reasoning, there is no perfect way of captivating an animal. Even though humans continue to captivate animals and have done so for a long time, it seems to keep resulting in negative effects for the animal. While intent to help the animals in different ways, humans always some how inflict the animals with problems that may just harm them for life. Works Cited Callaway, Ewen. Scientists Clash over Lifespan of Captive Killer  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, 22 March, 2016. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Ferreira, Renata G., and Michael Mendl. Coping Strategies in Captive Capuchin Monkeys (Sapajus  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 176 (2016): 120-27. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Simon, M., et al. From Captivity to the Wild and Back: An Attempt to Release Keiko the Killer  Marine Mammal Science, no. 3, 2009, p. 693. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direc t=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.203571022&site=eds-live. Tanimoto, Ann M., et al. Changes In Vocal Repertoire Of The Hawaiian Crow, Corvus Hawaiiensis, From Past Wild To Current Captive  Animal Behaviour 123.(2017): 427-432. PsycINFO. Web. 16 Feb. 2017 Terio, Karen A., Laurie Marker, and Linda Munson. Chronic Stress in Captive  Cheetah Conservation Fund. N.p., (2004) Web. 22 Feb. 2017.