Student 1 Student Richard Gaspar ENC 1101 26 March. 2017 GMOs: Helpful or Harmful? Unfortunately, most people in society do not know where their food is coming from. Dr. Terry Shintani from the Hawaii Health foundation stated, GMO- genetically modified organism- is the result of a laboratory process where genes are taken from one species and inserted into another in an attempt to obtain a desired trait or characteristic. GMOs are also known as genetically engineered-, bio-engineered-, biotech crops, or transgenic (Shintani, Par. 2). The debate about whether or not GMOs are in fact harmless has been examined for a long time. The Non-GMO Project dedicated their entire organization to fighting GMOs. This organizations mission is to, and protect the Non-GMO food supply, while educating the public about the harmful effects of (The Non-GMO Project, par 1). Another key stakeholder is Bio fortified, which is in fact pro GMO unlike the first stakeholder. Their mission is to, public discussion of biotechnology and other issues in food and agriculture through science-based resources and (Bio fortified par. 2). Whether or not GMOs are harmful is the main concern for both The Non-GMO Project and Bio fortified. Although they each have their own opinions about GMOs, educating their consumers is a concern they both share. Since both, The Non GMO Project and Bio fortified depend on consumers, labeling GMOs would be helpful to each stakeholder because it will allow people to make an informed choice on what they want to purchase. On one side, The Non- GMO Project was founded in 2007 by two grocery store owners. Located in Berkeley California, The Natural Grocery Company rallied campaigns asking Student 2 manufactures if their products contained GMOs. The Big Carrot Natural Food Market also took part in this event and later developed a policy that prevented to be purchased by their company. Both grocery stores collaborated together and created the Non-GMO Project (The Non-GMO Project, par. 1). Sometime later, the project expanded and became open to all stakeholder groups. The organization states, Non-GMO Project remains the market leader for GMO avoidance and one of the fastest growing labels in the retail sector. We offer North most trusted third-party verification for non-GMO food and (The Non- GMO Project, par. 2). This organization also markets their brand and one can find their label in almost any supermarket. According to Megan Norris, a candidate from Harvard University, independently reported toxic effects caused by One example is an anti-GMO advocacy group called the Institute for Responsible Technology (IRT), which reported that rats fed a diet containing a GMO potato had virtually every organ system adversely affected after just ten days of feeding Since the process of making is toxic, they claimed all were high risk for toxicity. If all products are labeled the Non-GMO Project would lose their label in stores. However, the organization is sure to gain more money as well as keep their mission. The Non-GMO project should support legislation demanding labeling in stores because if they truly believe GMOs are dangerous they would want to have products labeled so consumers can know what they are really eating. Alternatively, Bio fortified is located in Wisconsin and is a major producer of breeding crops using technology. They are pro- GMO. This mission is to, expert scientific analyses to support the public good and the scientific community (Bio fortified, par. 4). This organization has a team of farmers and students working with them to help prove that GMOs are not harmful. Experts in science and science communication of biotechnology Student 3 serve on our Board of Directors and help develop resources for Bio fortified (Bio fortified. par, 6). This organization believes that GMOs are not harmful and that they benefit society. Some people specifically shop for Non-GMO products. When people see the GMO label on items they immediately put it back. This is because there is a stigma surrounding GMOs. So one might think that having labels may be detrimental for the Bio fortified group. However, this may not be the case because Bio fortified genuinely believes that are not harmful. The main problem is that people are not educated on the topic. They want to get it out of the mind that GMOs are bad or harmful. According to Emily Forman, every food item we eat is a Meaning, it has been genetically modified to be bigger, juicier, heavier, more drought resistant, etc. From the beef we eat to the corn we eat, almost all food items have been from its natural state (66). If GMOs were to be labeled it would benefit the Bio fortified group because they would still be earning profit due to the high amount of people who rely on GMO products. The organization would also keep their mission intact like The Non-GMO Project. One element the Non-GMO Project and Bio fortified have in common is that they both want to educate the public on GMOs. Even though they both have different views on this topic they both believe that people should have a choice on whether they want to consume it or not. That is why passing a law that requires food products to labeled if they use GMOs would benefit both stakeholders. Both organizations believe are standing there ground for what they believe in. the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has rejected labeling of GMO foods. By contrast, labeling is required in countries including the twenty-seven member nations of the European Union, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Korea, Brazil and China. (U.S Food and Drug Administration). America needs to consider joining this list soon because consumers should have the right to know what they eat. Consumers need truthful marketplaces in order to make Student 4 informed decisions. Stakeholders like the Non-GMO Project and Bio fortified should invest time into making legislation provide consumers with product labeling. Overall, The Non-GMO Project and Bio fortified have two completely different opinions on GMOs. One believes that GMOs are in fact dangerous and should be kept off of shelves in the supermarket while the other believes there is no scientific evidence that proves GMOs are harmful and they actually benefit society. However, despite their differences, both stakeholders agree that educating the public is important so everyone can make their own informed decision on the consumption of GMOs. Consumers have the right to know what is in the products they are purchasing. It would benefit both The Non-Gmo Project and Bio Fortified if GMOs were labeled. Not allowing the public to know what is in their food would be an injustice for both companies and would definitely go against their main beliefs. If this problem is successfully addressed both companies can maintain their identities and keep their missions. (WC: 1202) Student 5 Works cited Biofortified. Frank N. Food. 2015 https://www.biofortified.org/ 19. Feb. 2017 Forman, Emily. Genetically Modified Foods: Is It as Bad as It  Kentucky English Bulletin, vol. 66, no. 1, Fall 2016. Megan, Norris. toxicity: fears and scientific Harvard. August 2015. The Non-GMO Project. The Non-GMO Project, 2007, https://www.nongmoproject.org/ Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. U.S. Food and Drug Administration, FDA Consumer Magazine, Genetic Engineering: The Future of Foods, 2003. March 2017 Shintani, Terry. We have the Right to Know What is in Our . Down to Earth Organic June 2016 https://www.downtoearth.org/label-gmos/gmo-foods-should-be-labeled