Student 1 Student Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 25 March 2017 Treating Depression Through Modern Medicine and Friendships Between 2009 and 2012 over seven percent of all Americans over the age of 12 were suffering from mild to modern depression. (Pratt, Laura A). Often it can be extremely confusing to try and decide what the best approach to treating depression is to you in specific. There is widespread disagreement as to whether people suffering from depression should use a non- controversial medical approach such as group therapy, or something non-traditional such as magnetic therapy (Guadiano, Brandon A.). One of the stakeholders in this controversy is the Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance of Greater Houston (DBSA). The DBSA believes that one of the most successful ways to treat depression is by providing free support groups to those affected in any way by depression DBSA Greater A viewpoint that is less traditional to approach is that of NeuroStar.. NeuroStar is a company that provides magnetic stimulation of the brain to those suffering from depression Does NeuroStar TMS Therapy Despite the difference in these two opinions on how best to treat depression both side can agree that depression is a serious disease that needs to be treated in one way or the other. Because both of these stakeholders want to treat depression in the most effective way possible, a plausible compromise is that these stakeholders work together by requiring TMS patients to participate in group therapy, and having the option of TMS open to those who are in support groups. Keeping this common focus in mind, these companies can collaborate to create a broader and more successful treatment. Student 2 One on side of the issue is the DBSA of Greater Houston. The DBSA is a non-profit organization that has worked tirelessly since 1979 to ensure that not only those suffering from depression but caregivers as well have access to free and confidential support groups in the area DBSA Greater There is research that suggests that support groups have a positive effect on caregivers of people with mental illnesses despite any other factors such as race and social status, which an increase in caregiver support is better for the patient in the long run (Heller, Tamar, et al.). More recently within the organization there has been a tremendous effort to educate the public on these diseases and to end the stigma surrounding them. According to the American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry, less people seek treatment for depression due to the stigma surrounding mental illness (Conner, Kyaien). The DBSA works to educate the public the more people understand what depression is and how to not only help and recognize it but also to end the stigma associated with it. Having a society that is more accepting and understanding of those with a mental illness could be the world of difference. The website also has several testimonials stating that through the services provided, such as the free support groups, have been extremely successful in helping those that use them learn to live with their disease. The DBSA provides participants with coping mechanisms as well as someone to talk to as a way to adequately treat their depression. The DBSA treats depression through group settings where stories are shared that are relatable to the members, as well as tips and advice to living with a mental illness. By providing free support groups and educating the public the DBSA hopes to make it easier for those suffering from depression to go about their daily lives. Alternatively, NeuroStar suggests that a highly successful method of treatment for depression is Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS). This treatment can be performed in thirty-seven minutes, has little pain involved, and is done in your office Does Student 3 NeuroStar TMS Therapy website describes other treatments such as antidepressants and side effects of those medications as a more difficult course of treatment. Although there is not much research to back up this new treatment for depression it was approved in 2008 by the FDA (Taylor, Stephan F.) and has been increasingly used since. NeuroStar is also described as an alternative drug therapy, which markets to those who do not wish to put things such as medicine into their body. Although it is being researched there are several testimonials on this therapy such as those on website. Both NeuroStar and the DBSA have one common goal in mind, and that is to help those suffering from depression improve their lives. These two organizations provide treatments for depression that are unique but function to serve the same overall purpose. The DBSA works to end the stigma surrounding mental illnesses as well as providing treatment in the form of free support groups. NeuroStar similarly works to treat depression through the use of magnetic stimulation to the section of the brain affected by depression. Although these two stakeholders are on opposite sides of the spectrum when it comes to how to treat depression, with collaboration they can create a stronger and more prosperous treatment. To create a treatment where every need is addressed and met by those suffering from depression is a mutual goal held by both stakeholders. If both stakeholders were willing to implement new procedures and protocol there would be the opportunity to create a more well- rounded treatment. Frequently depression can lead to more symptoms if not addressed swiftly and properly. Collectively the main goals are to prevent suicide by treating depression. To accomplish this new treatment both main goal would have to admit that their treatment is not the only way to treat depression and be open to trying new things. Surprisingly there is studies that have found that this type of magnetic stimulation therapy can Student 4 lead to decreased thoughts on suicide (Sun, Yinming). It is also known that being open to talking about your disorder and emotions can lead to a decrease in suicidal thoughts. NeuroStar is a for profit company whereas the DBSA is not so NeuroStar would also need to be willing to put the needs of their patients ahead of profit. Both of these stakeholders provide treatments that are successful on their own but not one hundred percent effective, by combining services provided they can offer a more comprehensive service that would ultimately lead to more lives saved. There would need to be efforts made by both sides for a compromise to ever truly work. If the DBSA were willing to put a section on their website advertising other non-drug treatments such as TMS treatment, more people participating in these support groups would have access to this new and progressive treatment. Similarly NeuroStar would need to recommend and possibly even require that the patients receiving their treatments seek out the assistance of a support group such as the National Depression and Bipolar Disorder Support Alliance. NeuroStar has a link on their website to a group called The Depression Hope Center that is a safe online center where people can share their stories of depression and even provides a link to the DBSA website (The Depression Hope Center). Requiring patients to attend a support group instead of just providing them with the resources will help to make sure that they do not become dependent solely on the magnetic therapy. These support groups will also give patients a chance to work through their emotions as well as receive empathy and coping mechanisms from those walking the same path in life. This compromise is easily achievable by both stakeholders. All it would require from the DBSA is a change in their website as well as pamphlets from NeuroStar and knowledge by support group leaders on the services offered by the company. It would only require that NeuroStar set up a referral program so that patients can easily find a free support group provided by the DBSA. Student 5 Although the DBSA and NeuroStar have significantly different viewpoints on the best approach to treating depression the one thing that they can both agree on is that it should treated so that suicide and other effects of the disease can be prevented. Through the support and effort of both stakeholders a compromise can be achieved to create a co-dependent system between the DBSA and NeuroStar by requiring patients to participate in a support group and by providing information and resources regarding TMS to support group participants. With this compromise and common goal in mind these two stakeholders can better serve those suffering from depresson and improve their quality of life, and save lives. (WC: 1505) Student 6 DBSA Greater About DBSA Greater Houston /. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017 Conner, Kyaien O., et al. Mental Health Treatment Seeking among Older Adults with Depression: The Impact of Stigma and  American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry, vol. 18, no. 6, 01 June 2010, pp. 531-543. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=gnh&AN=EP51228600&site=eds-live. DBSA Greater About DBSA Greater Houston /. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Feb. 2017 Gaudiano, Brandon A. and Gary Epstein-Lubow. Controversies about Antidepressants and the Promotion of Evidence-Based Treatment Alternatives for  Scientific Review of Mental Health Practice, vol. 5, no. 1, Spring/Summer2007, pp. 33-52. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ap h&AN=27802645&site=eds-live. Heller, Tamar, et al. Predictors of Support Group Participation among Families of Persons with Mental  Family Relations, no. 4, 1997,p. 437. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct= true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.20314773&site=eds-live. Student 7 How Does NeuroStar TMS  NeuroStar. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. https://neurostar.com/neurostar-tms-depression-treatment/how-neurostar-tms-works/ Pratt, Laura A. and Debra J. Brody. Depression in the U.S. Household Population, 2009-2012 / Laura A. Pratt and Debra J. Brody. 2014. NCHS data brief: no. 172. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct= true&db=edsgpr&AN=gpr000942832&site=eds-live. Sun, Yinming, et al. Indicators for Remission of Suicidal Ideation Following Magnetic Seizure Therapy in Patients with Treatment-Resistant  JAMA Psychiatry, no. 4, 2016,337.EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.as px?direct= true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.452965039&site=eds-live Taylor, Stephan F., et al. A Naturalistic, Multi-Site Study of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation Therapy for  Journal of Affective Disorders, vol. 208, 15 Jan. 2017, pp. 284-290. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jad.2016.08.049.