Nguyen 1 Cindy Nguyen Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Are a thing of the past or possibly the food of the future? Over the past few decades there have been predictions for the future of millennials and upcoming generations, a large population of the U.S. and many other countries have slowly become dependent of genetically modified organisms and because of the rapid growth and globalization of the present day world, some scientists believe that will eventually become our main source of (Plenke). However, there is the opposition that have a negative effect on the human body, as well as a negative impact on the (Urban). These people also believe that organic may be the best way to live a long (Laufer). Although these stakeholders have conflicting and incompatible prospectives, they do maintain a common goal, which is to build healthy, and sustainable produce among the community, especially for the future generations. With this common goal there is room for compromise, instead of each stakeholder trying to eliminate each other, they should come together and inform the public about all the benefits and possible side effects of either eating and using genetically modified organisms, or organic organisms. Supporting one another will in the end make it possible for scientists and farmers produce and organic produce without any conflict of competition. Evidently as time goes on, science is progressively getting more advanced than ever, the discovery of genetically modified organisms was a scientific phenomenon. The Nguyen 2 first stakeholder believes that are the future of our food (Plenke). are created by taking a plant or animal and changing its genes in which they could otherwise not get from nature (Plenke), with this there is often skepticism on whether if this ethical because it may be seen as or however is has been proven that there is no harm to any organism, rather these scientists are getting small samples and altering the genes so that they may produce different characteristics (Krimsky). Through this skepticism there often comes many misconceptions, people may view these GMO researchers as people who want to create weird, hybrid of different sorts of organism, which is not the often the case. To prove the effectiveness of there have been many different experiments and intensive research in whether actually have a long-term or short-term effect on the organism that it is consuming the GMO. The research of feeding genetically modified feed, given to livestock was observed, and GMO researchers came to a conclusion that it had no different effects than it would have if the livestock were given regular feed (Eenennaam). The importance of in society today and especially for the future because it is one of the most efficient ways that scientists and farmers are able to produce goods to meet the needs of a rapidly growing society (Krimsky, Sheldon and Gruber). This is important because if produce is not efficiently being made for the population, starvation and famine will inherently increase. On the other hand there is prospective that condemns the production and usage of they not only disagree with the use of they support the use of only organically grown organisms. The second stakeholder believes that are organisms that are as well as they are often times not labeled for the public to know whether a product has been genetically modified (Urban). It is believed hat the best Nguyen 3 products for your body are those that have been organically grown, these products have not been interfered with things such as pesticides, or injected any genes (Urban). The effectiveness of this stakeholder can be seen by using ethos, grabbing the attention convincing them that may be unethical as a way to persuade them to only use organic. They inform the public that a majority of the time the public does not know 100% of the DNA that the are made up of, with this they emphasize on the fact that there may lie health risks, and the fact that are not even labeled on products (Laufer) this should be a concern, because it seems like the scientists are trying to hide whether a product has been genetically modified. is possible that will take over an organic type of produce that we currently (Lantz 118). Meanwhile, The growing competition between organic produce, and genetically modified organisms is inevitable, especially with the fact that will always be cheaper than organic items because they are easier, and cheaper to produce which allows them to be sold for a cheaper price than organic produce (Boccia, Flavio and Ganji). The issue that cheaper prices for hold is that eventually organic produce will not be compete with the lower prices of GMOs, therefore organic produce will no longer be in use because not enough people will buy organic produce because of its high prices, then eventually the organic farmers will no longer be able to produce them and will be the only source of produce we have left. So far, there has not yet been a compromise, and the reason behind that is because while each side is trying to put each other down, they never though to come together as one, and come up with any kind of compromise. Most Nguyen 4 past solutions have often just suggested that people keep to themselves and not tell other people how they should be eating, which in the end never solved anything. Nonetheless, a compromise between these two stakeholders is to take into consideration any and all concerns that each stakeholder may have and establishing a common goal. With the first stakeholder there seems to be no concerns with because they support the use of because of the efficiency that is has for the growing population. However, one of the biggest concerns that the second stakeholder has noted is that these are not being labeled, as well as what they are made of us the compromise to this is for the GMO researchers to first off labeling which produce has been genetically modified, whether it be with a sign or sticker on the actual product. The next issue is the of these and the solution of this is to publically publish any and all information of how these are created, this will allow consumers to know what is being done to their produce, and whether they accept it or not is up to them. Another compromise is that should maintain is a certain list of regulations (Bodiguel 264) so that what they are creating is ethical and not harmful to the consumer. As for the common goal, although the two stakeholders may not have seen it at first, they both want the best for the population, maintaining a sustainable, yet healthy source of produce, that in the long run will try to achieve a healthy, prosperous society. In conclusion, although these two stakeholders had two evident opposing sides, they had a clear common goal within their differences. This common goal was to maintain the overall health and sustainability of the produce in world, with this common goal proposes many opportunities for these stakeholders to collaborate as well Nguyen 5 as come to a solution with each other. All in all with the proposed compromise, of collaborating with each other, expressing concerns and fixing them these two stakeholders can positively weigh out the negative feelings that they once had, and support each other in maintaining, and sustaining a prosperous population. Communication is key when there are two opposing sides, and getting them to work together may not seem like it is possible because of polar opposite ideas, however sharing the common ground and answering questions that one another has clears this up and provides a adequate solution to all problems that they once had. (W.C 1,297) Nguyen 6 Works Cited Plenke, Max. Young People Should Support  Mic. Mic Network Inc., 25 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Krimsky, Sheldon and Jeremy Gruber. The GMO Deception : What You Need to Know about the Food, Corporations, and Government Agencies Putting Our Families and Our Environment at Risk. New York, NY : Skyhorse Publishing, 2014. Food Fight: Gmos and the Future of the American  Publishers Weekly, no. 43, 2016, p. 69. Eenennaam, and Weigel Animal enomics: Results from the Vol. 2, p. 120. 3 Dec. 2013. Urban, Shilo. 8 Reasons GMOs Are Bad for  Organic Authority. N.p., 13 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Laufer, Peter. Organic : A Quest to Discover the Truth behind Food Labeling. Guilford, Connecticut : Lyons Press, 2014. Boccia, Flavio and Vijay Ganji. Consumer Perspectives of GMO. Bradford, West Yorkshire : Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2016., 2016. Lantz, Catherine. Shetterly, Caitlin. Modified: Gmos and the Threat to Our Food, Our Land, Our  Library Journal, 13 Nov., 2016, p. 118. Nguyen 7 Bodiguel, Luc. GMO, Conventional and Organic Crops: From Coexistence to Local  Agriculture and Agricultural Science Procedia, vol. 8, no. Florence Sustainability of Well-Being International . 2015: Food for Sustainability and not just food, FlorenceSWIF2015, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 264