Kostitsyn 1 David Kostitsyn Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102.712S17 26 March 2017 Goodwill-Suncoast and SMART: Searching for the right path toward solving the issue of overconsumption It is no secret that absolute majority of consumers have wondered where the litter, rubbish and waste go after being dumped. Along with urban sprawl and overconsumption, littering vast territories with municipal waste and turning wildlife areas into dumpsites has long been seen as a burning issue of the world scale. In the developed countries, the disposal of used clothing keeps giving more causes for alarm than before. This can easily be proven through statistical figures; thus, in accordance with fashionunited.com source, the overall global apparel market is valued at 3 trillion dollars, 3,000 billion, and accounts for 2 percent of the GDP, with over 80 billion pieces of clothing and footwear produced annually worldwide. Fashion industry has canons that require regular alterations in the outfit. Consequently, old and worn-out items become non-demanded; even so, they keep taking up space and need to be discarded. There are currently two angles on the optimal way to cope with used textiles, since they can be either re-used or recycled. Despite the fact that the two approaches are different, the common grounds can be clearly traced, as they both deal with the question of how used material goods can be benefited from. When it comes to recycling used textiles, SMART organization states its objective as applying the technological know-how to make the most out of used clothes. According to it, 85 % of all clothing ends up in the dumpsites, thus being totally useless, even though applying basic recycling technologies would help to utilize them. It is absolutely relevant to estimate SMART official website in order to receive the proper impression. SMART, which Kostitsyn 2 stands for materials and recycled positions itself as an international trade association and promotes worldwide the opportunities of innovative methods in recycling textiles. Participation in recycling is considered to be social responsibility, and SMART presents it as a way of making money as well. In fact, they have been successfully coping with these goals throughout decades, since 1932. Thus, it can be confidently stated that the organization is taking up the challenge of making average consumers more environmentally aware by encouraging everyone to prevent the overall cluttering caused by the growing volume of refuse and waste. SMART company is involved into socially beneficial activities. Not only does it apply appropriate technologies to give second life to used textiles but also promotes active participation of average consumers by getting across the message like not pretend it does not concern you: we are all in the same SMART is not alone in their initiative: in the state of Connecticut, Department of Energy and Environmental Protection has long been running campaigns in both recycling (and actually reusing) for second-hand textiles. Particularly it claims that at most 5% of used clothes prove to be unusable, while 45% are sold as second apparel, 20% are reprocessed intro fiber, and 30% can be remade into technical cloths. It is worth mentioning that such extended range of functions is a guarantee of secure direct employment. Evidently, in the world where there are fewer and fewer biodegradable substances around, any attempts to promote recycling and prevent the issues of over-cluttering (the inevitable process that goes side-by-side with urban sprawl) are supposed to pay off. Yet only recycling by itself is no answer to the existing issue, namely due to the fact that the recycling process is technologically complicated and energy-consuming. In these terms, the second stakeholder called Goodwill-Suncoast appears to have adapted more to the needs of time and society. Basically, they positon themselves as a job creator, and this organization does manage to embrace a broader range of causes. Anyone who visits their Kostitsyn 3 website can notice the following inscription: STUFF. CREATE Getting acquainted with their website front page that leaves the impression of successful work in this direction is only feasible when there is a combination of activities, which earns the company experience and reputation. Similarly, an organization called Trans-Americas Trading Co. from Clifton, New Jersey, has been successfully specializing in processing post-consumer textiles for over seven decades, with focus on purchasing, processing and selling. Definitely, their range of operations goes far beyond recycling as they also cater goods to retro stores as well as to film industry. This demonstrates an effective example of how a business succeeds in keeping up with the times. The search for various ways to apply used fabrics is reflected in the work of colleague organizations, to name a few: Planet Aid deals closely not only with collecting, processing, shipping and selling the second-hand clothes to the third world but also increases public awareness in countries like USA in order to convince more people that there is simply not enough demand in the U.S. for all their castoffs. Besides, it warns clearly that simply giving things away in developing regions is rather detrimental to the local economies, so a well-organized trade is to be maintained instead. When it comes to aspects of sustaining the planet, the coverage of the issue in mass media seems to gain the demand. A case in point is a publication in Forbes. When Here the author highlights the tendencies on the part of non-profit and for-profit organizations to unite in their efforts so as to make urban life more convenient. This is attained not just through introducing new technologies but also through raising public awareness about the essence of each contribution. The top priorities submitted are not about recycling but composting and reprocessing fabrics into rags, stuffing, or insulation. It is also worth adding that the issue is frequently reflected in the blogosphere. Thus, BNB International Textiles Inc. posted and article in 2015 in its blog titled as Make Money Selling Used Clothes encouraging to sell the garments that are no longer worn and thus support developing states. It even provides the Kostitsyn 4 rating of demand for clothes, from dresses to pants. It indicates that readers are encouraged to perceive the disposal of their own used clothes as a small an effective technique for involving even those who previously were indifferent about the matter. Global trade of used clothing was also covered in a blog by Sheng Lu where certain visuals (bar charts and graphs) make it evident that the global trade of used textiles is increasing worldwide and four out of six key exporters of used clothing are located in North America and EU (the USA, the UK, Germany and the Netherlands). Summarizing the two main principles practiced by the above-mentioned companies (recycling vs. processing and reselling used textiles), various key reasons for both options have been determined. At the same time, the compromising point is about the fact that both solutions (recycling and reselling) had better be seen as compatible (i.e. they can be included in the range of activities done by the same organizations), with actions that are more appropriate to take depending on what material they deal with and who end users will be. The range of textiles used nowadays is huge, which means some natural sorts can be recycled while synthetic ones cannot. A truly effective company on this market is to be not only a recycler and trader but also the structure which takes forward public instruction and encourages ordinary consumers to sort and submit their used garments instead of sending them to landfill sites. In these terms, there is something for SMART to learn from Goodwill- Suncoast, as it is an organization that does not concern only recycling yet it positions itself as creator of workplaces where anyone can fulfil their potential and get involved into collecting and re-allocating used material goods including textiles. Although both companies share similar interests in making the world a cleaner place, the methods need to be varied, the more the better (WC 1310). Kostitsyn 5 Work cited ERIC STUBIN, TRANS-AMERICAS TRADING CO., TRANS-AMERICAS TRADING COMPANY, 12 May 1998, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Goodwill-suncoast, Goodwill-Suncoast store locations and donation locations, Goodwill Industries International, Inc., 3 Dec 1996, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Governor Dannel P. Malloy, CONNECTICUT ENERGY ENVIRONMENT, Department of ENERGY & ENVIROMENTAL PROTECTION, ENERGY & ENVIROMENTAL PROTECTION, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Kerry Flynn, Recycling: A For-Profit Startup Success Among Forbes, 27 AUG 2014, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Paul Roszel, RecycleNet Corporation, SMART: Donate, Recycle, Throw Away - Recycle Clothing, Shoes, & More, Secondary Materials and Recycled Textiles Association, 29 Dec 1996, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Perfect Privacy, LLC, Planet Aid For the Environment, For People, Perfect Privacy, LLC, 24 Nov 1997, accessed 2 Mar 2017 Sheng Lu, Trade of Used Clothing (Updated: October 2015) FASH455 Global Apparel & Textile Trade and Sourcing, Global view, International Trade, 15 Sep 2015, accessed 2 Mar 2017