Islam 1 Mohammad Islam Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 26 March 2017 The Journey to Reduce Food Waste Throughout the world, there are thousands, if not, millions of people dying from starvation (ReFED). According to an academic article by David Evans, it is stated that has hitherto been neglected by (Evans). The idea of a child starving anywhere in the world should make a person realize why this is one of the most important reasons why reducing food waste needs to be taken more seriously. ReFED is an organization that was formed in the early 2014 create a Roadmap to Reduce U.S Food (Vared). ReFED attempts to reach out to large corporations and businesses such as restaurants, farmers, State and Local governments, and entrepreneurs by giving various types of solutions to attain their goals. On the other hand, the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) pays more attention to the general public and gives advice about how to reduce food waste in their own home. The NRDC was founded in 1970 and works together with Ad Council to the rights of all people to clean air, clean water, and healthy (Ad Council). The differences in the solutions and the intended audiences of both stakeholders are lessening the impact it would have on the world and a compromise can be found if they combined their efforts and addressed each audiences to reach their goals more effectively. To begin with, intended audience focuses more on the large corporations. With this focus, their mission is to a different future, where food waste prevention is recognized as an untapped strategy that can save resources, create jobs, alleviate hunger, conserve water, and Islam 2 reduce greenhouse gas emissions- all while stimulating a new multi-billion-dollar market (Vared). In order to get their message across to large corporations, ReFED has many solutions posted on their website. Some solutions include improvements in the ability of retail inventory management systems, water resources recovery facility, centralized composting, and donation of food to the needy (Vared). However, according to the academic journal by Felicitas Schneider, it states that there are going to be instances where some food cannot be saved from being wasted. This is not due to the fault of human beings, but weather conditions, missing infrastructure, and a lack of technologies for preservation as well as hygienic (Schneider). ReFED amplifies their messages by presenting these solutions with various types of pictures that appeals to ethos, pathos, and logos. By doing this, they try to ensure that all large corporations and businesses take advantage of all the solutions they have provided to help reduce the wastage of food. ReFED establishes their own credibility by collaborating with business, nonprofit, foundation and government to validate their assistance to the corporations (Vared). On the contrary, the Natural Resources Defense Council is attempting to reduce food waste by giving advice to normal, everyday people instead of large corporations. The goal that the NRDC is trying to achieve is to the earth- its people, its plant, and animals, and the natural systems on which all life (Ad Council). Similar to ReFED, the website provides different tabs that include helpful tips, cooking techniques, and how to store food correctly which can all be done in the comfort of a own home. Under the section, they mention the use of a freezer to stop the aging process of food. This way, they can be safe to eat later. Under the section, the website provides recipes to help the use of the random assortment of ingredients in the so that the leftovers do not get thrown out Islam 3 (Ad Council). The section provides advice on how to keep a favorite foods in their best condition for a long period of time. This include when a food is at its freshest, if it is adequate to refrigerate it, what their optimal storage condition is, and how to revive the food if it is going bad. According to a case study by Sandra Lebersorger, composition studies have indicated significant quantities of food wastes are a (Lebersorger). With the use of the helpful tips provided by the NRDC, this problem can be avoided. The reason that the two stakeholders, ReFED and the Natural Resources Defense Council, cannot reach a consensus is because of the major difference in their intended audience. ReFED reaches out to large corporations such as restaurants, governments, farmers, and entrepreneurs by providing solutions that would meet their needs. The Natural Resources Defense Council reaches out to people living in a common household and provides solutions that they can complete in their own home. According to an academic article by Helen Williams, amount of food waste needs to be reduced in order to sustain the limited resources and secure enough food to all (Williams). This can be accomplished since ReFED and the NRDC share the same interest, concerns, and needs. Both stakeholders are interested in coming up with ways to reduce food waste. They are both concerned that if food waste is not reduced, it would have a horrible impact on the population and economy. To battle this concern, they each need their intended audiences to prevent the wastage of food. In order to achieve a compromise, both ReFED and the Natural Resources Defense Council should come together and reach out to each audiences. For example, ReFED can reach out to the common household population and NRDC can reach out to large corporations and businesses and administer new kinds of accommodating suggestions that they have not yet heard of. The Islam 4 compromise can be implemented as easily as both stakeholders sharing each URLs, their solutions, and resources. This proposed compromise would be beneficial to ReFED because the audience of their website will have new ways of preventing food waste which can be done in their own home. It is also beneficial to the NRDC because their intended audience will now have various ways of preventing food waste, not just in their own home, but anywhere in the world. With the implementation of this compromise, both stakeholders are benefiting since the effectiveness of their goal increases with the expansion of their audience members. As a result, more people would be aware of the importance of food waste prevention. In conclusion, the combined efforts of both ReFED and the Natural Resources Defense Council could solve the problem of world hunger. It is projected that 13.2 million tons which is over 20% of annual food waste can be reduced over the next decade with the implementation of correct actions taken by the population (Vared). This number is then estimated to shoot up to 50% by the year 2030 (Vared). In addition, these solutions could generate $10 billion of economic value, 1.8 billion meals, and 1.6 trillion gallons of water saved annually (Vared). Furthermore, it could accomplish $5.6 billion annual consumer savings, $1.9 billion annual business profit potential, and 18 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions reduced annually (Vared). With the presentation of these statistics, it can be inferred that the economy will improve. In order to reach new kinds of limits and achievements, all it takes is for both ReFED and the Natural Resources Defense Council to work together and save the world (Word Count: 1216). Islam 5 Work Cited Council, Ad. Save The  Savethefood.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.savethefood.com/ Evans, David. A brief of food waste and the social  The Sociological Review. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/1467- 954X.12035/full Lebersorger , Sandra. Discussion on the methodology for determining food waste in household waste composition  ScienceDirect. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956053X11002650 Schneider, Felicitas. The evolution of food donation with respect to waste  Schneider, Felicitas. The evolution of food donation with respect to waste  ScienceDirect. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956053X12005430 Vared, Sarah. ReFED Rethink Food  ReFED . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.refed.com/?sort=economic-value-per-ton Williams, Helen. Reasons for household food waste with special attention to  ScienceDirect. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652611004793