Student 1 Merly Jean-Louis Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 05 March 2017 Prevention and Reduction of Crime in Low-Socioeconomic Communities Crime is a major dilemma plaguing the streets of poor neighborhoods. The negative environment and endless cycle of poverty has made it nearly impossible for inhabitants to escape. Although this is not news to the hundreds of millions of American citizens there still has not been for those that are victims to their situations. Rather than sympathizing or making an effort many people but the blame on everyone in these neighborhoods. The media calls it and normalizes it instead. Two approaches to this situation has been presented, education and/or policing. The National Human Services Assembly (NHSA) have created a campaign toward added programs and resources for these individuals. In contrast, the National Institute of Justice (NIJ) believe in increased policing and surveillance. Although these two approaches contrast one another, the implication of community policing can combine them both for the most rewarding results. The NHSA focuses on prevention in their campaigns. Beginning with young individuals they teach these students to not only value their communities but themselves as well. Giving these children options rather than guns and violence impact their views on life overall and gives them the tools to turn away from that predisposed path. Studies have actually shown that involvement in a community greatly decreases the chances of someone committing a crime. The individuals just be stealing but rather taking from people they know and those in the Student 2 same situation as them. It personalizes the victims and makes it more difficult for them to commit the crime of 1). The NHSA also educated women and men in the risks associated with sex. Many individuals get very little education on the implications and consequences associated with sex due to the fear that speaking on it will only compel individuals to do it more. Statistics have shown that those that have normalized the idea of sex through education tend to engage in it later in life. Increasing awareness can also decrease early pregnancies as well (Gabe 2016). Early pregnancies have resulted in absentee fathers and resentment for children which causes a string of problems in itself. Another method of prevention the NHSA uses is giving troubled teens mentors and role models that have been through the same situations they have and have found a way out. This creates hope of a better future and a physical representation of their potential. The NIJ believes mostly in punishment. Unlike the NHSA the goal is to convict those guilty of crimes and place them in jail rather than preventing others from taking that path. They have created many programs that successfully decreased the crime in many neighborhoods. Increased surveillance and police in neighborhoods resulted in more people going to jail and remaining off the streets. The increased security decreased a ability of get away with certain crimes and also caused many people fear due to the high chances of them getting caught. Studies have also shown that a decrease in opportunity to commit crimes tend to decrease the likelihood of someone committing one. The NIJ has also worked to create community responsibility. Gang violence is something that has a large impact on low- socioeconomic communities because it creates a brotherhood and dependency that many kids did not get in their own homes. The NIJ created a program that held multiple members of a gang accountable for their actions rather than individuals. Gangs were brought in and informed that if Student 3 a member of their same gang committed a crime that was deemed gang related multiple members of the gang would also be held responsible. Accountability would also greatly decrease crime in these neighborhoods. Drive by shootings have also created a multitude of deaths in these neighborhoods. The NIJ in retaliation proposed an idea that would barricade large portions of each high crime area. This solution would decrease the ability for cars to smoothly maneuver through neighborhoods and decreased opportunity results in decreased crime of 2). Separately both organizations have great ideas in terms of resolution to the issues of these neighborhoods. Without incorporating each other the results are limited. Punishment without prevention only creates more savvy criminals and prevention without punishment creates a lack of accountability. To create compromise the NHSA and NIJ can work towards a better relationship between the police and the community. For minorities and low income individuals have feared contacting police when in danger. Instead of being served by police it changed to being targeted by them. This idea results in many crimes being left unreported and a lack of security throughout. Increasing the personal relationships individuals in these communities have with their local police has been proven to significantly decrease crime (Murgado 2013). The police will not be seen as an organization as a whole but instead individuals. The officers may also come and inform individuals of the risks in committing crime and through education prevention can be achieved as well. Student 4 Work Cited Assembly, National Human Services. NEW REPORT - Beyond Bars: Keeping Young People Safe At Home and Out of Youth  National Human Services Assembly. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. BBC - Intermediate 2 Bitesize Modern Studies - Causes and Types of Crime :  BBC News. BBC, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.  Evidence-Based Programs and Practices - What Works in Criminal Justice - CrimeSolutions.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Group Violence Reduction Strategy (New Orleans,  Program: Group Violence Reduction Strategy (New Orleans, Louisiana) - CrimeSolutions.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. L, Gabe. Why Sex Education Is  Stay Teen. N.p., 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Murgado, Amaury. Community  Police Magazine. N.p., 20 June 2013. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.