Student 1 Student Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102.703 26 March , 2017 The Wounded Warrior Project and U.S. Army Recruiting Conflicts Post Traumatic Stress Disorder is a severe mental illness that is most common after an individual undergoes an event that is severely traumatizing or endangers their lives (Dockens). Post Traumatic Stress Disorder is a very common disease that has been diagnosed in as many as 540,000 veterans, yet only half seek out and receive treatment (Dockens). There are several organizations whose goals are associated with the disease. The two stakeholders consist of the Wounded Warriors Project and the recruiting department of the U.S Army. The Wounded Warriors Project has created a variety of programs that are focused on the recuperation of veterans upon their return home. This work with veterans branches from physical injuries to mental ones, such as post traumatic stress disorder. On the Other hand, there is the U.S. recruitment offices. These offices have exercised a variety of methods to enlist the help of young Americans to join the military and defend everything this country has fought to protect. Essentially, the Wounded Warrior Project works to provide public support for the soldiers that are somewhat left behind after their service, while recruitment offices focus on replacing them. While both stakeholders have excellent goals and intentions, there are several inconsistencies between the two and how they hope to achieve them, therefore the common Student 2 ground between the stakeholders will be examined in order to establish a mutually beneficial compromise. The Wounded Warriors Project is a very well functioning organization that has done extensive work within the veteran community, working to help those with any form of trauma from previous service. Whether the injury is physical, mental , or emotional, the Wounded Warriors Project has some sort of program or rehabilitation center to help any veteran with their injury. Their services could range from something as miniscule, but essential, as a therapy session to something as important and monumental as building smart homes for severely wounded soldiers to help them with simple everyday activities (Dockens). Additional services that the project offers to Post Traumatic Stress Disorder victims includes the Combat Stress Recovery Program and the Warrior Care Network. The Combat Stress Recovery Program engages veterans in outdoor experiences that will physically push them to their limits while also connecting them with fellow veterans who are in similar mental states (Combat Stress Recovery Program). Furthermore, there is also the Warrior Care Network, which is the first of its kind. It is a program that is partnered with several hospitals and medical centers to, not only connect patients, but also to provide exceptional care to those who may not have gotten the best treatment, or any at all (Dockens). The primary goal of the Project is to help veterans in any way possible and to reduce the number of veterans that are so negatively affected by their heroic and honorable service in the United States Military. On the other hand, there is the United States Army recruitment offices. A career in the United States Military is a noble one, that is to be respected and supported. Regardless of branch or position, a brave soul who is willing to devote every ounce of energy and commitment Student 3 towards protecting, defending, and preserving everything that this country has worked so hard to obtain is a righteous one. However, there are few components to the recruitment process that do not work entirely to benefit the individual. For example, most recruiters do not advertise the possible negative effects of a career in the military. A study was conducted to examine the various advertising techniques that are utilized by countless recruitment offices across the nation. The experiment compared the advertisements used in two separate recruitment offices of the U.S. Army, which just so happens to be the largest advertising branch of the U.S. Military. Within the experiment one recruitment office practiced using which focuses on selling the idea of a military career in general, while focuses all the advertisement attention on one specific branch such as the Marines or Army (Eliminating Elasticities). The Army has had extensive success in the past regarding recruitment, especially by setting a goal for 2017 of 62,000 recruits (Army Times). The results showed that joint advertising resulted in slightly more successful enlistments rather than service specific advertising. Although the method of advertisement may not be the primary factor in the recruitment process another factor that may result in such extensive success is the lack of full disclosure. Each recruitment officer works endlessly to ensure that the career that each recruit is signing up for is the one that they do indeed want. However, most officers tend to focus the attention of the individual on the benefits of enlisting as opposed to discussing the possible costs (Army Times). A possible understanding that may satisfy both stakeholders to an extent is that the organizations could work together to build a brief educational course that young Americans interested in enlisting have to take in which they are taught all the possible effects of having a Student 4 career in the military, especially the possibility of PTSD, as well as all of the benefits of enlisting. Both parties will collaborate to ensure that the course or video in no way presents any biases and primarily presents the individuals with the knowledge necessary to make a sound decision. The individuals will then be notified and assured of any type of support they wish to receive from the Wounded Warriors Project in the future. This compromise will not only help in the recruitment process to ensure an educated decision regarding the future, but also educate individuals on the possible effects that they could face. It will benefit both stakeholders in the sense that it will decrease the number of victims of PTSD that go untreated and can receive the help of the Wounded Warrior Project if needed. The program would also increase the number of truly committed Americans trying to enlist as opposed to young, naive kids that feel invincible. This compromise is practical for the most part, the only problem is that certain recruiting offices may not require their new recruits to engage in the course or video and it is simply a matter of the recruiters asking the perspective soldiers to engage in it. In order to implement this compromise the Wounded Warriors Project would have to design a video or course to educate the future recruits and then one by one each recruitment offices would have to be convinced to actually utilize the course within the recruiting process. In essence, the goal of the Wounded Warrior Project is to help veterans by providing any type of help or support needed by these brave men and women. However, the primary goal of the U.S. Army is to recruit as many enlisting Americans as possible that will follow a serious career within the military. To satisfy the two is the previously stated compromise. To ensure fairness, both stakeholders are benefitted as well as settling in certain aspects of the approach. (WC 1169) Student 5 Works Cited Army Careers: Ways to Serve in the  Goarmy.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Combat Stress Recovery  Warrior N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dockens, Christopher. Wounded Warrior Homes -  Transitional N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Estimating Elasticities with Frontier and Other Regressions in Evaluating Two Advertising Strategies for US Army  Estimating Elasticities with Frontier and Other Regressions in Evaluating Two Advertising Strategies for US Army Recruiting. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Times, Army.  N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Veterans Statistics: PTSD, Depression, TBI,  Veterans PTSD Statistics Statistics: Depression, TBI and Suicide. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Student 6