Magliola 1 Fiorenza Magliola Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 10 March 2017 Gender Equality The term has been widely discussed throughout history and has been presented with many different definitions as to what this term is. For the purpose of this essay, the definition used is the state in which access to rights or opportunities is unaffected by gender. While it is true that men and women may have to play different roles in society, their rights are the same and do not change. Throughout the world, there are cases such as health, violence, and education that are not equally available for both men and women. For society to prosper, both males and females need to have access, equally, to both education and health opportunities and have to be equally protected by violence. Advocating for and supporting gender equality is the only way to ensure that and rights are protected. An equal world starts with an equal chance at a healthy life. Issues with maternal health care, damaging effects of HIV/AIDS, and the harmful effects of child marriage are stripped away from women and girls of this opportunity Both males and females should have the right to make their decisions about their bodies, partners, and families. According to WHO, being a man or a woman has a significant impact on health opportunities, as a product of both biological and gender-related differences. The health of women is of particular concern because, in many societies, they are at a disadvantaged by discrimination stemming from social factors The factors that caused this gap in maternal care are the unequal power Magliola 2 relationships between men and women in particular societies, a decrease education and paid employment opportunities, and physical, sexual and emotional violence. While poverty is a significant barrier to health outcomes for both males and females, poverty tends to produce a greater strain on women and girls health due to malnutrition and use of unsafe cooking fuels In contrast, according to WHO, men have a substantially worse health than women. This has been made clear with strong evidence from various sources. The Global Burden of Disease study showed that from 1970 to 2010 women have had a longer life expectancy than men (Wang, et. al.). This disparity has received little to no attention or acknowledgment from national or global policy makers or healthcare providers (The Health Gap). Even though women have their problems in the health department, men also share issues in that department. To achieve total equality, one must look at both sides of the spectrum. Just as health, violence is also very common and is regarded as an inequality in certain societies. The United Nations describes the violence as any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual or mental harm or suffering to women or men, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or private  Global estimates published by WHO indicate that about 1 in 3 (35%) women worldwide have experienced either physical and sexual violence from non-partner or intimate partner in their lifetime. Besides the obvious aftermath of violence on mental health, violence can also disrupt economic systems. The social and economic costs of violence are huge and have ripple effects throughout society. Women may suffer isolation, inability to work, loss of wages, lack of participation in regular activities and limited ability to care for themselves and their children. Not only does this affect the social structure of the country, it also affects the Magliola 3 future as well. It is important to note, that even though women are at higher risk of being victims of violence, men are also at risk. In the US as of 1998, 2.78 million men have been victims of rape (attempted or contemplated) and about 3% of American men, 1 in 33, have rape in their lifetime (National Institute of Justice). To combat this situation, there have been many programs that have been growing throughout the US and worldwide to spread awareness about this problem and to try to lower those numbers. Most of them have been involved in educating the masses about the repercussions of violence and the issues that precede it. It is essential that no matter what gender one is, each and every single person in society has to stand with and protect any such person that has been a victim of violence. If one were to take the problems above, health and violence, and carefully analyze them, one would find that both problems stem from the lack of education. Education is a human right and should never be taking away or suppressed by any group or government. Today, education continues to be an inaccessible right for millions of children throughout the globe. More than 72 million children of primary school age are not in school, and 759 million adults are uneducated and do not have the necessary knowledge to enhance both their living circumstances and those of their children (). Some children do not have access to basic education because of inequalities that stem from being a certain sex or being part of a certain cultural identity (ethnic origin, language, religion). A very touching, but real example of this inequality is girls being shot for advocating education. Malala, Nobel Prize winner in 2014, was shot on a bus when travelling home from school. She and her friends were both injured in this attack made by the Taliban. Thankfully, she pushed through and was able to accept her Nobel Prize and $500,000 Magliola 4 that went to opening a secondary school in Pakistan (Fund, The Malala). Education is a powerful and beautiful gift that everyone should be able to have to improve conditions in society. The main argument against gender equality is that and men are already Women and men do not have equal protections under the law. Transgender individuals even use the bathroom for their gender in most US states and women are not defended against sex discrimination at work (National Center for Transgender Equality). Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) amendment would make it unconstitutional to discriminate due to gender at work, and it has not been passed yet Rights Men have this right; women do not. Both men and women are suppressed in certain aspects of life, and it would not be true, or fair, to claim that they are equal. Although they are many issues, there are certain things that one can do to support or provide relief to those who have suffered because of gender inequality. The biggest thing that can be done is to re-educate. As previously stated, most issues (even ones that have nothing to do with gender), stem from lack of education. If we increased education in countries, through the use of media, schools, and new laws, we will see a decrease in gender inequality. Also, supporting or voting for any bill that supports equality, for women or men, will create a change in the social structure. Finally, supporting any peaceful protest that is intended to protect equality. There have been many, especially this year, and it take much to go out and support them. important to understand that women and men are not the same, we were made differently from each other, but we should all be treated equally; it is a human right. It is our job, Magliola 5 as part of society, to stand and support each other no matter what sex, color or religion we identify with. Only then, will we have gender equality. Magliola 6 Works Cited  Health World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Wang H, Dwyer-Lindgren L, Lofgren KT, Rajaratnam JK, Marcus JR, Levin-Rector A, et al. Age-specific and sex-specific mortality in 187 countries, a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2010. The Health  World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. National Institute of Justice & Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, Prevalence, Incidence and Consequences of Violence Against Women Survey (1998).* National Center for Transgender  Center for Transgender N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Violence Against  Health World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Equal Rights Amendment  N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Fund, The Malala. Malala N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. presents information on the total number of male and female victims in the United States, using a study from 1998. Because the U.S. population has increased substantially since then, it is probable that the number of victims has, as well. RAINN presents this data for educational purposes only, and strongly recommends using the citations to review any and all sources for more information and Magliola 7