Student 1 Student Professor Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Should the federal minimum wage be increased to $15 in states such as North Carolina An increase of the minimum wage to $15 has become a sensitive case for both the working population and business owners. This is a very delicate issue: some persons argue for an increase, stating that the current rate is unjust while some say it is necessary for the economy to thrive. Fightfor$15 is one of many organizations which support the movement towards an increase to $15. This organization comprises of a vast population of workers who are directly affected by the minimum wage. Its objective is to show that the current minimum wage cannot adequately compensate people for their labor Fight ). Advocating this case, Fightfor$15 presents stories and research on workers who are merely surviving from paycheck to paycheck. Conversely, the Employment Policy Institute directly opposes this view. Exclusive to research on employment growth, their aim is to present research and projects on minimum wage, to show that such a jump to $15 in the minimum wage would significantly hurt the economy ). The real problem lies in understanding the true effects that the current wage has on the existing population and how any change would affect the economy, for example, in states such as North Carolina. Both proposals have provided significant food for thought, one would certainly agree that the standardized minimum wage can be increased but only to an extent as to avoid economic problems. While Fightfor$15 and EPI are on opposing sides of the issue, they Student 2 could compromise by agreeing to a minimum increase to $11 in North Carolina, creating a policy change that would not be too high or too low for either party. Fightfor$15 was cultivated from just a  few hundred fast-food workers who felt as though they were robbed of their labor by multi-billion dollar employers looking to cut  ). They voiced that the minimum wage is unmerited making it difficult to pay their bills and put food on the table for their  Why we ). Fightfor$15 presented hard working individuals stuck in poverty mainly because their earning merely goes hand in hand with cost of living why we ). With a $15 increase comes higher income level which means more spending money for those on the poverty borderline. According to US census bureau,  Wage increases won by fast-food and other workers fighting for $15 an hour are widely credited for driving the median income up by 5.2 percent and helping to cut the U.S. poverty rate by 1.2 percent last year the steepest decline since 1968  ). This organization also sheds light on the factor of income inequality. Advocating that workers earning minimum wages are most often the ones doing most of the work compared to the high earners in a   ). An economy such as North Carolina that is primarily motivated by profits and disregards the wellbeing of its workers brings segregation between the extremely rich and extremely poor. Thus making it difficult for the poor to cross the margin. In addressing this issue however, one should have a holistic approach and take into account the economy on a whole. While Fightfor$15 is fighting for an increase, stakeholders such as the Employment Policy Institute clash against their cause. The Employment policy institute considered an increase to $15 as a drastic hike in the wage rate and encouraged people to think about the long term effects ). They argue that employees that earn the minimum wage tend to be young, and work in businesses that keep a few cents of each sales Student 3 dollar after  ). EPI explained that when the minimum wage goes up, employers are forced to either pass costs on to consumers in the form of higher prices, or cut costs elsewhere, leading to the loss of jobs for  ). Increasing the minimum wage will hurt the entry level class of the working population, resulting in less working hours or even unemployment. As a result fewer hours available would put starters jobs out of reach, making it impossible for less-skilled employees to gain work  ). Not only this but EPI opposed Fightfor$15 claims, stating that higher wages is not the best way to address the poverty line in states such as North Carolina. Economist Joseph Sabia found that individuals in economic hardship do not work so they benefit from the higher  ). Resultantly, there were no relationship between minimum wage hikes and poverty ( ). One thing that sets these organizations apart is their contrasting views on the issue at hand. While they view a minimum wage increase differently, it is quite clear that they have many similarities. One major similarity is that both organizations are concerned about individuals who are affected by the minimum wage. Their platforms influenced both entry-level workers earning a minimum wage and employers who have to offset that cost. Fightfor$15 and Employment Policy main interest is to get this targeted population to join their cause, thereby quantifying their impact. Likewise, the issue of whether there should be a federal minimum wage increase is of equal importance to both organizations. Because of the shared common values, both organizations can bend their cause a little and work together to bring about a policy change for minimum wage in North Carolina. Since Fightfor$15 and EPI presents pros and cons to the issue, they can co-fund projects that inform the public in this state on the issue and best way to resolve it. Student 4 Through this, they would be able to reach a greater population and quantify their impact. The key ingredient for this issue is moderation. Having a minimum wage too low would devalue workers lives, on the other hand, increasing the minimum wage too high would defeat the whole idea of improving the economy. Card and Krueger prove that there was no evidence of positive employment effect from the 1992 increase from $4.25 to $5.15 in New Jersey ). A good explanation of this is that the minimum wage increase was too low to spurge any significant changes. Similarly, in state such as New York City, raising the wages to $15 an hour could lead to higher prices, which would cut ). A balance in-between would perfectly solve this by setting the minimum wage to a comfortable rate. Both EPI and Fightfor$15 can join forces to help execute an intermediate rate under $15 dollars but above $7.25 in North Carolina. This increase would benefit low-income workers in North Carolina and even help lower the poverty margin. Not only this, but it would also help address the income inequality within the working population of North Carolina. This compromise would also bring about a positive change for businesses, as employees would now feel as though they receive fair compensation for their labor, ultimately boosting business productivity and the overall GDP of North economy. Over the past few years, there has been a growing movement in the United States to substantially raise the federal minimum wage, which has been fixed at $7.25 an hour since 2009. One widely embraced goal within this movement is to raise the federal minimum to $15 an  (Pollin). In states such as North Carolina the rate of $7.25 an hour is still current and affects both workers and business owners. There are many organizations such as Fightfor$15, which speaks about the unfairness of the low minimum wage that pushes people for such a cause. On the other hand, organizations like Employment policies Institute, states why such an increase cannot Student 5 happen in world, which makes people hesitant about wanting such a significant increase. The fact that the current wage is too low and that an increase to $15 is too high, it can now be reasoned that a rate of $11 would create a balance of the minimum wage in North Carolina. If this increase rate is successful, North Carolina can then be used as an example to bring about a federal minimum wage increase to $11, which can then be implemented throughout the various states in the US. With Fightfor$15 and EPI joining together there is no doubt that their impact would enhance the life of entry level workers and business owners. (1365) Student 6 Works Cited Bursting Myths About the minimum . Minimumwage.com,Web. 25 March 2017 Du, Yuxin and Aurora A.C. Teixeira. A Bibliometric Account of Chinese Economics Research through the Lens of the China Economic  China Economic Review (1043951X), vol. 23, no. 4, Dec. 2012, pp. 743-762. Mantel, Barbara. Minimum  CQ Researcher 24 Jan. 2014: 73-96. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. Hoffman, Saul D. Are the Effects of Minimum Wage Increases Always Small? A Reanalysis of Sabia, Burkhauser, and  Industrial & Labor Relations Review, vol. 69, no. 2, Mar. 2016, pp. 295-311.  Journal of Economic Issues (M.E. Sharpe Inc.), vol. 50, no. 4, Dec. 2016, pp. 1161- 1167. Mejeur, Jeanne. Maximum Divide on Minimum Wage: Studies Abound on the Minimum Wage, but the Conclusions Drawn Vary  State Legislatures, no. 3, 2014, p. 14. Robert Pollin, Mark Brenner, Jeannette Wicks-Lim, and Stephanie Luce, a Measure of Fairness: The Economics of Living Wages and Minimum Wages in the United  Labour/Le Travail, no. 63, 2009, p. 315. why we  ,Fightfor$15.org,Web.25 March 2017