Student 1 Student Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 27 March 2017 Blowing Away Expectations for Solar Energy When driving through Texas or California, any visitor will come across wind farms that cover vast landscapes. These wind farms have arrived in surpluses, and combined have provided the most wind energy in the United States U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and ). Although most of the United States is available to use more wind turbines, many renewable energy consumers argue that solar energy is a more reliable and economically pleasing option (Solar Energy Industries Association). Wind energy has been rising as a natural competitor of the solar industry, having developed as many as a third of the jobs created in the solar industry, and has decreased costs by about 90% since the 1980s (Wind Energy Foundation). The success of these two renewable energy sources have to come with constant battles, since both wind and solar organizations would greatly develop with compromise. Wind turbines can be produced with solar panels on both the blades and the tower, which would continue creating solar energy in times of low winds, and would produce wind energy at night while no solar energy can be obtained. By having wind energy organizations and solar energy organizations collaborate, a multi-purpose wind and solar turbine can be made, allowing for the most efficient collection of energy. Both stakeholders of wind energy and solar energy are making great lengths towards increasing renewable energy power. The Wind Energy Foundation is currently working to become a more accessible and reliable energy source across America, while educating the Student 2 general public about how wind energy can become more reliable. Wind energy is one of the most cost effective forms of energy, maturing over the decades through better manufacturing and continuous engineering for a better turbine design (Wind Energy Foundation). The design of each turbine is cost specific, guaranteeing more reliability than unpredictable fossil fuel rates, and allowing everyday consumers to trust in wind energy. The American Wind Energy Association vouches for these economic benefits applying to every consumer. Two of the four main pillars of the Wind Energy Agenda are to create a demand for more wind energy and make wind energy cost competitive to other resources, which grants the Wind Energy Foundation a large frame of support due to the similarities in economic wellness for the community (American Wind Energy Association). By showing the importance in sustaining the consumers through a renewable resource, wind energy is inclined to be viewed as a major resource for accumulating energy for the United States. Despite the influx of support for wind energy, solar energy remains the number one source of renewable energy within the United States, surpassing the amount of energy supplied by wind turbines by more than one thousand (gigawatts compared to megawatts) (Wind Energy Foundation and Solar Energy Industries Association). The Solar Energy Industries Association works with member companies to defend and the use of clean energy though the radiation, while educating the public of the uses of reliable energy. In terms of economic benefits, solar energy shows more progress than wind energy at every level, paralleling the amount of funds given to each group (Wind Energy Foundation). Solar Energy has given jobs to over 200,000 workers within the industry, has declined in installation prices over the last decade by more than 50%, and growth of product has spread to major corporations in recent years, such as Walmart and Target (Solar Energy Industries Association). On a smaller scale, the Florida Student 3 Solar energy industries association advocates for the same principles, and has connected community members to reliable groups working towards installation and promotion of solar energy (Florida Solar Energy Industries Association). The workforce of these two partner organizations establish the influential force that solar energy has within each economy, raising solar credibility for being the main resource of renewable and reliable energy. Though these two resources have areas where they are especially abundant, they have areas where they will perish. In environments close to the northern and southern poles, sunlight is either very limited or non-existent for about one fourth of the year, which would make using solar energy impossible for sustainability reasons. More locally, rainier cities like Seattle who do not receive a great capacity of sunlight for the amount of industry in the area will not be able to use solar energy as a primary resource. For wind energy, the turbines are not practical for placement in very urban areas, nor are they practical in dry environments with no movement of air. Both of these resources have their faults, lessening their chance to be superior, but a compromise using both solar and wind energy would eliminate time without power production. The greatest source of compromise between solar energy and wind energy is to not eliminate any aspect, but to combine these two resources together to optimize energy production. By placing the solar panels on either the blades or the tower, the panels will be high enough, and at every angle to absorb as much light as possible, while the wind turbine continues to operate. Placement of the panels is primarily dependent on the ability of the panels to transmit light energy from the spinning blades, into another area of the wind turbine, but this can all be bypassed if the panels are only on the tower. With this, they will be still high enough above any trees or crop fields, and can successful transmit two types of renewable energy. This model is supported by the ideas of the United States Department of Energy on model hybrid systems Student 4 already in place. Although the solar and wind systems are separate, they both are modeled to follow the same concept that systems are more likely to produce power when you need (ENERGY.GOV). The different levels of wind and solar energy throughout the year will provide enough energy to constantly power the home without any worry. Additional, these type of hybrid systems are stand-alone systems, supporting that they are more powerful than individual systems (with either wind or solar). Accompanying these are an engine generator, and a power bank system that will ensure power can run for one to three days, increasing its reliability, as well as reducing costs since the energy producers will be installed simultaneously, and have a combined energy storage unit (ENERGY.GOV). By resembling current models, the idea of having solar panels on a wind turbine is made more reliable and practical for current engineering standards. Further indicating the reliability of having two methods of renewable energy is by using a novel energy prediction model (Cammarano et. al. 75-83). This model shows that both wind and solar energy production peak at around the same time, yet the solar energy production continues throughout the afternoon, while the wind turbine produces more energy during the night. Statistical validation of the differing times that wind and solar energy are produced shows that a collaboration to this degree will be highly effective and give off a lot of energy output. Although collaboration between wind and solar energy sources not the initial objective, combining the strengths of both wind and solar energy will allow for a more efficient energy source that can combat the consumption of fossil fuels. The adaptability to different climates throughout the year will ensure a continuous flow of energy production, while never hindering the other source. Through engineering, a wind turbine with solar panels throughout will be able Student 5 to create more energy than any current model of wind or solar, making it a reliable compromise of power within each industry. (Word Count: 1257) Student 6 Works Cited AWEA - American Wind Energy Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cammarano, Alessandro, Chiara Petrioli, and Dora Spenza. Pro-Energy: A novel energy prediction model for solar and wind energy-harvesting wireless sensor  2012 IEEE 9th International Conference on Mobile Ad-Hoc and Sensor Systems (MASS 2012) (2012): n. pag. Web. Florida Solar Energy Industries  Florida Solar Energy Industries Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hybrid Wind and Solar Electric  Hybrid Wind and Solar Electric Systems Department of Energy. US Department of Energy, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Solar Energy Industries  SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association. Accessed Web. 26 Feb. 2017. U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and  Twelve states produced 80% of U.S. wind power in 2013 - Today in Energy - U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA). US Department of Energy, 15 Apr. 2014. Web. Wind Energy Foundation. Wind Energy Foundation, 2017, http://windenergyfoundation.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017.