Rolon 1 Brianna Rolon Instructor Gaspar ENC 1102 27 March 2017 Natural and Medical Treatments of Depression Seen as a Single Complementary Treatment Depression is a persistent condition that interferes with everyday life. It is a constant feeling that makes a person feel as if he/she is a burden to others. To help the people who have to cope with this illness, there are two equally effective methods of treatment. two methods include a natural way and medical way (Hanson). The natural way to go through treatment is presented by the first stakeholder, Bulletproof (Ansley). This mindset includes not taking any medication and focusing on exercising, staying positive, and being around (Ansley). The medical way to go through treatment is presented by the second stakeholder, The Australian & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry. This method of treatment implements a strong use of doctors, which includes daily doses of certain medication to ease the (Malhi). When people are looking into which treatment is best for them, disagreement becomes an issue. Patients may disagree on which treatment will be more effective. When this disagreement arises, so does the problem of relapse (Hanson). The best treatment would completely decrease the chances of relapse occurring (Hanson). At times, both treatments, when examined individually, may not be the perfect route for a patient. A possible compromise or alternative treatment may provide guidance and help alleviate people by removing the stress of choice. These two treatments have, what seem like, very incompatible goals. In order to ease the tension created by their incompatible goals, each stakeholder must Rolon 2 a by not completely dedicating a person to take medication 24/7 to focus on the natural method, but also not completely ruling out medication either. A person with depression could take certain doses of medication, but not to an extreme. Also, a person could engage in holistic activities, such as exercising and dieting, while also not completely ignoring medical attention. By combining both treatments, a overall health and happiness will increase very quickly and will remain long term (Hanson). Each stakeholder would benefit from this combination and would not completely lose anything. The first stakeholder, Bulletproof, has a goal to show people how to fight depression not with the use of drugs, but with the use of natural remedies (Ansley). The mission of this stakeholder is to help people perform better, think faster, and live better using a proven blend of ancient knowledge and brand new technologies, tempered by research, science, and measured results from our customers, top athletes, and medical (Ansley). Bulletproof argues that the holistic way is the most effective path to take when treating depression. The stakeholder states that depression are failures Bulletproof believes this because drugs are seen as placebos that have numerous side effects and only help in the short term. The second stakeholder, Australian & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry, has a goal to show people that medical attention is needed in a treatment of depression (Malhi). This stakeholder expresses their views by original articles which describe research or report opinions of interest to (Malhi). Australian & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry argues that world treatment approaches are less than (Malhi). Each stakeholder has a very different view of how treatment should be done, but they do share similarities that lead to a common ground. Rolon 3 Although the stakeholders seem very incompatible, there is a clear common ground. Bulletproof and The Australian & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry have needs that must be met such as adequate research done to support them, a group of individuals who have depression, and a group of individuals who do not have depression but are around people who do (Ansley and Malhi). By having these needs met, both stakeholders are able to provide adequate information to defend their points and create a solid treatment to argue for. Both stakeholders are also interested in a path to completely heal depression in a way that is very efficient, and best for a health, despite the different ways to achieve these goals (Ansley and Malhi). The journey to a cure may not be similar, but the goal itself of a cure is similar within each treatment. Bulletproof and The Australian & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry are concerned about the alternative treatments out there that may heal a person for a short amount of time (Ansley and Malhi). The alternative treatments are concerning to each of these stakeholders because depression may quickly return and cause issues later on in life, which is the complete opposite of their goal (Ansley and Malhi). They are also concerned with the effects that the treatment will have and what may happen to someone after the depression is cured (Ansley and Malhi). When a clear common ground is present, a solution to the arguments and incompatibility may be possible. A cure to depression means everything to people, especially those suffering. The main incompatible goal is that one stakeholder relies heavily on research, doctors, and medication while the other stakeholder relies on the pure health of self without the use of research, doctors, and medication (Hanson). By lowering the use of medical assistance, but also providing a method of a healthy lifestyle all in one, the most effective treatment would be possible to allow Rolon 4 to have the most safe and dependable treatment with multiple points of views included. A current solution is depending on the patient, a doctor may decide on the treatment that best accommodates he/she based on personalized tests (Zanetidou). This means that one treatment is not better than the other, it is just that one treatment may be best for a specific person and health. To benefit the first stakeholder, a person would still be taking medications, whether it is daily, over a few days, or weekly (Winter). The pharmacies and doctors would still be doing their job and benefitting from the patients, as well as doing their job to help others (Winter). To benefit the second stakeholder, a person would still be making changes to lifestyle in a holistic way (Carlin). Trainers, dieticians, nutritionists, etc. would still benefit and be able to do their job of working with people who have depression (Carlin). Overall, both stakeholders are allowed to continue to do what they believe is best, but in moderation and with a limit. This compromise can be offered when doctors are in the process of diagnosing people. This option would also be advertised and recommended the most in pharmacies, fitness areas, health offices, etc. It would be advertised the most to ensure that the treatment with every stakeholder involved has a part in the cure. A limit would be set on how quickly and how much a doctor may change a lifestyle through holistic process and how much medication a patient can take as well. A limit would be set because too much of one method may not be what is best for health (Kuehl). There will also be a limit on visits to a therapist/psychiatrist per week. Overall, there will be a balance within all treatments that way, everything be completely fair and inclusive. Another point that will be enforced is the personalization of each treatment plan (Zanetidou). A patient may need more of one treatment, while another patient Rolon 5 may need less of that treatment. Each patient will be looked into deeply to decide how much of each treatment will be needed and what the limits will be (Zanetidou). Another point would be to advertise this one, inclusive treatment in a fair and credible way, so that a person may not think higher of one treatment than the others. Each stakeholder would be represented in the same way to implement this compromise in the best way. A compromise that includes each side of the issue fairly will benefit a patient the most. The best points of each individual treatment are combined into one compromise to solve seemingly incompatible goals and provide the best, most efficient treatment. (WC: 1325) Rolon 6 Works Cited Asprey, Dave. How to Fight Depression & Feel Awesome Without  Bulletproof 360, Inc., 13 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Carlin, Peter and Kate Lee. Treat the Body, Heal the  (San Francisco, no. 1, 1997, p. 72. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.18995165&site=eds-live Hanson, Katie, et al. Attitudes and Preferences Towards Self-Help Treatments for Depression in Comparison to Psychotherapy and Antidepressant  and Cognitive vol. 44, no. 2, Mar. 2016, pp. 129-139. doi:10.1017/S1352465815000041. Kuehl, Linn, et al. Association between Major Depression and Cardiovascular Risk: The Role of Antidepressant  vol. 233, no. 18, 15 Sept. 2016, p. 3289. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed b&AN=117509694&site=eds-live. Malhi, Gin S., Yulisha Byrow, Darryl Bassett, Philip Boyce, Malcolm Hopwood, William Lyndon, Roger Mulder, Richard Porter, Ajeet Singh, and Greg Murray. Stimulants for Rolon 7 depression: On the up and  & New Zealand Journal of 50.3 (2016): 203-07. Web. 26 Feb. 2016 Pies, Ronald W.1,2. Depression: A 5-Minute Seminar for  vol. 33, no. 3, Mar. 2016, pp. 1-5. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ssf &AN=113912880&site=eds-live. Winter, Caroline. Dr. Feel Good and the Club Drug  no. 4439, 24 Aug. 2015, pp. 54-59. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=rg m&AN=109010043&site=eds-live. Zanetidou, Stamatula. Physical Exercise for Late-Life Depression: Customizing an Intervention for Primary  Journal of the American Geriatrics Society 65.2 (2017):348-355. Web.