Akandh 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Project 2 Final Draft The thing that most people have in common is eating. So, how food is produced has a huge impact on their daily lives. Some food is produced with genetically modified organisms, also known as GMOs, and people prefer that but there are people that prefer that their food not be affected by GMOs, naturally produced. One company that favor or approve of GMOs is Baden Aniline and Soda Factory, also known as BASF, because it produces and manufactures products with GMOs. However, there is another company/organization, known as The Non- GMO Project, that disapproves of food affected by GMOs because it has concerns about GMOs affecting human and environmental health and the effects GMOs have on farmers. The two companies have contrasting ideals, on either ends of the spectrum of the topic, with their goals not compatible and clash with each other. Even though they may not have the same mission, they share some common methods that could lead to a compromise and cause less of a rift between the two companies. As stated before, BASF favors the use of GMOs because it is one of the major companies that produces and manufactures products with and/or uses genetically modified organisms. BASF believes that using GMOs can improve and benefit lives around the world. BASF has several plants that were developed with GMOs to have positive impacts, like preventing cardiovascular diseases, plants that have higher content of astaxanthin or can be used for fish farming (BASF). Also, a major point why BASF supports the use of GMOs because it makes a Akandh 2 business of developing, producing, distributing, and using the GMOs. GMOs made by BASF benefit many different groups of people, like consumers, farmers, medical professionals, etc. Farmers can use GMOs to get the desired traits they want and can have resistance to things like insects or diseases (Panchin, Alexander Y., and Alexander I. Tuzhikov). While on the other hand, The Non-GMO Project opposes the use of GMOs, the opposite view of BASF. Its mission is to spread awareness of GMOs and provide products that are GMOs-free and made naturally (NGP). It believes that GMOs cause health problems for humans and negatively impacts the environment where GMOs are used. A way to make a compromise between the two companies so that their goals are compatible to each other is to meet in the middle; find the middle ground. issue with GMOs is that it believes that GMOs are unhealthy and negatively impactful to farmers because GMOs affect the jobs, however, BASF states that its GMOs benefit farmers greatly because they can get a greater yield and their crops would be resistant to many situations. So, a thing that BASF could do is help more farmers and support their work while NGP could try to understand more about GMOs. Word Count: 469 Akandh 3 Works Cited Cullet, Philippe. and GMOs: Towards a Redress Regime in Biosafety Economic and Political Weekly, vol. 39, no. 7, 2004, pp. Habeck, Martina. New Rules on Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment, vol. 1, no. 8, 2003, pp. Lianchawii. in India: Rethinking GMO Economic and Political Weekly, vol. 40, no. 39, 2005, pp. Panchin, Alexander Y., and Alexander I. Tuzhikov. Published GMO studies find no evidence of harm when corrected for multiple  Critical Reviews in Biotechnology 37.2 (2016): 213-17. Web. Somerville, Chris. Genetically Modified Organism Plant Physiology, vol. 123, no. 4, 2000, pp. Zhang, Mingyang, Chao Chen, Wuyang Hu, Lijun Chen, and Jintao Zhan. Influence of Source Credibility on Consumer Acceptance of Genetically Modified Foods in  Sustainability 8.9 (2016): n. pag. Web.