Student 1 Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 27 February 2017 Labeled Shops Will End the War Between GMO Activists Since the introduction of GM technology there has been an increase of several different genetically modified organisms to help feed the growing population (Rotman). Genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, are defined as a plant, or any other organism, whose genome has been modified by using DNA or (Non-GMO Project). However, the use of GMOs in food products engendered continuing controversy among a split population with some people supporting the use of GMOs and others strictly against it. There are many organizations, such as The Facts About GMOs, that believe the introduction of these genetically modified organisms creates many benefits for the agricultural industry. On the contrary, organizations like the Non-GMO project are strongly against the use of GM technology; they suspect the unknown technology poses many health concerns to consumers. A compromise can be met between these two organizations by surveying the population and garnering their opinion on the matter and then creating separate stores for products that contain GMOs and products that On one side of the argument is The Facts about GMOs, an organization that serves to educate the public on the safety of GMOs and how they benefit the population. The organization states that implementation of GM technology in crops will aid in sustaining the increasing Student 2 population at a fraction of the cost (The Facts about GMOs). This is due to the fact that ingredients grown with the use of GM technology require less pesticides and water compared to crops grown without. Also, by using GMOs instead of regular grown crops, farmers are able to increase more of a certain product in a faster amount of time. One of many drastic examples of this is corn has increased from 10 bushels per acre to 120 since the introduction of GMOs (Chassy 1). Additionally, there have been numerous claims stating that the results of multiple scientific studies have shown there is evidence of found in GMOs (Panchin et al.). Regulatory agencies such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the American Medical Association, and many others have all also confirmed that there are no known health concerns or negative effects associated with GMOs (The Facts about GMOs). Furthermore, GMOs are not a new concept. GMO technology has been introduced to of across the globe, as well as to million worldwide (Chassy 2). In addition to being safe for human consumption, it has been proven that GMOs harm the environment. The Facts about GMOs is an organization determined to educate the population on how GMOs are a safe alternative to producing great quantities of food quickly. On the opposite side of the spectrum, the Non-GMO Project is a nonprofit organization that is dedicated to establishing a food supply that derived from GMOs due to the potential health risk they pose (Non-GMO Project). The Non-GMO Project believes there has not been a scientific consensus regarding the health factors that go into GMOs and that scholars and physicians have explained any news claiming otherwise has been (Non-GMO Project). There still remains many regarding the science and impact of GMOs, therefore the Non-GMO Project is intent on putting an end to genetically modified Student 3 organisms (Young 5). Contrary to the findings of The Facts About GMOs, those against the use of genetically modified organisms claim the FDA conduct on organisms that utilize GM technology (Smith). The Non-GMO Project also states that any research that ends up with results that favor the use of biotechnology are all biased. Research that found produce with GMO the same as conventional foods were all conducted by biotechnology companies (Non-GMO Project). The aforementioned studies suggests the Non-GMO Project believes that the research done is biased and therefore inconclusive, and it is still unknown as to whether GMOs are actually safe to consume or not. Because of the mystery that surrounds the research regarding the health risks around GMOs, the Non-GMO Project is against the use of the technology in food products. Though these organizations may seem incompatible, they do share many of the same goals. The Facts about GMOs and the Non-GMO Project are both interested in providing safe crops for consumers to eat. The only difference is The Facts About GMOs believes GMOs are safe for people to consume while the Non-GMO Project disagrees. Additionally, they are both deeply concerned with the safety of the consumers and makes that their number one priority. Neither of the stakeholders want any harm to come to the people that by the produce, that is why they are both so adamant on the position they hold in the the argument. Also, both stakeholders agree that it is a necessity to provide the population with safe and healthy crops, which is why GMOs are an important subject to them. Since the utilization of GMOs in food products there have been a few attempts at reaching a compromise to the current issue, but none have been proven to work. The solution that is currently in use is labeling products that contain GMOs. While this may sound like a Student 4 reasonable idea, the solution fails to satisfy either side of the argument. The Facts About GMOs believe that labeling products that contain GMOs is not a valid answer to the problem. They state that GMOs are safe and putting a label on products that are derived from GMOs would simply be to consumers (The Facts About GMOs). The labeling would be misleading to consumers because GMOs seem to differ from conventional foods on the topics of and (Robinson). In addition to appearing deceptive, labeling GMOs can reverse the supposed benefits that come with using GM technology. Using labels on foods could potentially increase food costs and decrease yield size (Robinson). The Non-GMO Project states that the labeling bill benefit them either. Instead the new solution is a non-labeling bill as a labeling bill (Worland). The organization feels as though the bill really do what it is intended to do. Because there has been no recent success in ending the argument over the safety of GMOs, a new compromise is required. A proposed, new solution to the predicament would be to set up separate shops for crops that contain GMOs and crops that contain GMOs. To practically implement the solution the shops would first be tested at a local level. It begins by distributing a survey, whether electronically or on paper, asking the people that populate that specific area their opinions on GMOs. The results derived from this survey will then determine exactly how much to limit GM technology use by. After a limit has been imposed on the area, different shops will be labeled and set up. Some shops will sell strictly food with or without GMOs, the decision will be made by the owner or corporate. If, for example, shops that sell GMOs greatly outnumber shops that do, new stores will be set up to even out the produce distribution. The compromise benefits both parties because, while they both are required to show a bit of leniency, they are both getting Student 5 what they wanted. GMOs will still be sold throughout the nation, but in an entirely separate store than those without this way consumers are given a choice in what to buy. The use of biotechnology to produce genetically modified organisms has gathered a lot of attention from several activists. Some organizations, like The Facts About GMOs, support the use of GM technology because it benefits the population as a whole. Other groups, such as the Non-GMO Project, are against GMOs because they pose a serious health risk to consumers. A proposed solution to unite the currently divided population would be to create different stores nationwide that will administer products with GMOs or without GMOs, not both. The suggested compromise will help benefit both sides of the argument, rather than just one. WC: 1348 Student 6 Works Cited Chassy. History and Future of GMOs in Food and Foods World n. pag. Web. Elton Robinson 1Jul 07, 2014. reasons why we fight mandatory GMO Farm N.p., 07 July 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Panchin, Alexander Y., and Alexander I. Tuhikov. GMO studies find no evidence of Harm when corrected for multiple Reviews in Biotechnology (2016): 213-17. Web. Rotman, David. GMOs Could be an Important Tool in Feeding the  Technology Review. Technology Review, 16 Sept. 2016. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. Smith, Melissa Diane. against GMOs: the fast-growing movement to avoid unnatural genetically modified to take back our food and health. States: Melissa Diane Smith, 2014. Print. Worland, Justin. Activists Are Unhappy With New GMO Labeling Yahoo!, 14 July 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Young, Tomme R. modified organisms and biosafety: a background paper for decision-makers and others to assist in consideration of GMO issues. IUCN, 2004. Print.