Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Equal Focus on the Arts and STEM Forms the Most Well-rounded Students In modern society, students take classes in art and biology and business and communication so that they can be exposed to different types of education. When school districts face budget cuts, usually, the first programs to be cut are art classes. There are many parents and school board directors that believe that art classes are not as important as science, technology, engineering, and math, or STEM for short. STEM courses have their advocates and their importance cannot be denied but art classes are also extremely important in reducing the stress and increasing overall positivity in the student body as well as promoting critical thinking and creativity the Arts STEM courses, however, are important in developing many of the same cognitive skills as well as promoting certain societal advantages Two organizations that are on opposite sides of this issue are for the and These two organizations have differing opinions; whether the best education system is mostly STEM based or mostly art education best. A possible compromise between the two sides of this issue is for a curriculum to be designed that incorporates both the arts and STEM courses into one subject, since both systems have been proven to be beneficial to overall health and future. On one side of this issue is Americans for the Arts, which is an organization that supports keeping the arts in schools. This organization petitions members of the United States Congress to pass bills that will stop art, music, and theater programs from being defunded We Stand Student 2 Americans for the Arts maintains that art classes help to raise overall grade point averages and help to lower drop-out rates the Arts because creating something that a student is passionate about releases stress and lowers cortisol levels in the brain (Lupien). Cortisol is a hormone that can trigger the release of glucocorticoids, which can potentially lead to memory deficits later in life (Lupien). Americans for the Arts also cites articles released by the United States Department of Education that gives data that shows that as students grow, art becomes less and less available to them (Parsad). This indicates that as students age, access to art becomes harder and harder to reach, which, in turn, indicates that cortisol and stress levels will increase (Lupien), as students do not have a creative outlet. Another side of this argument is presented by Sonoran Schools, which is an organization that creates primarily STEM curriculums for schools. This organization believes that STEM courses promote cognitive thinking, teamwork, and problem solving skills that will better prepare students for when they enter college and the workforce While Sonoran Schools does not outright dismiss the benefits of art programs at schools, they emphasize that they believe that STEM courses are more important and more beneficial for students. Teenagers in the United States are in roughly the 50 th percentile in science and math when compared to international students of the same age. As a result of this, researchers are attempting to discover new ways to create quality STEM education curriculums that can better prepare American youths for a career in the sciences (Gottfried 2012). This organization wants students to succeed in their future careers that society deems to be important and worthwhile, such as business or engineering. Sonoran Schools wants students of the United States to be ranked higher internationally and wants students to succeed. Sonoran Schools will push their Student 3 students to take as many classes as possible in STEM courses because, historically, they have the highest payoff in society, both in terms of social status and monetary status. Sonoran Schools and Americans for the Arts, however, both care about the future of the students of the United States. Both organizations want young students to succeed in the best way that they know how. Sonoran Schools maintains that pushing STEM courses will benefit students the most, while Americans for the Arts believes that having a variety of arts classes available for students will help them succeed as well. For both of these organizations to reach a compromise they both need to sacrifice a part of their ideal school curriculums. The ideal curriculum that incorporates both of these viewpoints equally would be for STEM teachers to be paired up with an art teacher, and using both specialties to teach the students the STEM subjects. For example, when students are learning about the different organelles of a cell, they would learn the concepts from one teacher and have an applied project from the other teacher that involves creating a three dimensional model of what they have learned. The idea behind this compromise is that every concept that is taught from a STEM teacher has an applied idea that will follow it. A compromise that incorporates both STEM and art will allow students tointeract with other students and build social skills, as well as using concepts that are taught in lecture style classrooms and see their actual applications in real world scenarios (Mobley and Fischer 2014). This compromise involves a give and take from each organization because both are forced to work together towards a common goal whose result would be equally satisfying for both parties. Both organizations must give up their viewpoint that their favored curriculum style is better than the other, and acknowledge that both sides offer potential benefits for the students. A STEM and arts hybrid curriculum relies on the fact that many students benefit greatly from kinesthetic learning, or hands-on learning. Kinesthetic learning has been proven to be Student 4 helpful to students that have many preferred learning types, such as auditory and visual, and will allow for higher cognitive thinking because different areas of the brain are being engaged. The more that a student engages their brain in different types of learning before the full development of the frontal cortex, which usually occurs around age twenty-one, the better their higher cognitive thinking skills will be when they get older (Mobley and Fischer 2014), which will allow the United States to have more engineers and doctors and other jobs in the STEM field, which would satisfy Sonoran Schools, as one of their goals is to allow the United States to grow in international ranking This compromise will also satisfy Americans for the Arts as one of their goals is for each student to have access to all types of art and have the opportunity to create art projects the Arts Americans for the Arts believes that students that create art, on average, have higher grade point averages as well as have lower stress levels the Arts and this compromise allows students to use art in a scientific way that would allow them to be creative and to use concepts that they have learned in lectures and apply them to real world problems. For this application to be possible, it will take dedication and time on the part of the instructors and the school boards. For a new curriculum to be implemented that prioritizes both the arts and STEM, the current school curriculum must be completely redone and sufficient funding must be provided until all of the issues are worked out. A starting point would be for school boards to be presented with the issue of art programs being defunded, before they are cut out of the curriculum, and to be presented with a possible compromise. Another possible benefit is that, in the long run, it would require less funding since two separate programs would not need to be funded, which would allow for all parties that are involved to be satisfied with this compromise. (WC: 1,278) Student 5 Student 6 Works Cited Gottfried, Michael, et al. The Role of Applied Engineering and Computer Science Courses in the Production of Math Achievement in High School. Society for Research on Educational Effectiveness, Society for Research on Educational Effectiveness, 01 Jan. 2012 Lupien, Sonia J., et al. Cortisol levels during human aging predict hippocampal atrophy and memory  Nature neuroscience 1.1 (1998): 69-73. Mobley, Kayce and Sarah Fisher. Ditching the Desks: Kinesthetic Learning in College  Social Studies, vol. 105, no. 6, Nov/Dec2014, pp. 301-309. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/00377996.2014.951471. Parsad, Basmat, and Spiegelman Maura. Arts Education in Public Elementary and Secondary Schools: 1999-2000 and 2009-10. Place of Publication Not Identified: Bibliogov, 2013. US Department of Education. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Sonoran  Sonoran Schools. Sonoran Schools 2017, n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. What We Stand  What We Stand For Americans for the Arts Action Fund. Americans for the Arts, n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. Why the Arts  Why the Arts Matter Americans for the Arts Action Fund. Americans for the Arts, n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017.