Student 1 Student Instructor Gaspar ENC 1102 26 March 2017 The Debate Between Pro-Life and Pro-Choice When it comes to abortion, this topic is a strong factor in platforms for many big decisions due to their opinion on what is morally and ethically right. Both stakeholders, Center for Bio-Ethical Reform and National Organization for Women, have different ideas about how a pregnant woman makes decisions regarding her pregnancy, but they both aim to achieve their goal as what they think is morally right. Center for Bio-Ethical Reform continues to fight for pro-life fetal justice and the rights for an unborn child. They believe that an unborn baby has a right to life and that abortion is inhumane with no morals and continue to convey their beliefs of the injustice of abortion. As for the National Organization for Women, one of their goals for gender equality and empowerment of women is giving women the right to reproductive health as a necessity for strengthening women for their fight for rights. The pro-choice National Organization for Women, also known as NOW, believes by giving women a choice for reproductive rights in all forms, there will be more equality between both genders. For a compromise to come about, both sides would need to accept some reasons to come to terms with the other side and develop an understanding that addressing the problem would mean cooperation. Since NOW wants to achieve access to abortion for all three trimesters and the Center for Bio-Ethical Reform demands termination of all abortion access, a proposed Student 2 compromise is to establish time limits within the 3 trimesters as to when abortion is allowed such as only in the first. Looking at one side of the issue, the National Organization of Women is a large association supporting growing feminist activists in the United States. Founded in 1966, they target a multitude of issues regarding women in modern society. With members and activists in all 50 states, their push for social change through electoral and lobbying work makes strides toward their goal of equal rights in all aspects of society, feminist ideals, and elimination of discrimination (National Organization for Women). NOW consider reproductive rights as access to abortion and contraceptives such as condoms, birth control, and emergency contraception; they believe the women range of rights to decide for her own body instead of laws deciding for her. NOW advocates rights and strive to restrict legislation against such rights because they are of life and their goal is securing the rights in achieving an amendment in the U.S. Constitution. In addition, women should also have access to contraceptives as well as proper sexual education to prevent unplanned pregnancies. According to MIT Pro-Choice, 19% of teens who have had sexual intercourse become pregnant each year and 78% of these are unplanned. Nearly 6 of 10 teen pregnancies occur among 18-19 year olds (Know the Facts). The National Organization of Women advocate sexual health education early on to empower Women with knowledge and facts about their own bodies since most sexual knowledge is obtained from school and or their family. People can make better decisions for themselves if they are properly educated about abortions during all three trimesters. These outcomes can be seen in the high pregnancy rates in low developing countries where women have barely any access to contraceptives, birth control, condoms, and most importantly sexual education. Currently, the Student 3 National Organization for Women is fighting for easy access to abortion care by eliminating the Hyde Amendment which is an obstacle for women asking coverage for their abortion care which is a common procedure along with access to abortion for all three trimesters (Hyde Amendment). main goal is to obtain legislation that gives women rights to aspects such as these universally. They believe this will improve the situation for women and strengthen them rather than completely prohibit abortion. Other factors that come into play regarding abortion rights are individual situations. For example, people for pro-choice believe situations such as women who have been raped deserve a right to abort the baby. In some cases, an abortion may be necessary to save the life for some medical emergency circumstances. As for the other side of the argument, the Center for Bio-Ethical Reform, founded in 1990, is a privately-funded, non-profit education corporation that views abortion as inhumane and is working towards a prenatal justice (Center for Bio-Ethical Reform). While the National Organization of Women advocates education and overall sexual health, the Center for Bio- Ethical Reform creates resources and hold seminars centered around educating people about how abortions are immoral. Currently, abortion laws are regulated on a state government level and some allow abortion while some their goals are to gain wide-spread recognition about the right of life for the unborn and obtaining legislation supporting that. They also disapprove of any use of contraception due to beliefs that they are another form of abortion. According to Pro- Life Across America, abortion is legal for all nine months of pregnancy due to the U.S. Supreme Court ruling on Roe vs. Wade and Doe vs. Bolton on January 22, 1873. (Pro-Life Across America). Though many of these states have rescinded their rights to abortion, these rulings are a cause of concern for the Center for Bio-Ethical Reform since they strive for the elimination of all abortion. Their largest cause of concern is the fact that the baby is alive within the womb and Student 4 still allowed to be aborted any time within those 9 months. Those who believe in pro-life argue that the 14 th Amendment clearly states the to life, liberty, or property and requires that every person be provided equal protection of the and yet abortion consider of the right to life because the baby is alive within the womb (8 Quick Facts). Because of this factor, the debate becomes even more disputable. Both stakeholders, the National Organization for Women and the Center for Bio-Ethical Reform hold their values closely and strongly believe in their goals. These organizations are determined to carry out what they believe is right for the life of both women and unborn baby. According to Students for Life of America, the U.S. abortion rate is among the highest of developed countries and nearly 1 in 4 pregnancies in the U.S. end in abortion (Abortion Facts). Many people who consider themselves moderate towards both sides state that the U.S. should look towards other developed countries and their examples for solving the debate. The compromise that has been brought up is that many developed countries such as France with abortion rates as low as 10 per 1000 and usually better health outcomes commonly restrict abortion after the first trimester. (Compare Birth Rates). While the National Organization for Women want rights of abortion for all three trimesters and the Center for Bio-Ethical Reform wants the complete elimination of abortion and all other contraception, a good compromise is to allow abortion for only the first trimester while the baby is not as developed yet and then restrict it afterwards. As seen in other countries, this significantly reduces the abortion rate while giving women rights to their own decision about having the baby. Both sides of the argument are too extremist and difficult, a compromise like this would give both sides a win of some sort because less abortions are due to freedom of decision during the first trimester. Another aspect that should be included is to start educating people at a young age about sexual health. Student 5 In conclusion, by fostering less extremist values where the rights of the unborn and women are both valued, a compromise can be found by finding valid points from both stakeholders and taking those values into account on both sides. The National Organization for Women value the rights and equality of women by giving them the choice since they have a right towards their own body; on the other hand, the Center for Bio-Ethical Reform supports legislation that would terminate abortion rights because they are immoral and the rights of the unborn are not being considered. Though both arguments are solid in their standing, a compromise of allowing abortion up to the first trimester instead of allowing abortion up to three trimester should satisfy both sides. Aspects were meshed into this agreement because both sides developed an understanding of each other. By settling this dispute into a collaboration of both sides, it can serve as a precedent of resolving future moral debates. (Word Count: 1400) Student 6 Works Cited Reproductive Rights and  National Organization for Women. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. <http://now.org/issues/abortion-rights-reproductive-issues/>. the MIT Pro-Choice. N.p., n.d. Web. 5. Mar. 2017. <http://web.mit.edu/pro- choice/www/facts.html>. Hyde  Planned Parenthood Action. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. <https://www.plannedparenthoodaction.org/issues/abortion/hyde-amendment>. What We  Center For Bio-Ethical Reform. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. <http://www.abortionno.org/what-we-do/>. Know, Learn & Share the FACTS about  Pro-Life Across America. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. <https://prolifeacrossamerica.org/baby-developmental-facts/>. 8 Quick Facts You Need to Know About  Pennsylvania Pro-Life Federation. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. <https://www.paprolife.org/8-quick-facts/>. Abortion  Students for Life Across America. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. <http://studentsforlife.org/prolifefacts/abortion-facts/>. Compare Birth Rates, Abortion Rates and Number of  The Washington Post. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. <http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp- srv/health/daily/051606/teensex.html>.