Olivia Weber Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 4/2/2017 The Payment of College Athletes The fight over the payment of College Athletes has gone back in forth over the years. The payment of college athletes can have a huge impact on our society because the great majority of the general public watches college sports either live or on television. By having student athletes get paid,many things would change for the college athletic division as a whole. Those fighting for the system to stay the same believe that there would be many negative repercussions. Although student athletes work hard and can be viewed as employees, students athletes are amateurs, are offered tuition scholarships and if paid the NCAA would lose their non-profit status, therefore the NCAA should keep the system they already have in place. The NCAA prohibits payment of college athletes in order to keep all the athletes amateurs. This amaetur policy is one of the major foundations of the NCAA. These amateur guidelines prohibit the payment or compensation of any kind to student athletes including, with professional teams, salary for participating in athletic or benefits from an agent or prospective These amatuer guidelines are in place in order to keep the student athletes, students first and focused on their studies instead of making their sport a priority. Along witht that, it allows all players to remain on an equal playing field and allows no student athletes the upper These guidelines of amateurism and assurance of equality are so important to the foundation of the NCAA because at conception, there were many issues with cheating, unfair recruiting and injuries to players(Lodge). In turn, this value of amateurism aligns perfectly with one of the core values of pursuing excellence not only with their sport but also in the classroom. Therefore by not paying college athletes, it keeps the values of the NCAA intact and maintains their focus of academics over Core This fight over payment of college athletes is so prevalent that it was even brought to court. The case was named vs NCAA and occurred when former and current player challenge the use of their names, image and likeness. The court ruled that although it was important to compensate the current and former student athletes for the use of their names, images and likeness, amateurism is more important. The court believed that there were better and less restrictive way to allow proper compensation without breaking the code of amateurism. This ruling shows how important the idea of amateurism is(Lodge). The NCAA strongly believes in education first over sports and believes that keeping their college athletes amateurs is the best way to pursue this. The second reasoning behind why college athletes should not receive payment is because of the scholarship they already receive. The payment that the student athletes do receive is their full ride scholarship to the school they are attending. These scholarships that the students receive payment for their tuition, any supplies they need along with food and housing. On top of that, all their sports equipment and apparel they wear is provided for them(Birkenes and Bagaria). Having a scholarship that pays for all your college needs is something that most college students would dream of so therefore these student athletes should take advantage of the scholarship they have along with the opportunity of a free higher education that they then can use to better themselves. These scholarships are now in law as compensation for the student athletes(Groves 104). Lastly, college athletes should not get paid because the NCAA would then lose status as a non-profit organization(Schneider). By paying the athletes for their work during practice and during games, the NCAA would then become more of a business instead of a non-profit and would have their players as employees. Along with that, players can not get paid because payment to the major sports such as Division I Basketball and Football would then leave little to no money for other sports. This would first be unfair because since these sports make up so much of the revenue they would expect their paychecks to reflect such. This means that there would be no funding left to pay all other sports the same as Basketball and Football and would in turn end up in cutting the programs. So therefore by paying the college athletes, many other sports would get cut due to the unfair payment of other non-revenue sports(Schneider). Yet, the fight is on both sides for the payment of college athletes. It is believed that they should receive payment since they act as employees. Many student athletes spend just as much time as an adult would on a full time job on their sport. This should then mean payment since they do spend so much time devoted to their sport. Along with that, the major sports of Division I Basketball and Football rack up revenue of billions of dollars every year and the student athletes are the ones making that money for their teams as they are the ones playing. Therefore, it is believed that they should receive some of that money since they work very hard during their season(Birkenes and Bagaria). Lastly, the case is made that student athletes should get paid because coaches in Division I sports are paid very high salaries. Their salaries are often well above $100,000 annually. Along with often receiving compensation for having their team wear a specific brand. The claim is then made that if there is enough money in the budget to pay this much for coaches than the student athletes should also receive compensation. Although this is a reality that many want, this is something that has been disputed and even brought to court and will be fought over for a long time(Schneider). Although this controversy over payment of college athletes might seem to only affect those involved, its range is wider than that. Millions of people watch and attend college sports every year and therefore are affected by them and if this debate were to get so heated that college sports were to stop altogether it would end of affecting the general public. That is why it is important that something is done now in order to prevent that from happening. In order to support the NCAA and continue the practice of amateurism, the general public can support the NCAA. The general public can do this in several ways. First, they can participate from home by watching at the college sports on TV. That not only includes the more popular ones such as Basketball and Football but also Basketball, Softball, Baseball, Soccer and more. When the general public watches all of the NCAA sports from home, they then are supporting the NCAA in the number of viewers and in turn allow them to make more money which can go towards more future athletes. The second thing that fans can do is buy apparel. By this purchase of apparel this is a physical representation of their support not only for the team but also for the NCAA as the team is a part of the NCAA. The biggest gesture that the fans can do is buy tickets to games. At times these tickets can be costly especially, when they are to important games such as the National Football Championship or any March Madness games, but this is a big gesture of support. By attending the games it is a physical representation of support along with a larger monetary support. By all of these monetary support systems, this shows the NCAA that what they are doing is correct and can provide more money for the NCAA to give out scholarships to as many student athletes as possible. The current rules and regulations in place for the NCAA and student athletes are both working and beneficial, that is why it is important to continue to keep them implemented and support the NCAA. Work Cited  - The Official Site of the N.p., 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. Birkenes, Adele and Akash Bagaria. Pay to Play: Should College Athletes Be  Events, a Weekly Reader no. 13, 2012, p. 7. Groves, Roger M. A Solution for the Pay for Play Dilemma of College Athletes: A Novel Compensation Structure Tethered to Amateurism and  Review of Entertainment & Sports vol. 17, no. 2, Spring2016, pp. 101-143. Lodge, Alexander. Afraid of the Big Bad NCAA?...The Ed V. NCAA Impact on the Amateurism  of Corporation vol. 41, no. 3, Spring2016, pp. 775-793. NCAA Core  - The Official Site of the N.p., 06 July 2016. Web. 28 Mar. 2017.