Williams 1 Joseph Williams ENC 1102 Professor Ryan 26 February 2017 Sustainable Energy: A World Without Gas Sustainable energy is a controversial topic that is very relevant today, since energy is necessary for humans to grow. Some people see sustainable energy as a way for companies to lose money and others see it as a way for humans to be more environmentally friendly. Tesla is a company that only makes products that use sustainable energy. They believe that sustainable energy is what people will use in the future to fuel their daily lives. Therefore, they only develop vehicles that run on a sustainable source of energy. According to official website their goal is accelerate the transition to sustainable (About Tesla). Tesla hopes that one day the world will run off sustainable energy that benefits the environment and reuses resources. With the use of advertisements, Tesla encourages the public to use sustainable energy. Both images presented use different techniques to get consumers to understand and even get their interest by mission. Both pictures strongly hint that they do not see a need for fossil fuels in their cars. The ads that Tesla presents addresses their goal and short term issues that inhibit them from completing it. Tesla released these ads with the intent of accelerating their goals to completion. They believe that this type of advertising is essential to attract individuals to the idea of sustainable energy in their daily lives. The first advertisement with the red car targets people who may have doubts about transportation that runs on renewable energy. The article by Washington Post describes how Williams 2 there are with cars and there is a reliability (Harwell). This creates a bad reputation for Tesla which negatively impacts the goal. If people, see that this type of transportation (one that runs on renewable energy) have issues it will lead to certain doubts that can negatively impact Tesla from achieving their goal. It will cause society to believe that renewable energy is far from being ready to replace fossil fuels. The ad attempts to convince anyone with doubt that their product is reliable and nothing is wrong with it. The purpose of this ad (with the red car) is to prove that sustainable energy is ready to replace nonrenewable energies. First it gives some performance information and then it adds on to it with Tesla does this to link back to their core beliefs that alternative energy is the future. However, the sentence with the most impact is with a clean It is written in small faded font which makes it seem more insignificant than the rest of the information, but this is not the case. This phrase logically appeals to performance enthusiasts and environmentalists. The article, Electric Cars Are Not Necessarily  describes how although Tesla says they are they create these cars in factories that produce emissions (Biello). This negative feedback is the reason Tesla releases these ads. They want people to know that they are working towards being completely reliable off sustainable energy. The advertisement takes a more forward approach, when it states performance statistics. Tesla establishes their credibility in this ad by placing their brand logo and website. With the use of pathos, the ad makes the audience feel convinced and relieved that product performs reliably, since it removes any unwanted doubt. With the use of logos, the advertisement helps tell the audience that there is nothing wrong with electric cars and they Williams 3 are just as good, if not better than traditional cars. There are some negative myths about electric cars that some people believe and Tesla uses this ad to put these concerns to rest. There is only one main color that pops off the image and that color is red, which symbolizes a form of emergency (Color Meaning). Tesla does this to create a sense of urgency (Kairos) that the time to switch to an electric car (one that runs on sustainable energy) is now. Overall this ad is trying to convince the audience that sustainable energy is just as reliable as fossil fuels. The image with the black car takes a simpler approach but overall impact is quite large. This advertisement is more straight forward about goal. The first word is which is written in a way that makes it seem unnecessary. The first word attracts an audience since people want to pay a lot of money on gas. The second and third line tell us that gas is unnecessary where they are going, and in this case Tesla is talking about the future (since in the bottom left it says boldly into the This advertisement tries to encourage and convince the audience that the future of transportation will run on sustainable energy. Although there is no information about how sustainable energy performs there is a deeper meaning than that of the first image. There is Tesla logo in the bottom right corner that helps give the ad credibility. The scenery in this ad is a car on a one-way road heading past a mountain. This is imagery for where their company is heading, past a mountain (the present) and to a new location (the future). This ad uses one phrase and an image to describe what Tesla believes in. It strongly relates to how Tesla wants to change the future, so that people rely on sustainable energy rather than gas (fossil fuel), this is what is over the mountain. The image makes the audience feel curious to what Tesla has planned when gas a part of it. The phrase going, we need gives the audience this sense of curiosity since Williams 4 gas is seen as necessary by consumers. It also makes the readers feel obliged to search for a type of transportation that depends on a sustainable energy (this is where tesla hopes for people to come to them). When it says boldly into the it has two meanings. The first meaning is that they want the audience to feel confident with their decision on transportation. The second meaning is that Tesla hopes that the consumers follow them to a future where sustainable energy is dominant. This is linked to their overall goal. The ad uses logos to help the audience understand that gas have to be a necessary resource used by humans. Through the use of advertisements Tesla wants to open the eyes to sustainable energy. Both ads displayed core beliefs, with each one using a different technique. Tesla strongly believes that sustainable energy will be necessary in the future. Tesla sees many benefits with sustainable energy, such as zero emissions, it is an unlimited resource, and it can replace fossil fuels (which can help benefit the environment). This is why they want to push people towards this type of energy source so that their goal can be achieved. Overall each ad shows a different point from Tesla, one appeals to an audience with doubts, and the other informs people about ideal future. Williams 5 Work Cited About  Tesla, www.tesla.com/about. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Biello, David. Electric Cars Are Not Necessarily  Scientific America, 11 May 2016,www.scientificamerican.com/article/electric-cars-are-not-necessarily-clean/. Accessed 15 Mar. 2017. Color  Color Wheel Pro, QSX Software Group, www.color-wheel-pro.com/color- meaning.html. Accessed 15 Mar. 2017. Harwell, Drew. Tesla, Once Beloved by Critics, Ranks near Bottom of New Consumer Reports  The Washington Post, 24 Oct. 2016, www.washingtonpost.com/news/the switch/wp/2016/10/24/tesla-once-beloved-by-critics-plummets-in-new-consumer- reports Accessed 27 Feb. 2017. Williams 6