Hall 1 Samantha Hall Professor Ryan ENC 1102.001 19 March 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric When it comes to raising public awareness about any issue, the most effective way is to use advertisements. Advertisers use multiple forms of advertisements and techniques to generate a certain thought process within the audience based on who is seeing the ad and what the ad is about. They use simple yet effective techniques that raise awareness about their topic or organizations, whether it be by using colors or repeating specific phrases. A specific strategy that advertisers use is a form of persuasion that appeals to the audience to make them care more about their argument. This is portrayed by Advocates for Youth, which uses ethos, logos, pathos, kairos, and visual elements in their advertisements to show their belief that comprehensive sexual education is needed in schools and abstinence-only programs should be removed from schools. One form of appeals used in the advertisements created by Advocates for Youth is an emotional appeal. This is used to tie emotional attitudes to the advertisement in order to evoke feelings of pity or sadness in a way that will convince the readers that sexual education needs to be placed in schools as a comprehensive program and not an abstinence based one. In Image 1, there is a classroom full of older people sitting in desks who appear to be uninterested and slightly confused. Their emotions imply that the abstinence only program leave the students with no real method of protection against the rise of pregnancy or STDs like the comprehensive based program. Advocates for Youth believe that the kids have the right to be taught an honest and Hall 2 complete sexual education in order to protect themselves in the future (Advocates for Youth 2008). The main goal of the organization is for the students to be aware of the consequences that come with sexual intercourse and instill the fear of contracting a contraceptive disease that could cause a cancer or the incurable disease of HIV that can lead to AIDS and, in most cases, an early death. In Image 1, the setting appears to be a classroom engaged in the abstinence teaching, as shown by the posters in the back that read your stay a and your dog not your The language shows the motives of sexual intercourse as childlike, speaking like an adult rebuking a child for thinking or becoming tempted to do wrong. This intends to pull in the audience with a negative viewpoint on the classroom based on the posters, and entices them to read further to understand the purpose of the advertisement. Advocates for Youth uses emotional appeals to make the advertisement relatable to the public to show the importance of a comprehensive sexual education program. Advocates for Youth also uses visual elements to draw attention to the advertisement through important figures in the image or colors that influence a need to act. In Image 2, a doctor can be seen with his arms crossed emitting the feeling of authority and power. This encourages people to read the advertisement because the presence of a doctor provides a sense of importance. In the advertisement, it also uses the phrase it in big letters to emphasize that the abstinence programs discussed in the ad listened to the doctors, and that time for that to change. It continues by discussing in the text how pediatricians recommend an honest and accurate education when it comes to sex. The audience is expected to believe what the doctors say because they are highly educated in the medical field, and the advertisement uses the emotional ties to doctors to persuade the audience to see the importance of a comprehensive sexual education program. Hall 3 Another important element is the logical side of any argument. Logic is used to connect the advertisement to the minds and thought processes of the audience by centering the information contained in the advertisement around evidence and reasoning. In Image 1, the utilization of the statistical information surrounding health care and the expenses put into creating and running abstinence only programs allows the audience to see the total effort and results of the abstinence programs. Advocates for Youth strategically chose information that discusses the spending of $1.5 billion dollars, which the advertisement covers as a of money, as well as the number of Americans lacking a healthcare plan, totaling 45 million. This provides a numerical viewpoint for the programs that have been placed into schools nationwide. According to Emily article, published in Writing Commons, logical appeals used in advertisements are based off of the common beliefs a person has or their specific values (Lane 2010). Advocates for Youth provides this information based on the values and belief that the doctors and surveys are truthful as well as authoritative over important decisions to back up their claim that comprehensive programs need to be placed in the schools and the abstinence ones need to be removed. In Image 2, it discusses the Say approach, which excludes the health benefits of condoms and birth control that cost the government $1 billion. This evidence from the studies on abstinence programs furthers the claims made by Advocates for Youth about how abstinence only programs have failed. Another widely used element in writing advertisements is the credibility of the ad itself. In both advertisements, they have the logo at the bottom of the page. Displaying their name on the ads gives the organization credibility and the audience is more apt to trust what it says. In Image 1, Advocates for Youth provides evidence of an evaluation of abstinence programs performed by congress on April 13, 2007, allowing a point of reference for more information. This gives the specific date that abstinence programs started to be evaluated by congress and the start Hall 4 of the fallibility of these programs. By including the date, they have provided a second credibility to their claim of how a comprehensive sexual education program is needed in schools rather than just an abstinence based one by reinforcing that congress has also discovered faults and misleading information in the program. In Image 2, the ad utilizes the image of a doctor giving credibility to their increased knowledge of the medical field since the doctors are disagreeing with the abstinence programs in the advertisement, implying that both the doctors and the organization share the belief of a comprehensive program. Image 2 also references The American Academy of Pediatrics to emphasize the credibility of the advertisement. Finally, the last element that is commonly used in advertisements is the attempt to prompt the audience to take action, or to influence them by recent events. The timing of an advertisement is key, and showing how the issue is affecting them causes a need for it to be fixed as soon as possible (Sheridan 2009). In Image 1, the usage of the words and calls the audiences to not only recognize that there is an issue but attempts to show them that there needs to be a change immediately. The word being underlined in red draws attention to the phrase end the failed In Image 2, Advocates for Youths use of the words and when addressing the current abstinence programs attempting to provoke an immediate response to replace the program with a comprehensive program. In conclusion, advertisers use multiple appeals to influence and persuade the public, whether it be by appealing to the emotions or by providing evidence. Advocates for Youth uses emotion, evidence, credible sources, visuals that draw the attention of the audience, and phrases that call the public to act in their advertisements to convince them to support the comprehensive sexual education rather than the abstinence based ones. As shown in the advertisements produced by Advocates for Youth, the abstinence only programs are not only not recommended by doctors Hall 5 but they contain misleading information and leave out health benefits. They also provide multiple elements in their ads attempting to convince the public that the abstinence only programs need to be replaced with a comprehensive one. Hall 6 Works Cited Hauser, Debra. Advocatesforyouth.org. Edward Carporal, 14 July 2008. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Lane, Emily M. Power: The Importance of Ethos, Pathos and Communication Assessment and Learning Lab (CALL) Blog, Creative Attributes, 12 Oct. 2010, comm.lab.asu.edu/persuasive-power-the-importance-of-ethos-pathos-and-logos. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Education: It Time to Listen to the Pediatricians, Not the Politicians Advocates For Youth Advertisements, 6 Apr. 2009, advocatesforyouth.org/doctorsorders/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Sheridan, David, Tony Michel, and Jim Ridolfo. Kairos and New Media: Toward a Theory and Practice of Visual  Enculturation: A Journal of Rhetoric, Writing, and Culture 6.2 (2009). Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Things Just Advocates For Youth Advertisements, 15 July 2008, advocatesforyouth.org/endfunding. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Hall 7