Miller 1 Taylor Miller Lorie Jewell ENC 1101 5 February 2017 The Proper Treatment of Syndrome Syndrome (TS) is a very common disorder amongst Americans. It is a fairly new disorder that has been recognized and effects people neurologically. is commonly paired with other disorders like OCD and ADHD. The symptoms for TS including vocal and physical tics that can vary from anything from coughing to hopping. I believe should be treated based on a patient by patient examination and not just across the board. has too many variables, it a common enough to receive a good amount of funding, and it is neurological making it harder to pin point. TS is a very complex disorder and not one case is alike. This would go into detail of long examinations of patients and algorithms of finding the proper medication specific for the symptoms of and not another disease or disorder. Every case of Syndrome is different. Treating TS based on extensive testing and observation is what I believe to give the best form of a better outcome. hypotheses involving a range of variables salient to the TS et al., 2015) Explaining how the TS varies in many ways. That is why is it so critical to truly test TS and asses it for a proper treatment. Though, some believe it is just easier and best to just do a medicine algorithm and treat with anything from antidepressants to antipsychotics. antipsychotics appear to show particular (Sallee et al., 1997) This is from a study where they used a medicine algorithm to treat 15 patients with TS and explaining how it just seems to work without testing Miller 2 them extensively. This was just a mathematical equation that they put together for a hopeful outcome and not actually an answer to these problems. TS is a lot more common than it is lead to be. Syndrome effects one in every three-hundred and sixty children in the United States. This is a very large number of children considering the number of people who live in the United States. Syndrome is common enough to get funding and grants for proper testing of patients. There needs to be more exposure of TS, that will help it drawn in the proper need to diagnose these children and people whom live with it throughout their whole life. Neurologically it effects children daily, though it is relatively harmless, Syndrome is hard to pin point. That is why the requirement of specific treatment is critical. neurodevelopment disorder characterized by the presence of two or more motor tics and at least one vocal tic lasting for more than a et al., 2015) This shows that the symptoms are minor and can be lived with without treatment. Syndrome (TS) is a complex neurodevelopment condition marked by tics as well as a variety of psychiatric (Kious et al., 2016) All in all, Syndrome is a very common neurological disorder that is harmless but effects many American lives on a day to day basis. I believe that is should be treated more carefully by long evaluation because there are so many variables to it, the complexity of it being neurological and the commonness of it. Those are all the reasons as to why I believe TS should be treated more carefully amongst patients and not just medicated to suppress them. Would you want to be able to control your actions on a day to day basis if something was affecting your ability to control? Miller 3 Works Cited Cavanna, Andrea Eugenio. The Behavioral Spectrum of Gilles de la Tourette The Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences 21.1 (2009): 13-23. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Deirdre et al. The Impact of Tic Severity, Comorbidity and Peer Attachment on Quality of Life Outcomes and Functioning in Syndrome: Parental  SpringerLink. N.p., 06 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Eddy, Clare M. et al. Neuropsychological aspects of Tourette syndrome: A review.  Journal of Psychosomatic Research 67.6 (2009): 503-13. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Kious, Brent M. Treatment-refractory Tourette  Treatment-refractory Tourette Syndrome. Science Direct, Volume 70, 3 Oct. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Kurlan, Roger.  ProQuest. N.p., 9 Dec. 2010. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Ruth Wadman et al. Difficulties experienced by young people with Tourette syndrome in secondary school: a mixed methods description of self, parent and staff  BMC Psychiatry. N.p., 20 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sallee, Floyd. Ziprasidone Treatment of Children and Adolescents With Syndrome: A Pilot  ScienceDirect. N.p., Mar. 2000. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.