Diaz 1 Viviana Virginia Diaz Melim Instructor Robert Ryan ENC 1102-001 25 February 2017 Rhetorical and Visual Analysis The sensorial responses that images are able to produce in the audience mind is the most powerful tool of persuasion that companies, entities, and organizations use for their own benefit. Though images, organizations seek to promote their ideals, goals, and values. The implementation of different visual and rhetorical elements is able to persuade and influence actions and thoughts. One example of this is The Foundation for Biomedical Research (FBR), which is a nonprofit organization that seeks to emphasize the essential role of animal testing in biomedical research. They aim to improve the life quality of humans and animals through the development of medical advances. Through visual and rhetorical elements FBR images can create sensorial responses in their audience, persuading them to support experimentation with animals. The first image is designed to make people think that animal research is necessary to develop vaccines, antibiotics, and diagnosis tools to combat several diseases and illnesses. This image is a billboard that has appeared in many cities of USA. According to ABC News, it has appeared in cities with major medical research centers, such as Chicago, Los Angeles, and Portland (Allen 2011). Presenting this billboard in these places is a strategy that FBR uses to send a call to action to all the people that supports animal testing in order to make them join this movement that seeks to continue the use animals for experimentation. This image emphasizes the word using capital letters, position it in the middle of the image, and using a black background for this word. This makes the audience focus mainly in the two images (the one of the rat and the one of Diaz 2 the girl) and the word rather between them. This makes people to think objectively and decide what has more value for them: the life of a rat or the life of a child (or human in general). They use white in the background of the rat, but they use sweet light purple for the background of the girl. According to Teixeira, the implementation of a colorful background is more appealing for the human eye, so it catches the attention of the audience (2015). This game with the colors helps FBR to send a clear message: choose the girl rather than the rat. This organization uses these visual elements in their images to convince people to support animal testing for a good purpose: saving the life of people. The first image appeals to logic and concrete rhetorical elements such as ethos and logos. It appeals to ethos using the name of the organization (FBR) at the bottom of the image. This gives credibility to the message that is being sent because it provides the image with the source that is supporting animal testing. For logos, this image emphasizes the word making the audience understand that they need to choose a side. FBR seeks to make people choose the side of humans rather than the side of any nonhuman organism because people feel more identified with other people than with other animals. They also play with the word rather, because it is composed of the words and The image uses rat as a derogatory word and uses the pronoun to refer to the girl in a more personal way to make the people relate more with the girl. With the incorporation of these two elements FBR seeks to transmit a credible image to their audience in order to make them support the use of animals for obtaining medical data. Both of these rhetorical elements helps FBR to express who they are (an organization) and what they do (experimenting with animals to develop vaccines and antibiotics in order to improve the life of humans). To further convince people to support animal research, this image also includes pathos and Kairos, which are rhetorical elements that are more and that appeal to logic. For Diaz 3 pathos, this image uses a little innocent girl to appeal to the emotions of people and make them understand that they should save the life of this girl rather than the life of a rat with red, evil eyes. By using the little, cute, and innocent girl this image seeks show a vulnerable human that needs to be protected, producing compassion in the audience. FBR evokes to the feelings of people to persuade them and make them support the ideals of this organization. Also, this image uses a rat with red eyes and they emphasize the word in in red as well. This game with the colors seek to send the message making people support animal testing. Finally to appeal to kairos, this image uses the word This gives an implicit message that will be over at any time, that it is finite. Also, this image emphasizes the word in red. This also creates a sense of urgency. They show that there is a problem that needs to be solved, in this case is an illness that be stopped unless they can use animals for research purpose an obtain medical information that can be used to treat diseases. With the incorporation of these two elements FBR seek to show that they are really concerned for the health of humans and that they do animal research just to improve the life of people. These elements helps FBR to persuade their opinions in favor of animal research. The second image is a black poster with white letters. Using this background makes a contrast that makes the audience mainly focus on what is written in the image. This helps FBR to be straightforward and send their message objectively. The title of the image dominates the focus of the poster because it occupies most of the space. The second thing that captures the attention are the three images at the bottom showing cancer cells, heart disease, and AIDS. These pictures are positioned just after the question we stop animal research, who will stop the real With these question FBR seeks to promote the idea that diseases are the ones that are killing people. Diaz 4 We can evidence that this image targets all the people that blames organizations that use animals for medical purposes as killers and in general to all the people that support animal testing. In the second image, FBR also included all the rhetorical appeals to convince the audience to support animal testing. In order to appeal to ethos, this image uses small font to present all the information of the organization that is promoting. This gives credibility to FBR because it allows them to be seeing as credible and professional source that supports animal research. For pathos, this image uses key words such as and With the first word FBR seeks to produce fear in the audience, but by using the word stop they give a solution to the problem. They seek to be seen as the saviors or superheroes that can help people to stop the real killers (the villains) that are the diseases. This image appeals to logos by stating in small font, a text that says animal research we have put an end to polio, This way the organization appeals to logic, because everybody knows all the pain and suffering that these diseases has caused through our history. Also, they play with the words because animal rights activists blame organizations that test with animals for killing these organisms. Wisely this organization uses this blame to show that they seek to help and that diseases are the ones that are truly killing innocent people. Moreover, this image also appeals to kairos by using the word This message creates urgency, stating that there is a killer that can attack people unless this organization helps to get rid of all the illnesses that can cause harm. FBR is using these images to state that animal testing is key to save the life of people. They want the audience to feel compassion for humans over any other organism that can exist. Also, they want to make people aware that animal research is indispensable for the wealth of humans. If these procedures stop, scientists will not be able to develop treatments for illnesses and more people will suffer or die due to diseases. FBR was wisely able to influence people through these Diaz 5 images because they were able to make people think about the priorities (human life vs nonhuman life). The implementation of rhetorical appeals and visual elements are key to send a message and to share information. FBR organization was able present its goal and explain the important role that this entity plays through their biomedical research. Both of the images that this organization promotes are straightforward and seek to make their audience answer objectively to the questions that they state. This answers needs to support human life and needs to support animal testing for developing new medicines and procedures. Through all this campaigns FBR organization seek to gain the support of people in order to obtain more funds that can help them to keep experimenting and finding biomedical research; without having problems with other entities that do not support animal testing and that are willing to stop this procedures. Diaz 6 Works Cited Allen, J. ABC News. 14 April 2011, ghttp://abcnews.go.com/Health/Drugs/animal-research- billboards-pit-cute-girl-lab-rat/story?id=13371007. Accessed on 20 February 2017. Davison, Jane, et al. Exploring the Visual in Organizations and  Qualitative Research in Organizations & Management, vol. 7, no. 1, 2012, pp. 5. Accessed 26 February. 2017. Foundation for Biomedical Research, www.fbresearch.org. Accessed on 25 January 2017. Teixeira, T. Harvard Business Review. 14 Aug. 2015, https://hbr.org/2015/10/when-people-pay- attention-to-video-ads-and-why. Accessed on 3 March 2017. Diaz 7 Image 1: Image 2: