Jackson 1 Christian Jackson Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.12 4/9/17 Do We Still Need the Electoral College? Legendary historical figures such as George Washington, George Mason, and Thomas Jefferson constructed the political foundation of this nation to be one in which checks-and- balances maintain a republic in which the government answers to the voice of the people. The electoral college is the voting system this country has used to elect the president and vice president since the birth of the United States of America. Ever since the birth of the electoral college, people have debated over whether it needs to exist or if another voting system needs to take its place. The two sides of this long conversation are: those who support the anti-electoral college stance for they believe the current voting system needs to drastically amended or it needs to be eradicated entirely and then you have those who support the current electoral voting system for they believe the current system is fine the way it is and only minor changes, if any, need to be made to the current voting structure. The three main points for this essay are: what the overall structure for the electoral college is and an overview on some of the major proposals that have been presented overtime, the beliefs of the anti-electoral college voices, and the beliefs of the pro-electoral college voices. The debate over whether the electoral college is still effective has thrived for generations now, but ultimately I believe the electoral college still needs to exist to maintain a balanced voting system in determining who the future leader of the United States of America will be. Jackson 2 The electoral college already has an established structure, but some believe it needs to be amended or abolished entirely, so a variety of different proposals have been presented overtime and each proposal offers to change the electoral college in some minor or major fashion. Gerald Webster, a professor of the Department of Geography at the University of Wyoming who is the author of an article that has been peer reviewed and that was written in 2016, and Estes Kefauver, the author of an article that was written in 1962, discuss the current structure of the electoral college and they analyze some of the main proposals that different voices on both sides of the conversation have presented throughout the generations. Webster established the basics of how the current electoral college voting system operates with this statement: Political parties with nominees running for the presidency file lists of candidates to be electors in each state. If a state has five electoral votes, all political parties contesting the election in the state will submit a slate of five potential electors. The candidates from the winning party, whether receiving a majority or plurality of the popular vote, then become the electors. On the Monday after the second Wednesday in December after a presidential election, the electors meet in the respective state capitals and cast their votes for a president and vice president. The electoral votes are then sealed and sent to Washington, DC, where they are opened and read on January 6 to both houses of Congress. If the candidates for president and vice president have majorities of the electoral votes, they are sworn into office on January 20. If no one has a majority of the electoral votes, the House decides who is president from the top three contenders, with each state getting one vote regardless of population. Similarly, the Senate decides who is vice president from the top two candidates, with each state getting a single vote. Jackson 3 In both cases, the winning candidate must have a majority of the states voting in their favor. (102) Webster noticed that the Founding Fathers debated about how the electoral college should be conducted just as modern voices on both sides of the electoral college conversation are still doing so: One idea was to have the Congress select the president, but this option was rejected for several a second option was to allow state legislatures to select the the direct election of the president was also considered, but there was insufficient support for its selection. (101) Just as Webster said the direct national solution was considered by the men who built the political foundation for this country and many anti-electoral college voices believe it should be the voting system that should push the electoral college voting system out of its current position, but the direct national solution proposal never gained enough support within Congress during the early years of this country and it still most likely will not win for Kefauver also said that the direct national solution proposal will never get through Congress. The electoral college voting system is the tool the United States of America has been using to elect the president into the most powerful office known to man ever since the birth of this nation, so it is not hard to see why this conversation is so heavily debated. The voices who stand against the current electoral college voting system strongly believe the current structure of the college needs to significantly altered or abolished entirely for they believe it is extremely undemocratic and thus should not be used to elect the president into office. The Honorable Barbara Boxer, a United States Senator in California who is a well- established democrat, believes the existing electoral college is outdated system that does not Jackson 4 reflect democracy, and it violates the principle of one person, one (19). Jack Rakove, a professor at Stanford University, believes the current electoral college needs to be abolished entirely for underlying flaws will strongly influence the conduct of the (27) and thus the electoral college is a of the democratic (27). Benjamin Bollinger, the author of an article that has been peer reviewed and that was written in 2007, presents an effective and logical anti-electoral college stance. Bollinger believes the electoral college voting system is unbalanced and undemocratic. Bollinger supports this stance by using accurate research that he has accumulated and viewed overtime: According to the 2000 census, population was 33,871,648, giving it fifty-five electoral votes. Wyoming, the least populous state, had only 493, 782 residents, earning it three electoral votes. In other words, California gets one electoral vote per 615,848 residents; Wyoming receives one vote per 164, 594 residents. That is nearly a 4:1 ratio in favor of Wyoming. (180) However, some of the pro-electoral voices who support the existing structure of the electoral college voting system believe the political device is fine the way it is, some of the pro- electoral voices believe only a few major or minor changes need to be made to the system, while other pro-electoral voices provide a balanced approach to the situation acknowledge the flaws to the electoral college system but ultimately they believe it is the best system in place. Michael W. McConnell, a professor at Stanford University of Law School, acknowledges that Electoral College no longer serves its original purposes, and that it creates a grave risk that a candidate not favored by a majority of the people will, from time to time, be elected (24), but he believes the Electoral College does not rank high among our national (24) and thus he believes the electoral college is the best voting system we have right now for there Jackson 5 are more pressing issues we need to direct our attention to. John Hendrickson, a research analyst for Public Interest Institute (PII), attempts to clear up some common misconceptions of the electoral college with this statement: James famous federalist No.10 makes clear that the Founders fashioned a republic, not a pure democracy. To be sure, they knew that the consent of the governed was the ultimate basis of government, but the Founders denied that such consent could be reduced to simply majority or plurality rule. In fact, nothing could be more alien to the spirit of American constitutionalism then equating democracy with the direct, unrefined will of the people. (28) Michael Dunne, the author of a peer reviewed article that was written in 2013, presents a pro- electoral college stance, but he also provides a counter-argument as to why the current electoral college system is effective and how it is not effective, so he approaches the situation from a balanced perspective. Dunne supports the current electoral college by saying this: If one purpose of the USA political system is to create, rather than suffer from, a system of and to maintain a federalism of competing jurisdiction; to emphasis the general rather than sectional interests of what George Washington, in his Farewell Address, called the great of the then the present system is indeed for (276) Dunne provides an effective and logical counter-argument that exposes the flaws of the electoral college with this statement: But the potential for simple discrepancy between the popular vote and the composition of the electoral college always exists: the risk is inherent in the Jackson 6 system- even more so with a pejorative term, of course. (276) Overall, I believe the voices who support the electoral college present the most balanced point of view on this particular topic for they acknowledge the flaws of the electoral college, but they believe the current voting system we have is the most democratic system we have and thus should remain in place even though it has its flaws. Every single U.S citizen needs to stay informed on how what direction the electoral college is taking. I fully acknowledge that the electoral college has its flaws and I believe the anti-electoral college voices in this paper explain those flaws well, but ultimately I believe the electoral college is the most democratic and most constitutional voting system and I believe the pro-electoral college voices in this paper support this belief in a logical manner. made up my mind, so you need to do your own research and you need to determine whether the electoral college should still exist the way it is. Jackson 7 Works Cited Benjamin, Bollinger. Abolishing The Electoral International Social Science Review. (2007): 182-186. Academic OneFile. Web. January 2017. Dunne, Michael. Presidential Elections: Two Centuries of Constitutionality Continuity and Political Change With An Analysis of the Political Geography of Barack Re-election Political Quarterly. 84. 2 April- June (2013): 265-277. Web. January 2017. Kefauver, Estes. Electoral College: Old Reforms Take on a New Law and Contemporary Problems. 27.2. (Spring 1962): 188-212. JSTOR Journals. Web. January 2017. Honorable Barbara Boxer, Michael W. McConnell, John Hendrickson, et al. Pros and Cons of the Electoral College Congressional Digest. 96.1. (January 2017): 18- 31. Web. January 2017. Webster, Gerald. Purpose, Structure and Limitations of the Electoral The Geography Teacher. 13.3 (Jul-Sep 2016): 101-105. Web. January 2017.