Tan 1 Michael Alvin Tan ENC 1102 Robert Ryan 11 March 2017 The Human-AI Enigma Technological innovation has contributed to the progression of society in different aspects. One of these advances would be artificial intelligence or AI which is the defined as machines having intellectual qualities such as problem-solving, emotion, or free-thinking on the level of humanity. Despite the controversy that surrounds AI; many organizations step up using advertisements to support the subject. An organization that does so would be the FLI or Future of Life Institute. The FLI is a and outreach organization working to ensure that most powerful technologies are beneficial for (FLI). Two of the advertisements they utilize are able to effectively in the creation of human-technology equity. The first advertisement comes from their website main page and the second is from their article database. Analysis of the first advertisement showcases a contrasting color scheme. The background contains a navy blue tone and the central image uses white in order to draw the attention towards it. The image covered in white is a tree containing two sides; one side is full of life while the other is arid and lacking. A quote is under the tree which states, has given life the opportunity to flourish like never or to self-destruct. make a (FLI). The quote and tree are meant to stem from the ideals of Tan 2 how technology can be beneficial to humanity but without control over it, it can yield destructive properties. The visual side enhances and gives a sense of meaning to the rhetorical aspects of the ad. From the rhetorical perspective, the advertisement contains elements of ethos, logos, and pathos. Ethos stems from the quote underneath the two-sided tree (Image 1). The quote was created by one of the organization founders and head cosmologist from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Max Tegmark (FLI). The logos and pathos created from the advertisement is correlated to the two-sided tree and the quote. The feelings of confidence and uncertainty are meant to be created from these aspects when faced with artificial intelligence. These feelings were similar to that in the past when technological advancement was utilized in human interactions. For example, when faced with nuclear energy; many found that it important insight to policy- and decisionmakers in motivations that underlie the willingness to take action in favor of or (Groot and Steg 1372). Linking back to the ad, these same feelings would be relevant to society should AI be introduced to human settings. Logos created from the ad is represented within the quote regarding technology being beneficial and destructive. Technology is ever growing and newfound societal advancements can be created from this, however the potential of it outpacing human control is the main aspect of the AI-human enigma 2-3). The idea that AI gives off is the ability of machines to have cognitive functions similar to that of a human. However unlike humans, AI machines would see the flaws of human actions and disregard any aspect that would be considered a hindrance to the Tan 3 completion of a goal. In the logical perspective of researchers need not imagine a doomsday scenario involving destructive superintelligent AI to understand the difficulty of building safety and security into our digital (Berke 114). The second ad may have less visual elements than the first ad but is just as effective. The ad showcases a blurred background with two hands in its center. The hand on the left is that of an AI machine while the hand on the right is that of a human. The blurred background is meant to give focus to the hands reaching for each other, creating a sense of unity (Image 2). Rhetorical analysis shows that the main element is pathos. The pathos created from this advertisement is made from the two hands reaching out towards each other. This imagery is meant to create a sense of softness, affinity, and control from the ad. When technology is within human grasp and able to be controlled, it fuels synergy towards the improvement of the AI-human relationship. The textbook Rhetoric Really Matters states that, is an appeal to emotion, and it is the rhetorical device that is most often used to help an audience connect with the argument or (Hoffman et al. 37). This rhetorical aspect is made from the ad and the emotions it brings forth. It creates a sense of a mutual understanding and strong bond between flesh and machine (Graaf 590-591). Beyond all measure, the FLI uses these ads in order to bring forth a symbiotic haven for man and machine. In the ads they use, the visual elements are meant to draw the audience towards them and their ideals. The contrast of dark and light color in the first image alongside the twin-sided tree brings in the audience to the ideals of the FLI. The visual focus of the second image on the hands creates a sense of urgency towards the human-AI relationship. In regards to Tan 4 the rhetorical aspect, the first ad uses pathos and ethos to establish feelings and credibility towards those that view the image while the second creates its focus on pathos to make the audience feel towards AI. The FLI effectively utilizes these ads to bring humans closer to advanced technological relationships. Tan 5 Work Cited Page Berke, Allison. The Future of Artificial  Strategic Studies Quarterly, no. 3, 2016, p. 114. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.463514127&site=eds-live. De Groot, Judith I. M. and Linda Steg. Morality and Nuclear Energy: Perceptions of Risks and Benefits, Personal Norms, and Willingness to Take Action Related to Nuclear  Risk Analysis: An International Journal, vol. 30, no. 9, Sept. 2010, pp. 1363- 1373. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=sp h&AN=53568291&site=eds-live. Dubhashi, Devdatt and Shalom Lappin. AI Dangers: Imagined and  Communications of the ACM, vol. 60, no. 2, Feb. 2017, pp. 43-45. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1145/2953876. Ema, Arisa, Naonori Akiya, Hirotaka Osawa, Hiromitsu Hattori, Shinya Oie, Ryutaro Ichise, Nobutsugu Kanzaki, Minao Kukita, Reina Saijo, Otani Takushi, Naoki Miyano, and Yoshimi Yashiro. Future Relations between Humans and Artificial Intelligence: A Stakeholder Opinion Survey in  IEEE Technology and Society Magazine 35.4 (2016): 68-75. USF Libraries. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Graaf, Maartje M. A. An Ethical Evaluation of Human--Robot  International Journal of Social Robotics, no. 4, 2016, p. 589. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s12369-016-0368-5. Tan 6 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text.If you want to cite an article in the book (print edition):Last name of author, First name of author. of Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Page numbers. Print. Example: McIntyre, Megan, and Alysia Sawchyn. to Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 237-243. Print. Vincent C. Risks of general artificial  Taylor Francis Online. Taylor Francis Online, 24 June 2014. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. <http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/0952813X.2014.895110>.