Ellis 1 Collin Ellis Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 12 March 2017 An analysis of Advertisements created by the Electronic Frontier Foundation The Electronic Frontier Foundation is the leading non-profit organization in the defense of civil liberties in the cyber world. The organization champions user privacy, free expression on the internet and is devoted to mitigating the oppressive/unconstitutional acts of entities in a position regulate data flow. The EFF accomplishes this through innovative impact litigation, policy analysis, technology development and grassroots activism. The campaign for internet freedom and privacy has put it at odds with the many institutions. In the last decade, the EFF has shifted its focus on the governments use technology that allows access to unwarranted data across the many mediums of communication. The policies and laws in place that allows the use of this technology cannot all be removed or amended solely through litigation. This makes the government the biggest obstacle in the success of the campaign. The individuals who citizens vote into office can either be instrumental to the success or a complete detriment to their campaign. To avoid the latter; the EFF must educate, inform and provide a proper platform for engagement with voters in order influence electoral decisions. Like any political issue, influencing voters is poised to be a difficult challenge. However, the aptitude in visual literacy meets this challenge head on. In their practice of grass roots activism, the EFF effectively uses advertisements such as Image 1 and Image 2 to inform its viewers Ellis 2 about the most current issues, persuade them to exhibit a set of actions and remind them about the end goal of the organizations practices. Image 1 The EFF uses a very engaging document design in Image 1 that is geared towards referencing the information they provide to image of President Trump. The ad begins with a header formatted with black background uses a black and white headshot of President Trump in its center. With a white background used for the rest of the ad, a design contrast guides the ad to be read from top to bottom. The header containing the image of President Trump will become a point of reference for all the information that follows. In her research on Emotion to Typographic Dr. Koch noted that can match the style of the typeface with the connotations of the message they want to Following this concept, the ad uses a red and bolded Times New Roman typeface that relies on the controversy created by President Trump. It aims to invoke a sense of alertness to; the changing threat model, best practices to combat the changes, and the defends users link. The connotation being conveyed is that President Trump is a threat. The further contrast in typeface is used to guide the attention throughout the ads entirety. The red and bold typeface indicate the main points and the gray un-bolded typeface brings forth supporting information. The use of a white background for the body also makes the gray font type fractionally harder to read and requires the viewers eyes to focus more. The EFF presents a strong call to action in this ad, encouraging a collaboration with their organization to ensure the integrity of all networks potentially be affected by the campaigned policies of President Trump. The EFF released this document on December 20, 2016 exactly one Ellis 3 month before his Inauguration. This was a very timely initiative as it allows the entities that would potentially agree to get complete the listed best practices for securing connections, deleting data, informing the rest of public and practicing impact legislation. The organization emphasizes its stance on internet governance by utilizing the dissonance created by the President and incorporating his promised actions into the existing threat model of the communications space. These directives reaffirm the commitment to ensuring balance between privacy and cybersecurity. The credibility is confirmed from its historical involvement in combatting the oppressive actions of data regulating entities. Its non-profit status and volunteer based work essentially nullifies anyone notion that questions the legitimacy or relevance of the stance on the matter. The absence of the logo on this ad would shift its overall connotation and could be considered just another liberal rant. The organization appeals to individuals outside of the technology community by incorporating Presidents Trumps stance on immigration and the media. supports mass surveillance, tracking individuals based on their religious beliefs, and the suppression of freedom of A claim that has been validated by the Trump recent ban on major media outlets from it press briefings, the possible organization of a Muslim registry and most importantly the current Muslim Ban set in place. This ban has created emotional rifts leading to the separation or deaths of family members across the world. President Trump has put into legislation several of his campaign policies, therefore the issues of net neutrality mass surveillance and undermining of digital security should be a major concern for the tech community. Ellis 4 Image 2 The document design of Image 2 contrast greatly with that of Image 1 and shifts the advertising focus to reminding the viewers about the goals of the organization. The Eff crated a sense of night time by contrasting a navy-blue background and a black foreground. Researchers; Jelle Brands, Tim Schwanen and Irina van Aalst conducted a study on Fear of crime and affective ambiguity in the night time which concluded that the fear of night time stems from the overall ambiguity darkness creates. That ambiguity of darkness is addressed, as a distress signal provides a contrasting illumination when calling out to the EFF. The use of circles constitutes a reference to the constantly emitted digital signals that carry information. This builds onto notion of vulnerability the EFF tries to convey. The shape of the windows on the buildings provides a slight distinguishment to the type of building data is coming from. The range would ideally spread from residential spaces to business incorporating anything that could possibly fall under the two. This distinction is important because it places the vulnerabilities of the digital world on essentially everyone. The distress signal illuminating the EFF logo provides an effective appeal to both ethos and pathos. This element is a remnant of the vigilante fiction targeting the possible connection to that genre. When turned on the distress signal, was either requesting immediate assistance or a warning for imminent danger. The EFF utilizes this by having the distress signal illuminate its logo. The radio waves being emitted by the various types of buildings, emphasizes the constant communication the digital world. This effectively conveys a notion of vulnerability to the audience and should prompts a need for security. There is no appeal Ellis 5 to logos in this ad. The absence of logos emphasizes the emotional and ethical appeals used and efficiently completes the third aspect of advertising. The three main objectives of an advertisement fall to informing, persuading and reminding the designated audience about an institutions activity and involvement. The specific use of information as well as the call to action in Image 1, effectively leveraged the rhetorical elements of emotional and logical appeals to meet the first two objectives. Image 2 provides an effective basis to remind viewers what the goal of the organization is. This ad utilizes elements present in a very famous vigilante fiction with an end goal of building on the organizations credibility with the viewers and effectively completes the third objective of advertisement. The recurring theme for this campaign has been the introduction of new that result in an increase in amount and type of data that travels through the internet. The introduction of 5g wireless bands in 2020 will follow the same trend, as the range of devices and number of people connected to the internet will see a drastic increase. The campaign for internet privacy and freedom will continue as long technology continues to develop. The EFF understands that the laws in place that govern these factors must either be removed or amended to match the same course of technological development. Ellis 6 Works Cited: Foundation, Electronic Frontier. Formation Documents and Mission Statement for the EFF, Electronic Frontier Foundation, 10 July 1990, w2.eff.org/legal/cases/SJG/?f. Accessed 9 Feb. 2017. Brands, Jelle, et al. In: Registered Urban Studies, Urban Studies Limited, 17 Jan. 2013, journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/0042098013505652. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Koch, Dr. Beth E. Emotion Response to Typographic Human Emotion Response to Typographic Design, Beth Koch, 5 Dec. 2011, Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Ellis 7 Image 1 Ellis 8 Image 2