Kaserman 1 James Kaserman Jewell ENC 1101 04/09/17 The Economic Benefits of the Implementation of Socialized Healthcare into America Imagine a world where you need immediate medical attention from professionals, but the cost of it would bankrupt you, so you choose to take your chances instead. The idea behind health insurance was introduced to protect hospitals from patients that were unable to afford the level of the care they received. This was a necessary measure because hospitals of the era were operated off a non-profit model. The current system of healthcare insurance is inefficient and leave large amounts of people unable to access it because of ridiculous deductibles and premiums. The push for expansions of health coverage and different systems, such as the single- payer option and tax-based financing options. America would be financially better off and its population healthier, if the government would push for legislation to enact a socialized form of healthcare because it would lead to improvements to care, increased coverage to more populace, and decreasing costs due to a focus towards preventative care. Approximately, 50 million non-elderly adults in America have no insurance. With the implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Medicaid was expanded, and increased insurance for populations that were previously denied under the former rules. of the decline in uninsured nonelderly adults ranged from 14.1 million to 16.9 million. The federal Current Population Survey reports a decline of 8.8 million uninsured people between 2013 and (Shartzer, et al.) The original number of uninsured adults was around 50 million, so the Kaserman 2 bill slashed a sizable fraction and forecasts were favorable. For example, the federal Survey, as mentioned above, also stated, we did see improvements in access and affordability early in the ACA implementation, we would expect additional gains over time as health insurance coverage becomes the norm for more (Shartzer, et al.) Of course, there are arguments against the increase of coverage to people at the expense of the wealthier population, and that a new socialized-based system would create an ecosystem of rationed care. However, the group Physicians for a National Health System stated, U.S. already rations care. Rationing in U.S. health care is based on income: if you can afford care, you get it; if you you A recent study found that 45,000 Americans die every year because they have health Any arguments against increasing coverage are hard to support because the above group also cites that other countries that have a socialized system, such as Taiwan and Canada, do not ration care in the way the U.S and do so at lesser costs. A change of healthcare systems not only benefits patients, but offers doctors incentives as well. a true single payer system, such as those in Canada and Taiwan, physicians would not have to worry about multiple contracts, fee schedules, different standards for different procedures or obtaining prior approval of (Seegart) The simplification of the government being the sole entity responsible for payment of healthcare services, alleviates doctors of having to worry about administration bloat. This leads to doctors able to focus more clearly on providing improved care to patients because it would be the only thing they have to be concerned about. patient safety and occupational health and safety for doctors and nurses are substantial problems, causing suffering for individuals and costs for the Kaserman 3 healthcare industry, which is economically pressed already by the large and increasing demands for health et al.) The above quote comes from a study conducted by medical researchers at the University of Gothenberg in Sweden and highlights the importance of the physiological health of doctors when providing care to patients. They are only able to achieve through the adoption of new methods that lead to more efficient care, such as the simplifying of health contracts through a change to socialized healthcare legislation plans. According to the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, huge premium hikes have caused businesses and individuals to be subjected to health plans that they cannot utilize and this puts even insured patients at risk of astronomical health bills. Finally, the third main benefit of implementing socialized healthcare is the overall decrease in costs for patients. Every country in the world pays less of a percentage of their GDP in healthcare costs, but receive equal or more services than their American counterparts. For example, healthcare cost to its GDP is 11 percent whereas the U.S. cost is 17 percent of the (Johnson) This example is a common argument point because Canada is similar to the United States as socioeconomic and geopolitical neighbor. In addition, Canada covers all its citizens which is a higher percentage than the United States achieves with its current system. see much saving realized through preventive care and the elimination of insurance company overhead and marketing costs and hospital billing costs. A 2008 analysis of a single-payer plan estimated immediate savings at $350 billion per year. Another study estimated savings of $570 billion a (Johnson) Kaserman 4 Canada and other countries can realize that through a combination of a move towards preventative care which is possible, since people are not turned away because of a lack of an ability to pay, and the theory of large numbers is a supporter that services are able to be less costly when applied to a larger scale. Per, the study for All: An Economic Stimulus Plan for the Nation explains, and expanding Medicare to cover every person in the country, would create 2.6 million new jobs, infuse $317 billion in new business and public revenues, and add another $100 billion in wages to the U.S. It is important to think of an injection of funds for a socialized form of healthcare insurance as a stimulus for the economy and a way to improve health. There is overwhelming evidence that a healthier population is a more productive force and that helps to offset costs acquired from investment into healthcare. With any argument, there will always be detractors and people that want to destroy your argument because it is in their best interest, and this argument is no different. There are concerns that the switch to socialized healthcare would increase costs through additional taxes, the quality of care would decrease and care would be rationed, and doctors would receive less income causing some of them to drop out of the profession which would lead to an even larger shortage of healthcare professionals. However, these concerns are misconstrued and for the most part untrue. Firstly, the cost increases would be offset because individuals and businesses would no longer have to pay for healthcare directly. Secondly, healthcare is already rationed in the United States Kaserman 5 by the ability to pay, so the argument is weightless. Lastly, efficient care and preventative care would decrease revenues generated by hospitals, but this would have little to no effect on salaries because the additional money generated goes to the administrative side of the hospital. To conclude, America can increase the health of its population and lower the financial burden of healthcare costs, if the government would push for legislation to enact a socialized form of healthcare because it would lead to improvements to care, increased coverage to more populace, and decreasing costs due to a focus towards preventative care. The United States of America can have more efficient healthcare, lowered premiums, and increased coverage, if a socialized form of healthcare, such as the single-payer option was enacted. It is important for the new generation to play an active role in the formation of legislation relating to healthcare because the next few years will set the precedent if healthcare is a fundamental right or a privilege reserved for those that can afford it. Kaserman 6 Works Cited 1. American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <http://www.atsjournals.org/doi/abs/10.1164/rccm.200906-0881ED>. 2. Johnson, S. C. Time For A Single-Payer Healthcare  Huffington Post. N.p., 25 Mar. 2017. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/its-time-for-a- 3. Organizational and social-psychological conditions in healthcare and their importance for patient and staff safety. A critical incident study among doctors and nurses. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. 4. Seegert, Liz. What Single-Payer Healthcare Would Mean to Doctors: Senator Bernie Sanders Has Revived Debate, but Experts Say It Remains an Unlikely Dream in the United  Medical Economics, no. 10, 2016, p. 54. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.454608729&site=eds-live. 5. Shartzer, Adele, et al. Access to Care and Affordability Have Improved Following Affordable Care Act Implementation; Problems  Health Affairs, vol. 35, no. 1, Jan. 2016, pp. 161-168. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1377/hlthaff.2015.0755. 6. Single-Payer  Single-Payer FAQ Physicians for a National Health Program. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. 7. Study Shows How Single-Payer Healthcare Can Revive U.S.  Registered Nurse: Journal of Patient Advocacy, vol. 105, no. 1, Jan. 2009, p. 9. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ci n20&AN=105499949&site=eds-live. Kaserman 7