Thompson 1 Antonio Thompson Robert Ryan ENC 1102.001 26 February 2017 Hydraulic Fracturing Scientists have come to the conclusion that global warming is changing the world internally, and humans making the situation any better. Hydraulic fracturing is a process used in the United States and around the world for extracting and retrieving oil from underwater shale formations. Although it is a very reliable technique, it tends to be dangerous due to mechanical, chemical, and human error which leads to catastrophe. BP Global is one of the largest contributor in oil and fuel. According to them, their goal and mission, to be a focused oil and gas company that delivers value over volume, pursuing their strategy by setting clear (BP Global). The two images provided insinuate that the crisis at hand is a lot more detrimental than the media makes it seem like. BP Global advertises both images in a way that incorporate both logic and credibility in order to reach an audience that feels like hydraulic fracturing is a waste of time, money, effort, and lives. BP Global uses the first image (Image 1) to reach an audience that is completely against the hydraulic fracturing process. This image shows the ships and equipment used in order for the process to be effective. Visually, it is three dimensional which gives the audience a realistic view of how the mechanics work and what happens. With the descriptions also within the picture, it gives a detailed insight into what goes on. Yet the print is small, so something important is being said and must be read and analyzed very carefully to understand. The tone that the image gives Thompson 2 off is rather informative due to the fact that it is very descriptive and detailed to give the audience a clear insight to the message being sent. The purpose of the image is to show the process of the clean up efforts after the 2010 BP Oil spill. The images visual aspects are informative and detailed enough to drive an audience to understand the severity of the process and how important and detrimental the process can be. In addition, as BP Global tries to accomplish its goal to deliver value over volume by setting clear priorities, the image presented shows appeals of credibility and logic. Ethos, which is appeal to evidence and credibility, is proven by the fact that the photo is provided by BP Global since the logo of the company is on the bottom right corner of the image. Also, evidence is provided by the text that is under the overview title and in the green text box. The color green is a color of good or correct. In this case, green indicates progress which is a good thing. Logos, which is appeal to logic, is proven by the information given. All of the information is provided in an attempt to persuade the audience into trusting and having faith in the process. The color white has a meaning of faith and goodness, and the color text of white on the image tries to make the audience think good about what is going on and to have faith. The image portrays that this issue is very serious and that viewers need to understand that without their help and support, that the stakeholder would not be able to go forward with its strategy. Furthermore, in the other image presented (Image 2) incorporates more credibility and evidence than it does logic in order to reach their audience. Image 2 is rather a plain picture with just simple writing and a white background. However, considering what the issue at hand is, it happens to be a rather powerful message and a very welcoming and encouraging one as well. Emily Frost of the Ocean Portal wrote an article called Oil and states, Gulf oil Thompson 3 spill is recognized as the worst oil spill in U.S. history. Within days of the April 20, 2010 explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico that killed 11 people, underwater cameras revealed the BP pipe was leaking oil and gas on the ocean floor about 42 miles off the coast of The spill was a tragedy and the efforts put forth by BP made the progress seem more of a success than of a clean up. The tone of this image is to give faith and understanding to those who are confused or in need of help, as the company realizes that this matter of resolve is all into their hands. The purpose of this image is to promote commitment and dedication into solving the problem and keeping the audience on the side of them, in order to gain support. This image appeals to credibility and logic. Ethos is proven by the logo on the bottom right corner of the image, indicating that it is from the company, BP Global. Also, the evidence is proven by the dollar amount of how much was spent of the clean up, coming straight from the stakeholder themself. Michael Kunselman of the Laboratory Equipment states, Deepwater Horizon rig, 50 miles off the Louisiana coast, sank after an April 20, 2010, explosion that was later blamed by investigators on time-saving, cost-cutting decisions by BP and its drilling partners in cementing the well while drilling the well shaft and putting cement over it to seal it took more than 3 months. Also, what caused the ecosystem to be greatly affected was that, well on the seafloor spewed an estimated 172 million gallons of crude in the Gulf, fouling marshes and beaches, killing wildlife and shutting vast areas to commercial (Laboratory Equipment). The amount of oil that spread throughout the Gulf of Mexico that harmed the environment and its inhabitants leads the viewer to feel a type of sadness and grief towards the cause. The amount of money spent in claims and cleanups is also backed up by this source. Thompson 4 Logos is provided through the commitment stated in the image. The image states that BP is, to the and to indicating that they realize their problem and are committed to fixing it, no matter what it takes. The image is rather difficult to analyze in terms of colors as they only have two main colors that promote faith and goodness, which also can lead the audience into being persuaded. With both images being presented, it can be said that both have done their respective job in supporting the goals of the stakeholder. Both images show effects of the process and shows that the stakeholder is doing everything within its power to gain the trust and support of their audience. Showing appeals to both logic and credibility, the goals of the stakeholder can be shown and expressed to the viewers of the images. In conclusion, BP Global has gone through legal procedures and company procedures to better their work ethic and to make sure something like the 2010 BP Oil Spill in the Gulf of Mexico does not happen again. With the images provided, they portray appeals of both credibility and logic to lead the viewers into the issue at hand and to provide information and urges them for faith and support. As important as the issue is, the images provided effective show the process of recuperation and help to stress the goals of enhancing the process and deliver value over volume. Although even 6 years later the effects of the incident still linger, environmental effects continue to get better. Thompson 5 Works Cited About  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Deepwater Horizon accident and  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. BP to Pay $4.5 B, Workers Face Manslaughter  N.p., 12 May 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Frost, Emily. Gulf Oil  Portal National Museum of Natural History, 05 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Thompson 6