Lasso de la Vega 1 Gabriela Lasso de la Vega Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.001 23 February 2017 PETA: An Analysis of Their Advertisement Techniques Visiting zoos is a favorite pastime among millions of Americans. Zoos are a way for people to see and interact with exotic animals, something that one would otherwise have to travel across the globe to experience. Unfortunately, zoos do not come without consequences, and many groups disapprove of the concept of keeping wild animals in captivity. One of these groups is PETA, which stands for for the Ethical Treatment of mission, according to their website, is to eliminate the suffering of animals in the food industry, clothing trade, laboratories, and entertainment industry. Zoos are considered a form of entertainment to PETA, and they are strictly against them. They believe that animals are denied basic rights while in captivity, and that they belong in their natural environments. PETA would ultimately like to see zoos shut down across America, as well as globally. Creating advertisements is one way that PETA spreads their message. PETA effectively uses emotional appeal and logic to demonstrate that zoos are against mission. The visual elements in image 1 are strategically planned to portray message. Image 1 is similar to other advertisements that PETA has made in the past because it shows a human being put in a situation that an animal would be in. This is a common theme that PETA uses in their images. This advertisement was made to be seen by people all around the world who currently support and visit zoos. The words NO to have the largest font and are also in a striking orange color, with the word in white. This contrast from the rest of the image Lasso de la Vega 2 catches the attention and makes it clear that this is the message. Based on the stoic expression, as well as the grey concrete setting, the tone of this advertisement is serious. It shows zoos in a negative light, which is consistent with mission statement. While Image 1 is very interesting visually, its use of different rhetorical appeals are what really give meaning and substance to the ad. The man in this ad is Pragyan Ojha, a famous Indian cricketer. This ad was created for PETA India, so it makes sense that the celebrity used is one who is popular in that part of the world. The use of celebrities in advertising is a strategy that PETA uses very often. Celebrities can give credibility to an ad because it makes the issue more interesting and important to the audience. A study in the International Journal of Scientific and Research Publications agrees that endorsements are a powerful and useful tool that magnifies the effect of a The rhetorical appeal can be used to provide a new perspective on an issue. In the case of this ad, the issue is keeping animals in captivity. The text at the bottom right corner says animals by protecting their natural habitats, not imprisoning them in This ad uses logos by suggesting to the viewer that a zoo is a prison and that there are better ways to save animals than supporting zoos. The most prominent use of rhetorical appeal in this ad is the use of which is an appeal to emotion. PETA commonly shows people in animal-like situations in order to provoke sympathy. The viewer would look at the picture and see a man looking unhappy and imprisoned, and realize that how animals must feel too. Image 2 is similar to image 1 in many ways, but it also has some distinct differences in appearance. This ad is also about zoos, and it shows people in a zoo enclosure much like the last image. In this picture however, there are three people behind bars instead of just one. At the top left corner of the image it says which is a division of the organization that is Lasso de la Vega 3 meant for adolescents. This means that this ad is generally meant for a younger audience. The part that draws the attention the most are the words more and NO to These phrases are positioned on a bright green background, and the font is large and bold to make it clear that this is the message. The message is short and simple, which may also appeal more to youth because there much reading involved in this ad. Based on the over-the-top faces the three men are making, the tone seems more dramatic and expressive than image 1, although the message is the same in both ads. This could be due to the fact that it was made for a younger audience and it needs to work harder to capture the attention of the viewer. The same rhetorical appeals that were in image 1 are also key elements in image 2. This ad features three members from a band that is popular in India. The addition of celebrities makes it more interesting to adolescents and also makes it seem like this is an issue they should care about if their favorite band cares about it. One could argue that the phrase more is an example of logos because of how the cage is depicted as a prison. It can inform the viewer that a cage is not a suitable environment for animals. The most important rhetorical appeal in this ad is pathos because emotion is what will ultimately gain the support in this situation. The expressions on the three faces shows that they are in distress, which further demonstrates opinion on zoos. One of strategies in their campaigns is to feature a well-known celebrity. This is effective because it establishes credibility and helps to make the viewer interested in a topic which they might not have cared about before. PETA is also a fan of using controversial and extreme images to get their point across. One example of this is their rather go naked than wear campaign which featured photos of nude models. Lisa Acho Remorenko, columnist for Indpendent.com, describes ads as outrageous, admired, and criticized, Lasso de la Vega 4 messaging is the type that makes the audience sit up and take Although some people believe that their shock tactics are offensive and unnecessary, this is how PETA gets their mission statement delivered to the viewer in an effective manner. PETA has become one of the most successful and recognized animal rights organization in the world. The way PETA spreads their message is by the use of effective and often controversial advertising. The most important component of their ads is the pictures. They usually depict a human in an animal-like situation, and this really makes the viewer think and sympathize with animals who are subjected to cruelty. use of Logos, Ethos, and Pathos make it clear that their mission statement is to get animals out of the entertainment industry. Lasso de la Vega 5 Works Cited Zoos: An Idea Whose Time Has Come and  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Chaudhary, Uttera. Impact of Celebrity Endorsements on Consumer Brand Loyalty: Does It Really Matter? 5.12 (2015): n. pag. IJSRP.org. International Journal of Scientific and Research Publications, Dec. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Remorenko, Lisa Acho. Ad Campaigns: Effective or  Ad Campaigns: Effective or Extreme? Santa Barbara Independent, 23 Jan. 2009. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lasso de la Vega 6