Ward 1 Robert Ward Mr. Brendan Jackson ENC 1101 27 March 2017 Automation and Technological Advancement It could be said that on the cusp of another industrial revolution, driven by a new set of process and standards that will automate everything from manual labor, to elaborate process management techniques and implementations. Our technology has never been more advanced, and there are many aspects of massive industries that will see complete overhauls in implementation over the next few decades, and in this paper, I will describe a few of those changes that are already being implemented. Once breached that cusp, and massive portions of the workforce are entirely automated, we will have to develop a new set of ethics and standards that apply to this new modern era technology. This raises a few questions, such as what is the role of the in this situation, and what potential negative effects could possibly affect these workers. Ethics play a major role in the discussion surrounding automation, and the potential effects it could have on society if we disregard those ethical dilemmas. Ethical philosophy plays a major role in our discussion on automation, I think Mayer said it best in 2008 by concluding that ethical philosophical approaches are now necessary and that they will guide the framework to justify technology and safety oriented decisions on the basis of ethical and moral standards in regards to humans and their behaviors (Mayer). You can see the severity of the nature of these discussions, in 2015, abstract was focused heavily on the ethical nature of automation, and the potential adverse Ward 2 effects that could come into play with the master-slave dialect proposed in the abstract. He stated that, slave does not become the master; the master remains master, but is what we could call a troubled master, who lacks true dependent on the master for recognition and at the same time cannot step out of the master (Coeckelbergh). It is imperative that we consider this situation becoming a possibility, in order to properly prepare for the day we, as a species, become the troubled master. Coeckelbergh points out that the discussion about automation technologies (including Artificial intelligence) is always referred to in the terms of master and slaves in term of technological advancement of not only manufacturing processes, but even home living, education, and public services. This raises potential areas for philosophical debate in regards to the human-machine relations, as well as the development of Artificial Intelligence as own being with their own rights. This discussion could go on for centuries and never be settled in entirety. Due to the subjective nature of philosophy, new ideas and discussion are brought forth consistently in the academic community. You can see this by comparing the discussions presented by the two different authors from entirely different countries. They both come down to one general question, what potential behavior changes are we likely to see, as well as what their potential negative effects could entail. Many are worried that in the coming years, we will be so reliant on technology that any failures could potentially be catastrophic in nature. In one section of his abstract, Coecklebergh presents these potential situations, in which humans are still the masters of the slaves of our endeavours, as opposed to being slaves towards technological processes, and also reiterated that while we are the masters, we will likely remain troubled. This is due to the imperfect nature of humans, as long as we are part of the equation, there will always be far greater room for error. While both authors agree that automation of technology is a driving force Ward 3 behind our advancements as society, Mayer specifically concludes that automation processes must be implemented in a way that will benefit everyone involved, where there is still a major human-centered approach in the production of goods and services. The construction industry is undoubtedly one of the most important industries to keep up to date, cost effective, and efficient. Scholars studying the construction industry have long proposed that as the industry becomes more technologically advanced, greater feats and designs will be able to be developed and brought to fruition. The term Industry 4.0 has be used since 2015 in regards to the advancement of the construction industry, as well as the incorporation of more digital procedures as well as automated processes. Oesterreich and Teuteberg formulated an industry specific definition to contextualize the term for the Industry 4.0, in regards to automation and digitisation in the construction industry. As more construction companies switch to an Industry 4.0 model, see faster build times, with more efficient and thoroughly tested designs. The authors both agree that the Industry 4.0 definition entails End-to-End digitisation of engineering implementations across the board, as well as complete automation of the manufacturing environment. In abstract, he presents that construction managers are using Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) in order to streamline worksite processes. At that time back in 2005, PDAs were top the line technology that really helped with structure and accountability at the work site. Back in 2005, It is doubtful that they realized the technological advancements have today presented in the abstract by Oesterreich and Teuteberg. Maas also presents automated machines that are not entirely automated and have to have a human sponsor involved to ensure that everything is done correctly. This is a stark change in mindset compared to the latest source on the subject, where the human factor is almost entirely taken out of play. If Maas had an insight Ward 4 into what our current technological accomplishments would be, it is possible that he would have mentioned entirely automated processes, and due to the fact that they mentioned, well within reason to believe that Maas just simply think that type of technological precision would be available to the industry as a whole. The age gap between the two abstracts is less than a decade, yet reading the two it almost seems as if written from entirely different centuries in terms of technological capabilities. As presented in the Industry 4.0 abstract, technology has fundamentally changed the entire industry from the ground up. Architects and engineers now have the ability to design entire structures in digital design software, where their projects can be tested for various strengths and weaknesses during the design process. Foreman at construction sites can view digital visual representations of these completed works in their entirety through every phase in the building process. The construction industry is surely entering into the realm of science-fiction with entirely automated manufacturing and production environments, nonetheless, the research and development portions within this industry see very little funding, seeing less than 1% of the total sales revenue on average (Oesterreich & Teuteberg). In conclusion, according to the research of prominent academic professionals such as Mayer and Coeckelbergh, there are soon to be massive changes in regards to our workforce. As more things are automated, we must ensure that we lose site of the average worker, for if we cast them aside, our dependence on intelligent machines and processes could possibly be our undoing, making us the troubled masters. This is a stark contrast from the usual science fiction post-apocalyptic future usually perpetrated on television and in novels, and possibly just as detrimental to our well being. We must focus on responsible implementation of these technologies and automated processes, to ensure that not so dependent on our creation that Ward 5 we be able to live without them. Additionally, I think the role of the worker must remain. Even if that position is elevated through education, an entirely automated workforce could potentially wreck the consumer base purchasing the products and services being automated. Without proper income and employment, we could see a very real possibility of widespread poverty due to the implementation of entirely automated processes. Ward 6 Works Cited Oesterreich, Thuy Duong, and Frank Teuteberg. Understanding The Implications Of Digitisation And Automation In The Context Of Industry 4.0: A Triangulation Approach And Elements Of A Research Agenda For The Construction  Computers In Industry 83.(2016): 121-139. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Maas, Ger, and Frans van Gassel. The Influence Of Automation And Robotics On The Performance  Automation In Construction 14.20th International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction: The Future Site (2005): 435- 441. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Mayer, Social Impact Of Automation Trends And Issues: An Human Centred Systems Engineering  IFAC Proceedings Volumes 41.17th IFAC World Congress (2008): 5251-5256. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Coeckelbergh, Mark1, mark.coeckelbergh@dmu.ac.uk. The Tragedy Of The Master: Automation, Vulnerability, And  Ethics & Information Technology 17.3 (2015): 219-229. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.