Lordeus 1 Regine Lordeus Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 6 April 2017 Standardized Testing According to Dan Fletcher, earliest record of standardized testing comes from China, where hopefuls for government jobs had to fill out examinations testing their knowledge of Confucian philosophy and (Standardized Testing 2). Standardized testing is about accountability for parents, students and teachers, respectively. It has premised on ownership of learning. It also speaks to the likelihood of those who will be proficient in careers after public education. However, it is not the best indicator as to what a student knows due to the fact that there are multiple areas of intelligence. Some students are kinesthetic, auditory, or visual learners. High stakes testing measures an understanding of academic fundamentals. Students would like standardized testing to be banned because they feel like they are being evaluated incorrectly, it encourages them to cheat, and limits their chances on getting accepted to a school of their choice. Yes, students are spending a lot less time on learning class objectives and materials because they have to prepare for the standardized exam, however, standardized testing is not a completely bad thing. To increase public awareness and get students, parents, and teachers to believe why standardized testing is needed, a class session will be held at the University of South Florida June 8 th , 9 th , and 10 th at 6 pm. We will inform the guest on the importance of standardized testing, how to earn scholarships, and also introduce our new tutoring program coming up. Lordeus 2 In order to get the public to believe standardized testing is a great cause, we will need an audience to help convey the message. The audience for my stakeholder would be retirement-aged adults. You may be wondering the elderly? They would not On the contrary, they can inform and explain to students on how staying in school and passing exams can get you a well-paying job and great benefits when you do retire. We all know standardized testing causes test-anxiety, and evaluates only performance rather than their overall growth. Our goal is to teach the audience the importance of standardized testing and and the long-term advantages. I will educate my audience, the elderly, by mapping out ideas on why we need standardized testing. To begin, I will display them a practice test of the exam so they can get a visualize example of what the students are currently taking. Then, I will explain to my audience that students are allowed to take the exam up to as many times they want to achieve a high score and receive scholarships. My audience will understand that standardized testing differs from teacher assessment test. A student may score straight in all their classes, but without an average score on the standardized exam, there is not a guarantee possibility of getting into a school of their choice. Without standardized testing makers would have to depend on test that are scored individually teachers and schools that have a vested interest in producing favorable (12 Primary Pros and Cons of Standardized Testing). Older adults would be able to help engage parents, and students on why standardized should not be opt out, and ways to improve their children style of learning. Standardized testing is managed and recorded in a steady technique that consists of multiple choice questions and one expository essay. Students, teachers, and parents are already uncertain about the exam itself, therefore, I believe the most effective audience to help them change their perspectives on standardized testing would be the retired. This demographic of Lordeus 3 people have so much wisdom and insight to offer. Their knowledge will convince my audience to care about standardized testing by putting together a motivational speech on how we would like to students in our society to succeed. The audience will be educated on standardized testing, and will understand testing is a positive effect on performances, focuses on necessary content and skills, and holds schools accountable. More likely than not elderly people have nieces, nephews, or maybe grandchildren in school that they would love to see excel their growth in school and succeed like them. In order for that to occur, students must succeed in a precise way by earning a high grade point average, getting involved in different organizations, and most important earning an average or above test score. I will get my audience attention to help tutor students. Students may be failing because they are not properly grasping the information needed in order to past the exam. By then my audience will understand that school is something we need if we are trying to be successful in the future and get a well-paying job. It is important we find the key idea on how to help students achieve the score they want. In order to get this memo out, we need the elderly to prove to our students, teachers, and parents that there is a way to defeat standardized testing with our help by providing tutoring and practice exams. The human aspect of standardized testing is misinterpreted. It is understood that standardized testing only a small portion of what makes education (12 Primary Pros and Cons of Standardized Testing). Students spend a fair amount of time studying to maintain an average grade point and those who have severe test anxiety are likely to receive low test scores. However, with the help of our audience, standardized testing will become a great cause soon. My group will first, introduce the importance of the testing and explain the benefits that come with scoring a high score. Then, they will introduce the tutoring program we are offering to students three times a week. Our tutoring program will have different styles of Lordeus 4 learning for students who are much comfortable in learning visually, auditory, or kinesthetic. At the open house occurring June 8 th , 9 th , and 10 th , students who are willing to get tutored by us will take a survey to see what kind of learner are they. By their results, be placed in a category that best fits their learning styles. A placement test would also be given to them to see what areas they need more work on. Tutoring will be offer in groups of 10 each. These students will be tutored three times a week, and provided with practice exams. With the help of tutoring and practice test, students will definitely see improvements from their previous test scores. Standardized testing is designed to assess academic performances and to compare performances in a relative manner. Practically every high school student must complete the process of taking the SAT or ACT if they are interested in attending a college, university, or a performing arts school. The SAT or ACT is required for almost any college entry and increases a student chance for earning a scholarship based on their scores. To help take away the negative stigma of standardized testing we must focus on motivating them and strengthening their learning styles. Tutoring service will be held at the University of South Florida Monday- Friday. It is highly important we get students on the right track and get rid of the myth that standardized testing is just to judge our intelligence. Lordeus 5 Work Cited Primary Pros and Cons of Standardized Green Garage Blog,12 August. 2015. Web 6 April 2017 Fletcher, Dan. Content Time, 11 December 2009, pp.1-3. Web 6 April 2017 Wrong With Standardized  The National Center for Fair & Open Testing. N.p., 22 May 2012. Web. 6 April 2017