Diamond !1 Alexia Diamond Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.045S17 25 February 2017 Rhetorical Appeal to Standardized Testing In society, the education system sees standardized testing as a crucial part in assessing students, teachers, and schools. As the use of standardized testing increases, the debate whether it truly helps or hurts education grows. The organization, National Center for Fair and Open mission is to end the misuse of standardized testing and to make sure that the procedure used to evaluate students, teachers, and schools is fair and educationally beneficial (fairtest). This group believes that standardized testing wastes valuable classroom time and increases high school drop out rates. The National Center for Fair and Open Testing, also known as FairTest, both rhetorical and visual devices to reiterate the negative effects of standardized testing as said in they mission statement. The first advertisement from the National Center for Fair and Open Testing, Wrong With Standardized uses many different visual elements to illustrate the reasons why standardized testing is jeopardizing the educational system. The color orange produces a refreshing effect by symbolizing strength and endurance. The color orange can mean a lot go different things such as: deceit, distrust, aggression, domination, caution, (Color Wheel Pro 2016). It uses orange text to draw the eye to what they consider important words and phrases that have negative connotation, such as: poor measures, educational quality suffers, not fair, not reliable, bias, and not objective. Not only does the use of orange draw the eye, but it also gives Diamond !2 them a sense of caution against testing. The National Center for Fair and Open Testing uses this poster to convey that standardized testing is not the best way to evaluate students, teachers, and schools. In an attempt to make this poster less negative, it poses possible solutions in a circle in the middle of the page drawing the eye since it is different. The National Center for Fair and Open testing uses both logos and pathos embedded in their advertisement. Throughout the poster there are many boxes with information about why standardized testing is not helpful to students. In each box there are different colored text (blue and orange) to draw the eye to that information. For example, one of the boxes state, and short-answer tests are poor measures of student achievement, particularly of the ability to understand and use complex (fair test). By using words and phrases that have negative connotation, after reading this poster, parents start to feel concerned for their children and start to doubt the current educational system. The words and phrases that will stand out to parents include: poor measures, narrowed, mental or emotional state, educational quality suffers, and subjected human beings. Another advertisement created by National Center for Fair and Open Testing titled, High-Stakes Testing Feeds the School-to-Prison uses an image of a maze that leads from a school to a prison. Along the maze, there are little boxes with reasons on why high-stake testing can lead their teenager to prison. The organization hopes by seeing what may come of their children if standardized testing continues, everyone will see how the educational system today is leading students down the wrong path. The color red can indicate a lot of different things. It can mean passionate love, seduction, violence, danger, anger, and adventure (Morton 2016). In this case, using the color red helps indicate that standardized testing is dangerous. The Diamond !3 first thing the eye is drawn to is the big red pipeline amongst all the white surrounding it. By using this pipeline leading from a school to a prison, parents are prompted to read how these high-stake tests can lead their children to trouble. Similar to the first advertisement, this poster uses the same rhetorical appeals to support their argument against high-stake tests. Along the obvious big red pipeline are little text boxes that explain how educational system can lead their children to prison. These text boxes include information that fall into a domino effect. Each box leads to the next until ultimately these teenagers end up in prison. For example, the first text box states, force many classrooms to focus on test then students are most likely to act which leads to other examples they found, then ultimately leads to teens more likely to get in trouble, end up in (fair test). This information shows the ultimate demise of students pressured by high-stake tests throughout their school career. On the website there are many articles about the flaws in standardized testing and how to stop it. The National Center of Fair and Open Testing uses both posters to advertise the negative side to standardized testing to parents everywhere. The National Center of Fair and Open Testing promotes open, valid, and educationally beneficial evaluations for students, teachers, and (Schaeffer 2016). They work to eliminate racial, class, gender, and cultural barriers posed by standardized testing so everyone has an equal opportunity to a quality education. They hold many different projects to help improve the educational system, some examples include: working with other groups in testing resistance and reform spring to help build campaigns and link up with one another and leading the national forum which seeks to maintain the Elementary and Secondary Education Act/No Child Left Behind. Both posters promotes their cause by Diamond !4 advertising standardized testing in a negative way. Although the advertisement states different information, the ultimate goal to both is to stop standardized testing. The first advertisement uses more words and knowledge to get their audience to understand the negative side, whereas the second advertisement uses more images and with very little words. In the end, The National Center for Fair and Open Testing has created two very different, but similar advertisement to help explain why standardized testing is harming the educational system. By using the rhetorical appeals, pathos and logos, FairTest targets couples with students taking these standardized tests in hope they will support their cause and end standardized testing. Not only do the advertisements focus on the negative effects of standardized testing, but they also pose a solution. Good teacher observation, documentation of student work, and performance based assessments can be used to testing students and teachers and can undo the damage by reversing the zero tolerance caused by standardized testing. Diamond !5 Work Cited Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. <http://www.color-wheel-pro.com/color-meaning.html>. Morton, Jill.  Red. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.colormatters.com/the- meanings-of-colors/red>. Parents & Kids Against Standardized  Parents & Kids Against Standardized Testing. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://m.facebook.com/117479641627357/photos/a. 484433368265314.98815.117479641627357/505888819453102/? Schaeffer, Robert. The National Center for Fair & Open  The National Center for Fair & Open Testing FairTest. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.fairtest.org/>. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: Establishing Arguments. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/588/04/>. Diamond !6 Image one: Image 2: