Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Options for Treating Depression: The Joint Forces of Natural and Medicated Treatments of Depression People often believe that life-changing events cannot happen to them. Although this may be true for some, others suffer from things that make their life a bit harder to live. It has been reported that about 14.8 million American adults are affected with major depressive disorder in any given year Of these people, many go untreated because they completely understand or they choose not to get proper help. Studies have shown that, up to 80% of those who are treated show improvement within four to six weeks (Depression Statistics). Founded in 1979, The Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA) dedicates its self to educating all people on the matters of depression and other anxiety disorders. To this day, this stakeholder continues to support public health, link people who need treatment with professionals, and work to reduce the stigma surrounding depression. Taking a different perspective on this issue is the Association for Youth, Children, and Natural Psychology (AYCNP) where the focus is on positive non-pharmaceutical solutions for depression. Much like the first stakeholder, the AYCNP provides information for consumers and professionals for educational means. Although these two stakeholders back a different method of treatment, they both want those affected by depression to be educated and seek help. Due to this commonality, it Student 2 would be easy for each stakeholder to create a platform that showcases all methods of treatment for depression, ranging from the use of therapist to the use of natural treatments. The ADAA provides information for all who want to know it; their goal is to provide help to those who need it. This stakeholder will provide a list of local therapists and their specialties based on where one lives. In addition to connecting the affected party with local therapist, the ADAA provides education on the different options one has as far as medication. They believe that medication treatment is generally safe and effective, which is proven time and time again in studies performed to test the effectiveness of antidepressants. Thomas Baghai states that effectiveness studies have reported a higher overall response rate of 79.6% and a remission rate of 48.8% or a response rate of 68.9% and a remission rate of 51.9% after 53.6 47.5 days of treatment in large naturalistically treated patient (215). By providing information about the different types of antidepressants, the ADAA is making sure that the patient is educated about their options upon seeking out a therapist. Although medication has been proven to treat those affected with depression, it takes time to find the right drug. Antidepressant medications usually take up 3 weeks before symptoms begin to improve and 6 to 8 weeks before ideal improvement is seen (Flinks 207). With the proper knowledge and background, patients can mentally prepare themselves for the road to their medical journey. Alternatively, the Association for Youth, Children, and Natural Psychology seeks to educate those affected with depression and other anxiety disorders in the matters of natural treatments. These natural treatments include art therapy, music therapy, exercise, gardening, and many more. Founded in 2006 by several psychologist and educators, this stakeholder fills the gap in the mental health field for Natural The AYCNP states that they decided to offer information about natural treatment because of the substantial evidence that Student 3 suggest patients being over-diagnosed and over-prescribed for the mental illnesses. Brad Partridge reports that in the last decade use of psychotropic medications to treat common mental health problems has In a study of 1293 participants, 57.7 percent of them agreed that too many people are diagnosed with depression when they have it (Putilov 4). The idea is that by making health and positive changes in life, their mood will improve as well. Today, my companies add gyms for employee use as a way of boasting moral and creating happier employees. A study performed in 1993 by W.K. Koehler reported a improvement of mood . . . following 2 weeks of training on a stationary bicycle between 6:00 and (Putilov 3). This shows that by partaking in daily exercise, one will release serotonin in the brain, ultimately uplifting their mood. A later study by Putilov found that a 50% improvement in depressed individuals following 12-day aerobic treatment from 07:00 to 8:00 (3). This discovery further backed up past research that proved that exercise helps to improve mood. In 2014, Time Magazine published a list of natural remedies that be proven to effectively treat those with depression. This list includes transcranial magnetic stimulation, acupuncture, exercise, meditation, and interpersonal therapy and (Sifferlin 1). In the case of a person who chooses to get treated without antidepressants, just a matter of finding what works best. Both the ADAA and the AYCNP are interested in educating all parties involved on the affairs of depression. These stakeholders have dedicated their time and effort into providing information about treatments and resources to break down the stigma society has about this mental illness. As far as treatments, the ADAA strongly suggest gaining the help of a licensed professional, while the AYCNP offers an alternative naturalistic route that foregoes prescription drugs all together. In an effort to show solidarity to all who suffer from depression, these two Student 4 stakeholders could work together to support all spectrums of the issue. It important that those who prefer not to take the traditional route for treatment have access to the resources that will provide information about alternate options. If the goal is to provide help for those in need then why would stakeholders only provide one method of relief for those who need it? Notably, studies have shown that patients have found that combining psychotherapy with medication offers the most complete relief Anxiety, and To start the process of creating a solid foundation, both organizations need to recognize the methods offered by the other. Recognizing opposite methods can be done by completing research or even adding a survey aspect for users of their site. By doing so, the ADAA and the AYCNP will find out exactly what area they are lacking in. Thus updating their site to reflect all aspects of treatment. This way, upon visiting either stakeholder site, those affected with depression will feel that they have options instead of being back into a corner. Next, both stakeholders should encourage the patient to visit a professional with the information they have learned about depression. To get the best results a professional should be involved in the road to recovery. This way patients can properly attain a treatment that contains natural methods and antidepressants if needed. Thus, creating an environment where the user feels safe and knowledgeable. Although the ADAA and the AYCNP have different views on how to treat depression, both views can be combined to create a power house. This new-found support system can help people of all ages properly assess their depression and choose the best method of treatment for them. Both medication and natural treatments are customized to each personal needs. It is a widely-known fact that people want to have options; they want to feel as though they have a say in going on in their life. In the end, both stakeholders want to educate people about the matters of depression. They create a safe-haven for friend, family, patients, and educators to Student 5 learn without judgement. This common ground is what makes the compromise work. There is no better way to educate viewers than to show them all sides of the matter at hand. (Word count: 1257) Student 6 Works Cited for Natural Psychology Self Help Depression Bipolar Association for Natural Psychology. Association for Natural Psychology. aycnp.org/index.php. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Baghai, Thomas, et al. General and Comparative Efficacy and Effectiveness of Antidepressants in the Acute Treatment of Depressive Disorders: A Report by the WPA Section of  European Archives of Psychiatry & Clinical Neuroscience, vol. 261, 02 Nov. 2011, pp. 207-245 Finks, Karin. Symptoms, Treatment, and Responses to Medications Used to Treat  NASN School Nurse, vol. 27, July 2012, pp. 205-207. Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. www.adaa.org. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Hotline  Depression Statistics - Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance. Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance (DBSA). Accessed 22 Mar. 2017. Pain, Anxiety, And Depression: Why These Conditions Often Occur Together and How to Treat Them When They  Harvard Mental Health Letter 26.11 (2010): pp 1-3. Partridge, Brad, et al. Over-Diagnosed and Over-Treated: A Survey of Australian Public Attitudes Towards the Acceptability of Drug Treatment for Depression and  BMC Psychiatry, vol. 14, no. 1, May 2014, pp. 1-9. Student 7 Putilov, A. Natural Treatments for Seasonal and Non-Seasonal Depression: A Review of Literature and Comparison of Antidepressant  Scientific Journal of Review, vol. 2, no. 1, 2013, pp. 11-36 Sifferlin, Alexandra. 9 Natural Treatments You Know Actually Work on  Time.Com, 27 Sept. 2014, p. 1.