Dietl 1 Katrina Dietl Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102 19 March 2017 National Alliance on Mental Illness Image Analysis The broadcasted information on mental illness has been lacking over the years and the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) has been combatting the lack of information by creating images that create a sense of urgency for the public to understand mental illness and to become The NAMI is reaching for a goal in which anyone who suffers from or knows someone who suffers from mental illness does not receive any stigma from the public. NAMI hopes to see people who suffer from any type of mental illness is capable to live in a world. (National Alliance on Mental Illness) When leading up to Mental Awareness week, the National Alliance on Mental Illness uses multiple images that effectively utilizes visual elements and rhetoric appeals to spread the awareness of mental illness. The first image from the National Alliance on Mental Illness uses visual elements to emphasize the importance of being aware of mental illness. The first visual element that is present within the ad is the green background. According to ribbonsforareason.com, the color green symbolizes mental illness, just like how the color pink symbolizes breast cancer. On the upper left hand corner, the image has the words Illness Awareness which is to present the upcoming week dedicated to mental illness. Underneath Illness Awareness in smaller text, the image says, #MIAW, join NAMI in shining a light on mental Dietl 2 illness and replacing stigma with hope. Find ways to help at The top right of the image presents logo on a dark gray background. Underneath the logo are the dates for mental illness awareness week that is presented in a lime green circle that has a shadow to the bottom right of it. This shadow is to create an effect in which the circle stands out from the rest of the image. This image emphasizes the importance of Illness Awareness and wants the audience, which is anyone who is affected by mental illnesses, to help them in achieving their goal of getting rid of stigma towards those who suffer from mental illnesses. Within this image, pathos, logos, and kairos work together in order for NAMI to persuade the audience to join the fight against the stigma of mental illnesses. Pathos is used within the text by saying, NAMI in shining a light on mental illness and replacing stigma with NAMI hopes that this statement will create the reader to feel compassion towards mental health. This compassion is derived from the diction that NAMI uses. The phrases a and stigma with is used in hope for the audience to feel compassion towards those who suffer from mental illness and stigmatized for it. Logos in this image is presented within the blocked text on the lower left hand corner. This text is hoped to inform the reader about goal in creating a environment for those who suffer from mental illness. Kairos is used in this image by the presentation of the dates for mental awareness week. NAMI hopes that the dates will persuade the audience to be aware of mental illnesses and to become more informed on the mental illnesses by the end of that week. The second image also uses visual elements to accentuate the importance of being aware of mental illness; however, it presents a more emphasized stance on the statistics of mental Dietl 3 health conditions. The similarities of the images includes the top left of the image saying, Illness Awareness the top right of the image presenting logo, and the dates for the week of mental illness awareness underneath the logo. The color scheme is also similar to the first image by having a green background, white letters, and the logo on a dark gray background. The green background is also used to present the connection of the color green and mental illness. (Ribbons for a Reason) The circle that indicates the week of mental illness awareness is the same green as the first image and has the shadow effect on the bottom right as well. However, the main point of the image is the centered text that states, in 5 Americans will live with a mental health condition. Speak out and make a difference. This statement is in a larger font size than the rest of the text on the image and the in 5 is larger than the rest of the statement. The in 5 statement is also bolded, unlike the rest of the centered text. The generalization of this statement also broadens the audience to include more than just anyone who is affected by mental illness, but to include anyone who wants to stand for those who suffer from mental illness. In this image, NAMI uses logos, ethos, and kairos together to create the impact that they hope will have the reader become The logos presented in this image is the bolded statistic in the middle that states, in 5 Americans will live with a mental health This statistic is to allow the reader to receive some information that is related to mental illness and the organization hopes that the reader will be able to understand how large that statistic is. This statistic is also represented by The Kim Foundation, which states percent of Americans 18 and older suffer from a diagnosable mental disorder in a given This foundation also estimated the number of people that the statistic says suffers from mental illnesses each year, which comes to 57.7 million people. (The Kim Foundation) Ethos is Dietl 4 presented in this image through the organizations logo in the upper right hand corner. The organization hopes that the logo will present their credibility so that the reader will be able to believe the statistic and join the cause in which they are fighting. The kairos in this image is a call to action. The call to action is within the statement out and make a NAMI hopes that the reader will go out of their way after seeing this specific image to join them in informing others about mental illness. The statement and the dates of mental awareness week combined is hoped to create an urgency to join NAMI before or during mental awareness week. These two images from the National Alliance on Mental Illness are effective in their own way to promote the goal. NAMI wants to inform the public of mental illness and create environments for those who suffer from mental illnesses. The first image allows the audience to start to understand the urgency of their goal by presenting the week of mental illness awareness and the website to receive more information about mental illness awareness week. The second image also allows the audience to start to receive information about mental illness with the statistic in the middle of the image. The second image also presents the website for more information about mental illness awareness week. Between both images presented by the National Alliance on Mental Illness, the organization effectively presents the audience with information they may need in order to start thinking about mental illness and how the audience may become involved if they want to. The images both present information that may allow the reader to start thinking of how many people mental illness really effects and adds their website in order for the reader to learn more if they would like. Dietl 5 Works Cited National Alliance on Mental Health. NAMI, www.nami.org/. Accessed 19 March 2017. Ribbons for a Reason. Volusion, 2017, Accessed 19 March 2017. The Kim Foundation. Larry and Kathy Courtnage family and their associates at C&A Industries, 2017, Accessed 19 March 2017. Dietl 6 Image 1: Image 2: