Barrineau 1 Jacob Barrineau Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 9 April 2017 Project 3: Intermediate Draft Throughout the United States there is an epidemic. Obesity rates have skyrocketed in the last 30 years with there now being over 20% higher rates than there were in 1980. As well as this, over one third of all people in the United States are above a healthy weight and another third fall into the category of obese. (Fryar) A contributor to this widespread obesity is the overconsumption of sugary beverages like soda. Soda has not only been linked to the rising rates of obesity in the United States, but its overconsumption has been proven to increase risks of heart disease and diabetes. Drinks and As a city, Tampa Bay needs to make a stand against this plague that has been ravaging the lives of so many of its citizens. Only 35.5% of Tampa residents are considered to be at a healthy weight and as a community something needs to be done to combat this. Obesity Rates for States, Metro ) In the past individuals have attempted to target soda consumption to improve the health of Americans. In 2013, a ban on all large sized sodas was implemented in New York City. The goal of this ban was to stop the overconsumption of large sugary beverages therefore forcing inhabitants of the city to practice moderation. However, the ban failed an was deemed unconstitutional. After the failure of the soda ban, there have been no major health initiatives in New York City. (Grynbaum) However, the city of Tampa can still step forward to be a leader in ending obesity throughout the United States. A solution that could be easily implemented is an increased tax on large sized beverages that are deemed to be unhealthy. This increased tax would Barrineau 2 mimic the sin taxes that are currently placed over tobacco products throughout the country. Essentially, if individuals attempted to purchase large, unhealthy beverages, then the sales tax would be increased therefore making healthier options more economical and in return influencing people to make choices that are better for their health. Peoples options are not being limited as they can still purchase any products that they can right now, they just have to pay a higher price for their unhealthy habits. Overall, it allows people to keep their freedom while advocating for better health throughout the city. An issue that arises from attempts to end widespread obesity is the lack of people who understand the magnitude of the problem itself. Americans generally know that the country has a weight problem; however, people see it as something that affects them directly. By increasing awareness of how widespread Americas weight problem is, people will become more likely to begin advocating for programs and legislature that promote good health. One sure way to increase awareness is a walk to end obesity, taking place in downtown Tampa. Not only are participants being active and showcasing a lifestyle of good physical health. As well as this, by having this walk take place in such a public densely populated location, word can get out to thousands of people that more than a third of the people they are surrounded with suffer from a disease that we can fight. People who understand that the issue is in their back yard are more likely to help than people who see obesity as some far-off issue that exists but cannot be helped by those that are unaffected. Unaffected people can make a difference if they are just informed that the issue effects their friends and family and if they are made aware that they can make an impact. The End Obesity Tampa organization, or EOT, acts as an advocate for people that are trying to end obesity and it wants to equip the city to have the best physical health that it can. Barrineau 3 The EOT has made it easy for anyone to get involved in the movement. On their website, you can find links to sign up for the walk to end obesity as well as a place to sign a petition to implement the sugary beverage sur tax. Their website can be located at https://barrineau.wixsite.com/endobesitytampa. Getting involved could potentially save the life of someone who struggles with obesity or even prevent obesity from ever occurring. By signing up for both the walk and you sign the petition you can play a part in helping individuals get past their health problems and prevent obesity from rising in the future. Obesity is at an all-time high in the United States and Tampa is not immune to this disease. Over one third people are affected and rates are rising every year. Many people think that they can help the situation but that is far from the truth. An epidemic this large is going to take everyone to fix; however, if obesity is ever to truly be combatted, it is going to take everyone getting together and doing their part. Do your part and spread awareness. By spreading awareness and getting involved you can help to end this disease for this generation and for generations to come. Barrineau 4 Works Cited Drinks and The Nutrition Source. Harvard University, 17 Mar. 2016. Web 10. Feb. 2017. Fryar, Cheryl, and Cynthia Ogden. Overweight and Obesity  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Oct. 2012. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Grynbaum, Michael. New Ban on Big Sodas is Rejected by Final  New York Times (2014): A1. Obesity Rates for States, Metro  Governing: The State and Localities. Governing, 2011. Web. 07 Apr. 2017.