Bailey Adams Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Advertising Sexual Health Almost thirty percent of the United States population does not have access to health care due to the cost; although that percentage has decreased over the past decade, it is still too high for comfort (Department of Health 2016). Abortion and health care are major issues being discussed worldwide, but more intensely in the United States since the recent presidential election. Planned Parenthood advocates the right to accessible health care. Their mission states that they believe the fundamental right of each individual, throughout the world, to manage his or her fertility, regardless of the income, marital status, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or residence (Planned Parenthood 2017). This mission statement provides insight into what the organization is trying to accomplish and provides background knowledge to their advertisements. Planned Parenthood is constantly advertising their goals and mission through different forms of media in hopes of inspiring others to help fight back. Although these two images are very different visually and rhetorically, Planned Parenthood effectively promotes its mission statement and goals through its advertisements. In this formal advertisement, Planned Parenthood is promoting the necessities of their goals. In Image One, the advertisement is composed of a blue background with small pictographs being used as bullet points next to the text. The text is stating who Planned Parenthood believes deserves to have accessible health care in response to the new laws and bills being passed by President Trump. targeting an audience via social media, therefore anyone with internet Adams 2 access, and those in need of any health care access. This is because those on social media have the ability to make a difference in society and possibly legislation. The text of the advertisement creates a positive and encouraging tone because it can give hope to those who have lost it by including anyone in the LGBTQ+ community and any and all races and ethnicities. This allows everyone to feel included, which relates back to Planned goal. The purpose of this advertisement is to advocate the mission statement to help any and all people in need of accessible and affordable health care. Due to the imperative timing in which this image was posted, it appeals to the rhetorical appeal of kairos. This is because of the recent travel ban being enforced and all of the anti-Islam propaganda being spread across social media. Planned Parenthood effectively approached those affected by including the text of documentation and I come Anyone can relate to the advertisement because it appeals to basic human rights, which is the logos aspect of the rhetorical appeals. The credibility, or ethos, of the advertisement comes from the Planned Parenthood badge and website link printed in the bottom corners. This is significant to the effectiveness because it allows the population to know that Planned Parenthood is promoting the rights of absolutely everyone. The pathos rhetorical appeal is the emotional appeal, which can be seen with the word in bold letters and it effectively reaches out to all people, making anyone and everyone welcomed. Image Two is quite different from Image One visually. Image Two applies more to the sexual health and education aspect of the Planned Parenthoods goals and mission statement. What they are promoting in this add, which is is centered that way the audience clearly knows what is occurring. The advertisement is composed of an innocent background and foreground while applying to a serious matter. The background consists of doodles, a childish Adams 3 action, but the doodles consist of images of condoms, pads, sex organs, and forms of birth control along with the words of penis, gender identity, relationships, and consent to name a few. The foreground consists of a small white board that states in all capital letters with two toy figures of a dinosaur and alligator. This is effective in attracting the younger population on social media as a target audience because of the adolescent design to the advertisement. Because of the design, the tone seems lighthearted but still somewhat serious due to the topic being advertised. The purpose of this advertisement is to advocate sexual health education and to teach the youth about their sexual health. This is important because it is a major goal of Planned Parenthood. The rhetorical appeals are used successfully in this image which assists in effectively promoting Planned mission and goals. There is no strong relation to the rhetorical appeal of kairos in this image, however the other rhetorical appeals are very apparent. The pathos appeal reaches out to the youth on social media. This is very apparent with the childish doodles in the foreground and the dinosaur and alligator figure the topic of sexual health and facts. The doodles are effective in reaching the target audience of millennials and the youth because, advertisements use a generic creative message strategy, an emotional visual creates the strongest (Clow et al 2009). This advertisement is generic, however the ad goes straight to the point of one of the goals of Planned Parenthood, therefore it is effective. Sex facts are important and the main topic of the advertisement, which can be seen through the logos rhetorical appeal because it is the center of the ad. Similar to the kairos appeal, the ethos appeal is lacking because nowhere on the ad is the logo, and it is only known to be promoted by Planned Parenthood because of the social media page. Adams 4 Although the images are very different, they both are effective in promoting the mission and goals of Planned Parenthood. The text of both advertisements are the most effective characteristic because they explicitly promote goals of the organization. The text is the most apparent and descriptive device used in both of the ads. They work together because Image One shows who all they stand for and what they want while Image Two is showing what they want for the youth. They are complements to each other because they effectively explain that no matter race, ethnicity, documentation status, gender identity, et al, they want people to be educated in sexual health and have the rights and ability to access health care. A major goal of Planned Parenthood is to educational programs which enhance understanding of individual and societal implications of human This is clearly advertised and promoted in Image Two. Another goal is to comprehensive reproductive and complementary health care services in settings which preserve and protect the essential privacy and rights of each Image Two effectively supports and advocates for this goal due to its application to the entire population (Planned Parenthood 2017). To conclude, both Image One and Image Two are very different when being compared visually. However, both advertisements effectively promote the mission and goals of Planned Parenthood. The use of text is the most effective aspect in both advertisements along with the small visuals, such as the pictographs in Image One and doodles in Image Two. Rhetorical appeals vary in both advertisements because of the target audience; what is effective for an adult is not as effective for an adolescent. However, each rhetorical appeal used for either image is imperative to promoting the goals of the organization. Planned Parenthood produced these advertisements to show that they are more than just a place that performs legal abortions, which is clearly indicated through these two advertisements. Adams 5 Works Cited Clow, Kenneth E. An Examination of the Visual Element Used in Generic Message Advertisements: A Comparison of Goods and Services. Services Marketing Quarterly. Web. 23 February 2017 Health, United States. Health Insurance and Access to Care. National Center for Health Statistics. Web. 23 February 2017 Parenthood, Planned. Mission. Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc. Web. 27 January 2017 Adams 6 Image One Image Two