Eberline 1 Landen Eberline Professor Emil Smith ENC 1101 015 24 March 2017 The Clear and Consistent Conversation about the Impact of Deforestation on Climate Change Continually, the popular argument surrounding climate change is focused on fossil fuels and their emissions. However, scholars point to not just these fossil fuel emissions, which do play a part in climate change, but also towards deforestation and numerous other factors. Deforestation has taken a toll of around 3 million square miles of forests around the world since the middle of the 20 th century. The evidence of large-scale deforestation is clear to see when comparing satellite images of the earth from the 1980s to present day. The changing land-cover affects many organisms and similarly affects the climate in adverse manners. The impacts that deforestation and afforestation have on climate change have remained clear and consistent in scholarly conversations over the past decade. And the message scholars have continually expressed to the public is an urgent need to cease deforestation and implement strategic afforestation as a means for mitigation of climate change. The conversation presented in research studies of 2010 on deforestation and its effects on climate change have expressed similar concerns from previous years. Scholars observed the effects of deforestation on surface air temperatures and have concluded that deforestation plays an adverse effect on surface air temperatures. Additionally, researchers have found that the latitude of deforestation is significant. One research study conducted in 2010 states that forests absorb about 18% of all carbon dioxide added by fossil fuels, annually Eberline 2 processing about six times as much carbon via photosynthesis and respiration as humans emit from fossil fuel (McAlpine, et al. 336). This research suggests that tropical forests have a greater impact on carbon dioxide sequestration than fossil fuel emissions. These woodlands are more important than others because of their latitudes. Low latitude deforestation in places such as the amazon rainforest more directly lead to increased global surface area temperatures than mid to high latitude deforestation. These statistics led the researchers to conclude that it is urgent that tropical deforestation is ceased. Another 2010 study states that is thus a growing need to advance our understanding of the biogeophysical impact of land cover and to address more the potential of afforestation or reforestation to mitigate climate (Davin and Noblet-Ducoudre 98). This study expresses the same concern surrounding deforestation as did study but considers the effects of deforestation on the changing land cover. This study suggests that there needs to be more research conducted on deforestation as to ascertain the complete effects of deforestation. Both 2010 research studies present evidence that deforestation is harmful, especially at lower latitudes. They conclude that deforestation plays a significant role in climate change and that it needs to be halted. Similarly, the scholarly conversations held in 2014 have expressed the same concerns as the 2010 studies: a need for deforestation to cease because it adversely affects the global climate. A 2014 study on the possibility of afforestation as a means for mitigating climate change states that which reach 450 ppm of CO2-equivalent by 2100 and keep temperature change below the of 2 degrees Celsius will rely on the availability and widespread deployment of BECCS and afforestation in the second half of the (Bala 1624). Bala expresses the potential of afforestation in reducing climate change. He states that it is essential to address deforestation by reducing the number of trees chopped and planting trees to replace the Eberline 3 ones that are to be harvested for various human purposes. Implementing afforestation will help to avoid increasing the temperature by 2 degrees Celsius by 2100. Of which, if not avoided, would push several animal, including marine, species to the brink of extinction. Another 2014 study articulates that carbon can be accomplished through: (a) conservation of existing carbon stocks by protecting forest reserves, controlling (Sookun 350). This study suggests that a method of carbon sequestration or carbon emission mitigation is to cease deforestation. It suggests that controlling deforestation has the potential to reduce climate change. Both 2014 studies have kept the scholarly conversation consistent since the studies of 2010. They alert the public of a dangerous increase in temperature by 2100 unless we take the necessary means such as strategic afforestation and reducing deforestation. Scholarly conversations on deforestation in its adverse effects on the climate have remained clear and consistent over all the years. While each study focuses on the different ways deforestation effects climate change, such as albedo, nonradiative and radiative forcing, and carbon dioxide sequestration, they all assess that deforestation is harmful to the earth and its climate. While the public narrowly focuses on the fossil fuel emissions, they neglect the small scale of these emissions when compared to all of the carbon cycle factors. While it is vital to reduce these emissions, it is even more crucial to heed the prompting of ceasing deforestation. While afforestation on its own will not fix the climate, it is a step in the right direction. In the issue of preventing climate change, every effort matters. Eberline 4 Works Cited Bala, G. Planting New Trees Help to Reduce Global Editorial. Current Science, 25 June 2014: vol. 106, no. 12; 1623-1624. Web. 24 January 2017. Davin, E.; Noblet-Ducoudre, N. Impact of Global-Scale Deforestation: Radiative versus Nonradiative American Meteorological Society. N.P., 1 Jan. 2010. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. McAlpine, CA, et al. More Than CO2: A Broader Paradigm for Managing Climate Change And Variability to Avoid Ecosystem  Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability 2. (2010): 334-346. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Sookun, A.; Boojhawon, R.; Rughooputh, S. Drivers of Climate Change: Carbon Budget Index for Ecological Indicators 46. (2014): 340-350. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.