Kirsten Hawkins Emil Smith Composition 1 2/24/16 Breed-Specific Legislation, Then and Now Over the years, the discussion of Breed-Specific Legislation (BSL) has changed in many different ways due to new and upcoming research. The United States is not the only place where incidents with canines occur. Recently in the news we see more and more broadcastings of the incidents that have taken place and what the person involved in the case would like to be done about the issue. With its rising publicity, legislation has worked to come up with new rules and limitations on owning and handling a dog that can be considered breed-specific. Breed-specific legislation are laws that restrict dogs based on their breed and set appearance; this is set into place because some people see certain dogs as As new information about Breed-Specific Legislation is filtering its way into the public eye, the views of BSL, and the effects on BSL have become less lenient overall from the early to 2015. There is millions of information around the world that changes on a day to day basis due to new and improved research, there is also information that can only slightly change over a course of a couple years. The views on Breed-Specific Legislation have affected and continues to affect millions of people around the world today. However, the views always been seen as similar. According to the article published in 2002, Bull the media is playing a huge role in the community by providing harsh comments on the subject itself, such as archetype of canine evil, predators of the (Cohen 285). These types of comments relay into the eyes and makes people believe what the media is forcing them to believe. Once a community views a certain situation one way it takes a lot to change that view in a positive way. Breed-Specific Legislation was viewed as a reasonable plan, due to the fact in 2002 the media was paying that vital role in showing the dangerous side to specific breeds. In the article it stated, stories covered legislation restricting Pit Bull ownership; nine described Pit Bull owners, who are portrayed as the dregs of (Cohen 287). Since 2002 enforcement of BSL has become stricter, as landlords could make decisions based on their own personal views on whether or not pit bulls were allowed in a certain housing development. In the article, Liable Landlords Could Mean the Pound for Pit the statement, strict liability standard was specific to pit bulls because the court held that pit bulls were inherently (Biggins 84) provides reasoning behind the views of BSL. If Breed- Specific Legislation views changed more dramatically, there would most likely be more protests against why communities should or should not have BSL in-tact. The views on Breed-Specific Legislation the only thing that has had a conversation change over time, legislation has altered what is seen as humane in treatment for dogs in the world today. In 2010, the article Dogs: Breed bans, euthanasia, and preemptive provided evidence behind what happens to the dogs if they are found under the legislation. Some dogs would be banned from public places, euthanized, or their owners would be tried in court for owning such a breed. Such breeds would include any dog that looked part of the pit bull family. This placed a huge effect on owners with a breed considered to be such effects included, eviction, getting arrested, or an increase in insurance. The effects of BSL have changed more within the last couple years, in that the regulations are a lot easier to compromise with. In the article dog aggression: Epidemiologic aspects: In memoriam, Rudy de Meester published in 2015, shows how Breed-Specific Legislation has an effect on not just the owners of the animal, but also it has an effect on the veterinary offices. These veterinary offices have to make rational decisions on whether to euthanize a dog or help it come back to good health and give it a second chance. BSL has had harsh and unfair effects on veterinary offices today. The vets would have to guess what type of dog they are present with, and sometimes their guess could be wrong which could potentially kill an innocent dog based just on their appearance. The article states, behavior is one of the main reasons why dogs are given away, abandoned, or (Polo 526) This effect is so harsh upon such an animal due to a type of legislation. Breed-Specific Legislation has changed its concepts and regulations over the years, and so did the effect it has on people owning a specific dog around the world. Breed-Specific Legislation from the early to 2015 has slightly been altered in ways that society must live with every day. As the rules and regulations of BSL have become slightly more lenient over time, the views have also been altered in regards to the changes being made. Every topic, whether really important or not, change in some way or another, without change things could maybe become forgotten, or not focused on and some things need that direct focus, such as Breed-Specific Legislation. Works Cited Biggins, Caitlin. Strictly Liable Landlords Could Mean the Pound for Pit Bulls. University of Baltimore Journal of Land & Development, Fall 2012, Vol. 2 Issue 1, p83-89, 7p, Database: Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson) Dayan, Colin. Dead Dogs: Breed bans, euthanasia, and preemptive justice. Boston Review, Mar/Apr2010, Vol. 35 Issue 3, p26-28, 3p, Database: Humanities Full Text (H.W. Wilson) Cohen, Judy; Richardson, John. Pit Bull Panic. Journal of Popular Culture, Fall2002, Vol. 36 Issue 2, p285-317, 33p, 2 Diagrams, 6 Charts; DOI: 10.1111/1540-5931.00007, Database: Humanities Source Polo, Gina; Clothier, Suzanne; Garcia, Rita de Casssia Maria. Journal of Veterinary Behavior: Clinical Applications and Research. November-December 2015 10(6):525-534 Language: English. DOI: 10.1016/j.jveb.2015.09.003, Database: ScienceDirect