Adela Lopez Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 10 April 17 The Flaws in the system Social media only goes back a few years; it is all a fairly new developing network but it has had an immense effect on society. When we turn on the news we see a lot of stories involving criminals and what they have been arrested for. But lately there seems to have been a pattern in the stories. There have been lots of controversies involving police brutality. Before social media this would have been a mere headline in the news it have gotten the attention it deserved, but now so many people are able to express how they feel and what needs to be done. The black community has been continuously targeted in these recent months, but this is something that has been happening for years. There just been enough people who speak out before and voice their opinions. When a criminal is convicted we assume that all criminals are treated equally and given their proper punishment for their crimes. We assume that they are prosecuted in the same way and that their crime is the main thing taken into consideration, but it is not. The criminal justice system has its flaws, there is a trend that shows that things like the gender, race, and class are still affecting the punishments criminals receive after being convicted of the similar crimes. There are numerous scholarly articles that talk about this topic and how the majority of the time race is the main thing involved in these cases. According to the NAACP Criminal Justice Fact Sheet 14 million whites and 2.6 million blacks reported using illicit drugs, yet there are more blacks sent to prison for drug offenses at 10 times the rate of whites. The NAACP also mentions that blacks serve as much prison time for a drug offense as whites do for a violent offense. Which already seems unfair that they are facing the same severity for a different level crime offense. But when we live in a free land and abide by the rules why is that the criminal justice system is depending more on a race and class than their actual crime? Lately in the media has specifically focused in police brutality targeting minorities but mainly blacks, Michael Tonry published a book in 2011 where he strongly voiced the injustices created in the criminal justice system. He talked about the uneasy relationship between the black community and the police. Something that is highly seen today. Before people who wanted to speak out like Michael Tonry have as much success as they do now. Social media a widely spread out as it is today headlines get the attention they deserved so scholars able to draw as much attention to the flaws that the criminal justice system has in order to be able to fix it. After the development of social networks more people began to try to speak out on these injustices, Brock Turner was a Stanford college student who was sentenced to only six months in jail after a sexual-assault case where the jury convicted him. But became an even bigger controversy when he was released from jail after serving just three of his six-month sentence. This angered a lot of people because many criminals before have receive a harsher punishment, some with cases that involved less evidence than the ones involved in the Brock Turner case. He is also a white high class male who holds the wealth provided by his parents. The judge who was at charge of this case commented that prison sentence for Brock Turner would have severe and collateral on him. Brock Turner has privilege, and was let of on a less severe punishment because of his class and wealth. Although there are people who would disagree and argue that in case like Brock Turner he received a less severe conviction because he is young and he is clearly remorseful, and also had no previous criminal record it is still really obvious that there are flaws within the criminal justice system. Brock turner is just one example of the many cases where class and race has played a role in the convictions of criminals. Many also argue that if Brock Turner would have been black or a Hispanic or Latino he have gotten off so easy and would have gotten the six months asked for by the prosecutors perhaps even more time. According to the Huffington Post because our criminal justice system is flawed and is steeped in racial bias. The Warren Court of laws was set forth to end racial segregation in the united states they wanted to incorporating the Bill of rights, a fair treatment among all convicts. These set of laws were set in 1953 and were procedures that must be followed with every criminal that is convicted, but it seems that in era it has slowly been diminishing. The criminal justice system has had its flaws for some time now. Social media has placed it in the center of view and has been able to bring more and more awareness to what is happening this is a new generation that is slowly developing a new way to speak up together to what is right and wrong and how the criminal justice system needs to build a path for change. Works Cited Bierschbach, Richard A. Wrong with Sentencing Virginia Law Review, vol. 102, 2016, pp.1447-1450 Rodriguez, Fernando S. Differences in Criminal Sentencing: Do Effects Vary Across Violent, Property, and Drug Wiley. Vol. 87, no. 2, 2006, pp. Starr, Sonja. Large Gender Disparities in Federal Criminal Michigan Law. Nov., 2012. https://www.law.umich.edu/newsandinfo/features/Pa Accessed February 2017. Tonry, Michael. Punishing Race. Oxford University Press, 2011 Blay, Zeba. Black Voices. Huffington Post, 2016 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/lets-not-ignore-the-importance-of-brock-turners Web. 2017 Koren, Marina. the Stanford Judge gave Brock Turner six The Atlantic. Jun.,2016. https://www.theatlantic.com/news/archive/2016/06/stanfors rape-case-judge/487415. Accessed April 2017. NAACP. Criminal Justice Fact Sheet. http://www.naacp.org/criminal-justice-fact-sheet