Ibraahim Badat Elizabeth Ricketts ENC1101-010 April 9 2017 The Effects of Steroids on Professional Sport Steroids were synthetically created in the The fist species tested with testosterone were lab rats and their treatment found that the mice given steroid shots experienced a 15% greater rate in muscle growth than the rats who were not given the drug. Steroids main purpose of creation was to treat the medical condition Hypogonadism, which was a disease associated with testosterone deficiency. By cycling on steroids individuals would experience a higher level of testosterone. The world of bodybuilding soon caught wind of this new drug, and they became the first group of individuals to abuse steroids. Bodybuilders made use of steroids because it allowed them to build unnatural amounts of muscle. Bodybuilders were a gateway for steroids to make its way into professional sports such as cycling and baseball. Although many argue that steroid use in professional sport has indirectly raised the bar, steroids provide its users an unfair advantage over the natural athletes they are competing with. Steroids have negatively affected the integrity of professional sport. The first professional sports committee to ban steroid use was the International Olympic Committee in 1975. The banning was established 15 years after the death of Knut Jensen who was the first Olympic athlete to die from steroid use. Steroids were band for a number of reasons; the first being that they posed a health risk to users and committees cared enough about their players to ban the substance. Another reason as to why steroids were banned from professional sport was the fact that they unleveled the playing field. Players who used steroids were given a physical advantage over the natural athletes they were competing against, these athletes who used drugs were able to get stronger, run faster and even recover at rates too fast for the natural human body. The Olympic committee was the first to recognize the problem and they did what they could to save professional sports and help maintain a level of honesty. In order to prevent competitors from competing while making use of steroids, sports committees ran drug tests on players before competition in order to catch those who were doping. According to an article written by Robert Millman, though athletes have used steroids, the fact that there are tests put in place to prevent its use does not scare them this quote further tells us that players see the possible benefits in steroid use being better then the idea of getting caught doping. A lot of athletes have moved towards other ways of gaining an advantage apart from steroids. Blood doping is a new trend that has occurred in recent years. Blood doping is the act of extracting ones own blood, and refrigerating it so that the number of red blood cells increases. Red blood cells carry oxygen around the body and thus an increase positively affects an individuals aerobic activity, it is impossible to catch blood dopers and this is the direction a lot of athletes are looking to go in. The reason why steroids seem to be so appealing to its users is because of the advantages it provides. Steroids allow users to recover faster after doing work, which is an extreme advantage in the case of Olympic weightlifters that experience no post workout soreness. The amount of muscle the body is able to grow increases as well and this advantage is extremely appealing to wrestlers and almost all athletes in general. The hormone behind all these effects is testosterone. There is a positive correlation behind the amount of steroids used and testosterone production in the human body. Steroids have also been shown to be extremely dangerous to the human body. The health risks associated with steroid use is very high and people tend to ignore these warnings when going down the path of steroid use. A study conducted by professor Lindqvist of the Swedish national health board showed that athletes who have used or thought about using steroids argue that the possible benefits and advantages gained by using steroids far outweigh the negative side effects it has on the human body. Steroids have been shown to negatively affect the kidneys and liver. When users stop taking steroids they produce little to no testosterone due to the extreme influx of testosterone in the drug the body stops its natural production of steroids meaning that once someone starts using steroids they cant stop. This all being said steroid use is not a magical drug that will make someone a great sportsmen, there still has to be a fair amount of hard work and skill put into their craft in order to be the best at what they do. Many sports enthusiasts and reporters argue that steroid and druse in professional sport has indirectly raised the bar. By having these unnatural athletes compete among naturals, the unnatural athletes tend to set and break sports records. By having these new goals and records to beat natural athletes work harder to reach them. In a study done by Stuart Willick data from the past 50 years of sprinters had been gathered an analyzed. In 1970 the world record for the 100-meter sprint was 9.95 seconds. The world record was broken ten times in a 39-year period. Comparing the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio to the world record in 1970, five athletes ran faster than 9.95 seconds. This data shows that athletes are evolving and over time will break records that are seen as too distant. The effect of having unnatural athletes compete may very well speed up this process as they will break records a lot faster and their own records will be broken faster than before. Suggestions have been made within the sports world to accommodate unnatural athletes who want to compete. This is very similar to the sport of bodybuilding that has two categories of competition, the first being an untested (does not do drug tests on competitors) union along with a natural athletes union. The sport which is most under the public eye with regards to steroid use is bodybuilding and any successful bodybuilder whether they are or natural is accused of being on drugs to achieve the physique in which they have. A lot of people see steroid use as an excuse for themselves not being able to reach their own goals and ignore the hard work, time and dedication that other put in to get where they want. While steroids are seen to have had a negative impact on professional sport, many people argue that unnatural athletes have raised the bar, thus positively affecting professional sport. Athletes such as Richard James, a professional sprinter has spoken about how it becomes easier to reach a goal once someone else has broken a record. Research has shown that the health risks associated with steroid use far outweigh the positive effects it has on breaking records. Steroid use should not be seen as a positive thing in society and it should not be taken lightly. Works Cited Engelberh, Terry. final frontier of anti-doping: A study of athletes who have committed doping Sport Management review, vol. 18, no. 2, 06 Sep. 2013 ScienceDirect, doi:10.1016/j.smr.2014.06.005 Heisler, Sarah R. Steroid Regulation In Professional Sports: Sarbanes-Oxley As A  Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal, vol. 27, 4 May. 2009, pp. 199-241. HeinOnline, http://www.heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle= hein.journals/caelj 27&div=9. Accessed 8 Apr 2017. Lindqvist, A. S. retrospective 30-year follow-up study of former Swedish-elite male athletes in power sports with a past anabolic androgenic steroids use: a focus on mental British Journal of Sports Medicine, vol. 47, no. 15, 2013, pp. 965- 969, http://bjsm.bmj.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/content/47/15/986. Accessed 8 April. 2017. Millman, Robert B. and Nutritional Supplement Use in Professional American journal on Addictions, vol. 12 no. 6, 2003. ScienceDirect, doi:10.1016/j.steroids.2012.11.009 Willick, Stuart E. Sports Medicine Concepts and Controversies: The Anti- Doping Advanced Sports Medicine Concepts and Controversies, vol. 8, no. 3, 6 Mar. 2015. ScienceDirect doi:10.1016/j.pmrj.2015.12.001 N.A. Drugs and the Olympics - Drugs and the Olympics;  The Economist Business Insights: Essentials, vol. 372, no. 8387, pp. 81-83, 2004 doi:64.803node/3062111. Accessed 29 March 2017