Yates 1 Evan Yates Professor Carter ENC1102-034 28 February 2017 Visual Rhetoric Used by The Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament The nuclear bombing of the Japanese cities Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945 forever changed the way in which the world conducts warfare, and ushered in the atomic age. Since this pivotal event, people all over the globe have questioned the possession of these incredibly powerful weapons capable of eliminating mass amounts of human life. The Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament is one of these organizations with a vested interest in the nuclear debate. The Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (or CND for short) opposes all development, manufacturing, testing, deployment and use of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction by any country (CND, About Page). It has fought non-violently for almost 60 years to rid the world stage of nuclear weapons, and claims to be largest single-issue peace campaign. The CND sometimes uses visual imagery to convey its message and sway the opinion on the nuclear debate. Two of these images from the CND use the rhetorical approaches Logos, Pathos, Ethos, and Kairos to convey the threat of nuclear weapons and to implore the public to join the movement. Yates 2 Logos is the appeal to logic, and it can be found in both images used by the CND. In image one, the sign reads Power is not the answer to Climate This refers to an argument that proponents of nuclear energy often use, claiming that nuclear power is a better alternative because of its lower carbon emissions. The CND website shows its concern for this topic, as it addresses that other alternative energy sources can reduce carbon emissions even further. This image shows the audience that the risks incurred by using nuclear energy is not somehow acceptable because of its lower emissions, especially when alternatives exist and could help mitigate man made climate change even further. In image two, a UN vote to ban nuclear weapons globally is represented geographically. It appeals to the reason by showing how many countries support a global ban, and by showing that the ones still in favor are primarily the ones in possession of nuclear warheads, such as the U.S., Russia, Japan, and more. Logic and reason are not the only way to appeal to an audience. Conversely, pathos is the appeal to emotion, and the CND utilizes this rhetorical appeal in their imagery as well. Few methods trump inspiring fear when trying to change an point of view. In image one, there are many aspects present that call out to the emotions of the audience (specifically fear), some blatant and some more subtle. The hazmat suits worn by the protestors, the bright yellow sign, the all caps font, and the radiation hazard symbols all warn the audience of an impending doom. They are reminded of the risks that come with nuclear energy when they see these symbols, all pointing at the deadly effects of radioactive fallout. In image two, there are less appeals to fear and more to guilt. In the upper left hand corner of the image, the question is your government is posed. For all citizens of the countries that voted on the Yates 3 nuclear ban, they are forced to reflect on whether their government is holding back progress to a more secure future free of weapons of mass destruction. For citizens of countries that voted they might feel anger or dismay at the fact that a few detractors hold the rest of the world back from this nuclear-free future. Ethos, literally meaning in Greek, appeals to the credibility of something. With the CND operating as one of the largest peace campaigns in Europe for 60 years, it seems perfectly reasonable that they would want to come across as professional and credible. In image one, the professionally printed sign was clearly not a last minute homemade medium for their message. In addition, two protesters can be seen blocking the road with what looks like a concrete tube joining their arms. Public perception of this method of protesting is certainly mixed, but some viewers would see this as a necessary means of informing the masses. The practice is disruptive, but non-violent, showing that the CND is very serious about thwarting the nuclear threat, but will not resort to more radical methods. In image two, ethos can be seen by the fact that the image is sourced at the bottom left corner, showing that the information is credible. The final rhetorical appeal is Kairos, an appeal to timeliness. The CND wants to convey their message and promote public support for change, but ideally sooner rather than later. In the eyes of this stakeholder, the threat of nuclear weapon deployment is a constant one. In image one, kairos is achieved when referring to another pressing issue, climate change, and how again, nuclear energy is not the only solution to this. Immediate action can be taken to reduce carbon Yates 4 emissions and to reduce the nuclear threat simultaneously. The aforementioned warning symbols that induced fear help reinforce the message, and that immediate action is required. The second image uses kairos in a couple ways. One use that is especially effective in the internet age is the ability to share to social media. This can be found in the lower left of the image, and allows for the message to be instantly shared to the friends, family, and colleagues of the viewer. More generally, the image shows the current state of global views on nuclear weapons. These kinds of views can take a long time to change, especially at the highest levels of government. Immediate action would be ideal to have any sort of measurable impact on a U.N. vote on a nuclear weapon ban. This fact, along with the option to share to social media, creates a strong urge to not only act, but to act now. In conclusion, the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament uses the rhetorical appeals Logos, Pathos, Ethos, and Kairos in their media to spread their message and sway public opinion on global nuclear possession. These two images convey the danger that this organization feels the world is in, while giving the audience hope for the future by making the solution seem obtainable with the right support. Yates 5 Yates 6 Works Cited Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Cohen, Robin, ed. Global social movements. A&C Black, 2004. Malik, Muhammad Ehsan, et al. Impact of brand image and advertisement on consumer buying  World Applied Sciences Journal 23.1 (2013): 117-122.