Gonzalez 1 Leidy Gonzalez Professor Ryan Composition II 16 March 2017 Planned Parenthood Planned Parenthood chooses very specific goals for their ads. Their ads resemble their mission statement, Parenthood believes in the fundamental right of each individual, throughout the world, to manage his or her fertility, regardless of the income, marital status, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or residence. Parenthood Planned ads inclusive and broadly similar to each other in the accuracy of their reproductive message. Many of their ads carry the same meaning, safe sex is responsibility. Most of Planned ads mirror each other and this tactic is what helps them be as inclusive as possible. Planned Parenthoods ads do a very good job at showing how accessible they are. The first ad from Planned Parenthood has an African American couple hugging while facing each other this is Planned Parenthoods easy pathos tactic. both laughing and smiling. This type of display is definitely a play on the pathos of the audience. Here Planned Parenthood is trying to provoke feelings of wholeness and happiness. Next to the couple in big letters we see require This sentence easily brings in the thought of birth control methods and how choice and time are important to planning a family. A more in depth look also shows that the sentence is a play on words saying that relationships benefit from using Planned Parenthood as a source for reproductive information. Directly underneath is another line giving credit to how birth control helps to plan brighter and controlled futures. Gonzalez 2 Below we get information about the affordability of contraception at Planned Parenthood and Kairos comes into play as the ad says an appointment Hidden in all of this information is the natural appeal to logos. Planned Parenthood have to overwhelm with too much information on an ad because they have their logo which creates credibility with the message. Planned logo also carries its own joint of appeals. Below the logo it says No matter Since Planned Parenthood has been around for so long the logo speaks for its own credibility in reproductive knowledge. This ad is special because it shows how to gain information about contraceptives through Planned Parenthood and it shows an ad with a different demographic that is not the usual white couple. The second ad hold a special message to the LGBTQ community. This ad has a same sex couple and one of the guys is planting a kiss on the cheek of the other while giving him a hug from behind. The Planned Parenthood logo again plays a role in this ad with the words No matter The picture shows the openness and compassion that Planned Parenthood has for safe sex for everyone. This ad is really placing emphasis on the inclusiveness and compassion PP has for everyone. This already is a huge attempt to tug on the pathos appeal. Apart from the picture the first words seen is that Parenthood of Illinois welcomes The ad also focuses on how they offer non-judgmental and confidential accurate medical information. Again we see the specific location of this Planned Parenthood is in Illinois and the name is on the ad which gives it its credibility. Planned Parenthood is the leading provider for reproductive health so its own name forms as its credibility in the health field. Planned parenthood pg.1 The words on the ad also form their own logo appeal that gives information on how to contact them. The ad also emphasizes calling and making an appointment today so that is their point towards the kairo appeal. This ad shows that Planned Parenthood is trying to bring awareness of Gonzalez 3 the added inclusiveness of sexual health. This Planned Parenthood is specifically welcoming members of the LGBTQ community to pass by to an environment that is judgement free and has full knowledge of different kinds of reproductive health. Both of these ads have very similar characteristic and while normally that might be problematic for some companies it really helps Planned Parenthood in trying to stay as inclusive as possible. The first ad is targeted to young adults between the age of 17-24 and the ad also shows an African American demographic that really helps PP branch out to many urban communities and societies. This ad tries to show that Planned Parenthood is open to any age and any race. With all that is going on around our nation involving race, this is way of dissolving the cultural concerns of acceptance in their business. The second ad has a gay couple together and this is a big open window to the LGBTQ community. This again shows the roads PP is taking to be as inclusive as possible so they can broaden the view of their ad. Both ads are online digital pictures which helps PP reach out to most young adults who spend a lot of time on the internet, either for school or entertainment. The purpose of these ads is to send out information of what kind of services PP offers and how imperative it is to have safe sex and that notion of safe sex encompasses everyone, no matter race, age, or sexual orientation. The tone of both of these ads is very welcoming and warm because of the nature of the information being given. The wording is always to the left so they can be read either after noticing the centered image or while glancing at the image. The font of both of the ads is in really legible writing to promote the seriousness and clarity of the message. The blue background just helps to pop the colors that the actors in the ads are wearing so it really catches the eye like the pink blouse against the blue in the first ad. Both of ads help them pursue the look of general overall Gonzalez 4 health concerns for everyone, not just the majority white American straight couple we always see in other ads. These ads really do a great job coming together on the same message of including everyone. The reason that having similar ads works for PP is because it shows the wholeness of working to include everyone. It is relating the same message over and over that they care no matter what. These ads work well because their targeted audience is all about movement since percent of Planned Parenthood health care patients in the U.S. are age Planned parenthood Pg.1 Overall Planned ads are similarly inclusive and mediate the importance of accurate medical knowledge. PP shows this through the use of ethos and pathos in their ads. These ads are therefore affective in relaying message and what they stand for, correct reproductive health. Gonzalez 5 Works Cited Parenthood, Planned. Planned Parenthood at a  Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood, 17 Feb. 2017. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <https://www.plannedparenthood.org/about-us/who-we-are/planned-parenthood-at-a-glance>. Gonzalez 6