Jewell 1 Jacob Jewell Emil Smith ENC 1101 26 March 2017 Discussion of the Costs of Renewable Energy The idea of renewable energy is nothing new. As the supply of fossil fuels declines more and more sharply, efforts are being focused on sources of renewable energy. Unfortunately, the biggest problem with making the switch is the initial costs of creating those renewable sources of energy. In the mid 19 th century, it was discovered that oil could be pumped from the ground in large amounts at lower costs than collecting whale and plant oils. What was not known, however, was its limited supply, and how much of a demand there would be. In less than 200 years after its discovery, mankind is already developing the technology to leave it behind. Humanity is moving on from fossil fuels as its effects become more evident and more devastating. Climate change, soaring prices, and shrinking availability are forcing mankind to find sustainable energy, both ecologically and economically. Instead of running solely on fossil fuels, man has turned to wind, solar, water, and many other natural resources to create renewable and sustainable energy. The era of renewable energy is here, and the startup be easy, as most of the world relies entirely on oil, and though it could make the jump fairly easy with modern technology, one problem looms highest the cost. These costs include building hydroelectric dams, windmills, solar panels, etc., the land to build these renewable energy sources on, and operational costs. The ideas concerning the costs of renewable energy have not shifted much at all over the last two decades, as the main concern has remained the same: how to Jewell 2 increase efficiency at all levels, and efforts have remained focus on cost-efficiency to fuel growth in the sustainable energy market. Resource planning has long been an indicator of a renewable energy abilities. Prior to 2010, a significant problem was identified in standard resource planning, in that it may not be an optimized plan that ends up being utilized, which can have heavy consequences in the long term application when cost-efficiency is analyzed. This problem has been identified and its causes are many, and lie in the form of regulatory restrictions (Bolinger 4). These restrictions can include things such as public involvement, or lack thereof, as well as the diversity of parties involved from industrial businesses to environmental activists. The sheer amount of varying interests often equates to a system that cost-efficient nor entirely optimized, in order to compromise to try and satisfy the desires of all those involved in the planning stages. Renewable energy systems planning often requires the use of predictions as to how the cost, performance, and longevity of renewable energy systems compares to those of non-renewable energy systems. The issue with the method to make these predictions uses data that is not entirely representative of the full potential, as the methods take into account possible fluctuations in the cost of non-renewable energy, the uncertain evolvement of the world, or the risks of the required research and development. After 2010, developments in resource planning came in the form of more complex analyzing strategies for how to implement renewable energy systems. The methodology described is used to assess cycle (Laura Castros-Santos). The system to evaluate these costs is a combination of six parts of each major life events. These events include the costs of: concept creation, design and development, manufacturing, installation, exploitation, and dismantling for each system. Each cost has its own sub-costs, such Jewell 3 as the cost of exploiting the system, which is comprised of administration costs, insurance, and maintenance costs. The methodology was tested on two floating energy systems in two different regions of Portugal, one utilizing wind energy, the other hydro-powered. Both systems were installed at both locations to assess the differences in costs at different locations. The results showed that of the six costs, the most important cost was the exploitation or operational costs, followed by the price manufacturing the system and finally installation. The data revealed that both systems were more efficient in one location than the other, promoting the goal of promoting the maximum cost-efficiency of each system. This methodology is what was missing prior to 2010, where cost efficiency was lacking and not made a priority. Cost effectiveness is a major determining factor in resource planning. The aim of resource planning is to make it easier for managers to compare cost and efficiency themselves to better interpret data and make decisions themselves. This helps to prevent over and under investments into renewable energy systems as well as how to implement the most cost effective system for each individual application. By comparing the short and long term costs of renewable and non- renewable energy systems, those managers are better able to decide what is best for their needs. These comparisons include the life cycle costs of oil based energy production and hydroelectric dams, where the installation costs of oil based systems are zero because already operational, where hydroelectric dams need to be designed and installed. However, the operational cost of a hydroelectric dam is and will remain low, where that of oil based systems will forever be growing larger. As seen throughout all of the articles, the focus of effort over the last two decades has remained fairly consistent, with an emphasis on cost effective resource planning and efficiency of the resource systems. Through analysis of cost efficiency and resource planning, Jewell 4 renewable energy managers are better able to make the correct decision for their specific applications. Though the focus shifted, the approaches have, with more specific methodologies becoming available over time. These methods present decision makers with the ability to determine cost efficiency of individual systems over time where there was no clear and accurate way to do so before. Jewell 5 Works Cited Bolinger, Mark. Balancing Cost And Risk: The Treatment Of Renewable Energy In western Utility Resource  The Electricity Journal 1 (2005): SciTech Connect. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Siddiqui, Afzal S., Chris Marnay, and Ryan H. Wiser. Real Options Valuation Of US Federal Renewable Energy Research, Development, Demonstration, And  Energy Policy 35.(2007): 265-279. ScienceDirect. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Castro-Santos, Laura, Elson Martins, and C. Guedes Soares. Cost Assessment Methodology For Combined Wind And Wave Floating Offshore Renewable Energy  Renewable Energy 97.(2016): 866-880. ScienceDirect. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Shanshan, Hu, et al. Capacity Investment In Renewable Energy Technology With Supply Intermittency: Data Granularity  Manufacturing & Service Operations Management 17.4 (2015): 480-494. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 3 Mar. 2017.