Tavlan 1 Tatiana Tavlan Adam Carter Composition II 23 February 2017 Putting an End to Animal Cruelty When people think of an organization that protects animals, the first organization that comes to mind is PETA. It is the one of the top advertising agencies in the United States and helps animals that are in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories and in the entertainment industries. In order for them to solve this issue and make a change in the world, they had to determine a strategy that would attract individuals to make changes in the numerous of animal industries. They use advertisements that consist of rhetorical appeals such as Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos in order to persuade people to have a different perspective towards the cruel treatments animals are consistently enduring throughout the world. According to peta2.com, behind the scenes of circuses; tigers, bears, elephants and other animals are forced to perform tricks and are beaten with sharp instruments that resemble a fireplace poker until they bleed. They are also forced to grow up in an unnatural environment, which causes the animals to be put in a lot of stress and later go into depression and have to be separated from their mothers. Image one depicts this issue and tries to encourage individuals to save the animals that are being tortured in the animal industries. In order to persuade their audience to do so, PETA uses a rhetorical appeal such as Ethos, which represents credibility or an ethical appeal. PETA uses a famous Indian Olympic boxer, Mary Kom, in image one in order to influence people to view the Tavlan 2 advertisement as a credible source. Individuals may be inspired to help the animals in the entertainment industry just because Kom is doing so too. Another technique they used is inserting the PETA logo at the bottom of their ad. Since PETA is one of the top organizations to help put an end to animal abuse, they used their logo in order to bring more of an ethical appeal. Image two displays a famous Polish American model, actress and animal rights activist, Joanna Krupa, who is dressed as a killer whale in order for the advertisement to gain credibility. Using Krupa and making her dress as a whale, will allow individuals to understand that she is against animal entertainment and that whales should not be kept in captivity. The literary device, Ethos, convinces people to help the animals who are suffering because the people who are inspired by Joanna Krupa will also want to help put an end to the entertainment industry. According to literarydevice.com, Pathos is defined as quality of an experience in life or a work of art that stirs up emotions of pity, sympathy and Image one uses this literary device by putting blood on shirt in order for individuals to have empathy towards the animals who may also be bleeding from the abuse they have to endure on a daily basis. PETA also makes the letters bold and red in order to alert everyone that people need to stop what they are doing and focus on the issue. When people see the color red they think of stop signs and red traffic lights that are signifying them to stay still. The advertisement purposely uses this color in order to make individuals feel as if they need to stop and take action to this issue. Also, the gray background causes people to feel distraught since it is a depressing color. These Tavlan 3 techniques cause the readers of the advertisement to feel emotional, which persuades them to help the animals from suffering. Image two includes numerous appeals to Pathos by making the font of the advertisement different sizes and by using certain colors in order to make the readers feel emotional towards the whales that are suffering at SeaWorld. PETA increases the font of and in order to emphasize how the animals are feeling when they are being taken away from their families. There are also blue colored words in order to represent the sadness the animals are feeling and they show Joanna Krupa scared to be in the tank in order to represent the fear that the animals have to experience when they are trapped in an unfamiliar environment. Using these emotional appeals in the advertisement are very effective because every single individual that helps the suffering animals, do it because they are very emotional towards the situation. Logos is defined as literary device that can be defined as a statement, sentence or argument used to convince or persuade the targeted audience by employing reason or Although image one does not contain an ample amount of appeals to Logos, PETA does include one simple sentence that states that, belong in the wild, not in This simple sentence allows people to have a better insight of the issue that animals are still being captured with chains and being put into small cages in order to entertain individuals. The second image uses Logos by including at the top of their advertisement in order to remind the people of the 164 orcas that have died in captivity recently. According to us.whales.org, have been kept in captivity since 1961, helpless victims of a blatantly commercial experiment which has seen dozens of wild Tavlan 4 orcas plucked from their families and forced to live in artificial social groupings which bear scant resemblance to their natural The advertisement immediately persuades the targeted audience to consider the logical sentence and do something about this issue. In the first image, Kairos is incorporated by taking a position on a relevant, controversial issue that is frequently debated upon in our current time. Numerous amounts of people are highly against circuses due to the many articles that have been released explaining what the animals have to experience on a daily basis. The advertisement reiterates this issue, which persuades the audience to do something about this issue. The second image appeals to Kairos by including a famous naked lady in their advertisement, which is a common way of protesting in our current generation. Also seen in the image, is the SeaWorld logo, which is one of the biggest animal sanctuary corporations in the United States today. Animal cruelty and captivity is one of the most popular issues argued upon today, and there are many relevant celebrities that have strong opinions on this issue. Both of these reasons are why this image appeals to Kairos. In conclusion, the two images use Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos in order to persuade the targeted audience to take action on the cruelty that occurs behind the scenes of animal entertainment industries. In society, SeaWorld and other animal circuses have become so popular that is continuously becoming harder to put an end to the abuse that the animals have to endure on a daily basis, therefore, companies use these rhetorical appeals in order to make a difference in the world. Tavlan 5 Work Cited Heller, Corinne. Joanna Krupa Gets Naked for PETA Again: See NSFW Photo and  E! Online. E! News, 17 Mar. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. What the Circus Want You to  Peta2 - Free for All. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Literarydevices.net. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The Fate of Captive  WDC, Whale and Dolphin Conservation. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Pti. Boxer Mary Kom Lends Support to PETA Campaign for Elephants Latest News & Updates at Daily News &  Dna. N.p., 26 Oct. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Tavlan 6 -