Watkis 1 Phillip Watkis English 1 Comp Emil Smith 5 March 2017 Change of Rugby and Football Overtime There has been a lot of changes in sports over the past decade because almost every team are getting more competitive. The leagues are getting more competitive because of the new technology and tools that each team has to improve their players. Many professional athletes have been getting bigger in body size and also getting faster as well. For example, Houston defensive end J.J Watt gained weight so he could have the size advantage over his opponents. NFL (National Football league) for instance, the games are getting way more competitive and sometimes it is hard to predict which team would finish the game with a win. Another sport that also changed over the past decade, due to intensity and competitiveness is professional Rugby. Three of the most effective changes that has occurred over the last few years in American Football and Rugby are the psychological effects, concussions results, and physical injuries. The psychological effect that the sports have on the players is one of the main challenges a player faces in American Football and Rugby. The article, Body Talk: Male Athletes Reflect on Sports, Injury and , which was published in 1994 by Kevin Young, explained how the physical restraints and agony of American Football affects the masculinity. These restraints and agonies affected these players psychologically because players tend to play Watkis 2 through injuries because they are intimated by their teammates and their coaches (Young 1994). Over the past decade, not much really change in this situation because it was mentioned in the article, The Nature of Player Burnout in Rugby: Key Characteristics and  which was published in 2006 by Scott L. Cresswell. The article described what  is, which is a feeling that rugby players go through where they feel tired and fatigued because of the high demands they receive from their coaches and teammates just like what the players go through in the NFL (Cresswell 2006). These challenges that the players go through places a mental discomfort in their minds about their masculinity because in both time periods the players are still concerned about their play time if the injury is actually serious. Something that really changed over the past decade is the concussion results in American Football and Rugby. Over the past few years, added new rules and regulations in both sports to protect the players so concussions results would decrease. The title of the article that showed the concussion results in the 2000-2010 era is An index predictive of cognitive outcome in retired professional American Football players with a history of sports , which was published by Mathew J. Wright. This articled showed that 5- 10 percent of American Football players have a yearly risk of concussion and 6.5 Percent of those that have concussion end up playing through their concussion in the same season (Guskiewicz et al., 2003). Compared to the concussion explained in the article Concussions and Head injuries in English Community Rugby Match , which was published in 2017 showed that concussions back in the day for Football is way less likely to happen compared to the concussion in rugby today. Watkis 3 Concussion results are not the only factor that these organizations worry about but also overall injuries as well. In contact sports like American Football and Rugby, players tend to get injured more than any other players from any other sports would. In the article, Contact Events in the Rugby Union and their Propensity to Cause , which was published in 2007 by Collin W. Fuller, explained how serious some rugby injuries could be and also gave percentages of the different injuries. The article mentioned that 70 percent of collision in Rugby results in an injury and during scrums (the restart of a play after a minor violation) 60 percent of players get injured (Fuller 862). Over time the injury rates have declined in rugby and American Football which was mentioned in the article, Injuries in American Collegiate Club Rugby: A Prospective , which was published by Nienke W. Willigenburg. Because the injury rate also declined over time more players started joining the Rugby league, which was accounted to 65,000 participants in 2010 (Willigenburg et al). The article also showed that that the injury rates in American Football are even lower than what is reported in the Rugby Union compared to what the rate was back in 2007. As demonstrated in the discussion of Concussions results, physical injuries and psychological effect in American Football and Rugby, all of the articles showed what changed and what stayed the same over the past decade. The psychological effect stayed the same for both sports over the years, because the masculinity is still being put to the test. The only two things that changed over the past decade was the injury and concussion results. The main changed was the injury results in American Football compared to Rugby. One of the articles mentioned that Rugby is physical in nature so therefore the injury rates would always Watkis 4 stay high, as compared to American football which is physical as well but they are more protected. (word count 864) Watkis 5 Work Cited Willigenburg, Nienke W., et al. Comparison of Injuries in American Collegiate Football And Club Rugby: A Prospective Cohort  The American Journal Of Sports Medicine 3 (2016): 753. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Kevin Young, Philip White, and William McTeer. Body Talk: Male Athletes Reflect On Sport, Injury, And  Sociology Of Sport Journal 11.2 (1994): 175-194. Education Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Cresswell, Scott, and Robert Eklund. The Nature Of Player Burnout In Rugby: Key Characteristics And  Journal Of Applied Sport Psychology 18.3 (2006): 219. Publisher Provided Full-Text Searching File. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Roberts, Simon P., et al. Concussions And Head Injuries In English Community Rugby Union Match  American Journal Of Sports Medicine 45.2 (2017): 480-487. CINAHL. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Fuller, Colin W., et al. Contact Events in Rugby Union and Their Propensity to Cause  British Journal of Sports Medicine, no. 12, 2007, p. 862. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.172621385&site=eds-live Wright, Mathew J., et al. An Index Predictive of Cognitive Outcome in Retired Professional American Football Players with a History of Sports  Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology, no. 5, 2016, p. 561. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/13803395.2016.1139057. Watkis 6