Yang 1 Weidong Yang Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 February 26, 2017 Animal testing protection law and right Over the years scientists have been known to perform experiments on new drugs in order to ensure that they meet a required standard by the regulating bodies. In order for this to be achieved, we know that the experiments are not done on human being since it is unethical and the law is against that sort of action. So the scientist is only left with another option that people choose to ignore on a regular basis. These scientists will look for an animal that shares almost the same biological structure as that of a human being. These animals include primates and even rats, the scientists will perform experiments on these subjects and use them as reference when showcasing there new development, the same process is carried out whenever they are developing animal drugs too (Singer, 2013). While we can argue on the morality of these actions and there place in society, a number of organizations have come up and they are advocating for animals rights and enlightening the public about the hidden secrets behind these experiments. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) are one organization that has been in the forefront in the fight for animals rights. It is a global animal right organization with over 5 million supporters and members. In its mission statement, PETA states that it has focused its efforts on four main areas that are known for their animal cruelty. These four areas are the entertainment industry, the laboratories, food industry and clothing trade. There has been case of Yang 2 clothing lines using animals as providers of certain raw materials whenever they come up with products. An example is the use of fur from dogs that are mainly bred for this purpose. The dogs are killed and the far is used to make high end fashion designs that generate millions of dollars in profits for these companies. These animals that are bred for fur are killed without mercy and they are reared in very filthy conditions. As stated before, PETA has been involved in a lot of rescue operations for abused animals. The main area of focus is on the use of animals to produce fashion products and also using animals for testing new medical research. The main agenda is to discourage animal slaughter and ensure that rights are not violated. With the help of members from different professions, PEFA has been able to investigate and sue a number of animal abusers. A good example is in 1981 when they won their first case (Fletcher, 2013). The case was referred to as the Silver Spring monkey case. There was an arrest on an animal experimenter who was found guilty and sentenced. He was found guilty of animal cruelty. After their first success, PETA gained more popularity and the people who were working alone in fighting this norm were brought together and joined forces all under PETA so that they can be more effective. As the two images from PETA, it wants to remind to audiences and people that animal is friend, test them, because it is very pitiful. This image wants to accomplish that animal is our friend, test your friend even it is mouse. And kill one kind of animal will destroy food cycle. People have to pay attention. In the opposite, if people use animal to testing some product it will lead to slow down of the development of society. The PETA research problem avoiding animals testing and get some benefit from test, at the same time advocate people protect animal. By a researcher of PETA, it complete new problem that is the paradigm shift in toxicology. They vision is to move away from current animal testing to the cell Yang 3 test. the paradigm shift in toxicology is to use organotypic cell models. It can less animal testing. One day, if people use animal testing, it will save much life and keep balance of the food chain. In the other way, this image wants to tell people test on my friend. Just image, if human and animal change roles each other, every day someone have to testing in your body, it is very terrible. The mouse looks like a person act for reflect people and animal are similar, and marker use black world describe test on your friend, some animal is not harmful and they love human. In the other way, if people always use kind of animal to do the animal testing will lead to the destruction of the food chain. So it reminds human that animal is our friend, test on their body. According to the second image, a story explain some people publish some policy and some articles for protect animal. The image advocates to make their voices heard regarding legislation, regulations and policies. Because they think human evolution is also come from animals, people have not right to decide the life or death for anyone. For the image, it reminds people may advance science without harming animals, and they want people to anti-vivisection society, because vivisection is very merciless behavior for animal. And this dog is very cute, but people any vivisection him. This dog is very pitiful for people; people should love animal. The purpose of image wants to people accomplish a legislative alert for protect. The act is take Action Thursday that asks for support of animal abuser registry bills across the country. The maker use maker to describe legislative alert is very important. In the other people, the image wants to tell to they are friend, because dog can protect his master and dog always stay and love human. In some news, we can see dog and some animal protect people from dangerous events. Yang 4 The success of PETA as a global watch dog in ensuring that animals are not abused just because we as human feel more superior has forced researchers into coming up with alternative ways of performing their experiments. Before PETA researchers performed a lot of lab tests on rats, rabbits and even other animals putting them through a lot of pain and misery. PETA has worked on a number of designers in ensuring that they use products that do not put animals at risk whenever they come up with new products. It is through PETA that these animals get justice. A justice that they recognize themselves and express verbally, but once an animal is saved and put back to its natural environment, justice. Whenever a perpetrator is sentenced for years in prison for experimenting on animals, justice for the animals and it is PETAS objective to ensure that these rights are not violated. image one Yang 5 Image two Yang 6 References Fletcher, M. (2013). The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): Creating a Collective Identity. Singer, P. (Ed.). (2013). In defense of animals: The second wave. John Wiley & Sons. Erwin, E., Gendin, S., & Kleiman, L. (Eds.). (2015). Ethical issues in scientific research: An anthology (Vol. 814). Routledge.