Wang 1 Yiqing Wang Kristen Collins ENC 1102 11 March 2017 UNICEF: Creating a Global Image for a Universal Goal The world is not as safe and pleasant as most of the 1st world tends to believe. In fact, a lot of children around the world in developing nations are suffering from lack of basic necessities in order to survive. With these children suffering on a daily basis, many people in the world either are not aware of these issues, or feel that there is nothing that they can do to help. The United Nations recognized that there was a need to take action to help these children worldwide, and also to inspire others to take action. Through their use of powerful messaging they were able to utilize the United Nations International Fund to best maximize the amount of help they can provide children around the world. The United Nations International Fund operates under the belief that children have a right to survive, thrive and fulfill their potential to the benefit of a better (UNICEF, 2015). It is an organization that aims to assist those children who need help and to also survive as a symbol for hope. It actively fights for needs around the globe, while developing an organization and name that inspires others to help. World War II, European children faced famine and disease. UNICEF is created in December 1946 by the United Nations to provide food, clothing and health (UNICEF, 2015). The United Nations and the diverse world organizations it has produced demonstrate the epitome of visual rhetoric, with the United Nations International Fund standing out as both one of the most recognizable images as well as one of the most effective images worldwide. Wang 2 UNICEF is an international organization that works in areas of need worldwide. As a result it is useful to have a symbol anyone can recognize, regardless of nationality, language, or background. A symbol that has a strong visual rhetoric. On the surface, image 1 appears to be simple a mother holding up her child, but the symbol is more deliberate than that. The consists of four distinct elements. These include the image of a mother and child, a globe, olive branches, and the name in a very simple yet powerful lowercase (Famous Logos, 2013). It uses pathos in the form of the mother lovingly holding up her child implying that children are important above all else. It also uses ethos in the forms of the globe and olive branches, emphasizing the point that the world should be one united place where its people work towards the same goals in case, saving and caring for children. Logos is part of the ethos argument as it is difficult to argue the logic in protecting the youth and nourishing the future. While the kairos argument is not necessarily visible in the UNICEF logo, it is clear that the United Nations International Fund stresses the importance of acting now to create the most change. Color is also an intentional part of the logo though, as use of blue color...stands for approachability, prosperity and grace...whereas the white color depicts nobility, peace and (Famous Logos, 2013). Both colors are clean and soft, they are easy to look at and identify. Most of the United Nations organizations use the same color scheme which makes the United Nations as a whole easier to recognize, while providing a visual representation of their goals: peace and prosperity. Images hold a lot of power, especially when dealing with a massive and diverse population like the entire world. Being able to express a message without words is the most basic form of communication, and it can produce incredible results. The first image on the UNICEF homepage is a good example of how they visually express their goal. It depicts two young children smiling into the camera while the boy and girl hug. Their skin and fingernails are dirty, indicative of the hardships they Wang 3 may have faced. To contrast their dirty nails, the shirts are clean and white, much like the UNICEF logo itself, reminding the audience of peace and purity. In addition to her white shirt, the girl is also wearing a jacket with warm, bright colors like pink, yellow, orange. The young children are also wearing matching, hand-made necklaces with the same warm colors as the jacket. The background of the photo is covered with a blue filter to represent the United other color. The image also contains the tag line, every child, hope. Across 190 countries and territories, UNICEF defends the rights of in a simple white font (UNICEF, 2015). The picture is supposed to inspire just that, hope for all the young children in the world and pride in the work UNICEF and its supporters has accomplished. Breaking down the picture shows what makes it so effective, and what could have been added to gain sympathy. Starting with the latter, the children were dirty, while their hair and clothes seemed clean. It is possible that the photo was not a natural one, that aspects of it could have been staged to further stress the idea that these children were in need of help. While makeup or dirt could have been used in the photo, it is also likely that the United Nations International Fund provided the children with clean clothes and because of the blue filter on the background, used the dirt to provide more context. The stark contrast certainly embodies the pathos argument. Giving an audience an emotional connection to the image and to the children is a good way to secure more support. There is also an unspoken moral component of the image, showing what UNICEF does to help children in need while also giving the viewer an opportunity to learn more about the organization and even provides means to help the children themselves. Logos arguments are also effective as oftentimes logic is simple and irrefutable. In this picture, the logical argument of helping children is good, is both visible and impactful. Many people can agree that the children of the world are important because they are the future of humanity, therefore it is Wang 4 important to care for them. The more subtle argument of kairos again suggests that the sooner UNICEF can act, the more lives they can change for the better. The more lives that are changed, the more positive impact this creates in the world. With each life changed for the better, they can in turn positively affect others in their lives. Another subtle aspect to the picture is the white and blue colors used to link the moment with the organization that made it possible. The logo uses a combination of blue and white, both of which are interchangeable. The blue color represents approachability and grace, which are two characteristics that the organization as a whole wants to represent in order to showcase how they care for others. The white color symbolizes peace and purity, which are also aspects of the goals the organization wants to achieve in the world. One could draw the conclusion based off their color scheme that UNICEF desires to be approachable to those who desire peace in the world. UNICEF was initially in 1946 to provide relief to children in countries devastated by World War (Mingst, 2008). As the United Nations Fund found its feet in Europe, the organization discovered just how much of an impact it could have worldwide. It grew and adapted aiding national efforts to improve the health, nutrition, education, and general welfare of (Mingst, 2008). In order to achieve their goal of helping children worldwide, UNICEF developed a symbol the world could recognize, an image that would only be associated with hope, peace, and prosperity. The UNICEF logo is universal, simple, and inspiring. The organization also uses images with a similar impact, operating under the compass of providing children with their natural right to enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health and to facilities for the treatment of illness and rehabilitation of (Mingst, 2008). The United Nations Fund seeks to appeal to the morality and empathy of the world through visual rhetoric, express the elation and pride that results from helping children, and encourage others to join the cause and help shape a better future. Wang 5 References Famous Logos. (2013). UNICEF Logo. http://www.famouslogos.net/unicef-logo/ Mingst, Karen. (2008). UNICEF International Organization. Encyclopedia Britannica. https://www.britannica.com/topic/UNICEF UNICEF. (2015). https://www.unicef.org/ Wang 6