Li 1 Zhenwei Li Ms. Collins ENC 1102: 036 Feb 22, 2017 Saving the World from Climate Change Climate change has become one of the hottest topic in the world. It is indeed a serious problem that all societies have to face. According to NASA, most climate scientists agree that the main cause of global warming is human expansion of (NASA). According to Environmental Defense Fund, global warming worsens weather and expands ocean, puts human life and prosperity in suffer, more importantly, turns natural habitats hostile to plants and animals. World Wide Fund for Nature, or WWF, is the leading conservation organization, working in 100 countries and being supported by more than one million members in the United States and close to five million globally. (WWF). WWF spread the idea of protecting the nature and reduce human influence on the environment, successfully demonstrating the need to slow down the global warming through two images of possible outcomes of the earth. Not only climate change has a huge impact on human lives, but also it has an even bigger impact on animal habitats. In the first picture, WWF mainly aims at animal lovers and those who have a mercy heart towards the animals. WWF tries to inform the audience that climate change will have the biggest impact on wild animal by placing a homeless seal on the center of the image. The main purpose of the first image is to urge the audience to participate in protecting the animals by saving their habitats. Li 2 Ethos is a means of convincing someone of the credibility of the persuader. WWF appeals to ethos in the first picture in an ordinary way. In the first image, WWF displays its famous logo at the bottom of the picture, along with a slogan and its official website address. On the slogan it says around the world are losing their habitats due to climate change. By turning of your TV, stereo and computer when not using them, you can help prevent this. Take action right At the end of slogan, there is the official website address, which looks like a credible website to most people because of its domain name. It efficiently adds on credibility for the image. Pathos is a way of convincing someone of an argument by creating an emotional response. In the first image, WWF focuses mainly on its use of pathos. In the middle of the image is a homeless seal covered with a few pages of newspaper, cradling itself on a bench in attempt to keep himself warm. The whole image displays a light grey color, which creates a sense of emptiness and lifelessness. In addition, a crow standing in front of the bench makes the already sad image even more miserable. The background is a broken graffiti wall and a dying tree with overly dried branches. Since seals are from extremely cold environment like Antarctica, the image implies that wild lives will eventually lose their habitats and become homeless if global warming were to continue. From this perspective, most animal lovers will be more than willing to pay effort in saving those wild lives. WWF successfully evokes empathy of its audience through such a lifeless scene. Logos is way of convincing an audience through reason. The first image does not rely on logos a lot, although the use of logos is still found in a few places. The newspaper refers to homelessness. The seal is covered by a newspaper and lying on a bench, implying that animals that live in an ice environment will lose their home if global warming were to continue. The Li 3 phrases located throughout the image regarding global warming portray the message that it is not too late to save the changing climate. Kairos refers to timeliness for an action to be taken. Kairos can also be frequently found in the first image. Red stop sign is a mandatory traffic sign that requires urgent action. On upper left of the image, a red charger with a stop sign on is connected to an outlet. Behind it is an all capitalized large-font phrase that says CAN Thus, the image successfully delivers the message that order to save the homes for wild animals and to save the climate, urgent actions needs to be taken. Although those images are often efficient in sending out its message to audience, it is hard to find an organization that stays clear of fallacies. In the first image, WWF appeals to pity by showing the misfortune that animals would encounter. Throughout the whole image, WWF fails to provide any evidence that supports the authenticity of global warming It largely relies on its use of pathos. The poor animal is the only thing that attracts attention from audience. The famous logo of panda and a address of their official website the only two things WWF shows to provide the credibility of the image. WWF overly relies on its popularity. Another mistake it makes is that global warming cannot be prevented. Instead, it can only be slowed down. The second image is much simpler, comparing with the first image. WWF aims for a more general population of audience in this image. Its purpose is to inform the audience what global warming does to the earth through a abstract style of image. It provides a good explanation of what is happening to the earth right now. WWF appeals to ethos in this image in the same way it does in the first image. It places its famous panda-symbol at the bottom of the image. Since the logo design looks official and is already well known, it is very likely that the audience will find it trustworthy. The slogan on this Li 4 image serves a different purpose than the last one. It uses a very small writing. This will most likely not be read by the majority of people. Thought it increases the reliability of the image, it relays mostly on the image itself and the panda symbol. Overall, it still efficiently appeals its credibility because of its credibility of the symbol. Pathos in this second image is not as much used as in the first one. The only thing that is related to emotion evoking in it is that ice-cream is melting. Most people would rather see a complete ice-cream ball instead of a melted one. In that case, pathos is slightly involved in this image. WWF appeals to logos by relating a melting ice-cream with global warming of the earth. Since the melting of ice-cream is caused by high temperature, global warming can be related to a melting ice-cream ball. The liquid that drills down along the cone is blue on the image. it refers to the melted ice on earth. Since the liquid is excessing out of the cone, it implies that those extra water will rise the sea level. Overall, WWF does a good job appealing to logos in this image through its abstract rhetoric. Kaithos can also be found in the second image. The blue liquid, which represent the melted ice on earth, reaching the bottom of the cone, implying that global warming is happening right now and the situation is about to turn worse. It urges the audience to act immediately to prevent, or slow down the global warming. Otherwise, when the ice melts, the disaster will come. Logical fallacies are used by WWF in the second image as well. The only two objects the second image has is one melting ice-cream cone in the middle and the logo of WWF with slogan. It is, in fact, largely appealing to authority, since the panda logo of WWF is the only means that the image replies on for its credibility. Li 5 WWF has a unique way of displaying the two images, although fallacies are found in the images. By appealing to ethos, pathos, kairos, and logos, both image have effectively delivered its message that global warming is a serious problem that the world has to face. Overall, WWF is successful in urging its audience to put in action to slow down the global warming. It will continue to influence the movement in protecting the earth climate. Li 6 Works Cited 65 Most Creative WWF Global Climate Change ADs  Graphic Design Junction. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. About  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Climate effects plunder the  Environmental Defense Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Li 7 The First Picture Li 8 The second Picture