Xiong 1 Xin Xiong Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Smog and Haze in China In recent years, the most of cities in China affect by the smog and haze, a lot of cities shrouded in a pollution haze. Why the smog and haze erode China in recent years? China focuses on the economic developing that ignores the protection of environment. The factories emits in the air pollutant aggravating stratosphere haze, the destruction ozone layer, causes the global warming. In addition, haze and smog are really bad for health. There are many tiny particles in the smog, if people live in this environment long time. Smog and haze are the most factors cause cardio- cerebrovascular disease. Greenpeace is an environmental protection organization whose goals are protecting the earth, environment, the safety of various and sustainable development. Also, Greenpeace does things to avoid polluted and over-use for ocean, land, water and air; also finds a way to prevent pollution, protect the natural specials diversity and the atmosphere, and pursuing a nuclear-free world. The logo of Greenpeace wants to express that people pursuit of harmony with the natural and human environment. Greenpeace presents two images that show their opinion about curb smog and haze. Both images convey ethos, logos and pathos, but the first page is directly demonstrated the horrible of smog and haze. The first image shows that smog and haze should to affect health. The first image shows the weather of three developing countries, New Delhi, India, Kapuas, Indonesia and Beijing, China. This image tries to deliver a message that most delivering Xiong 2 countries are suffering from really bad air pollution because of the smog and haze; It uses several rhetorical appeals to convince audiences. Ethos is one of the rhetorical appeals that convince the audience by showing its authority. This image is from Greenpeace that is a non-profit organization that protects environments; audience will understand the authority of this image when they see the name of Greenpeace. Pathos is also one of the rhetorical appeals which attempts to convince audience by making them feel certain emotions. The image wants to express the details that these countries does not have blue sky, it uses gray and dirt yellow, because of the haze and smog. Those two colors make people feel dirty and uncomfortable. Everything is haze will easily let people think about environment pollution and bad air condition. This image also conveys logos by having certain countries name on the picture, such as Delhi, India; Kapuas, Indonesia; Beijing, Those wants to express that haze and smog usually happens in developing countries. These countries want to develop the economy, but ignore the environmental protection, especially for China. As a developing country, China is confronted with the dual task of developing the economy and protecting the environment. Nature and progress struggle to co-exist. As with most developing nations, China has sought to create a balance between environment and industry, conservation and survival. But in recent year, people think that the environment already out of the balance. The weather normally is blue and white, it can make people feel comfortable, but in this image, these are gray and yellow. When people expose to airborne, that will cause severe health problems, including respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. Lots of news mentioned that China has suffered the smog and haze, and this picture show the environment indeed, people living in a polluted environment exactly. People living in a horrible living environment especially some developing countries as shown in image. The air quality has becoming more and Xiong 3 worse. Air is a necessary condition for life survival, but if air quality is bad, every life will be affected not only human. The plant cannot get enough sunlight, and the plants cannot produce air for the life. The entire ecosystem will be destroying. People have to protect the environment. Some people already live in polluted countries right now. People want to live in a wonderful place where live in a great harmony like an imaginary instead of yellow and gray sky. The second image also uses three rhetorical which are ethos, pathos and logos. As it mentioned before, this image is from non-profit organization-Greenpeace; it already gives the image authority. It also has the logo of Greenpeace at the bottom, which is a use of ethos, too. On the picture, it shows a marathon runner placard reading: want health, no smog and This is a use of logos. The slogan has telling the audience the feeling of those people who is suffering from bad smog and haze. They really want fresh air and clean environment. Especially for those Marathon runners, they need to breathe air into lungs when they were running. It is not good for their body and health if they breathe those smog and haze into lungs. They have to wear mask in order to protect themselves. However, it will be really uncomfortable when runners are running, but they could not have enough air to support them. This image has telling the audience the importance of fresh air. Besides logos, this image also uses pathos, the overall color for the background is grey which represents heavy smog and haze in the city. As shown on the picture, the air pollution is really seriously in Bei Jing where capital in China is. In the image, the smog and haze also shroud the city, and the runner wears a gauze mask to resist the smog and haze, that can prove the bad air quality. There is a guard want to stop the runner, but the runner still stand in there, it can prove the determination that curb environmental pollution. The gray sky like an alarm bell, the air problem has to curb for the people, because the sky is blue in Xiong 4 normally. Beijing is one of our national economic and culture center, and also the capital of China, if the capital has bad air quality. People cannot breathe of fresh air that is really satiric. Both images are using ethos since they all from Greenpeace, which is a non- governmental environmental organization with offices in over 40 countries. It has logo at bottom. Also, those two images are conveying logos since they both provide specific information. The first image is telling people specific places that have smog and haze. The second image is telling people want health, no smog and However, the second picture is more specific than the first image. The first image trying to convince their audience that smog and haze are all over the world, it is not a problem for one country or one city, everyone should think about it and maybe help with it during our daily life.; not only people who suffer from smog and haze, but also for those who is living in a nice environment. However, the second is more focus on the people which shows attitude towards smog and haze. It mentioned that people who are suffering from smog and haze want fresh air and clean environment to live. Even though those two images are all showing the bad influence that smog and haze cause, they are trying to convince different part of audiences. In conclusion, Greenpeace is holding their point of view towards smog and haze; they wish that all the people could pay attention to this environment problem. There is only one earth, people have to protect it and provide a nice living environment for themselves; not only for themselves, but also for the next generation. Greenpeace help people have the basic idea about smog and haze and also help more people to think about this environment problem. It has a lot of valuable information about the bad influence of smog and haze and why people need to solve this problem all together. Xiong 5 Xiong 6 Works Cited Greenpeace  Greenpeace USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Runners Protest against Smog in Beijing  Greenpeace International. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. and Haze in North NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.