Subhi Quneibi Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Saving the Internet With the internet under scrutiny by companies, organizations, and even the government, there are still many who are in the dark about its current situation. In the United States, majority of the population utilize the internet for one thing or another, yet they are still unaware of what is going on behind the scenes. With the following two images, Save the Internet, plans to bring awareness to the average consumer. A now aware consumer can either look into the predicament themselves or go off the claims in these photos to cast their voice on the matter. Save the Internet believes in protecting the open internet against the threats of ISPs (Internet Service Providers) and even the government. These two images show the threat ISPs have on our freedom along with stating that action can be taken. Save the Internet, is an organization aimed to protect the right of millions of Americans to use the internet freely, uniting millions of consumers to defend and preserve the threats of ISPs, such as Comcast, AT&T, and Verizon, along with the Republican Party. In fact, this would be the second time such an event has occurred, encouraging the organization to request and unite the help of the internet users once again. The first strive resulted in a great and historic achievement that many celebrated when the FCC approved strong open internet rules under Title II of the Communications Act, on Feb. 26, 2015 (Save the Internet). Plenty were elated to finally receive the promised fluid internet experience from their service providers. In fact is the biggest victory for the public interest in the history. And it have happened if not for the millions of people who pushed the FCC to (Save the Internet). With the new allotted FCC chairman, Ajit Pai, vows to disintegrate the Net Neutrality laws, the internet is at stake again (Kang). ISPs will surely pounce on the opportunity that has arose and attempt to do everything in their power in order to tear away at Net Neutrality, so they may do as they please. This gives Save the Internet more of a reason to push out a visual rhetoric in order to raise awareness and gain even more supporters than before. In Image 1, Save the Internet attempts to inform the users of the web that their beloved internet is being threatened by the likes of those providing them their services, also known as the Internet Service Providers or ISPs. Image 1 assumes the viewer is already aware of what is called Net Neutrality, which is a law that was put into place to keep the internet open and free of limitations. The image shows three flying saucers actually attacking the capitol building. Each saucer is actually labeled, showing the primary three Internet Service Providers who are putting our internet at risk. The text above the animation is bolded and completely capitalized followed by an exclamation mark to show the severity of the matter to even the uniformed. In an endeavor to reach out to the public the organization uses a set of rhetorical appeals in the image to persuade the spectator. In the first image, ethos, or appeal to credibility, is applied when recognizing the prominent Internet Service Providers. Millions of users will be familiar with the names and will most certainly have their own experiences and stories from them, whether it be positive or negative. It raises the question of whether these companies can be trusted or even allowed to modify the way we use our internet, the same internet that we pay for. This now brings us to pathos, or appeal to emotions, as the organization absolutely helps enrage the average user by bringing this information to them. After all, that is their money that is being spent so they should have a say in it, but they which encourages the consumer to say or do something to notify these companies that they will not stand for it. This is where logos, appeal to logic and reason, comes into play, as users who merely think about the current scenario will find that the organization does have a point and that it makes perfect sense to act on it. Finally, the urgent style of writing on the image is an appeal to timeliness, or kairos, as the reader receives the impression that it is quite urgent and must be acted on immediately. In Image 2, Save the Internet attempts to educate the viewer that there indeed still is hope to create an impact. Image 2 shows an ambulance that is racing off with its sirens on, the ambulance has the FCC logo along with the word written on its side. This image assumes the viewer is completely aware of the current scenario that puts their beloved internet at risk claiming that is still to save it. The text that follows the animation reads is still hope for the which is completely capitalized to show how important the matter is. The word is in a different color because certainly a keyword as there will only be hope for the internet with the support of the viewer. This image aims to call over people to aid and support the organization for a successful campaign for an open internet. The second image also contains a set of appeals similar to that of the first in order to grab the attention and support of the audience. In Image 2, the ambulance acts as the appeal to credibility as it represents a sense of security for the majority of the world since such a vehicle is dispatched to rescue people and not harm them. The ambulance has plenty of smoke following it indicates how the ambulance was moving in a rush to provide service, this can be both an appeal to emotion and timeliness, as it shows how the internet may be lost if not acted on immediately; along with the text. With the FCC and World Wide Web logos pictured on the ambulance an appeal to logic and reason is generated. The logos help the viewer know exactly what the logical thing to do is, and that is reach out to the appropriate agencies to stop the destruction of Net Neutrality from occurring. Yet despite having a sufficient number of appeals that reach out to the audience, the image does contain some rhetorical fallacies, or logical errors in the argument, that hinder the complete potential. Both images contain a conjunction fallacy as they leave the reader to assume the current state and situation of Net Neutrality. It does little to inform but does plenty to apprise and encourage for an action to be taken. It is no surprise that the internet is undergoing a set of attacks from ISPs and even the government thanks to Save the Internet along with plenty of other organizations efforts. Therefore, the internet will certainly remain neutral as they people will not be satisfied with such a sudden change (Granados). Save the Internet certainly does an excellent job to appeal to the public but fails to inform them. This a major issue at all as the visual rhetorics definitely generate enough curiosity for the viewer to look into these things themselves and conduct their own review, creating their own opinion on the matter. Works Cited Kang, Cecilia. F.C.C. Pick Quickly Targets Net Neutrality The New York Times, The New York Times, 5 Feb. 2017, www.nytimes.com/2017/02/05/technology/trumps-fcc-quickly-targets-net-neutrality- Web. 23 Mar. 20 Granados, Nelson. Net Neutrality Rules Are Doomed But The Internet Will Remain  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 23 Mar. 2017, https://www.forbes.com/sites/nelsongranados/2017/03/22/net-neutrality-rules-are- doomed-but-the-internet-will-remain-neutral/#4f5804223879. Web. 24 Mar. 2017. the Freepress. N.p., n.d. https://www.savetheinternet.com/sti-home. Web. 17 Mar 2017