Tardonia 1 Savannah Tardonia Professor Collins ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Staring Contest: Citizen vs. Taxes Today, as a country, there is a strong divide among the nation. It has formed by the fault of those who do not pay taxes verse and is against those who do. That issue then translates to an issue of those who is not paying any taxes while receiving government funded programs. According to Forbes.com in October of 2015, now figure it is 45.3 percent, nearly 5 percentage points higher than our 2013 estimate of 40.4 when concluding how many American households will not be paying federal income tax during the coming year. How is nation supposed to efficiently function when half of the country is not paying their taxes. The two photos that have been selected are representative of the stakeholder, Americans for Tax Reform, also known as ATR. This organization stands for lower, more simple, and straightforward taxes. Their stake in this topic stems from the main point of tax payer dollars, that they are being paid, and how they are being applied to the use of welfare programs, meanwhile analyzing how each component used to create the image is applicable to the goal at hand. The purpose of the first picture is to promote ATR and to sign their pledge to oppose any and all tax increases. It has the addition of House of Representative hopeful Calvin campaign advertisement to show citizens that by choosing him as their candidate, he will abide by his pledge to the ATR and to the people. This verified pledge has the endorsement and support of other American citizens, their congressional members, and citizens that are willing Tardonia 2 stick to their views of what they believe in. The second purpose is to remind the public to pay their monthly income tax and to keep them accountable. The large fist pointing at the viewer is meant to almost call each person out as they view the image. Both pictures heavily carry levels of ethos, due to their high levels of credibility. In picture one, it shows that the congressional member pictured signed the pledge and is supportive of this organization. If a congressional member is using the pledge as a strong backbone of his campaign, a viewer must take into account how supported this pledge in by other lawmakers. It also shows his website, social media, district, etc. to establish his credibility and personal brand. In picture two, the boldness of the hand pointing at the individual makes it directed at the reader. The credibility of the billboard is increased with the addition of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) logo. By showing the logo on the billboard, it increases a level of intensity that would not be there if it were to be another logo. The duty to account for the taxes is self-evident in this. In picture one, the creator of the advertisement develops his pathos to strike the viewer that with the congressman signing this pledge, as a way to encourage individuals to want to vote for him. With that signature, it keeps him continually accountable to the public for his actions. If the congressman were to be elected, this would also include him into a pool of other congressmen and woman who focus on doing the same. Therefore, the group would be able to work as a whole to achieve that goal. The picture in front of the lighthouse represents his pride for his district. To the people of Mr. district, one would assume that the lighthouse is a strong symbol and iconic part of their area. By inculcating that into the ad, it reminds viewers that the reason he would be in D.C., as a representative, would be for their district. On the other hand, picture fist reminds me of an want Uncle Sam poster Tardonia 3 and contributes to how each citizen is responsible for helping take care of and contributing to the nation as a whole. This image of the pointed fist can be used as a mechanism to encourage and possibly instill some fear towards those who are not accountable when it comes to paying their monthly income taxes. That concept alone is why the taxes were created to begin with in order for the U.S. to effectively be established as a democratic and capitalistic society. Through the use of picture one, logos is represented to in fact support ATR and their pledge, therefore as a strategy to have individuals not question supporting the congressman and his campaign. Logically, the advertiser wants a viewer to look at the campaign ad, see the lighthouse, the support toward ATR, their pledge, and the variety of social media outlets and want an individual to be convinced that he will be held accountable in office through the use of this pledge while strongly representing his district. These simple qualities just described can be just enough for someone to vote for him if one of their main reasons for voting is based upon halting tax increases. In picture two, logos is represented by the finger pointing at the observer in a way that almost calls them out. Yet, also the changing of the word color to black on the word forces it to stand out among the red font that has already captured the reader. The use of the two different font colors forces mind to read and differentiate among the two and while doing so the reader is forced to answer the question you paid your income tax this Both of these images are surrounded among a certain timeliness use of implantation. The Kairos is relevant in picture one since it is contributing to Mr. advertisement of his campaign and political platform while running for office. In picture two, the Kairos is shown through the use of the word monthly and that income taxes are not just paid once a year. Each image for the sake of this topic needs to have that intended focus. Therefore, it forces the Tardonia 4 viewer to look at it within their own timescale and to push them to act. This can be represented through the action of voting for the congressman or by making sure one pays their taxes by the proper time each month. The picture one, the advertisement utilizes the Ad Hominem argument to demonstrate how by signing the pledge, that possibly his opponent has not done just that as a way to protect his rights and tax dollars. Picture two demonstrates the Appeal to Force through the representation and intimidation factor of the fist pointing at the viewer as a way to have them question themselves to answer the question. The debate between taxpayers and non- use of welfare programs continues to live on. In correlation to poverty levels, it can be interpreted that the genetic fallacy is being put to use and that with the transitional increase of excessive generational government dependence and it is in correlation with that of non- taxpayers. In conclusion, the use of visual aids can manipulate how an individual may feel about a topic. There are so many different details that play a role in the overall goal of each image. Through the two images selected, they both appeared very different but at the same time portrayed the same goal of wanting low taxes for the American public with the basis that the American public pays their taxes. With more citizens paying their taxes, that alone would be able to lower them and allow the government to decrease the necessity of government welfare programs only to transcend into a decrease of poverty levels, as discussed earlier in relation to the genetic fallacy. Tardonia 5 Picture 1: Tardonia 6 Picture 2: ldQR-0Ex Tardonia 7 Works Cited About Americans for Tax Reform Americans for Tax  About Americans for Tax Reform Americans for Tax Reform. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Beltway, Business In the. New Estimates Of How Many Households Pay No Federal Income  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 06 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lane, Emily, Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, Megan McIntyre, and Kate Pantelides. The Rhetorical  Myreviewers.usf.edu. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Mar. 2017.