Son 1 Declan Son Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 26 March 2017 A Road Without Drunk Drivers Alcohol can be fun; they give the drinkers a slight feeling of euphoric buzz and a bit of confidence to get them to approach pretty girls or handsome guys at a party. However, when taken in excess, those feelings start to dissipate and begin to take a toll in their body. They lose their concentration, balance, and decision-making skills, which are all valuable attributes for driving. Due to the depressant effects from alcohol, the intoxicated drinkers have slower reactions and experience blurred vision. As a result, people in the United States die [every in motor vehicle crashes that involve an alcohol-impaired Driving: Get the Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) stands for the victims of alcohol-involved vehicle crashes and against drivers who were under the influence. This organization incorporates a strong staff of volunteers and experts to strategically plan and to prevent these avoidable accidents from happening. Mothers Against Drunk Driving finds success in spreading awareness on the risks of driving under the influence and demonstrates the need to end drunk driving through the use of two visual pieces that connect deaths to alcohol and driving. MADD was founded in 1980 to support the families and increase awareness of their goal to end drunk driving to communities. They gain connections to reach the target Son 2 audience with the aid of police departments and public schools. Their efforts successfully the death toll [of 25,000 in by more than half [in of Drunk With nationwide recognition of their influence in making the roads safer for the people, the brand gained credibility and their logo displays those values. In image A and image B, the logos are shown at the bottom-right corner. They are expressions of ethos, credibility of information or authority. website ends with the domain name which is specifically reserved for non-profit groups. For image B, the domain name shows as which represents Canada. This concludes to the fact that influence reached out beyond the states. The presence of ethos in these images shows the reliability of the facts presented in the information and persuade the audience to support philanthropy. With vehicle accidents, pathos is expressed as a lot of emotions are drawn in. The death of kid or parents is unimaginably agonizing to even process. In image A, a senior photo of a young high school student went through the picture frame, mimicking the same fate she would have met if she was to go through a motor vehicle accident. The audience could feel the implied emotions; the parents grieving and pondering what she could have achieved beyond high school and college. Her friends are trying to fill the empty holes in their heart as they stare at the missing seat in the class and lunchtime. make it a grad to resembles all the feelings that she would have if she did not get involved in a car accident: the feeling to cherish the last moments, that am I feeling from ordinary moments like when she walks by the lecture hall or grabbing lunch with friends, and the grown-up feeling where she looks back to the past and wonder how she got this far. The quote signifies all the nostalgic moments that were Son 3 stolen from a single event, with the use of pathos. In image B, the scene shows a young woman drinking a whole bottle of alcohol with car keys in her hand. With no company around her and from her facial expression, the audience could feel sadness and depression. They could understand the hardships that she is going through and sympathize with her. It could explain why she is making these bad decisions that put her life and others at risk. From the faces and body languages, to the image setting, they convey several emotions with the use of pathos. The images tell the viewers the same story from two different perspectives. In image B, a woman chugs a whole bottle of alcohol like no tomorrow. The keys in her hand foreshadows that she will drive back home after she leaves the social gathering. With the cast of dark shadow behind her, which symbolizes evil, death, and sins, the audience can logically conclude that her decision to drive will lead to negative consequences. It points to the depressive effects of alcohol on the brain and the body, with delayed responses and blurry visions. Those symptoms can drastically impair driving skills and sense of direction. The images appeal to the fact that drunk driving may lead to serious chronic or fatal injuries that could impact and the lives. It may also bring despair to everyone who are affected by the death of those who are involved in the crash. The images persuade the audience by showing the details of what driving under the influence can possibly lead to. These logos, logical appeals, expressed by the action of what drinking and driving can lead to strengthen the message that MADD conveys through both images. 2014, over 100,000 people in the United States were hospitalized because of alcohol-related traffic crashes, and 9,967 (Redelmeier and Detsky 1). The advertisements Son 4 use kairos, attention to timeliness, to address this issue to bring attention the public as there is a huge sum of incidents for such an evitable event. The incorporation of young teenager who looks like a soon-to-be high school graduate is specifically done to cater to that specific age group. Teens are especially vulnerable to becoming part of traffic statistics since their driving experience is lacking and are more likely to engage in risky activities. crashes remain the leading cause of death for persons in age groups years, accounting for 67% of unintentional injury (Gilchrist, et. al. 272). In image B, a young adult consumes a whole bottle of alcohol. Her age reflects the activities of what some college students do; socialize in parties while drinking alcohol. These images show two age groups that are most vulnerable to these alcohol-related car accidents. With this piece of evidence, intention to help lower the rate of these accidents is clear. With such a serious tone in the imagery and message, they hope to change drivers mind about driving while under the influence. Kairos strengthen point of view by implying critical pieces of information to show the gravity of the issue. However, these images still carry flaws. Despite its positive intentions, they still trick the minds with an illusion of thought. In both images, they contain slippery slope fallacy; when a specific event occurs, another set of events will occur so the first event should not happen at all. They assume that if people drink and drive, car accidents will occur; therefore, they should not drink and drive. As for post hoc fallacy (in which an assumption is made that because one thing occurred after another, it must have occurred as a result of it), they assume that drinking and driving is the cause of the car accidents just because one event happened right after the other. Son 5 This reasoning also applies to cum hoc fallacy (where an assumption is made that two things are related just because they occurred at the same time) since the advertisements believe that these two events are related because they occurred together. Driving under the influence poses serious risks for both the drivers and the community. For such utterly preventable accidents, the death rate is significantly high. One small decision creates a domino effect that leads to the death of innocent children and adults. In these advertisements, by utilizing rhetorical appeals from ethos to kairos, they effectively communicated with the target audiences about the consequences of drunk driving. They carried out their mission statement end drunk driving, help fight drugged driving, support the victims of these violent crimes and prevent underage n.d.). (Word Count: 1330) Son 6 Works Cited Against Drunk Driving, Web. 21 February 2017. Writing Center at UNC - Chapel Hill, Web. 19 March 2017. Gilchrist, Julie, Michael F. Ballesteros, and Erin M. Parker. Vital Signs: Unintentional Injury Deaths Among Persons Aged 0-19 Years -- United States,  Morbidity & Mortality Weekly Report, 61, no. 15 (2012): Academic Search Premier. 21 Feb. 2017. of Drunk Against Drunk Driving, Web. 25 February 2017. Driving: Get the for Disease Control and Prevention, January 2016. Web. 25 February 2017. Lane, Emily, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre. Matters: Language and Argument in Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-253. Print. McIntyre, Megan, and Jessica McKee. Ethos: Appeals to Authority and  Matters: Language and Argument in Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-253. Print. McIntyre, Megan, Kate Pantelides, Kate, and Jessica McKee. Kairos: Appeals to  Matters: Language and Argument in Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-253. Print. McKee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. Pathos: Appeals to  Matters: Son 7 Language and Argument in By Kendra G. Lee. Ed. Jason Carabelli and Brogan Sullivan. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2014. 1-238. Print. Redelmeier, Donald A., and Allan S. Detsky. Clinical Action Against Drunk  vol. 14, no. 2 (2017): 1-5. Search Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Weber, Ryan, and Allen Brizee. Online Writing Lab, March 2013. Web. 19 March 2017. Son 8 Image A Son 9 Image B