Al Mamari 1 Waleed Al Mamari Instructor: Mrs. Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 1 March 2017 Should Marijuana Be Legalized The war on drugs has started between societies many centuries ago and this phenomenon can be seen in different countries around the world. This war is between groups that want to have and societies that stands to prohibit using drugs. Both sides think about influential ways to make their ideas and thoughts be heard in the public. For example, some people use social media to show why they believe that drugs should not be legalized and they can assure that the public can hear their voice. Likewise, other people decide to protest and remonstrate in public places in order to grab the attention to make their voice heard. Therefore, the competitors on the drugs war use several ways to reach to their targeted audience in the society. Marijuana is a type of drug that people are arguing about. It is dried gray leaves of the hemp plant Cannabis sativa that are used by mood altering recreational substance (Anderson 1). This illicit drug can be used for medical purposes as well. In this matter, people have started thinking whether marijuana should be legalized or not. Stakeholders that have appeared in societies that either stand for or against trading marijuana productions in the public. The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws and also known as NORML is a non-profit organization that works to legalize marijuana productions for adults in communities. In the official website for NORLM they mission is to move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for Al Mamari 2 consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and affordable (NORML 1). This stakeholder has published a variety of images, posters and propaganda in order to in order to support their ideas. NORML argues that marijuana should be legalized for adults through two pieces of visual rhetoric that communicate that adults have the responsibility to do whatever they want and it is kind of freedom, marijuana can be used for medical purposes and countries can boost economic growth by legalizing marijuana. The two visual pieces that published by NORML have ethos and that makes the images more credible and moral and these rhetorical appeals were used to introduce the idea of supporting legalizing marijuana by a celebrity and to introduce justice as well. The first image used a celebrity picture who is Barack Obama the former president of the United States. Showing Obama in the poster tells the public that Barack Obama is agreed and supportive for legalizing marijuana. Since Barack Obama is a politician, showing his picture might target political audience in the country. Moreover, Barack presence would express that if he is agree about legalizing marijuana why would not others agree and that is called bandwagon propaganda. This can make credibility for the image as well. On the other image, there is presence of justice scale and that indicates that ending marijuana prohibition can be justified and kind of freedom. In this case, NORML used different ways to demonstrate ethos in the images in order to prove that marijuana should be legalized for adults because it is a matter of responsibility and freedom. Using pathos is very important to make images more emotional and affective. In both the images it obvious that NORML used pathos. In the first image gaze and look make audience feel that he is serious and confident. This gaze makes people feel that Barack Obama is Al Mamari 3 sure about his decision and marijuana should be legalized and he is confident about that. Also, he is looking up and that might be analysed as he is looking for something good for the country in the future.In this matter, as stated by John Gettman, a Cannabis Policy Director for HIGH TIMES and he has a Ph.D. in public policy, teaching undergraduate criminal justice and graduate level management courses, that Obama support the legalization In an interview with Rolling Stone, President Obama has acknowledged that marijuana should be legalized and regulated like alcohol and (Gettman 1). In this case, NORML believes that by ending marijuana prohibition, countries can boost economic growth by trading marijuana production. Thus, look seems to be he is waiting to make a lot of money for the country by legalizing marijuana. In the other hand, pathos can be expressed by showing a woman that holding a justice scale. The woman seems as she is oppressed and she is looking for someone to bring back her right and freedom. Also, she has a sword in her hand and that looks like she is fighting anyone who stands against legalizing marijuana. This can make audience feel sad about the women and try to help her. Logos refer to the facts, statistics and examples that given by the author in order to makes images more credible. The first image has a quote we and this quote makes audience feel that they can legalize marijuana and they have the ability to end the prohibition.This sentence is quoted from 2008 campaign slogan and it was like a chant for the campaign that encourages to collaborate. In addition, NORML used the plural in order to encourage people to stand together and collaborate in order to convince politicians to legalize marijuana. In the second image, there is no obvious logos can be noted, but audience can predict that the woman has a rag covering her eyes and she can not see anything Al Mamari 4 and there are many marijuana leaves around her and she is waiting someone to let her to use marijuana in order to regain her sight. This can indicate that marijuana can be used for medical purposes. Kairos is an important concept that used in visual pieces in order to communicate with audience persuasively. It means to choose an moment because people always feel persuaded at different moments in time than others. First images has a we can and this quote refers to the opportunity that people can legalize marijuana at this moment and this is the suitable time to stand to end the prohibition. The second images does not include any indications for using kairos. There is commonly used concept in both images which is using the green color. Color is powerful because it can change our mood the mood of potential customers. As expressed by Paul Kaminska who is Paula is the Lead UX/UI Designer at blur Group, using the green color refers to eco-friendly, compassionate and caring (Kaminska 1). Therefore, NORML used the green color to refer that marijuana can be co-friendly and compassionate. Usually images have logical fallacies and advertisers should be careful to avoid these logical fallacies. For example, authors should be aware about using images without permission because that is against the law. The first image includes Barack picture but there is no evidence prove that Obama is satisfied and agreed about using his picture in the image. In addition, there is a logical fallacy is called appeals to authority and it means that not everything supported by celebrities must be good. In the first image it seems that Obama supports legalize marijuana but that might be true and might not be true. There are many policies and statements by Barack Obama show that he supports legalization and as stated by John Al Mamari 5 Gettman president told publisher Jann Wenner that am not somebody who believes that legalization is a panacea. But I do believe that treating this as a public-health issue, the same way we do with cigarettes or alcohol, is the much smarter way to deal with 1) Thus, this might be a logical fallacy in the first image. On the other hand, the second image does not have obvious logical fallacies. In this matter, the images with less logical fallacies can be more influential and effective on audience All in all, NORML tries to convince people that marijuana should be legalized because people can gain benefits from marijuana productions. NORML has been trying to convince the public that legalizing marijuana can help to gain several benefits. However, the questions is what is the best strategy to make their ideas and thoughts get heard in the public and persuasive people in order to end marijuana prohibition. NORML uses two pieces of visual rhetoric in order to express why marijuana should be legalized. These two pieces have several rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos, logos and kairos that used in order to make the images more credible and convincing. However, audience might analyze the images in different ways. In other words, for example, it is possible that person X understands images different than what person Y understands. Also, NORML targets government and politicians because they have the ability to change the rules. Finally, legalizing marijuana will still concern people in the future until they find a solution that satisfy both side who is with and against the legalization. In the matter, I believe that marijuana legalization faces new thoughts from people and theses thoughts will not stop even in the future. For example, some people think about how marijuana must be controlled in order to legalize it or what is the appropriate prices for marijuana productions. All these thoughts might broaden this topic to the future of marijuana legalization. Al Mamari 6 Work cited Anderson, Leigh Ann. Marijuana: Effects, Medical Uses & Legalization. Drugs.com, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from Kaminska, Paula. The Impact of Color in Advertising, Marketing, and  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from https://www.blurgroup.com/blogs/group/the-impact-of-colour-in-advertising-marketing-a nd-design/ Working to Reform Marijuana  The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from First image second image