Sam Dreiling Professor Penuliar ENC 1102 26 January 2017 Before It Is Too Late Advertisements can be seen everywhere you look; on television, radio, billboards, and the Internet. Advertisements are inescapable. The average person is exposed to over 5,000 advertisements a day (Johnson, Sheree). Many advertisements use the rhetorical strategies: ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. The World Wide Fund for Nature, also known as WWF, uses all of these strategies in their advertisements to get their message across to their audience. The World Wide Fund for Nature argues that action needs to be taken place or animals will become extinct through two pieces of advertisements through the use of ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. Authors use ethos to gain credibility from their audiences. The WWF is the leading conservation organization (About). The mission of the WWF is conserve nature and reduce the most pressing threats to the diversity of life on (About). The WWF is world known for protecting animals and their natural habitats. According to the WWF, they all its efforts toward achieving six major goals - in the areas of Forests, Oceans, Wildlife, Food, Climate & Energy, and Water - and on three key drivers of environmental problems - Markets, Finance, and (What). The WWF is world known for their conservation efforts done around the world Their logo is very recognizable. The fact they have their logo on the advertisements gives the advertisements great credibility with their audience. A strong way to grab a attention is with the use of pathos. Pathos is an appeal to a emotions. The relationship between humans and animals triggers emotions of empathy and compassion, just like those felt when seeing a smiling baby. It is in our human nature to have these feelings. In the advertisements, the WWF is going towards the opposite of those emotions. They want the viewer to have fear of what could happen to the environment and be scared for the future of planet Earth. They accomplish this by using cool colors of blue and grey. This is called color psychology, which means our mental and emotions can be effected by the variations of colors we encounter in our lives (Color). The use of blues in the advertisements can be used in two different ways. The color blue can represent dependability, ease, and productivity (Bolden). However, different shades of blue can also bring up the emotions of depression, darkness, and sadness (Johnson, David). The WWF is trying to make the viewer feel the heavier emotions. They want the reader to feel sad about the fact that marine life is diminishing at an increasing rate. The feeling that the reader experiences makes them take action in saving marine life. In the first image, it says under the picture with the shark fin breaching the surface of the water. The word is a common emotion the one would experience if they were out in the water and saw a shark fin out in the open water. Sharks are sought to be mean, dangerous, and aggressive, because that is how they are portrayed in media. In reality, sharks are very peaceful creatures. There is a higher chance of a human getting struck by lightning than being attacked by a shark (Human). On average, sharks kill around six people per year, whereas thirty-seven people are killed annually by lighting (Human). On the other hand, a study done by marine biologist Boris Worm found that around 11,417 sharks are killed every hour by humans (Verger). The other half of the image says and is a mirror of the right half of the advertisement, but without the shark fin breaking the surface of the open water. This shows that a world without sharks inhabiting the oceans will be more scary than a world without the amazing creatures. In the second advertisement, It shows as though the turtle is in the computer screen and that the viewer has the option to or This relates back to normal day society because everything is digital now a days. Many people have heard about ethos, logos, and pathos, but few have ever heard of kairos. Kairos is using the sense of time. It is commonly used in a sense of urgency for an action to happen. The WWF knows that kairos is an undermined rhetoric tool, but they take advantage of it to persuade their audience that there is a need for change to happen soon or else the effects of humans on the environment will be irreversible. All sea turtles that roam the U.S. waters are either considered endangered or threatened (Heimbuch). Each year, 42,000 sea turtles are killed by human causes across the world with the majority of these turtles being Green Sea Turtles (Mosbergen). If the populations keeps decreasing at this alarming rate, sea turtles will no longer inhabited the oceans within a few decades. In the advertisements, the WWF shows that if action does not start now, the populations of wildlife will decrease and nothing can be done to reverse the permanent effects, which will eventually lead to the extinction of many animals that inhabited the earth. The WWF uses the rhetorical strategies: ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos, to effectively get their message across. They show that the viewer has a decision to make and if it does not happen quickly animals will keep decreasing at an alarming rate. Advertisements have an important role when it comes to saving the environment and everything that calls it home. Work Cited About  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Bolden, Leaf. The Effects of Different Colors on Emotions in Small Business - Chron.com. Chron.com, 28 Oct. 2013. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Color Psychology: The Psychological Effects of  Art Therapy. N.p., 24 Dec. 2012. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Heimbuch, Jaymi. 4,600 Sea Turtles Killed In US Fisheries Every Year -- But Good  TreeHugger. N.p., 14 Sept. 2011. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. <http://www.treehugger.com/natural-sciences/4600-sea-turtles-killed-in-us-fisheries- every-year-but-thats-good-news.html>. Human Shark  National Geographic - Videos, TV Shows & Photos - Canada. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. <http://natgeotv.com/ca/human-shark-bait/facts>. Mosbergen, Dominique. Sea Turtles Are Endangered, But 42,000 Were Killed Legally Last  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 27 Feb. 2014. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. Johnson, David. Do Different Colors Effect Your  Infoplease. Infoplease, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Johnson, Sheree. New Research Sheds Light on Daily Ad  SJ Insights, LLC. N.p., 12 Oct. 2014. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Verger, Rob. As Many as 11,000 Sharks Are Killed by Humans Every  VICE News. N.p., 08 July 2015. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. <https://news.vice.com/article/as-many-as-11000- sharks-are-killed-by-humans-every-hour>. What Does WWF  WWF. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Mar. 2017.