Allyssa Baker April 9, 2017 English Composition 1 Sarah Roth Teaching Sex Education in Schools On average in the United States girls as young as 11 are likely to get their first period. That typically ranging from 5 th grade to the 6 th grade for most girls. Thinking back on my own experiences I had not encountered what would qualify as a sex education class until the 7 th grade of my education. As for boys, they can hit puberty as young as 9 years old. With that in mind, instead of only promoting abstinence in our out of date sex education courses I remember, we should teach this easily impressionable younger generation about what bodies are transitioning through and create a further understanding of what they may experience and how natural it is. So, keeping that in mind why we teach more in-depth sex education courses in elementary school to younger children. Before they hit the stage of growth and puberty and understand what their bodies are going through. Not only is sex education seen as almost a taboo topic, it is also very biased towards the gender binary. With there being hardly none, if any discussion towards gay, lesbian, and bisexual youth of today. Leaning towards a very one way of living and loving dynamic, often giving younger generations a sense of not belonging if they feel they fall into any of the three categories. Moran (2000) describes this history as long, complex process in which schools became the tool expected to manage the sexuality of children, using public authority to shape private behavior to prevent unwanted physical consequences, and reinforce socially normative expectations of sexual Only reinforcing this heteronormative ideology then leaves out a large group of the youth may need the greatest social support. To understand why these norms develop we must understand what caused them. Sexual activity was frequently perceived as promiscuity, and seen as uncivilized, immoral behavior likely to result in sexually transmitted disease. According to Allyssa Baker April 9, 2017 English Composition 1 Sarah Roth David Milo McCarty-Caplan of Jane Addams College of Social Work was believed, however, that as adolescents tried to thwart, sexual impulses this restrained energy could overflow and manifest in several behavioral deviations, including This still showing in our social world today as we still teach an outdated course of heterosexuality in sexual education, as well as completely ignoring those who are deemed as for not fitting into our social box of norms. The topic of teaching sex education in school is one that has been in discussion for many years. Many people (conservatives) only supporting this in schools when it is regarding abstinence only education. Spending less time teaching about our bodies and what they will go through, and more time teaching us not to have sex and giving young children scary statistics about and pregnancy rates in girls. Both of which are important, but are not the main points of discussion. Without education pertaining to puberty, menstruation, consent, rape, as well as the ways to prevent pregnancy, not only abstinence. We then lead a generation of young people well educated in all aspects of their own sexuality, and with an understanding of those around them. Per the Department of Health Sciences at Coastal Carolina University, is well documented that the United States has one of the highest unintentional teen pregnancy rates of any country in the Western developed world, with 34 births per And comprehensive sexuality health education programs have been found to delay sexual intercourse, a large percentage of school districts in the United States continue to focus on abstinence-only sexuality This going to show that these courses need to be more informative, to include not only abstinence but be more in-depth about our own bodies and sexualities. Allyssa Baker April 9, 2017 English Composition 1 Sarah Roth With an understanding of what is being taught in these sex education courses as well as why they are targeted toward a heterosexual norm, we need to then identify that objectification in the media plays a large tole on highly impressionable young girls. Teaching only abstinence based curriculums leads an ideology that women must stay virgins for a man to love her. Not talking about the importance of self-love and how edited mass media is, leads women to self-deprecation and harm. We not only need to educate women on all aspects of sexuality, but educate all youth on rape culture. To teach children the wrongs of not having consent, this leading a generation of well informed and responsible with their sexuality youth. Institutions often permit these rape culture ideologies, but with changing how we teach these topics we can raise a group of informed young adults who know better than what these institutions push on them. According to The Journal of Moral Education a college campus has few if any consequences for male students who rape, they are supporting a rape culture. One study examining college adherence to rape myths found that men endorse rape myths far more than women, and that the less knowledge men had about rape and its harm, the more likely they were to accept rape We are lacking in education for these topics, teaching only abstinence is not helping, primarily causing harm by not teaching what is happening in these institutions that are promoting abstinence. When the discussion of sex education is brought up, typically the argument as to why it be taught in-depth is that it will act as a gateway to sexual activity. If the curriculum attribute to the abstinence agenda, then parents often feel their kids are too young to be learning about sex. Del Stover from American School Board Journal Allyssa Baker April 9, 2017 English Composition 1 Sarah Roth Opinion polls show Americans overwhelmingly in favor of schools delivering that message. And lawmakers are listening. At least 27 states now have policies stressing abstinence in sex education courses, and 14 more mandate that abstinence be This still being the leading course taught around the world in sex education classes. Sex education is a largely important issue in the coming of age of youth. What they are taught will stick with them and we need to ensure they are well informed for the transition their bodies will go through as they age. We must integrate more than just abstinence education when discussing sex and sexuality. Incorporating all sexualities will start a grounding of self-love and will widen the range of visibility for all people. Informing and educating on not only heterosexual relationships but all types will decrease the probability of out-casting young students. This change in curriculum will raise a generation of more accepting adults, empathetic to all people and sexualities. Allyssa Baker April 9, 2017 English Composition 1 Sarah Roth Citations Segal, Marian. A Balanced Look at the Menstrual  FDA Consumer, vol. 27, no. 10, Dec. 1993, p. 32. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bu h&AN=9312167756&site=eds-live. McCarty-Caplan, David Milo1, dcapla2@uic.edu. Schools, Sex Education, and Support for Sexual Minorities: Exploring Historic Marginalization and Future  American Journal of Sexuality Education, vol. 8, no. 4, Oct-Dec2013, pp. 246-273. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/15546128.2013.849563. Dunn, Michael S.1, et al. Community Attitudes toward School-Based Sexuality Education in a Conservative  American Journal of Sexuality Education, vol. 9, no. 2, Apr-Jun2014, pp. 188-204. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/15546128.2013.860353. Lamb, Sharon and Renee Randazzo. An Examination of the Effectiveness of a Sexual Ethics  Journal of Moral Education, vol. 45, no. 1, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 16-30. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eri c&AN=EJ1099939&site=eds-live. Stover, Del. Should We Be Teaching Sex Education or Sexual  Education Digest, vol. 72, no. 5, Jan. 2007, pp. 41-48. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=rg m&AN=504271060&site=eds-live.