Fabacher 1 Andrew Fabacher Instructor: Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 6 April 2017 The Importance of Compensating Student-Athletes Imagine going to work for over 40 hours per week and not getting paid one cent. That is what is happening across the country as college athletes put in hundreds of hours per year toward their sport, while receiving no compensation for their efforts or for the use of their name, image or likeness (NIL) in promotional deals. Debate on compensating student-athletes has been ongoing since the early 1900s. Since that time, there has been tremendous growth in college sports revenues, with three National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) divisions and multiple championships held each year. The revenue for 2013 was $913 million and the whole industry brings in over $11 billion annually through contracts to the NCAA for product licensing deals, apparel sales, television deals, and electronic media such as DVDs, video games and online streaming content (Afshar 99). To date, student-athletes are not paid for their services and do not benefit monetarily from this multi-billion endorsement industry or from television contracts. This is due to the rules on amateurism which strictly limit payments to student-athletes to scholarships that include tuition, fees and minimal living expenses. Today, student-athletes and their advocacy organizations such as the National College Players Association (NCPA) would like the athletes to receive a share of the enormous revenue stream created in most part due to services Home National College Players ). This is not only a reasonable request, but necessary to stop the exploitation of these athletes. A compromise should be reached between the NCAA and the NCPA that allows for student- Fabacher 2 athletes to receive an increase in their scholarship amount, to have their sports-related medical costs covered, and to receive deferred compensation when their college career is complete. To compel the NCAA to compromise on their strict amateurism rules and allow for student-athletes to be paid, students, parents and the public who agree that these athletes are being exploited, need to take a stand by signing a petition through change.org called Athletes Should Be that will be delivered directly to NCAA President, Mark Emmert, and the athletic directors at five universities. Founded in 1997, the NCPA is the primary organization that advocates for student- athletes to receive compensation for their work. A study conducted in 2012 by the NCPA and Drexel University, entitled, $6 Billion Heist: Robbing College Athletes Under the Guise of was used to inform student-athletes, parents, and the interested public that they believe the NCAA robbed student-athletes of at least $6.2 billion over a five-year-period between 2011-2015. The study concluded that the NCAA is using as tool to deny athletes billions of dollars per year in revenue that they would otherwise receive in a fair (McKenchnie). Today, the primary goal is to advocate for ability to receive additional scholarship money, beyond what the NCAA calls the Home National College Players ). Critics of the NCAA agree with the NCPA and maintain that raising scholarship amounts by $3,000-5,000 per year will help cover the shortfall that student-athletes experience since full scholarships cover all of their living expenses (Johnson and Acquaviva). According to the NCPA, current scholarships amounts leave 85% of student-athletes living below the poverty line Home National College Players ). The NCPA President, Ramogi Huma said, college athlete, recruit and parent should go to the NCPA web site and look closely at these shortfall numbers. Otherwise, they will find that Fabacher 3 their full scholarship is leaving them buried in unexpected Home National College Players ). To this end, the NCPA has suggested that a portion of the $11 billion the NCAA will receive from CBS over the next 14 years for television rights to the Final Four Basketball Tournament, should go toward annual scholarship shortfalls. In addition, the NCPA believes compensation should be provided to student-athletes in the form of payment for medical expenses for injuries incurred during sports-related activities Home National College Players ). Finally, the NCPA maintains that student-athletes should be allowed to directly benefit from commercial opportunities. Research suggests that the refusal violates the rights of publicity (Cronk 135-165). The NCPA and their supporters are strong advocates for student-athletes reaping the rewards of the multi- billion dollar college athletics industry, despite NCAA rules against it. It is clear that student-athletes are being taken advantage of and that a compromise should be reached where they can receive their fair compensation. One component of the compromise is to increase scholarships for students-athletes by $3,000-$5,000 so they cover cost-of-living expenses that are currently not covered. In a recent case against the NCAA, vs. the NCAA, the Ninth Circuit Court suggested that, stipend functions as a less restrictive alternative that preserves both the values of amateurism and the integration of academics and (Sheetz 865). An additional stipulation in an agreement would require colleges and the NCAA to put aside a portion of the profits from the general promotional money earned from sponsors and from the use of NIL, specifically for the future use of the athletes. This trust fund concept has been used successfully by the International Olympic Committee, whereby athletes are allowed to use promotional money at the completion of their sports career (Cronk 135-165). The funds would be paid out on a sliding scale, based on how many college years the Fabacher 4 athlete completed. Most importantly, the student-athletes would not be receiving money while they are still in school, thus not violating the stance on amateurism, but still allowing them to get paid at a future date (Sheetz 865). Likewise, the trust fund solution would allow for funds to pay for medical bills for sports-related injuries. It is imperative that these payment structures are instituted so that student-athletes can enjoy the fruits of their labor and not live below the poverty line. Student-athletes, parents, and those who are interested in college athletics and who feel a moral obligation to stand up for the rights actually wield a tremendous amount of power. It is important that individuals make their voices heard so that student-athletes are able to reap the benefits of their efforts. Individuals can petition the NCAA by going to www.change.org and searching the for the petition, Athletes Should Be or by visiting directly and taking a stand: https://www.change.org/p/mark-emmert-college-athletes- should-be-paid-31c421fc-902b-4fdd-9d66- The petition will be delivered directly to the president of the NCAA, Mark Emmert, as well as the athletic directors at five major universities including the University of Southern California, the University of California at Berkley, Duke University, the University of Michigan, and Stanford University. Each and every signature on the petition sends a clear and strong message to the NCAA and the universities that this unfair exploitation of our college athletes in unacceptable. When individuals stand united to face the NCAA and to support the NCPA in their efforts, it is possible to enact change and help student-athletes receive the compensation they deserve. Fabacher 5 Student-athletes deserve the right to be paid for their services and to benefit from the multi-billion dollar endorsement industry and television contracts that result from their services. Due to the rules of amateurism instituted by the NCAA in 1948, student-athletes are only able to receive limited scholarships as compensation for their work. Since this time, the college sports business has grown into a multi-billion industry and the athletes whose services fuel the industry still live below the poverty level. time for the student-athletes, parents and concerned citizens to stand up in support of these athletes and to end the exploitation that has been going on for almost seventy years. As the basketball icon, Kareem Abudul-Jabbar, who played for UCLA said, the name of fairness, we must bring an end to the indentured servitude of college athletes and start paying them what they are (Eromosele). Works Cited Afshar, Arash. Collegiate Athletes: The Conflict Between NCAA Amateurism and a Student Right of  Willamette Law Review 51.1 (2014): 99. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Fabacher 6 Cronk, Erin. Encroachment: Why the NCAA Must Compensate Student- Athletes for the Use of Their Names, Images, and University of La Verne Law Review 34.2 (2013): 135-165. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Eromosele, Diana Ozemebhoya. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar: College Athletes Should Be Paid  The Root. Www.theroot.com, 13 Nov. 2014. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Home National College Players  Home National College Players Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Johnson, Dennis A., and John Acquaviva. Point/Counterpoint: Paying College  The Sport Journal 1 (2012): Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. McKenchnie, Alex. Drexel and NCPA Study Shows Use of Denies College Athletes Billions in Revenue  DrexelNow. N.p., 25 Mar. 2013. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Sheetz, Audrey C. Student-Athletes vs. NCAA: Preserving Amateurism in College Sports Amidst the Fight for Player  Brooklyn Law Review 2 (2015): 865. Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Jan. 2017.