Alummoottil 1 Alvin Alummoottil Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Is NORML The New Normal? In this contemporary age, visual and rhetorical appeals are constantly used to gain attention. Today the controversial issue of marijuana is still a question up for debate and there is a plethora of stakeholders who have taken sides on the issue. Of the many, The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws also known as NORML is an excellent example of a passionate stakeholder that has a vested interest in the issue at hand. NORML was founded in 1970 by Keith Stroup, and since then have played a pivotal role in fight for the legalization of marijuana. mission is to public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient, and (About NORML). Through the use of images and advertisements, NORML uses rhetorical appeals such as pathos, ethos, logos, and Kairos in an effort to persuade its audience to fight for the legalization of marijuana. Throughout both images an appeal to emotion is found, also known as pathos. By using the color theory and providing different shades of green in the two images NORML provides the viewer with a very natural and down-to-earth vibe. By using this strategy, it seem to alarm the viewer or give off a negative connotation that is usually associated with marijuana. The color green is also known to represent wealth, stability, renewal, and nature (Chapman 3). Those characteristics can easily be seen in these images. For example, in image one there is a variety of green, for the words and the logo of the company are all in green. In this image, there is a sense Alummoottil 2 of stability, due to the fact that this organization has been around for over 45 years, and has had a strong support system throughout society. With such a popular presence in society many notable celebrities hold the same views as this organization such as; Snoop Dog, Seth Rogan, Miley Cyrus, Bill Maher and many more (Adams 4). With supporters who range from A- list to Billboards Number One Artist there is a sense of wealth that is known to be present with the color green in image. It is also apparent to see how nature is present in these two images because marijuana is actually a natural plant that is grown in the earths soil. In the first image, there is a leaf present in the background allowing one to connect the sense of nature established by the color green with the natural leaf itself. In the second image, it is an actual picture of ground up marijuana buds reinforcing the sense of nature that is present. The pathos rhetorical appeal is clearly evident in the images created by NORML, for they evoke emotions in viewers such as stability, wealth, and nature. To have an effective advertisement or image that represents a company, they must appeal to sense of credibility and trust. This rhetorical appeal is also known as ethos. In these two images, we can see an appeal to credibility and trust in two different ways. For example, in the first image it is a picture of the logo for NORML, with a logo one can see the credibility that this organization has because one can tell that it is an established company. In the second image, we can see ethos from the logo at the bottom of the advertisement, for this not only shows the organizations support for marijuana, but it also shows that since the organization is a trust worthy one, that the image is also one that should be trusted. There is also a slight appeal to logos, which is the appeal to logic and reason. This is seen in this image through logic and trust because when it begs the question as to whether marijuana or guns kill more people, it forces the viewer to consider the two options. When one answers this question, they are forced to think rationally on Alummoottil 3 what causes more death bullets or marijuana buds. By focusing on the two options, the viewer can easily come to an obvious realization that more people have died due to firearms than have been killed by marijuana. By doing this rationalization the trustworthiness of the organization is increased. It is evident that the appeals to credibility and character thru ethos, and appeals to logic and reason through logos are used by NORML in order to strengthen their images. Within these two images we can also sense a large presence of Kairos. The issue of whether marijuana should be legalized in the United States is a very new topic at hand and many people know about it due to the huge media presence. In the first image, we can see the marijuana leaf in the background and well as the name of the organization itself, National Organization for Reform of Marijuana Laws. In the second image, there is a picture of marijuana and a few bullets next to it with the caption the real Within the last decade, there has been an immense increase in the attention on mass shootings, police brutality, and the age-old debate of gun control. This image depicts a strong sense of Kairos, because with the topic of gun control being so prominent in society, NORML is attempting to create an analogy between the amount of deaths caused by marijuana compared to the amount of deaths that results from gun violence. In 2014, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that there was a total of 33,736 deaths that resulted from firearms, which is approximately 11 deaths per population of 100,000 (National Center for Health Statistics). Comparatively, after marijuana was legalized in 23 states throughout the country, approximately zero people have died due to the drug itself (Bellware). The Kairos used in this image is clearly showing a huge contrast between the amount of deaths per year based on firearms and the amount of deaths caused by marijuana. Alummoottil 4 As expressed, the National Organization for Reform of Marijuana Laws uses rhetorical strategies to further their agenda for the legalization of marijuana in all fifty states of the United States, as well as the responsible use of marijuana by adults. By incorporating their values and mission statement into the advertisements and images that they put out this organization continues to create a strong and trustworthy image for themselves. By using appeals to current culture, credibility and trust, and emotions, NORML attempts to sway the public opinion and alter the stigma that surrounds marijuana and the controversial issue of legalizing the drug. However, the question still remains whether a few images loaded with rhetorical appeals can actually create a lasting difference on the decade old debate of marijuana legalization, for only time will tell if NORML is the new normal. Alummoottil 5 Works Cited About NORML. 29 June 2013. 26 February 2017. n.p.<http://norml.org/about>. Adams, KC. 10 Celebs Who Are Pro Marijuana  HERB. N.p., 25 Oct. 2015. Web. 20 Mar. 2017. Bellware, Kim. How Many People Fatally Overdosed On Marijuana Last Year. 28 December 2015. 26 February 2017. <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/marijuana- Chapman, Cameron. Color Theory for Designers, Part 1: The Meaning of Color Smashing  Smashing Magazine. N.p., 17 Dec. 2016. Web. 20 Mar. 2017. National Center for Health Statistics. 7 October 2016. 26 February 2017. N.p. <https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/injury.htm>. Alummoottil 6