Bishop 1 Lora Bishop Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Birth Control Costs Birth control methods have been around since before the 20 th century. They can be used for many different reasons including but not limited to: preventing pregnancy; making periods more regular, less painful, and lighter; and lowering risks of certain cancer. When talking about birth control, this could be referring to implants, patches, pills, shots, rings, intrauterine devices (IUDs), and the morning-after pill. At one point in history, women had to fight for birth control methods to be legal. Now fighting to have their insurance cover it, as well as get it affordably through Planned Parenthood. On Planned website they share that, Parenthood is a trusted health care provider, an informed educator, a passionate advocate... Planned Parenthood delivers vital reproductive health care, sex education, and information to millions of women, men, and young people (Who We Are). While they often find themselves in the news for many controversies, at the end of the day, what they provide is healthcare. Through different pieces of visual rhetoric, Planned Parenthood argues that women should be able to receive birth control for affordable prices. The images communicate pathos and logos through colors, communicate logos by providing number based facts and appealing to moral reasons, and pathos to appeal to the emotions involved with birth control coverage. Bishop 2 Color is a very important choice in any piece of visual rhetoric. This is because, according to Sandrine Gill and Ludovic Le Bigot in their research article Life through Positive-Tinted Glasses: color is as an omnipresent feature of our environment and therefore presumably plays a role in information (9). Both of the images from Planned Parenthood use color to communicate messages. In the first photo, the most prominent color is blue. Considering that the photo is an infographic piece of visual rhetoric, it be a surprise that they chose blue. According to the book The Beginners Guide To Colour Psychology by Angela Wright, a woman who studied both psychoanalytic theory and dynamics of color while in school, blue is perceived as many things including: intelligence, positivity, communication, trust, and logic (37). not surprising that Planned Parenthood would use blue when presenting factual information about birth control methods and how everyone benefits from them being affordable, because they want to show that their information is coming from an intelligent source that the reader can trust. In the second photo, the most prominent color is pink. In the photo, the women are either wearing pink, or holding a sign that is pink. In the previously mentioned study by Gill and Bigot, they studied to see how participants reacted to images when they were shown on either a green or pink background, and they found that, participants judged both pink and green to evoke positive emotions in general, and happiness in (Gill et. al 10). This shows that pink is used in Planned rhetoric because it is generally considered a happy color and will create positive reactions. On a face value level, a viewer can also take pink to refer to femininity. This is because in most Western cultures, pink has become associated with women/girls. Because this image features women fighting for rights, it would make sense that they would wear Bishop 3 pink. Both colors have deeper meanings than most may think and are used to help Planned Parenthood communicate their message through visual rhetoric According to Planned website, who use contraceptives to time and space their children have healthier outcomes because they are more likely to get prenatal care, less likely to give birth prematurely, less likely to smoke during pregnancy, and more likely to breastfeed their This quote, along with the infographic they provide to sum up more information found in the same study, appeals to the credibility behind why Planned Parenthood argues that birth control should be affordable for women. For example, in image one, Planned Parenthood uses simple numbers to express the importance of contraceptives by showing that contraception saves taxpayers dollars. How much? In Minnesota, 46,000 unintended pregnancies can cost taxpayers about $72 million dollars annually In the second image, while still using logos, Planned Parenthood chooses to appeal to morals. It shows that birth control is used for health care, not for anything else that may be up for debate. One woman is holding a sign that says, take away our One side of the debate on who should pay for birth control believes that women should just not have sex if they want to risk pregnancy. This image argues against that point and is appealing to a morals because it shows that birth control does more than just stop pregnancy, which is why Planned Parenthood argues that it should be considered a part of health care. These are just a few examples of how Planned Parenthood uses logos by providing number based facts and by appealing to the morals of their audience in their visual rhetoric. A fact from image infographic that is on Planned website is that, Numbers of MN Women Are Unable to Consistently Afford Birth Control, Leading to Inconsistent and the number they give is astounding: 60% of women age 18-34. While this Bishop 4 fact appeals to logos, it also appeals to pathos, because they want the audience to understand that if birth control affordable, many women will not be able to receive it, even though it is an important part of a health care. According to Adam Sonfield, Kinsey Hasstedt, Megan L. Kavanaugh and Ragnar Anderson in their article, Social and Economic Benefits of Ability to Determine Whether and When to Have they found a lot of important information relevant to birth control. For one, close birth spacing and large families are linked with decreased investment in parenting (Sonfield et. Al 51). Also, unplanned births caused increased conflict and decreased satisfaction between the two parents (Sonfield et. Al 51). These two findings are the negative outcomes that could happen for many women if they afford their birth control. Not only does this negatively affect the women, but the children as well as their close families. The second image shows women at a Planned Parenthood rally. This appeals to pathos because one is able to see the women that are affected by the laws on how birth control is covered. One woman is holding a sign that reads, Body, My This lets the reader know that these women will be personally impacted by whether or not birth control is affordable. Birth control coverage is not a black or white issue. It deeply affects many women and Planned Parenthood uses its visual rhetoric to show that while appealing to their emotions. On their website, Planned Parenthood shares, fight for commonsense policies that promote health, allow individuals to prevent unintended pregnancies through access to affordable The fight for affordable contraception is so important to Planned Parenthood that they have this listed on their About Us page. Through different visual rhetoric, they try to convey messages about keeping birth control affordable to different audiences. They do this through their use of color and their appeals to logos and pathos. Their fight for affordable Bishop 5 contraception over, but Planned Parenthood can hope that through their images and information, it can one day can be a fight that they win. Bishop 6 Works Cited Gil, Sandrine and Ludovic Le Bigot. Seeing Life through Positive-Tinted Glasses: Color Meaning  Plos ONE, vol. 9, no. 8, Aug. 2014, pp. 1-13. 23 Feb. 2017 We Planned Parenthood. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. CONTROL: WE ALL Planned Parenthood. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Sonfield A., K. Hasstedt, M. Kavanaug, and R. Anderson. Social and Economic Benefits of Ability to Determine Whether and When to Have Conscience. Summer, 2013, Vol. 34 Issue 2, p51, 1 p. 24 Feb. 2017. Wright, Angela. The Guide to Colour Psychology. Kyle Cathie Limited. 1 Dec 1998. 24 Feb. 2017 Bishop 7 Bishop 8