Saleem 1 Usama Saleem Mrs. Penuliar ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Analysis of Visual Rhetoric Used By Collegeboard. Collegeboard is an organization that was founded in 1899 by the name of College Entrance Examination Board (CEEB). At that time, the goal of the organization was to administer entrance exams to help colleges in determining the eligibility of students to attend universities. Since 1899, CEEB has evolved into Collegeboard, and its goals have expanded. Collegeboard now aims to prepare high school students for their transition to college by providing them various resources. Apart from administering the Standardized Aptitude Test (SAT), for which the Collegeboard is best known for, it administers the Advanced Placement exams which allow students to gain college credit for introductory level courses, hence giving them the opportunity to graduate earlier. Their website states that rigorous instruction, meaningful assessment and access to opportunity inside and outside of the classroom, we are committed to ensuring students are ready for college and Like many organizations, Collegeboard heavily employs visual rhetoric to deliver its argument to the audience through the use of advertisements, vouchers, and static images on its website. Images are an extremely powerful tool in non-verbal communication and can leave a significant impact on the audience. In the images attached, Collegeboard tries to convince the audience that its resources are official, extremely helpful, and accessible to all students in their leap to secondary education. Saleem 2 To convey the message that its resources are official and trustworthy, Collegeboard employs various rhetorical techniques. The first and foremost is the establishment of credibility by appealing to ethos. One of the major elements of this rhetorical device in both images is the color layout. Image A uses a greenish-blue layout, and image B uses a blue color layout. It is worth noting that this color scheme is seen on all Collegeboard products. The Collegeboard website also uses a similar color scheme. Through the use of a unique color scheme, Collegeboard can instantly tell the audience that a certain product is designed by them. In addition to the color layout, image A bears the official Collegeboard logo that further helps establish the credibility of this product. Although image B does not bear the official Collegeboard logo, the color layout itself manages to do an adequate job in convincing the audience that Collegeboard composed this image. Through a clever manipulation of color scheme itself, Collegeboard does an excellent job in gaining the trust of its audience. In addition to appealing to ethos, the color scheme appeals to pathos. The majority of the Collegeboard resources are colored with a bright blue tone. Colors are a powerful tool to communicate and invoke emotions. One may ask what emotions are being invoked in this case? Blue color symbolizes a number of things. According to a webpage titled Wheel Pro: Color blue color symbolizes piety and sincerity Color Wheel Pro is a professional software tool used by graphic artists to design various color tones and apply them to two dimensional and three dimensional models. Through the use of blue color, Collegeboard creates a sense of trust among the audience. Image A uses a lighter tone of blue whereas image B uses a darker tone of blue. According to the webpage mentioned above, a lighter tone of blue represents and whereas a darker tone of blue Saleem 3 represents integrity, and Hence the lighter tone of blue in image A makes the audience feel at ease in purchasing the SAT study guide and the darker tone of blue in image B makes the audience think that Collegeboard holds unquestionable authority on the matters of college preparation.The web page also says that blue is depth, expertise, and stability; it is a preferred color for corporate . Patricia Valdez, a psychologist in Los Angeles, and Albert Mehrabian, currently Professor Emeritus of Psychology at University of California Los Angeles, explored the effects of color on human behavior in their research article titled of Color on They said that was associated with secure/comfortable and (Valdez and Mehrabian 396). Hence Collegeboard does an effective job in establishing trust with audience on a psychological level by using a blue color scheme. Through these images, Collegeboard also wants audience to believe that their resources are the most helpful and advantageous tools in the college admission process. Since image A is the cover of their latest book designed to prepare students for the SAT, Collegeboard wants students to consider this book as their definitive SAT preparation tool. The statement on the cover says first look at the redesigned SAT-direct from the maker of the The first part of the statement draws attention to the fact that significant changes have been made to the SAT pattern, and nobody knows what the new SAT would exactly look like except Collegeboard. This also applies to other test preparation companies like Kaplan, Pearson, and Princeton Review. These companies are currently working on an educated guess in designing preparational material for the new SAT. This use of logos by appealing to the reasoning capabilities of the audience provides Collegeboard the leverage in selling their new study guide. Saleem 4 To put icing on the cake, the bottom right of the says Real SATs and official answer Having four actual tests for practice would convince any student who is unsure about the latest SAT pattern that this book is undeniably the most helpful tool for preparation. Once Collegeboard convinces people through these images that their resources are highly beneficial for college preparation, it creates an expectancy bias among them. According to a webpage titled Expectancy expectancy bias is defined as a tendency to distort recalled events to make them fit Psychlopedia is a website designed by AP Psychology students at Arundel High School and is a database consisting of important psychological terms and vocabulary. According to Psychlopedia, expectancy bias is a term that is normally used in context of scientific experiments and studies where the researchers allow their assumptions to influence the results of an experiment. Some real life examples of expectancy bias include told a story of your childhood over and over again, you might think you remember it when you really you just think you do because of what your parents have told Another example of this phenomenon is watching an advertisement about a weight loss program online that has been used by many people, and they have seen People will see endorsements for these programs from famous fitness celebrities and common people alike. As a result, they want the program to work so badly that they start claiming that they have seen improvements in their overall body composition whereas in reality, nothing has changed. In the context of these images, Collegeboard uses terms like and that stir an element of expectancy bias among the audience. Hence people become so leaning towards the idea that Collegeboard resources are ideal for college preparation that they tend to ignore any Saleem 5 flaws in these resources. Expectancy bias is one of the major tools used by huge corporates and organizations in advertising their products and publicizing their agendas. In addition to persuading the audience about the credibility and efficiency of their products, Collegeboard uses both images to tell the audience that their resources are accessible for all students. Image B shows students from various ethnic backgrounds. This portrays inclusiveness. Students all over the world take the SAT and use Collegeboard published practice material to prepare for test and use other Collegeboard resources for help in their university application process. Collegeboard wants people to know that it cares about students coming from all cultural and racial backgrounds. Their products are not targeted at a specific group of people but are intended to benefit everyone. Image A shows a graphite pencil and a scan-tron. There is nothing fancy about it which symbolizes the fact that Collegeboard resources are not complicated and easy to use. Therefore, these images manage to portray that Collegeboard resources are not only comprehensible but can be used by any person hailing from any cultural background. Collegeboard demonstrates an effective use of visual rhetoric through these images. Communicating with the audience using these images adds a whole new dynamic to their argument. By using some smart cues in their images, Collegeboard and other organizations can manipulate their audience with their advertisements. Subtle details like a blue color layout may see innocuous , but they have a profound impact on the viewer at a subconscious level. Collegeboard assures its audience that anything that bears the official Collegeboard logo is something one can rely on, something that is resourceful, and something that anyone can use effortlessly, regardless of his or her ethnic background. Saleem 6 Image A: Saleem 7 Image B: Saleem 8 Works Cited Accessed 23 February 2017. Wheel Pro: Color n.d, Accessed 24 February 2017. Expectancy n.d, Accessed 24 February 2017. Valdez, Patricia; Mehrabian, Albert. of Color on of Experimental Psychology: 1994, Vol. 123, No. 4, pp 394-409.