Shelton 1 Ashley Brooke Shelton Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 February 21, 2017 Women in Combat Positions With the recent election of Donald J. Trump as the President of the United States, thousands of women have gathered to demonstrate their strong opposition to Mr. beliefs concerning rights (Scientists 330). Even before this happened, the issue of gender equality has been discussed, fought over, marched for, and protested. With the help of social movements and many other often elaborate demonstrations, the rights of women have drastically evolved since the conversation began; but is there a point at which a line can be drawn? In recent years, there has been discussion over whether or not women in the military should be permitted to serve in combat roles, a historically male position. Two organizations that deal with this issue are the Center for Military Readiness (CMR) and the Service Action Network (SWAN). The CMR is a self-standing organization that is concerned with social issues affecting military personnel, or to put it in their own words, the CMR is Independent Public Policy Organization Specializing in Military/Social (cmrlink.org) and holds the position that women should not be placed in ground combat positions because the differences that exist between men and women as set by nature would lower the overall standard of the military. The SWAN, on the other hand, is more of an advocate for military rights, or voice of women and the that states its belief that most effective military is one where women are integrated into all (servicewomen.org). These two groups, clearly in opposition of one another, have strong beliefs on this issue, however, in order to move forward Shelton 2 from this conflict, a compromise between the two is needed. A probable compromise for this issue is that women be allowed to participate and serve in the combat positions as long as they can pass a series of complete and standardized examinations of their capabilities and limitations. Founded in 1993, the Center for Military Readiness is independent, nonpartisan public policy organization that specializes in military/social (cmrlink.org). According to their website, their mission statement is as follows: The Center for Military Readiness is an independent, non-partisan, public policy organization with a unique mission. CMR promotes high standards and sound priorities in the making of military personnel policies, and takes the lead in defending elements of military culture that are essential for morale and readiness in the All-Volunteer Force (cmrlink.org). Elaine Donnelly, President of the CMR is well known for her publication of several articles regarding issues surrounding military personnel. Over the years, the CMR has published numerous reports on their website that shows their outspoken opposition to women being placed in ground combat roles. This opposition, they say, is grounded in research and numerous studies that show that the physiological differences that exist between men and women are enough to lower to overall standard of the United States Military. The CMR seems to be set on their decision but further conversation on this issue and the possibility of a compromise is always in the best interest of everyone involved. In contrast to the Center for Military Readiness, an organization that happens to be in support of this issue is the Service Action Network, or SWAN for short. SWAN was Shelton 3 founded in 2007 and claims to be voice of all military women past, present, and (servicewomen.org). As stated on their website, their mission statement is as follows: Our mission is to be the most influential and effective network of service women, acting as their champion, advocate and best information resource: Celebrating the strength, abilities and accomplishments of the fastest growing segment of the US military; Utilizing people, knowledge and influence to eliminate obstacles and drive change; Facilitating progress through research, education, mentorship and outreach; Fighting for service rights today, paving the way for their growth tomorrow (servicewomen.org). position on the issue of allowing women to be integrated into ground combat positions is no secret. From one look at the section of their website titled it is evident that they are all for it. date, SWAN has played a major role in shaping the outcome of many important issues effecting women in the service including opening all military jobs to service women . . the section reads, . . But our work has only just The Service Action Network holds a firm position in their belief for gender equality in all military roles; however, a compromise and further conversation on the topic with an opposing stakeholder might lead to a solution that works for both parties. Any history of the Service Action Network and the Center for Military Readiness working together or attempting to work together is not evident. There is no evidence of any compromise being attempted. On the issue of women being allowed to be placed in military combat positions, the two stakeholders mentioned above are hard set against each other. If the two organizations were to attempt to reach a compromise, such compromise could be Shelton 4 reached on the grounds that both organizations simply want what is best for the US military and all of the people who are a part of it, and what will result in our highest rate of success. Looking deeper into my previously proposed compromise, these mandatory, complete and standardized examinations would be developed by the US Military and every individual who desires to serve in such a position such as a ground combat unit would have to participate in the series, whether they are male or female. The tests would be distributed to all interested individuals several months in advance. This compromise would satisfy both parties involved. The opposition of this issue (CMR) holds its position because of the apparent differences in a man and a physical and mental capabilities, allegedly due to nature (implying that nothing can be done to change it), but by passing this test, a woman can prove whether or not she is capable of consistently performing at or above the level of any of her male counterparts. In addition to the examinations, periodic evaluations would be completed. These evaluations would be in place simply to ensure that the results of the examination were not circumstantial and that the results of the test prove consistent with each real-life performance. This is a solution that would put the judgment of both men and abilities on an equal scale. The CMR would be satisfied in that the men and women would prove themselves equal, and the SWAN would be satisfied because women would be integrated into another military role. In conclusion, Women being placed in combat positions in the US military is an issue that many people have been discussing. Center for Military Readiness and the Service Action Network both make valid points in their justification for their position. The compromise proposed could serve as a bridge between the two organizations and their beliefs, as well as the beginning of a new higher standard for all military personnel. Shelton 5 Works Cited News & Commentary - Center for Military  News & Commentary - Center for Military Readiness. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. <https://www.cmrlink.org/> Service Action  Service Action Network. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. http://www.servicewomen.org/ Scientists Speak out at  Science, vol. 355, no. 6323, 27 Jan. 2017, p. 330. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1126/science.355.6323.330