Bond 1 Jazz Bond ENC 1102 Van Winkle 8 April 2017 Anorexia Nervosa Have you ever looked at yourself in the mirror and wished that you were smaller or sometimes decrease the amount of food you intake just to get that perfect body? If so, then you might be suffering from Anorexia Nervosa. Anorexia Nervosa is a dangerous disorder that typically starts during puberty in young girls who strive to have the body image. People who suffer from this disorder restrict themselves from eating food because they believe they are overweight. Even though Anorexia generally starts when puberty hits there are still a high amount of cases for college students. 91% of female college students have attempted to control their weight through dieting and 15% of female students 17 to 24 have eating disorders In order to decrease the amount of cases, we have to educate those who are unaware of this disorder. The University of South Florida allows college students to participate in a week of activities that engages students on how to raise awareness about disorders. Events start February 27 th through March 3 rd . A typical person with Anorexia has an emaciated appearance, dry skin and hair, and blush fingers Once you start avoiding calorie intake, your body does not get all of the nutrients it needs to stay healthy. Your brain actually starts to shrink due to the lack of nutrients that your body is receiving. Also, people with Anorexia generally end up with osteopenia due to the loss of calcium intake Bond 2 (About.Eatingdisorder.com). Not only is the body physically being destroyed, but also people are mentally broken down. Families and friendships are affected each and everyday because their loved one has been diagnosed with Anorexia Nervosa. If you had a daughter or son that has been diagnosed with Anorexia Nervosa your family will most likely be impacted in a negative way. Being a college student away from your family can be very emotional when dealing with Anorexia alone. Without a family that can help and support you it would be hard for someone to fight a disease. Friendships may be affected because they do not know how to deal with something so devastating. Someone with Anorexia is evolving into a whole different person with every pound that is lost, which could negatively impact relationships. People with Anorexia tend to shift into their own and view things, such as their body, in a different perspective than before. Anorexia Nervosa is often overlooked in society and people never think how posting something on a social media database, or a commercial could affect life. Numerous correlational and experimental studies have linked exposure to the thin ideal in mass media to body dissatisfaction Going online or watching a television show and seeing females/males with nice thin bodies can mentally impact someone that is struggling with their appearance. There is no definite cause of Anorexia, but research is increasingly clear that media does indeed contribute and that exposure to and pressure exerted by media increase body dissatisfaction and disordered eating The University of South Florida has taken a step to help and educate those who do not know about Anorexia Nervosa. The Eating Disorder Awareness fair is a time to tell Bond 3 people what you love about your body. It is also a time to share your support for the National Eating Disorder week by attending the fair and participating in activities that are led by students and the campus department. The fair is held on Tuesday February 27 th from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the MSC Atrium. By attending this students can now understand what someone with Anorexia is going through and they could also help educate others. Also people who have Anorexia may attend this and have a life changing experience for the better. Anorexia has already affected several lives in a negative way. It destroys the body physically and mentally by not being able to consume proper nutrients and realizing that breaking down your body. Unfortunately, relationships between family and friends are impacted due to Anorexia and how it makes the person feel. In order to help those overcome Anorexia and also educate people who are unaware of this disorder we have to come together to make a change. You can start by taking small steps just by going to the University of South Eating Disorder fair. We have the strength and knowledge to knock out a disorder that could change several lives. Bond 4 Works Cited Anorexia is a disease that will take over your life and kill you much like cancer  Eating Disorder Hope. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Eating Disorders Among College  Walden Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Media, Body Image, and Eating  National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.