Smith 1 Sydney Smith Angelica Aranda Composition 1102 February 5 th 2017 The Abortion Debate Abortion has been a heavily debated topic for many years throughout the United States. Not only is it a discussion among individuals and major organizations, it is also a controversial topic throughout the branches of government. The two leading arguments within the abortion debate is pro-life and pro-choice. The National Abortion Federation supports the idea of pro- choice while organizations like the National Right to Life believes in pro-life. Although there is a clear distinction between the beliefs of both sides, they both propose the idea of safe sex, by educating the public about contraception and making women conscious of their safety. Thus, both sides should be able to form a compromise to influence change by campaigning the importance of contraception and women being able to defend themselves against rapist. According to the Medical Dictionary, abortion is the deliberate termination of a pregnancy usually before a fetus is viable. Throughout the United States there are many organizations who reserve the idea of pro-choice. Moreover, The National Abortion Federation is an organization that believes women should be free to make decisions that affect their physical health and lives forever. They also believe that it should not be the decision of the government to exclude the option of abortion to pregnant women. The NAF provides facts, statistics, and addresses myths regarding abortion. 1.3 million pregnancies are ended by abortions (Dudley 2003). These pregnancies are unintended and end for many reasons such as, religious reasons, age, marital status, and health reasons. The NAF highlights common misconceptions regarding abortion. Smith 2 Firstly that women have abortions for selfish reasons, women regret the decision made, and women are forced into abortion. Although the United States Supreme Court made abortion legal in the U.S, certified abortion providers are not easily accessed. This presents a major health problem for women due to the fact that illegal abortions can be deadly. The goal is to educate women and the public about safety and abortion, also to support women who choose abortion. Realistically, there are people who disagree with the ideas of the NAF, therefore it is important that organizations that have opposing views come together to educate the community about the major underlying issue of safe sex. Planned Parenthood is another example of a major organization that supports women who choose abortion. Planned Parenthood seeks to employ the idea of No matter They try to educate women on methods avoid pregnancy by contraception. However, they believe that women should be educated on the care they need to live a good life while fulfilling their dreams. Women who have made the hard choice to have an abortion usually do so after an immense amount of consideration (Nelkin 1). Pro-life activist believe that conception is the first stage of life for humans, in essence women are murdering their unborn child who require their body to sustain life. Robert Lee and Patrick George, writers of the article wrong of seeks to prove the idea that an embryo is indeed a human-being making abortion murder (Lee and George 3). The pro- life activist within the NRLC believes that abortion is toxic to the cognitive wellbeing of the mother. Especially because many young teenagers have abortions to reverse an unforeseen pregnancy. Like Pro-Choice organizations, Pro-Life organizations like the Nation Right to Life believes that educating the public is a key component to having a favorable result within the public. The mission statement is protect and defend the most fundamental Smith 3 humankind, the right to life of every innocent human being from the beginning of life to natural The NRLC also uses political action as a tool to end abortion. In addition, organizations like the Pro-Life action league, whose mission is to you to get active in the fight against abortion in your is an organization campaigns routinely to advocate for Pro-Life. They believe in non-violent direct action that can stop people from having abortions. The supreme court made abortions legal in 1973 after the Roe vs. Wade case. This was based on the idea that the court saw it unconstitutional to solely allow women to have an abortion if it is detrimental to their health. As a result, it became legal for women to have abortions during their first trimester of pregnancy. Roe v. Wade was also protected under the constitution right to privacy. Organizations that support Planned Parenthood and abortion clinics receive federal funding. Depending on the beliefs of the Supreme court Justice said actions could be revoked. Hence the controversial debates that develop within government. Katha Pollitt most recently wrote the article, fight for that discusses the potential policies and legislation against abortion under the Republican government, who believes in pro-life (Pollitt 6). Both Pro-Life and Pro-Choice activist and organizations believe in a few common ideas. The first being education. Education is an important tool for both stakeholders because it teaches the public about their ideas and beliefs. While each stakeholder advocates for the distinguished causes perhaps they can reach a mutual decision to educate about contraception. Each side tries to argue about why they are the better cause, however they can be more effective by educating women and young girls about not ending up in the situation of deciding weither or not to have an abortion. In addition, religion is a major aspect for both sides. The Pro-Life movement believes that is a sin to abort a child as it is murder, and the Pro-Choice the viewpoint of not having Smith 4 children young or out of wedlock. Perhaps it would be of similar interest to teach women about absonence. safety and sexual consent is also a major issue as it relates to abortion. Many abortions are a result of unforeseen pregnancies or rape. Educating women on tips to remain safe is another common factor for both stakeholders. Both pro-life and pro-choice activist are aware that financial burdens are one reason women have abortions. Federal funding from both organizations can be used to sustain a families who able to support themselves. Abortion is a debatable topic and has caused controversy throughout society for various reasons. Since 1973 when the supreme court made the abortion legal, many discussions, organizations, and beliefs have evolved to support the two respective views. However, if both pro-choice and pro-life organizations use their resources to support their commonalities, which is protecting and educating women about sex, they can have a greater impact on a greater mass of people. Smith 5 Work Cited Pollitt, Katha. The Fight for  Nation 6 Feb. 2017: 6-8. Print. Sutherland , Matt. Pro-Life, Pro- Choice; Shared Values in the abortion debate. Sherman Oaks, California : ForeWord, 2014. Print. Bailey, Ronald, Lee, Patrick, and George, Robert P. (2001). stem cells George , Robert, and Patrick Lee. The Wrong of Abortion  Contemporary Debates in Applied Ethics (2005): 1-16. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Nelkin, Stacey. Why Pro- Choice is a Sacred Choice  Huffington Post 1 Oct. 2015: 1-2. Print. Who we are  Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Oct. 2016. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.