Siambanes 1 Jack Siambanes Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 13 February 2017 The Congressional Parties United Against Big Pharma The two major political parties of the United States, the Democrats and the Republicans, are both in agreement on one issue concerning healthcare: Big Pharma is a menace to our healthcare system that must be stopped. The term refers to the profiteering of the pharmaceutical industry through its control over drug prices. Pharmaceutical companies have burdened patients in the past by their products. Price-gouging is when companies raise the price of a drug as high as they wish, forcing many Americans to pay massive costs. Both parties want to pass new laws that will make costly drugs affordable but have yet to agree on which way to make this possible. The Democrats side with passing more regulation on pharma companies, which Republicans say undermines free market. The Republicans side with bolstering competition in the drug business, which the Democrats say might harm patients. However, the Affordable Prescription Drugs Act (APDA) is a proposed compromise that would mark the limits of Big Pharma and retain the values of both parties. This compromise may allow for both regulation and competition while keeping drug prices low. If Congress were to unite behind the APDA, they could help patients and themselves. The Democratic Party of America has long been a successful cheerleader for affordable healthcare and a forceful opponent of Big Pharma. Under the slogan That Democrats work to combat inequality and oppression. Specifically concerning the issue of price- Siambanes 2 gouging, the party claims, will crack down on price gouging by drug companies and cap the amount Americans have to pay out-of-pocket every month on prescription (Democrats.org). Party members such as Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton have worked to introduce measures that would effectively mark down drug costs through government regulation. One of these measures include establishing an oversight committee for unethical company practices. This committee could cap the price of a drug off a certain limit based on what the drug is worth and the costs to make it. According the Financial Express, such an action is necessary: market mechanisms do not stabilize drug prices and there is a need to regulate drug prices at least of essential If enacted, this new legislature would keep most drug prices modest and make life-saving medication indiscriminately available. The Republican Party, or GOP (Grand Old Party), is quite the opposite of the Democrats but a great contributor to our political system nonetheless. The party has worked to keep American jobs and business thriving, hence their slogan Believe in It is the hope of the GOP that patients benefit first and most from new devices and (GOP.com). To make this happen, Republican lawmakers plan to reform the FDA so that new drugs can be developed much faster. Enthusiasts of this plan say that the faster distribution of new drugs will lead to the competitive lowering of prices by pharma companies. As an added plus, the variety in generic medicine will give purchasing power back to the consumer. Researches state, the burden of government regulation by opening the drug review process to a third-party, extra governmental review would streamline and improve the quality of drug evaluation. The result would be earlier access by patients to greater numbers of less costly (Miller, 213-214). Should Congress decide Siambanes 3 to pass reformative legislature for the FDA, they could stimulate the pharmaceutical industry and indirectly bring down costs at the same time. It would seem as though both sides of Congress have coherent plans to stop price- gouging, yet neither one has been signed into law. Republicans refuse the plan because they believe it gives the government too much power over the drug industry. Democrats refuse the plan because they believe FDA deregulation would allow the passage of some dangerous drugs. This situation has locked both stakeholders into a grudging stalemate, all despite a having common hatred of Big Pharma. However, Congress recently voted on a proposition just this year that planned to cut pharmaceutical costs. The plan in question would have legalized the importation of cheaper Canadian medicine for competition against pricy American drugs. This import ultimately failed because members on both parties worried the safety of these new drugs might be overlooked. Senator Bob Martinez explained following the vote that there is no concrete evidence drugs imported from Canada or other major countries be [just safe, authentic or (Gaudiano 1). The APDA compromise is different and can succeed where the importation plan failed. The Journal of Law and Health states, APDA is the optimal implementation plan, which will allow the government to increase the level of competition in the prescription drug market and thus reduce prescription drug (Pinzone, 168). Unlike former regulatory plans, the APDA is both economically conscious but mindful of patient safety. This policy will lower drug prices by attacking the root of the problem: patents. Pharmaceutical companies often patent their drugs for twenty years or more. Only when the patent has expired can new and generic forms of the drug be made by other companies. Under the APDA, drug patents would be shortened to open the doors for competition but the FDA screening process would remain the same. How the Siambanes 4 APDA works consists of three stages. Firstly, the Secretary of Health decides if a drug is vital enough to patients that it would need a shorter patent. Then, the drug is appraised to determine whether the price is within appropriate boundaries to what it is worth. Lastly, the company is given the option to voluntarily lower the price; if not, the patent for the drug is shortened (147). Republicans would benefit from the growing economic diversity in pharma; Democrats benefit as well since patients are no more at risk of dangerous drugs than they were before. Above all, consumers will benefit from lower costs of their medicine. The only concession to this agreement is that Republicans would have to allow some government intervention but the gains for both sides and the patients outweigh such a small fee. Despite the continuing battle in Congress on the issue of healthcare, our leaders can work together to ensure every American can afford their necessary prescriptions. By passing the APDA, both Democrats and Republicans will be striking a blow to Big Pharma without forfeiting their respective goals. Whereas the most recent plan to import medications from Canada and elsewhere has divided Congress, the APDA upholds the wants of both parties. More importantly, the APDA calls for Big Pharma to be held accountable for their greed and gives buyers power again. Siambanes 5 Works Cited Platform- Reducing Prescription Drug Democrats. N.d Web. https://www.democrats.org/ Accessed 1 February 2017 Step, For Drug Prices Need The Financial Express, Published 10 July 2006, Accessed 1, February 2017 Platform-Putting Patients First: Reforming the GOP. N.d Web. https://www.gop.com/ Accessed 1, February 2017 Miller, Henry L. Competition to Stabilize Drug American Association for the Advancement of Science, 13 July 2001, p. 213-214. Gaudiano, Nicole. Sanders slams Democrats for lacking to fight Big USA Today, 12 January 2017. Accessed 1, February 2017. Pinzone, John D. Affordable Prescription Drugs Act: A Solution for High Prescription Drug Journal of Law and Health, 2001-2002, p.145-168.