Jonathan Hernandez ENC1102 Adam Carter March 15 2017 Rhetorical Appeals and Rights rights continues to be one of most controversial topics. Whether the concern is sexism, work place equality or the wage gap, rights always seem to be at the forefront of discussion in our nation. One of the most prevalent voices for rights and feminism is feminist lawyer Gloria Allred. Allred has been in the news and public eye for many years, as she handles some of the most controversial cases in defense of women. She has clearly stated she is for the protection of women and any rights they may strive for, and is described as being a, advocate for justice and Gloria work is centered around feminism and she advocates for women rights and insists oppression is a widespread problem. She believes that by speaking out, she is doing what is best to bring about change for American women. She believes it is almost impossible for women to get ahead because they are seen as sexual objects, instead of capable competitors, in the work place. Two images, in particular, strongly display these ideas with rhetorical appeals, in order to help the viewer understand her point of view (Allred). Image one shows Allred holding up a poster at the Democratic National Convention, with the words The second image depicts Allred holding another poster with Hillary face on the iconic Rosie the Riveter. Allred and her supporters use rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos, ethos and kairos to aid in their fight for American rights, and to support their argument that more must be done in this area. Hernandez 1 Logos is a rhetorical appeal to logic and reason. It is used to make the audience think about a topic, or understand a position, on a specific issue using sound judgment. In the first image, Gloria Allred hopes the viewer will experience feelings of commonality with her cause by showing the rationality and importance of her mission statements. The photographer does this by capturing a moment that shows the many different posters and signs, all of which Allred has supported, in the same frame, and with many different people showcasing these posters. This shows the viewer that there are not only a lot of topics that Allred supports, but also that many other people also follow her beliefs, and that both men and women find them worthy of their attention. In the second image, even the colors are used to convey a logical message, that the viewer might not even realize. One of the most obvious uses of colors is her bright white jacket. White has always been associated with purity, and a clean conscience (Madden). Sometimes, without even realizing it, images can appeal to logic on a subconscious level, that even a photographer purposefully set out to do. Even if only in subtle ways, people always want to communicate that their position is the only logical stance, which Allred does in her images with the use of logos. Pathos is an appeal to passion and is used to make the audience feel something. In these images, pathos draws emotions from the audience and helps to support views by showing her happily carrying her message to the masses. Pathos can sometimes be easy to identify in images, however that does not take away from its importance. In both images the written text captured in the image sparks this passion in both Allred and the viewer. and Can Do both make the observer feel the vigor that Allred also feels about rights issues. The sense of power and the do that Allred feels about rights Hernandez 2 is transferred to the onlooker when seeing these photos. Having this energy shift from Allred to the viewer is vital to her mission because it inevitably gets the viewer passionate about these same subjects. By getting a viewer passionate, Allred and her team are able to gain the trust and support necessary. She needs the use of pathos to incite enthusiasm for her cause, in order to keep the fight alive. Ethos is used to establish credibility and show the audience the information comes from a reliable source. Both images were taken at the Democratic National Convention. This is important to credibility because this shows the viewer she has an important place of credibility and a seat at one of the most powerful political organizations. Also, unlike a comic or a drawn image, these real life moments offer little to no bias. Whereas a comic could depict her in any way she would like, a real life photo gives the viewer reassurance that this is what Allred is truly about, and these issues are actually important to her (Gardner). So important that she takes time out of her busy schedule to rally for them. Another example that adds to the credibility of these images is the name at the bottom. Although this may seem insignificant in the big picture, it gives an important opportunity for anyone who views these images to further research for more verification if they feel the need. By using ethos in her images Allred can show that she and her group are a credible movement to support. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness, and is used to establish a time period and the importance of a particular moment. Like with ethos, the fact that the first image was taken at the DNC, during this most recent election, is important for giving the images a timestamp. Alongside this, the date that is on the bottom of the poster she holds also adds to this timetable. This shows the audience that Allred is actively still fighting and representing women in these important Hernandez 3 issues. In the second image, the use of a timeless figure such as Rosie the Riveter adds to this feeling that not only was this an important issue in the past, but it remains important now. It reminds the viewer of those stances that Rosie stood for during World War II. The power that women hold, and significance in history, is not only important to Allred, but also to her target audience. With a figurehead like Gloria Allred, and the controversial topics that she takes a stance on, kairos is one of the more important rhetorical devices she uses due to the implied urgency of her message. She must continually convey the idea that time is of utmost importance and that now is the time to act on behalf of women. Kairos is the best way that Allred can communicate this timeliness and the importance of urgency to her viewers. When Gloria Allred and her public relations team decide to put together images that show her stance on the issues that are important to her, they will always take into consideration rhetorical appeals. By producing images that successfully capture logos, pathos, ethos and kairos, they are able to convince a viewer that these issues are important to Allred and are critical to the viewer, whether they realize it or not. In these two images the most important issue is rights and because she is able to effectively incorporate these rhetorical appeals, Allred is able showcase its importance to a larger audience. Hernandez 4 Image 1 Image 2 Hernandez 5 Bibliography Allred, Gloria. Gloria Allred Discrimination Attorney Feminist  Allred, Maroko & Goldberg. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Gardner, Christina. 2.9 Analyzing Political  Analyzing Political Cartoons - Guides: North Carolina Digital History. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Madden, Thomas J., et al. Managing Images in Different Cultures: A Cross-National Study of Color Meanings and  Journal of International Marketing, vol. 8, no. 4, Dec. 2000, pp. 90-107. EBSCOhost. Hernandez 6