Al muntaser al sinani ENC 1101 Cat Modlin-Jackson 2/28/2017 alcohol consumption is a very important issues, because it has a big impact on their performance and grads. Before 2010 researches tend to look for the effect of alcohol consumption on performance and school grades, predicting what the effect would be, and suggesting some possible solutions, because they think that this issue is one of the main reasons for students low grades and the unemployment issue., where in the later sources they just give the effects of alcohol consumption on performance without suggesting any solutions, because the early sources already provided some good suggestions and solutions for the problem. There are many causes of alcohol consumption and these causes are explained differently or focusing on different parts of them before and after 2010. In the early source student employment and drinking: A daily study of work stressors, alcohol expectancies, and alcohol The author, Butler mentions the relationship between alcohol consumption and the wok hours, they found out that the amount of the work reflect in higher alcohol consumption, but there is a positive relation between working hours and alcohol consumption. (291-303.). Where The later source Effect of Sexual Activities, Alcohol Consumption, Smoking and Aggression on Health Risk of Students in Rural Communities in Ikenne, the author, Ezeokoli discuss the relation between sexual activities and students performance by the health effects that those activities cause, the students consume more alcohol when involving in more sexual activities and that leave them with more health issues and lower grades. (30-35) Alcohol consumption has many impacts on students, it can cause a big verity of problems that can make students straggle in their studying proses and these impacts are being focused on differently throughout the time period from 2010-2016. The early source Effect of Sexual Activities, Alcohol Consumption, Smoking and Aggression on Health Risk of Students in Rural Communities in Ikenne, by Ezeokoli, examines the heath issues that are associated with sexual activities, and smoking and its relation with alcohol consumption, like the dizziness that follows drinking and stomach that usually happens after drinking, and out outcome on their grades. This source discuss the health impact of alcohol consumption on performance. (30-35). However in the later source College Alcohol Abuse and Academic Performance: Selecting Appropriate Intervention The author, Sullivan summarize a research linking alcohol consumption with campus community issues, as stated in the research over consuming alcohol leads to fights and conflicts between the student on the campus, and that drive their attention from focusing on their school performance to focus on how they will win the fight or avoid it. This source conceder the social field in alcohol consumption and performance.(114) To get all the information regarding the impacts of alcohol consumption on students and their performance in their school, researches must be done. These researches can be done in many different ways and to different people and things, and in these sources have a deference in how big the sample of students that they used in their researches. In the earlier source student employment and drinking: A daily study of work stressors, alcohol expectancies, and alcohol The author, Butler used a sample of 106 employed college students to study the relation between the working hours and students alcohol consumption. This sample is considered very small and it can be inaccurate.( 291-303.) whereas in the later source Effect of Sexual Activities, Alcohol Consumption, Smoking and Aggression on Health Risk of Students in Rural Communities in Ikenne, the author, Ezeokoli used a sample of 300 students from a total number of 10,066 students, which is a big sample compared to the earlier source, which makes it a more accurate and reliable research due to the big sample.(30-35) All in all alcohol consumption is a very important subject. Every university should conceder taking an action to stop this problem or at least try to reduce its outcomes on students and in their academic performance, because a really bad disappointment to spend four years in the university and graduate with a low GBA at the end due to uncontrolled alcohol consumption. That will eventually lead to employment issues where those with low grades will have difficulties to find a job after graduating from their university. This will waste the powers and the country will end up to be lagging behind the other nations. This issue was discussed differently before and after 2010. Before there was some solutions for the issue and those solutions actually worked and the reason for not providing any other solutions in the later sources. References Butler, Adam B., Kama D. Dodge, and Eric J. Faurote. College Student Employment And Drinking: A Daily Study Of Work Stressors, Alcohol Expectancies, And Alcohol  Journal Of Occupational Health Psychology. Vol. 15, 2010, pp. 291-303. PsycARTICLES. Doi: ne Ezeokoli, Rita, and Ndidi M. Ofole. Measured Effect Of Sexual Activities, Alcohol Consumption, Smoking, And Aggression On Health Risk Of Students In Rural Communities In Ikenne,  Journal Of Education And Practice, vol. 6, no. 23, 2015, pp. 30-35. ERIC doi: ne Sullivan, Michael, and Ed Risler. Understanding College Alcohol Abuse and Academic Performance: Selecting Appropriate Intervention  Wiley blachwell. Vol. 5, no 2, Fall. 2002, pp 114-123. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson), doi: n.e Walid El, Ansari, Stock Christiane, and Mills Claire. Is Alcohol Consumption Associated With Poor Academic Achievement In University  International Journal Of Preventive Medicine, Vol. 4, no. 10, 2013, Pp. 1175-1188. Directory of Open Access Journals, doi: ne