Wood 1 Mallory Wood ENC 1102 Prof. Angelica Aranda 2 February 2017 Protecting Endangered Species Numerous species of animals are rapidly going extinct. According to the Center for Biological Diversity, dozens of animals are going extinct every day and approximately 30 to 50 percent of the existing species will have died by the middle of the century (Center for Biological Diversity). Extinction is a natural part of evolution, but human activity has sped this process up significantly. The Encyclopedia of Science mentions that the four main causes of extinction are: the excessive hunting of a species, the destruction of habitats, introducing new species into a different habitat effectively driving them away, and new, different diseases that are exposed to the animals (Tischauser). The World Wildlife Federation (WWF) and the International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW) both address the major issue of hunting animals excessively. The issue with their approaches is that while they focus on stopping this issue, they do not put as much effort into preventing the destruction to the species. This could be achieved by both organizations working together to place animals in zoos or create sanctuaries. Some may argue that sanctuaries are better for the preservations of species because they will still be able to be in their natural habitat without their health being severely affected as in zoos. The WWF was formed in 1961 by 16 conservationists to fund the protection of the environment through fundraising internationally (WWF). They have been a part of many successful rescuing projects including saving black rhinos in Africa to black bucks in the Wood 2 Himalayas in Asia. This organization is all about rescuing and rehabilitating animals to protect species and preserve the natural wildlife. In an effort to effectively save the environment, the WWF focuses on of the most ecologically, economically and culturally important species in the (WWF). This organization makes a big impact on the environment, providing people with the opportunity to experience and be made aware of all the various species of animals so important to our eco-system. Another way the WWF can help in making people more aware of the different animals is by putting rescued animals in zoos which can allow them to recover from suffering and also would give people the exposure to the different types of animals. The other stakeholder, the International Fund for Animal Welfare was founded in 1969 in the UK and is an organization, aimed towards the rescuing of animals (IFAW). They strive to achieve a world in which animals are respected and kept safe. IFAW has over 40 projects in countries all around the world in progress to save and advocate for the safety of animal populations. They have a program to save tigers in Russia and India, as well as Elephants in India and Kenya. In order to provide people with opportunities to learn about some of these species who are endangered the IFAW provides educational opportunities such as whale watching. If efforts such as these were not in place, not only would animals go extinct, they would do so at such rapid rates with most of the human population not even knowing they exist/existed in nature. When these animals are rescued, the ideal thing to do would be to place these animals somewhere safe where their species would be able to recover and where they can be preserved. The aforementioned stakeholders have similar outcomes they are striving towards. They also have the same shortcomings in that, while they try to remove animals from harmful situations, Wood 3 they do not have many programs in place to prevent the animals from ending up in these situations. While the rescue and repair aspect of protecting the animals may seem like the most important, prevention is just as important as this will stop there being so much of a mess to clean up in the long run. When the animals are rescued after being mistreated, sometimes they are too badly injured to be healed fully, and, despite being just animals, psychologically they are affected as well. Putting plans in place for prevention is also important in preserving the health and wellbeing of species. This is why the organizations should employ the compromise of opening zoos or sanctuaries in each of their various locations. They could also do both depending on what is more suitable for the specific area. The two stakeholders work towards the same goal and use many of the same approaches to the issues that are being faced by the animals. The unique aspects of each organization are the animals they target and where these recoveries are taking place. A few of the animals focused on are the same but not all for example, IFAW rescues foxes while WWF does not and WWF is the only one of the two to rescue bonobo monkeys. IFAW and WWF have worked together a few times to advocate for the safety of animals. In 2016, they worked together to go against the illegal online trafficking of animals. Though the two organizations work towards the same goal they do not work together very often as they individually have many successful projects. The proposed compromise would allow the two stakeholders to work together and contribute different strategies and resources, making them more successful. This would be a bold step for the organizations, but other organizations such as The Wild Animal Sanctuary and the Association of Zoos and Aquariums are proof that these are achievable goals. Animals are an integral part of our ecosystem as they provide a balance. The rapid extinction rates will soon cause an imbalance in the system causing disruption to the Wood 4 environment. While many animals have already gone extinct, there are many still out there that can be saved and protected. The main approach to successfully preserve these species is by coming together to create new homes for the animals in zoos and sanctuaries. With these efforts, animals may be able to start in the repopulation of their species and making the earth get back in balance with the species all living how they are all supposed to. Wood 5 Works Cited IFAW - International Fund for Animal  Home IFAW - International Fund for Animal Welfare. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Center for Biological Diversity. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Wildlife  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Tischauser, Leslie V. Endangered  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science (2016): n. pag. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. The Wild Animal  The Wild Animal Sanctuary. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. We believe in a better future for all living  Association of Zoos & Aquariums: AZA.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017.