Thorne 1 Colten Thorne Professor Aranda ENC 1102 February 5, 2017 Is Standardized Testing a Necessary Evil? It is the goal of the U.S department of promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal (ed.gov) It is obvious that all major education organizations aim to lead students to be successful in school. These organizations often differ, however, in what they believe is the most effective way to educate students. Currently, the United States public education system operates primarily as a means of preparing students to pursue a career through college education. Through this philosophy of college preparation, a system of high-stakes, standardized testing has emerged. One of the major proponents of this system is The College Board. They believe the implementation of standardized testing has many legitimate and practical uses in the education system. However, many people argue that by its very nature, standardized tests cause problems for the education system and must be removed or reformed in some way. This is the standpoint of FairTest, a nonprofit that operates under the belief that the current system is unfair to teachers, students, and schools as a whole in many ways. They argue for the removal or reform of the standardized testing argue that evaluating all schools, teachers and students using one single criterion is unfair and something must be done to change this. Both of these stakeholders believe that theirs is the best way to educate students and I will use this commonality to propose that standardized tests be kept in the U.S. education system, but are used to a lesser extent than they currently are. Thorne 2 The College Board, is the purveyor of the one of the largest college entrance standardized exams. As such, they are strong supporters of standardized testing. Unsurprisingly, the mission statement of The College Board emphasizes college preparation, similar to the education system, College Board is a mission-driven not-for-profit organization that connects students to college success and (collegeboard.org) Not only are standardized tests use to evaluate admissions into colleges, but they can be used to ensure various levels of the education system are getting students educated to the proper standards. They can also be used to evaluate the proficiency of a instruction or to aid policy makers with data so they can make more effective and informed decisions. These benefits to the presence of standardized testing in the education system will be maintained in the proposed compromise. In contrast to The College Board, FairTest argues that standardized testing impedes the advancement of quality and equal opportunity education. FairTest recognizes the flaws in standardized tests and to end the misuses and flaws of standardized testing and to ensure that evaluation of students, teachers and schools is fair, open, valid and educationally (fairtest.org) The non-profit organization argues that these tests are an unfair method of evaluating students, teachers, and schools. Teachers and students are now being assessed based solely on these standardized exams, a trend FairTest calls stakes Because of this, teachers have begun to to the teaching only what the students will need to know to pass these tests, stifling creativity in the classroom. This lack of diversity in the curriculum has caused classes to become narrower in scope, again creating a lack of creativity in the classroom. With standardized tests causing such a major issue in our education department, the cooperation of The College Board is crucial to the resolution of the issue. Thorne 3 Many students have heard teachers say that standardized testing, though it is flawed, is a And while I agree that some benchmark must be established to ensure proper education of students, I think this must be necessarily evil. I believe a system can be implemented in which standardized testing is still present, but less weight is placed on them regarding the evaluation of students, teachers and schools. FairTest has undertaken the task of attempting to get more colleges to make the taking of standardized tests optional to the admission of a student. This should be implemented throughout most, if not all, colleges so as to deemphasize the importance of high stakes tests such as the ACT and SAT. Having the option to not take the test and still be admitted into colleges based on your other grades, skills and attributes would greatly increase diversity and creativity without hampering academic quality within a college. Standardized tests will still be used to assess students, teachers and schools, but to a lesser extent than is currently being implemented. We can further and more accurately evaluate by focusing on the classroom. Using things such as research projects, oral presentations, essays and problem solving, we can evaluate a student more broadly rather than just being judged by their test taking abilities. A teacher will not get rated by their ability to teach only information needed to pass a test, but by their ability to teach other skills necessary to having a successful college career. Standardized testing will still be implemented at schools, but students will have the option not to take the test and that, should they choose to opt out of the testing, their admittance to universities will be assessed on their other merits such as grade point average and volunteer work. education system is the second best in the world and uses this system of teacher observation, documentation of student work, and performance-based assessment, all of which involve the direct evaluation of real learning tasks. While the implementation of this proposition would require cooperation from a number of stakeholders, not only FairTest and The Thorne 4 College Board, I believe that this, in concert with standardized testing would yield an extremely effective education system that would propel students to a successful career path, whether or not that be through college. Thorne 5 Works Cited The National Center for Fair & Open  National Center for Fair & Open Testing 1111111 . N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. The Collegeboard  College Board - College Admissions - SAT - University & 1111111 College Search Tool . N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Purpose of Standardized  ETS Approaches Testing: Purpose of Standardized Tests . n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. About  and Mission Statement U.S. Department of Education . N.p., n.d. Web. 22 2017. Anderson, Jenny. From Finland, an Intriguing School-Reform  New York Times . The New York Times, 12 Dec. 2011. Web. 22 Feb. 2017.