Guillermo !1 Nathan Guillermo Professor Roth Composition I 9 April 2017 Nuclear Energy: The Power Source of the Future Nuclear energy is a topic that has been shrouded in controversy for several decades. Scientists, politicians, and environmental activists have gone back and forth over whether or not nuclear energy can be used as a reliable source of power. In the past, this discussion on the use of nuclear energy on a commercial scale lost some of its relevance as it seemed that using nuclear plants was just too risky to even be considered for widespread use. However, the push for renewable energy was not as strong then as it is now. In world, we are facing drastic changes in our climate caused by the over reliance on fossil fuels, a non-renewable source of power. Inevitably, the fossil fuels will run out and the world will need a new source of energy. This need has pushed nuclear energy back into the foreground of consideration as the worlds new form of power. So is nuclear energy a source of power that can be depended on? Supporting evidence justifiably shows that nuclear energy is indeed an efficient, environmentally friendly, and safe source of power that can be relied upon to take the mantle as the new source of energy. Energy is an essential need that is involved in all aspects of life. From food being produced on a farm to people getting transported on a subway, energy is active in one form or Guillermo !2 another. One of the most important forms of energy in world is electricity, and nuclear energy is capable of creating vast amounts of it. The amount of electrical energy that a nuclear power plant can harness from a nuclear reaction is absolutely incredible. When a single nuclear reactor is at work, it can generate 1,000 megawatts of power which is enough to provide electricity for around 600,000 people (Ferguson 41). Impressively, in 2008, a small number of these nuclear reactors managed to produce 15% of the entire electrical energy (Hantula 26). Many energy sources cannot even compare to the efficient amount of electricity produced by nuclear power plants. In 2005, the combined effort of nuclear top renewable energy competitors, solar power, wind power, and geothermal power, only produced a minor 2% of the worlds energy (28). Additionally, unlike fossil fuel, one does not have to worry about running out of fuel for nuclear energy. Nuclear reactors are fueled by a radioactive metal called uranium, which can be reused several times over. This is far more efficient than fossil fuels which cannot be reused at all (29). Therefore, nuclear energy can be relied upon to produce vast amounts of electrical energy far more efficiently than many of its competitors. In contrast with energy, climate change is something that this world does not need. Human activities, such as burning fossil fuels and destroying carbon dioxide absorbing rainforests, have caused an increase of greenhouse gases in the earths atmosphere. If the increased production of these gases is not curbed, the earth will begin to heat up at a rate that will cause global harm (Ferguson 67). Nuclear energy can significantly reduce the influx of greenhouse gases as it is an energy source that does not give off harmful emissions. Unlike energy sources such as coal and fossil fuels, nuclear energy does not burn fuel that produces greenhouse gases as by-products. Instead, nuclear power plants produce radioactive fission by- Guillermo !3 products that are contained within the plant itself (Ferguson 71). Even if these by-products were to be released into the atmosphere, they would not add to the harmful greenhouse effect. As environmental activist Kerry Emmanuel bluntly and expertly stated, you shut down a nuclear power plant somewhere and replace it with coal or even gas, and generate the same amount of electricity, a lot more people will (Stover 12). Therefore, nuclear energy would be a dependable source of energy that can be relied upon to reduce the effects of climate change on the world. The immense power of nuclear fission is nothing to be trifled with. History has shown over and over again that the improper use of nuclear power gives way to catastrophic consequences. For this reason, safety has been the main source of controversy in the topic of nuclear energy. Professor Raymond Murray emphasized the importance of safety in 2014, proclaiming that the production of nuclear energy has inherent hazards that need to be suitably maintained to prevent the endangerment of life (Murray 289). Thus, safety is the number one priority in the design and operation of nuclear plants (Tabak XV). When the engineers and architects of nuclear power plants make a design, they institute a system. This system consists of several layers in which if a safety layer should fail, another layer of safety is put in place to prevent accidents with significant consequences (Ferguson 100). The first layer of this system involves the fuel. The nuclear fuel used in reactors is designed to be very resilient, being able to withstand the immense production of highly radioactive fission products (100). The second layer is a containment unit for the fuel. This cladding material, usually made out of zirconium, surrounds the fuel and contains the radiation emitted by the nuclear reaction (100). The third later is a reactor pressure vessel which is made out of thick slabs of steel that are Guillermo !4 resistant to cracking and embrittlement. This layer contains the reactor in which the nuclear reaction takes place. Should the reactor experience a meltdown, the reactor pressure vessel works to contain any harmful emissions produced by the accident (101). The fourth layer is the containment building. This exterior layer is made out of thick reinforced concrete that acts as yet another containment unit for the reactor, able to withstand a head on collision with a 200 ton Boeing 767 (Safety of Nuclear Reactors 18). The final layer is a coolant system that acts to stop a nuclear meltdown before it even starts by cooling the reactor when it starts to show signs of overheating. With this concept in place, nuclear power plants can combat multitudes of complications such as reactor meltdowns, natural disasters and terrorist attacks (Safety of Nuclear Reactors 12-18). Therefore, nuclear power plants can be relied upon to produce energy in a safe manner. It is understandable that one might be opposed to the use of nuclear energy. The production of nuclear energy is indeed an intimidating prospect, and to some, the risk of harnessing this energy is not worth the reward. However, one must take the risk of using nuclear energy and compare it to the risk of other sources of energy. History has shown that nuclear death rate per unit of energy is the lowest out of any energy source to date (Safety of Nuclear Reactors 20). In addition, as I have stated in my argument, nuclear power can be produced in an efficient, environmentally friendly, and safe way. Therefore, it would be in the best interest to use nuclear energy as its main source of power. In conclusion, nuclear energy stands as an incredibly solid solution to many of the problems. Time and time again, evidence has shown that nuclear energy is very much a reliable source of power capable of meeting the energy demands of the world and reducing the Guillermo !5 harmful effects of climate change. So why nuclear power being used to solve some of the major problems? I believe that the public has not been given enough information about how nuclear energy can help solve many of the lingering issues of this century. Therefore, in order to advance the development of this beneficial source of energy, the people must become more informed on the reliability of nuclear power and the issues that can be solved by implementing it on a world scale. Guillermo !6 Works Cited Ferguson, Charles D. Nuclear energy: what everyone needs to know. Oxford: Oxford U Press, 2011. Print. 9 April 2017. Handtula, Richard. Nuclear Power. New York: Chelsea Clubhouse, 2010. Print. 9 April 2017. Murray, Raymond L. Nuclear Energy : An Introduction to the Concepts, Systems, and Applications of Nuclear Processes. Kent: Elsevier Science, 2014. Print. 9 April 2017. Safety of Nuclear  World Nuclear Association. N.p., May 2016. Web. 9 April 2017. Stover, Dawn. Kerry Emanuel: A climate scientist for nuclear  Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists 73.1 (n.d.): 7-12. General Science Full Text, 2017 . Web. 9 April 2017. Tabak, John. Nuclear Energy. New York: Facts On File, 2009. Print. 9 April 2017.