Zena Rigaud Mr. Carter English Composition 2 26 February 2017 Analyzing the Rhetorical Appeals of Dove Advertising Women having a low self-esteem due to unrealistic beauty ideals portrayed in the media is not purely a millennial problem. It is something that women have been coping with for over many decades. However, as media has become a tremendously influential and dominating factor of the current generation, it has also become a more sensitive and relevant issue. Due to the high exposure of advertisements showcasing photoshopped and unrealistic images of women, it has become a highly controversial topic. A company that is on the forefront of battling these unrealistic images of beauty through the use of rhetorical appeals in their advertisements is Dove with their and Beauty Their ultimate goal is to help spread the message of positive self image, stating on a mission to help the next generation of women develop a positive relationship with the way they look - helping them raise their self-esteem and realise their full (Dove self-esteem fund). The advertising content that Dove creates has been resonating really well with buyers, helping to eliminate the erroneous notion of having to fulfill unattainable beauty demands set forth by society. continues to help dismantle the unrealistic beauty ideals that are currently portrayed in the media by creating campaigns that directly target this issue through the rhetorical appeals pathos, ethos, logos and kairos. Having been around for over six decades, Dove has become one of the most respected and successful personal care companies. They started off by only selling soap bars but have since expanded into a wide array of other personal care products. For as long as they have been around Dove has made advertisements in order to promote their ideals of moisture, cleanliness, natural beauty, and touchable Their Dove Self-Esteem Fund was created in 2006 and shortly after followed by their Real Beauty campaign, that was launched in 2004. Both were initiated with specific efforts to broaden the definition of beauty and spread the message of positive self image in hopes to celebrate a more real and inclusive beauty. Being such a well known company, Dove has an opportunity to highly influence their audience and are therefore choosing to leave a lasting and positive impact using powerful rhetorical appeals in their advertisements. After exploring the wide array of advertisements provided by Dove, two images that best exemplify their core values have been selected for further examining. Pathos is the way that an image appeals to emotions and the first image does a really good job of achieving this. Image one, created by Dove for their campaign for real beauty shows a somber young girl resting her head on her hands with a text stating in 5 girls would consider plastic This text is strategically placed to demonstrate the level of severity that comes with most girls not being okay with their authentic selves. The photo of the somber young girl evokes a strong sad emotion by directly showing who is affected by the issue instead of just adding plain statistics. The second image approaches the issue in a more light and happy manner. It presents three young girls with glowing smiles on their faces and a text that says you choose Dove, you help girls build The purpose of this text is to grasp attention by letting them know that they are contributing to a good cause by purchasing a Dove product. Underneath the larger text, there is a smaller one stating that they have already reached 15 million lives through their self-esteem education, providing buyers with a sense of comfort knowing that their purchase is making an actual difference. Another noticeable factor is that the color of the text used on both images is blue. Ciotti who is a writer, marketing strategist and alum of Help Scout stated that every academic study on colors and branding will tell you that far more important for colors to support the personality you want to portray instead of trying to align with stereotypical color (Gregory Ciotti). uses the color blue in almost all their advertisements primarily because it is the color used to promote cleanliness and is associated with a more honest personality. Though both images evoke emotion in complete opposite ways, they are equally as effective. The appeal to credibility or morality is considered ethos, which can clearly be identified through the two images. When first encountering this image, a viewer would notice the official Dove self-esteem fund logo with the three dove birds on it. This immediately provides a sense of trust and credibility to viewers of the image since Dove is a highly reputable company that has been around for decades. Furthermore, the first image provides the official website of the campaign for real beauty as a tool for viewers to get involved in order to take further action or gain more knowledge on the issue. The second image displays a couple of well known Dove products which offers viewers a familiar feel while also indicating credibility of the products and thus the image. Lastly, located on the bottom right corner is the Rite Aid logo saying that the products are also available through their company. This is an effective way to gain the trust of viewers because apart from being a proud partner of Dove, they are a well known drugstore chain in America. The credibility of the images are portrayed in very similar ways, providing viewers with a sense of familiarity through product placement and company logos. Logos is the appeal to logic and reason. The images are straightforward and effective in logically indicating that positive self image is crucial in the lives of young girls. However, the way in which the images are conveying this message differs significantly. The first image takes a somber approach, attempting to capture the attention by providing shocking statistics alongside a somber image. According to a done by Vered Shenaar-Golan and Ofra Walter for an academic publisher of open acces journals: show the importance of the adolescent positive body image on her sense of wellbeing, as well as the centrality of the mother-daughter relationship in the body image and If mothers were presented with statistics demonstrating that 1 in 5 girls would consider undergoing plastic surgery it would bring about a stomach-churning sensation. The logos of this claim lies within the logic behind the inevitability of the sensation. The second image attempts to show the importance of self-esteem by presenting a more uplifting photo of young girls with wide smiles alongside each other. Through logical reasoning it can be noticed that there is a direct link between purchasing a Dove product and positively influencing lives. This can be concluded based on the fact that the image states that they have already impacted the lives of 15 million people. Both images do an equally as good job convincing the viewers of their strong message through logical reasoning and powerful visual rhetoric. The appeal to timeliness is called kairos and though not directly stated on the two images, a sense of urgency is definitely called upon. The issue of negative self image due to unrealistic beauty ideals currently portrayed in the media is not one that can be procrastinated any longer. Working to eliminate internal barriers created by negative self image is something that has to be tackled as soon as possible. This statement can be indirectly recognized on the first image where the website of the campaign for real beauty is provided. This works as a trigger for kairos by letting the viewers know that they should visit the website instantly in order to take further action. This issue needs to be of high importance in order for future generations to be able to develop fruitful relationships with themselves and others. With media becoming such an influential factor of modern society, people are constantly being bombarded with a wide variety of advertisements using captivating rhetorical appeals. Whether viewers realise it or not, these images are heavily influencing the way they are perceiving themselves. When it comes to the beauty industry, most advertisements are promoting an unrealistic beauty ideal by showcasing photoshopped images of models. This has has negatively impacted the lives of young girls who are constantly trying to change the way they look in order to fit the unattainable standard set forth by society. Dove is one of the only companies that is on the forefront of directly tackling this issue through their campaigns and advertisements using strong rhetorical appeals to help promote positive self image and a more real and inclusive beauty. Image 1: Image 2: Works Cited Ciotti, Gregory. The Psychology of Color in Marketing and  Help Scout Blog. N.p., 17 May 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. The Dove Self-Esteem Project: Our Mission in  Dove UK. N.p., 01 Nov. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Shenaar-Golan, Vered, and Ofra Walter. Mother-Daughter Relationship and Body  . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. 1 in 5 girls would consider plastic  SOFII Dove: the Campaign for Real Beauty and Dove Self-Esteem Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. When You Choose Dove, You Help Girls Build  Embracing Beauty. N.p., 05 Nov. 2015. Web. 14 Mar. 2017.