Miller ! 1 Noah Miller Instructor Heiser ENC 1102-69 5 April 2017 The Problem with Private Prisons in America Private prisons are a relatively new industry that first started in the 80s as a response to overcrowding in government prison facilities. Many of the companies that run these private prisons are billion dollar corporations that make profit off people being sent to prison and are incentivized to have more people imprisoned. These companies have been known to lobby for harsher drug laws, required minimum sentences, and longer sentences for non-violent crimes so they can increase their profits. For-profit prisons should not be supported by the government, they are a stain to the American justice system and are a direct attack on basic human rights. The origins of the private prison industry started when President Nixon declared a war on drugs in the late 60s. However, the industry did not grow until President Reagan increased the effort on the war on drugs. Incarceration rates have only gotten worse since the private prison industry took off in the 80s. (DEA.gov) In 1980, there were just over 40,000 people incarcerated for drug related crimes. In 2014, drug related convictions saw nearly a 1000 percent increase with almost 500,000 people incarcerated (Elkavich and Moore 780). The United States has the largest prison population of any country in the world. Because of these ludicrous amount of incarcerations the government pays out nearly fifty billion to prison contractors like the Corrections Corporation of America who benefit the most out of any party (Sams 1). Many who are incarcerated for these drug and non-violent crimes are addicts, the homeless, and mentally ill, Miller ! 2 sometimes all of them. Because of private prisons they are much more likely to end up in a prison that does not have the proper resources to care for them. The justice system in America is flawed because rather than these people being put in facilities that are qualified to care for them they are sent to prisons for a nice pay day. These private prisons are merely for-profit prisons that want to get as many people in their facilities as possible to increase their profits. Government jobs such as running prisons should not involve the private sector. Private prisons are costing the government almost fifty billion dollars a year to contractors and there have been multiple cases where for-profit prisons have cut health resources and staff members to save money. For example, the American Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit on a private facility in Mississippi because of the horrific conditions the prisoners were living in. The ACLU reported in their lawsuit that this private prison was doing nothing about the rape problem between inmates, the increased suicides, solitary confinement that left prisoners starving, and denying inmates basic health treatment (Filipovic 1). One prisoner told the ACLU that another inmate had to hang himself. He was cut down by guards, given oxygen and put on supervision, but taken to an emergency room, let alone given psychiatric care during the suicide (Filipovic 3). These issues are not exclusive to for-profit prisons, however, when they are incentivized to increase inmate populations and decrease staff to save costs, this problem becomes much more frequent. These private prisons have claimed since their inception to be economically better and also provide the same quality services. But the countless lawsuits from the ACLU and billions of tax payer dollars from the government have proven them wrong time and time again. Even with the evidence clearly showing, the government continues Miller ! 3 to fund and support these corporations. If the American people want to stop this immoral business they have to take action. At first glance there does not seem like there is a lot people can do. It seems like a losing battle going up against a multi-billion dollar industry that has government funding. But with any political issue, it all starts local. If people want to see a change they need to help make it too expensive for it to be the first choice. The most effective way to hurt any huge corporation is to take away business. If for-profit prisons cost too much they lose both investors and the governments funding. One way people can help is by writing to local and state representatives and lobby for both drug and sentence reforms. Decreasing both drug charges and how long sentences are would be a huge blow to this industry. They depend on a constant influx of prisoners, the majority of which are on small charges. Another great way that people can help is by supporting the ACLU in lawsuits and supporting inmates in human rights cases. Many inmates have no access to lawyers or legal advice when in prison. By supporting human rights organizations like the ACLU it gives them a voice. These lawsuits can potentially shut down entire facilities while also exposing to the world how corrupt and unethical these prisons really are. Private prisons are one of the shadiest industries in America. Hundreds of thousands, if not millions of lives are being ruined by not only these corporations but also by the government. Without any change in the future human rights will continued to be violated for profits, and companies like the CCA will continue to lobby for stricter laws, slowly tightening Miller ! 4 their grip on American freedom. The American people need to take a stand and speak out against these mega corporations. Miller ! 5 Work Cited Filipovic, Jill. Private Prison  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 13 June 2013. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. DEA.gov /  DEA.gov / History. Drug Enforcement Agency, n.d. Web. 4 Apr. 2017. Carroll, Lauren. The War on Drugs and Incarceration  politifact. n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Moore, Lisa D., and Amy Elkavich. Using and Doing Time: Incarceration, the War on Drugs, and Public American Journal of Public Health 98.5 (2008): 786. PMC. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Sams, Brandon. Privatization of Prison Industry Immoral, Exploits American Justice Privatization of Prison Industry Immoral, Exploits American Justice System The University Star. n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017.