Brown 1 Amanda N. Brown Cat Modlin-Jackson Composition I ENC February 28,2017. Social media addiction in Teenagers Social media is something viewed as a controversial matter for a lot of people. As you know, teenagers, nowadays, depend considerably on technology and these medias. This issue is something that should be taken as serious as any other addiction. We should rely less on technology due to the fact that social media can be used negatively, leads to several health issues and psychological complications. The following sources discuss the different theories that were crucial for this research paper. They each have different opinion as to why social media becomes addictive (specially in teenagers) and why becoming such a concerning and crucial matter for most people. In this case, the first two sources have to do with ignorance shown towards age-restricted websites and a behavior, psychological factors and a behavior regarding social media platforms. Impact of Social Media on Children, Adolescents, and (2011). This article discusses that due to peer pressure and the incapability of self-regulation it almost impossible to adequately time our internet and social media usage. Because of the constant lack of interaction between teens and their parents, almost Brown 1 impossible for some to have a healthy relationship with each other. Apart from only seeing the negative side of social media, this article also mentions the various ways in which social media is actually beneficial to great extent, such as: creativity increases, planning events (Facebook) and fostering social skills. According to this article, people are made more aware of the negative aspects (as they would in any topic). According to cyberbullying, online harassment, sleep deprivation and some others are amongst the most common things worry about in their daily symptoms in adolescents with internet addiction: with Substance (2008). According to the study conducted by Ko and Yen study, there is different criteria for internet addiction, such as: preoccupation, uncontrolled impulse, usage more than intended, tolerance, withdrawal, impairment of control, excessive time and effort spent on the Internet, and impairment of decision-making ability. Teens who battle with internet addiction sometimes struggle with depression and are not able to endure family and personal relationships. Instead of just being thoughts used for the article, an experiment was conducted in which it was the goal to compare symptoms on teens with and without internet addiction and compare them to those of a teen with substance addiction. The results in this experiment showed that a teen having a social media Brown 1 addiction was no different to having a substance addiction because both ignite the same symptoms, respectively. Even though both sources had experiments, interviews and result-based inquiry used for the research, they differentiate on a great extent due to the fact that Source 1 stated that social media addiction and a severe internet use was all deducted to the age in which they were and whether or not they have recently been through a stressful situation. On other hand, Source 4 views the matter as a connection to psychiatric disorders sometimes present in tweens and teenagers and a major factor for social media addiction was having divorced parents. Because children with divorced parents, sometimes feel like they do not count with either their or attention, they use social medias as a way to escape their real life and create a more appealing associated with Internet addiction among (2009). For this research different, a study was performed using students ranging from 13-18 years old. Although 89% was shown to have a normal internet use and a 10% showed a moderate use, there was still a 0.6% that seemed to be severely addicted to social media/internet. This study was also based on the male-female criteria evidently concluding that males are indeed more addicted to social medias than females. Overall, those who showed an increased or severe internet use were to have Brown 1 experienced recent stressful events or they simply have severe family dissatisfaction. Psychological Profiles: A Behavior Sampling Analysis on Internet (2010). This source begins by explaining how every addiction there is linked to whatever psychiatric disorder is shown and how a teen grows up (his/her environment). One example they used to confirm this theory was using kids with divorced parents and perform a set of questions and run psychology tests showing as a result that indeed a missing paternal/maternal figure has a lot to do with social media uses. Finally, each source has changed over time and so has the theories as to why teens become addicted to social media. In early sources, it was stated that internet addiction became a struggle for teens because of psychiatric issues and psychological impairments. Whereas, later sources blame a behavior, present times and the obvious disconnect between parents and teenagers; some teenagers that go astray and have a defying behavior. As years go by, there will be without a doubt more and more theories as to why teenagers become addicted to social media. Brown 1 Works Cited Gwen Schurgin and Kathleen Clarke-Pearson. Impact of Social Media on Children, Adolescents, and AAP News & Journals Gateway. Vol. 127, no. 4, April 1,2011. http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/127/4/800 Yen, Ju-Yu and Ko Chih-Hung. symptons in adolescents with internet addiction: comparison with substance Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences. vol. 62, no. 1, Feb 2008, pp. 9-16, Wiley Online Library. 10.1111/j.1440-1819.2007.01770.x Lam, LT, Peng ZW, Mai JC and Jing J. associated with Internet addiction among Cyber-psychological Behavior. vol. 12, no. 5, Oct 2009, pp. 551-555. PubMed (NCBI), doi: 10.1089/cpb.2009.0036. Whang, Sang-Min Leo, Suijin and Geunyoung Chang. Psychological Profiles: A Behavior Sampling Analysis on Internet Cyber-psychology Behavior, vol. 6, no. 2, 2010, pp. 143-150.Mary Ann Liebert, doi: 10.1089/cyber.2009.0222