Javon Hodges ENC 101 Modline-Jackson 03/28/17 In this reading, I will be drawing attention to a topic which impacts each and every individual who has been born and raised behind the walls of America. In this reading, I will be discussing how historical perspectives parents held about the value of a college degree have changed drastically over time. My earlier published articles discussed more on the lack of parental knowledge of the value of a degree has on future, which in overall influences the dropout rate of first generation students. While my later published articles discuss how students tend to prosper more often when parents are aware of the importance a college degree could have on the lives of their children. According to, Charles, Roscigno, and Torres article on Racial inequality and college attendance. Their article analyzed the lack of parental guidance, disparities in family background and potentially influential investments parents make, or are constrained from making in the high school experience, and then how the patterns uncovered shape the likelihood of college attendance. I personally believe that the main reasoning of this is that fact that many parents of these children have no clue of how to help their kids transition into college and help get them through because they, themselves, have never experienced college. In other words, parental interactional investments, with strong consequences for high school attainment/achievement is the main influence in the overall success of teenagers college careers. Roscigno said it best himself stating that, less analytic attention has centered on theorigins of these disparities and, specifically, the mechanisms that play a Drawing attention to my other earlier published article, beyond high school expectations: examining responsibility for increasing Latina/o college According to Yamamura, Martinez, and Saenz findings revealed that students felt both, an individual and collaborative responsibility for overall college readiness. The Authors voiced their needs for improved college readiness efforts so that students could prosper and be successful in large diverse universities. Being a first generation student going into college alone can be very scary, and worst of all, you start off with no friends to help get you through. Most successful students have the luxury of the helpful hand of their parents guiding them through their new journey. For the students who they have to either suck it up or figure it out on their own or drop out. Many see dropping out as the easy route. According to my two later articles, published between 2011- 2017, Budny, Paul, and Newborg discussed how students prosper and succeed more often when parents are knowledgeable of the impact a college degree could have on the lives of teenagers. This research article implements how parents can assist their children by becoming more aware of the transition issues, and learning how to help anticipate transitions. The authors of this article stated, educating new students and parents in realistically anticipating first year challenges, students are able to productively work through their freshman year university Being displaced in a whole new setting and environment can be difficult enough as is. But imagine being all alone without knowing what to expect the first time displaced from your everyday routine lifestyle. exactly what happens to most of us college freshman the first year of school. The research in this article found that parents could help take the heavy burden off of first year college freshman by becoming more aware of the transition issues, and learning how to help anticipate transitions. According to my final research article, Networks and Parent Motivational Curry, Jean-Marie and Adams, current research focuses on parent involvement or effects of parent motivational beliefs on parent choice for behavior. To gain a better understanding of factors that influence parent motivational beliefs, the authors examined the effects of parent social network, school outreach, and neighborhood health on parent role construction and parent efficacy in urban school districts. To complement their findings, a random survey was conducted on 30 fifth grade parents from a vast variety of schools. Using a structural regression model, Curry, Jean-Marie, and Adams tested the relationships between school outreach, neighborhood health, parent social network, and parent motivational beliefs. The results of the structural model confirmed the association between parent social network and parent motivational beliefs. Parental involvement plays a great role on influencing the direction a student takes after graduating high school. Most people believe that parents can advocate on behalf of their children by educating themselves first. The results from most of my research indicated that parental encouragement level influences the achievement motivation in the academic area. Higher the level of parental encouragement, better the achievement motivation of the student. It is our job to educate parents on the importance of college to takeaway avoidable stress teens experience and in particular, transitional challenges they potentially face, as well as by helping to establish realistic educational and social goals. Camille Z. Roscigno, Vincent J. Torres, Kimberly C. inequality and college attendance: The mediating role of parental In Social Science Research 2007 36(1):329-352 doi: Erica K. Martinez, Melissa A. Saenz, Victor B. beyond high school expectations: examining responsibility for increasing Latina/o college High School Journal. Spring, 2010, Vol. 93 Issue 3, p126, 23 Dan D. Paul, Cheryl A. Newborg, Beth B. Parents at Step One in the Freshman Engineering International Journal of Engineering Pedagog, Vol. 4 Issue 2, 2014,p10-17, 8p. doi: Katherine A. Jean-Marie, Adams, Curt M. Networks and Parent Motivational Educational Administration Quarterly; Dec2016, Vol. 52 Issue 5, p841- 877, 37p