Fellipe da silva Instructor Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 03/28/2017 Final Draft Pathological gambling, or better known in the DSM-V as Gambling Disorder, is characterized by persistent, recurring problematic gambling behavior which leads to clinically significant impairment or distress. While some individuals may have firsthand experience with what a gambling disorder looks like, criteria for diagnosis of the disorder include at least four of the following criterion: The need to gamble with increasing amounts of money in order to achieve the desired excitement, is restless or irritable when attempting to cut down or stop gambling, has made repeated unsuccessful efforts to control, cut back, or stop gambling, is often preoccupied with gambling, often gambles when feeling distressed, following the loss of money due to gambling, often returns another day to equalize losses, lies to conceal the extent of involvement with gambling, has jeopardized or lost a significant relationship, job, or educational or career opportunity because of gambling, and relies on others to provide money to relieve desperate financial situations caused by gambling. Additionally, these behaviors must be otherwise best explained by a manic episode. (Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders 5th ed.) Such pathologies of the mind are abstract and difficult to understand, and researchers such as Fong and Jimenez-Murcia seek to give perspective on the matter. Murcia gives a more observational perspective on Gambling Disorder, and completes a clinical trial on affect control in relation to gambling related behaviors, whereas Fong presents a more didactic, explanatory text. In a similar context, Social Costs of Gambling: An Economic sets a clear paradigm and idea for the reader as to what exactly a social cost is, and then gives a specific reference to a study done, yet Challenge of Online Gambling: The Effect of Legalization on the Increase in Online Gambling highlights the importance and compelling effects of increasing the accessibility of gambling. As previously stated, Jimenez-Murcia, the author of of Young Pathological Gamblers Based on Sociodemographic and Clinical conducts a clinical trial which seeks to measure the affect control on categorized personality traits to determine a for an individual that carries risk factors for developing Gambling Disorder. Two personalities, one of which carried many resiliency factors to mental illness such as extensive education, and tested for fewer negative consequences for gambling, while the other were less educated and tested for fewer overall resiliency factors. The two personality categories were dubbed and type respectively. (cite here) The conclusions of the article essentially yielded that those of the type II personality showed higher levels of psychopathology in the face of gambling situations, and therefore classified the highest risk subgroup to be one that was composed of escape (cite here). While biophysical perspective may seem irrelevant for a study which is intended to categorize high risk individuals, the observations and conclusions provided ultimately bolster the reliability and validity of the first study. Fong states that it is often difficult to detect Gambling Disorder-especially because it a psychopathology, which cannot pass or fail a simple laboratory test. (cite second article) Early intervention, screening, and treatment are urged for those who are especially vulnerable for developing addictions, and those people are extremely homologous to profile identified in affect control study. The Social Costs of Gambling: An Economic Perspective has several goals, the first of which is to distinguish what a social cost is in relation to compulsive gambling, and then to give attention to two majorly oversighted costs as a result of online gambling. Not only this, but a study is analyzed using the improved paradigm presented by Walker and Barnett, the authors of the article.( Walker, D.M. & Barnett, A.H. J Gambl Stud (1999) Yet, Mariano Choliz, the author of Challenge of Online Gambling: The Effect of Legalization on the Increase in Online Gambling requires a working knowledge of what the idea of a social cost is, and hypothesizes the interactions between changes in legislation and potentially addictive M. J Gambl Stud (2016). In this way, the two articles do not conflict with one another, yet are used in conjunction to help one understand the other. Both journals agree that gambling, be that online or in person, are problematic at the clinical level and acknowledge the fundamental cost of addiction in society. Gambling Disorder is a pathology of a fundamental level in both the psychology of the addict and the structure of society, as the two often work together to perpetuate one another. The four sources presented certainly pathologize and establish the epidemiology of Gambling Disorder. Fong, whose article on the biopsychosocial consequences of gambling, implies in the name itself that gambling addiction is a holistic issue to those that are affected. As concluded in research in profiling the most likely personality to suffer from compulsive and negative affect related to gambling, certain individuals hold a higher risk than others. The following two articles then gather a perspective In terms of the societal consequences that are heavily related to unhealthy gambling behaviors in both an economic and social sense. Work cited Fong, Timothy W. Biopsychosocial Consequences of Pathological Psychiatry (Edgmont) 2.3 (2005): Print. Susana, Roser Granero, Randy Stinchfield, Fernando Eva Penelo, Lamprini G. Savvidou, Frida Neus Laura Moragas, Amparo Del Ana B. Fagundo, and M. Typologies of young pathological gamblers based on sociodemographic and clinical  Comprehensive Psychiatry 54.8 (2013): 1153-160. Web. Walker, D.M. & Barnett, A.H. J Gambl Stud (1999) 15: 181. doi:10.1023/A:1023089111024 M. J Gambl Stud (2016) 32: 749. doi:10.1007/s10899-015-9558-6 Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-5. 5th ed. Arlington: American Psychiatric Association, 2013. 372-78. Print.