Chang 1 Jarred Avery Chang Instructor Modlin-Jackson ENC1101 February 28, 2017 The Impact of Renewable Energy Resources Such as Solar and Wind in California on Biodiversity. Researchers have been conducting various surveys and experiments on most wind and solar energy sites in California over the span of many years. The results of which have been used to discuss and estimate the impacts that these sources of energy have on the level of Biodiversity. When all is said and done, the general idea surrounding the impacts on the level of biodiversity remains the same. Although experiments and surveys are conducted upon several different aspects of the impacts of renewable energy, all of them seem to draw the same conclusions. These impacts need to be controlled carefully, as they are able cause a drastic change in the balance of the ecosystem. Therefore, responsible parties should understand the importance of stabilizing the level of biodiversity by implementing ways to minimize the effects of renewable energy resources. Research shows how the environmental impacts of the installation of renewable energy sources harm the level of biodiversity. Research done in 2010 shows that the installation of renewable energy sources require the implication of several techniques which lower the impact on biodiversity, such as the reduction of damage to the habitat when preparing a patch of land. That also seems to be the case throughout all research done regarding the environmental aspects of renewable energy sources. Chang 2 Throughout the years, all research agrees that the implementation of renewable energy sources will affect wildlife negatively. This is shown in a research performed where the population of an endemic squirrel was monitored before, during and after the implementation of renewable energy sources. The results showed that the population was decreasing due to the effect of the habitat of squirrels. Another research done on birds seems to reflect the same results as birds would avoid flying in places where wind turbines were placed, and in many cases collide with the blades of the turbines and causing death. Essentially, researchers conclude that renewable energy sources can affect the habitat and therefore the level of biodiversity. Research done over the past five years also shows how there are ways to mitigate the impacts on biodiversity, these methods which have remained constant since 2010. Although more information is gained in recent years, these methods remain the same with a significant increase in efficiency. These include choosing renewable energy sites carefully and mapping out locations which interferes the least with habitats and migration paths. Latest research shows the most optimal locations to do so in California. Renewable energy, however beneficial it is to the environment, has its drawbacks and must be dealt with in order to prevent endangerment of local wildlife in California. The methods to do so have been around for many years and can be accomplished with ease, especially in recent years. In conclusion, responsible parties should work towards providing a clean, sustainable source of energy which will not dramatically impact the level of biodiversity as research shows that it could. References. Chang 3 Gasparatos, Alexandros, et al. Renewable Energy And Biodiversity: Implications For Transitioning To A Green  Renewable And Sustainable Energy. vol. 70, no.1, 2017, pp. 161-184. ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.rser.2016.08.030, Accessed Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kreitler, Jason, et al. Conservation Planning For Offsetting The Impacts Of Development: A Case Study Of Biodiversity And Renewable Energy In The Mojave  vol. 10, no. 11, 2015, Plos ONE, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0140226, Accessed Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Inman, Richard D., et al. Impacts Of Climate Change And Renewable Energy Development On Habitat Of An Endemic Squirrel, Xerospermophilus Mohavensis, In The Mojave Desert,  Biological Conservation, 2016, ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.biocon.2016.05.033, Accessed Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Arnett, Edward B., and Roel F. May. Mitigating Wind Energy Impacts On Wildlife: Approaches For Multiple  Human-Wildlife Interactions, 2016, vol.10, no.1, Accessed Web. 5 Feb. 2017.