Pugh 1 Sara Pugh ENC1102 Professor Van Winkle 9 April 2017 No More Beyond the Bell Programs On March 16, 2017, President Donald Trump released his budget proposal to the public with eliminating around $54 billion dollars of funding to federal programs and agencies. Within these cuts, he plans on removing $1.6 billion on after-school and summer programs. This budget proposal horrified people across the nation. After-school programs are something almost everyone can relate to, no matter if you went to public or private school. These programs not only provide students extra assistance outside of the classroom, but a place to socialize with other kids their age after a full day of learning. The component that we, the students, did not fully comprehend until we got older, is that these after-school programs are child care for our parents until they were able to get off work. Private after-school programs are funded through the tuition, but public schools receive federal funding for these programs. We, the students that already went through the K-12 public school systems, and you, the parents of students currently in the K-12 public school system, need to join forces to stop the budget proposal from being passed by Congress. We need to share our personal stories to our legislators about how the cuts will affect us and or how the after-school programs helped us directly or indirectly. To allow our voices to be heard, the Education Equity Group (EEG) will be hosting a Phonathon on April 28, 2016 at every Hillsborough County Public School. Mick Mulvaney, Office of Management and Budget Director, said no demonstrable evidence actually helping results, helping kids do better at  when Pugh 2 commenting on the after-school programs. After this statement, many notable magazines and people came forward to refute allegation. Time magazine published contradicting data in response to the controversial comment. The magazine mentions the U.S Department of 2013-2014 school year report. In this report, it was noted that of students improved their homework completion and in-class participation. More than a third of participants also improved their grades in math and (Reilly) all thanks to the after-school programs. The Washington Post published a response article the same day as the budget proposal was unveiled. In this article, Brigit Laird, chief executive of Wings for Kids, shares her opinion on how detrimental the proposal could end up being. Wings for Kids is a non-profit organization that provides an after-school program for students to get social and educational help. She said, imagine if that were turned off (the after-school programs) all of those kids running around the Without the federal funding, these children will have to find something else to do after-school that most likely is not good for them. Arnold Schwarzenegger responded to Mulvaney discussing the safety aspect of the after-school programs. He said, all have heard so much from law enforcement that they say between 3 and 6 is a danger zone for When children are not being supervised, that is when they find themselves getting into trouble. Decreasing the funding of after-school programs is the opposite of what is really needed. In low socioeconomic areas, parents depend on the free or relatively affordable after-school programs. These parents need to maintain a full time job to be able to support their families. The after-school programs enable the parents to have a full day of work and not worry about the safety of their child. The Afterschool Alliance, a non-profit organization designed to fight for all children to have after-school programs available, reported facts about the relationship between concentrated poverty and after-school programs. They reported number of students living in Pugh 3 concentrated poverty who would take part in an after-school program if it were available to them was 56 Only a reported 24 percent were able to actually participate in the after-school programs. After-school programs need more funding, not less. That is why we have to have our voices be heard by the government. The Education Equity Group is a nationwide group of students fighting for the equity of all students. The University of South Florida chapter will be teaming up with our local community for our first ever, Phonathon on April 28, 2016. Our members will be spreading out all over Hillsborough County in order for our Phonathon to be successful. At the Phonathon, parents, teachers, and students can call into the front desk from 3 pm until 10 pm to find out the phone number of their senator and representative. After they receive their phone numbers, they will be encouraged to share their personal experience with the public school after-school programs. We want the legislators to be aware that we as a county are not going to stand for the budget cuts. We also will have phones set up where our EEG members will be answer calls so that if someone have a phone, they are still able to call their legislators. Ideally, we are wanting the representatives and senators of Hillsborough County hear how the proposal will impact our community negatively if the after-school programs are defunded. We also want people to share their success stories with their legislators to show the importance the programs have on people. Pugh 4 Works Cited Afterschool  Facebook. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Brown, Emma. Trump budget casualty: After-school programs for 1.6 million kids. Most are  The Washington Post. WP Company, 16 Mar. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Cnn. White House lays out cuts to Meals on Wheels, after-school  WFTX. N.p., 16 Mar. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Merica, Dan. Trump proposes $54 billion in cuts to federal  CNN. Cable News Network, 27 Feb. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Taylor, Jessica, Danielle Kurtzleben, and Scott Horsley. Trump Unveils Budget That Boosts Military  NPR. NPR, 16 Mar. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Trump Budget: Studies Show Benefit of After-School  Time. Time, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.