ALSHAMSI 1 Hamdan Alshamsi Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 03-28-2017 Effects of Climate Change on Animal Extinction The majority of the reptiles are very sensitive to change in temperature, and unless they live at a constant temperature, their natural processes will become weak. For example, many reptiles such as lizards can only reproduce under certain environmental temperatures. However, over the last five years, climatic changes had been very unclear such that the rate of extinction among reptiles is even more active, that means that their number continued to decrease over time. As a result, even during in normal weather conditions when these animals can be able to reproduce, there is a lot of changes taking place such that they fail to reproduce. Moreover, I will compare climatic conditions before and after 2010, and also discuss how the changes have produced in the reduction of the number of reptiles. Although researchers have not been able to give a global scale of animal extinction, there exist evidence, which show that climate change is directly related to reptile extinction. Before 2010, the rate of extinction was low, but scientist predicted that the number is likely to rise in the coming years (Sinervo, et al. 894). Scientists could not study extinction from a global view because its effects small in certain areas (Collins, et al. 392). But the relationships were clear in regions where climatic changes were taking place in a fast way. For example, Sinervo sent a survey to discover how climate changes in Mexico affected lizard population (Sinervo, et al. 895). The researchers evaluated over 200 sites within the term of 30 years and realized that the rate of climate change in this particular region was so fast such that the species did not have ALSHAMSI 2 enough time to change. Moreover, resulting in their extinction (Sinervo, et al. 895). Between 1975 and 2009, over 12% species of lizard had extinct (Sinervo, et al. 896). When the same research was extended to other areas, it was seen that climatic conditions reduced in certain regions did not have much effect in areas where such changes were not active. In the same point, only less than 4% of the reptiles had gone extinct in other regions such as Asia and Africa (Boyle, et al. 35). However, recent research shows that over the last five years the effects of global warming have become a global threat and this puts reptile species even in isolated places at risk. Even with the smallest changes in environmental temperatures, some of the most sensitive reptiles are likely to become extinct. In a 2015 research conducted by PLOS Biology, with a 2 degrees Celsius warmer climate, a good number of lizard species such as Zootoca vivipara are going to disappear (Boyle, et al. 37). Another scientific evidence that has shifted over time is the magnitude of temperature changes that results from a given from a given amount of greenhouse emission. Before 2010, researchers still unsure of the relation but still there existed certain evidence. However, which clearly presented environmental impact such as changes in water vapor (Held and Soden 5687). As the temperature continue to rise, water vapor, especially in the lower troposphere, increased resulting in a general increase in global rainfall (Held and Soden 5688). Hydrological revolution was taking place at a very slow pace such that there was no much consequence to the atmospheric temperature. Rainfall was only in significant areas such as along the tropics with little change in other regions despite the rise in temperatures (Held and Soden 5688). But recent research shows that climate change has now reached a level that requires even state intervention. One of the first signs, which show that the impacts of global ALSHAMSI 3 warming are now spreading throughout the world, is the El Nino Southern Oscillation (Collins, et al. 392). These shifts have resulted in changed oceanic surface temperatures as well as tropical winds. All the scientific models that have been developed so far show that both surface and sea temperatures are changing so quickly in response to the high rate of greenhouse emission (Collins, et al. 393). Also, the effect has been changed in a hydrological cycle how as the temperature continues to rise; the water vapor rises at a rate of about 7% per degrees Kelvin (Collins, et al. 393). This has the effect of affecting the trade winds with the overall consequence of unstable climatic conditions. In conclusion, we note that global warming is becoming more severe as time passes by and if nothing is done, and then there are certain reptile species that will end up getting into complete extinction. With the current rate of extinction especially among reptile species, it is very important that important policies are put in place, which will prevent such a threat from growing. ALSHAMSI 4 Works Cited Boyle, Maria, et al. Dispersal and climate warming determine range shift in model reptile  Ecological Modelling, vol. 32, no. 8, 2016, pp. 34-43. Collins, Mat, et.al. Impact of global warming on the tropical Pacific Ocean and El  Nature Geoscience, vol. 3, no. 6, 2010, pp. 391-397. Held, Isaac M., and Soden Brian J. Robust responses of the hydrological cycle to global  Journal of Climate, vol. 19, no. 21, 2006, pp. 5686-5699. Sinervo, Barry, et al. Erosion of lizard diversity by climate change and altered thermal  Science, vol. 328, no. 5980, 2010, pp. 894-899.