Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Mother and a Fighter Women have held powerful positions within our homes, communities and our world that many have once been thought were only accomplishable by men. Not only have women raised strong families but have also prospered as fighters within the United States military. This just briefly reflects the large scale of possibilities that can be achieved by not only men, but women too. Although these attainments have occurred with proof, it is not always easy to detach the roles created by societies idea of tradition. Patheos, a stakeholder based on faith and tradition, believe that women in combat undermines the traditional role of women and (Veith). American Women Veterans Foundation believes that women have always been the catalyst for the change within not just our homes but this great nation. In their entirety, these two stakeholders hold differing views but they do agree on something and that is that women are just as courageous, determined and patriotic as men. Implementing separate combat units within the United States military, has the potential to give women the equality they deserve to willingly defend their country, but still maintain separation between the sexes as well as distinct gender roles. Patheos primary goal focuses on keeping traditions alive by teaching new generations about a shared past. Within a traditional household setting, the mother bear and care for the children and the father provides and protects for the family. The real question being posed by Patheos is regardless of the capabilities of women, should they be able to join combat positions? Student 2 This is an important question to ask when thinking about the traditions of the United States of America and the more common idea of men and women within their specific gender roles. Adding women to the combat zone not only undermines the vital attention needed by children, but defeats the purpose of men in the same positions. Women that have previously participated in tours of Iraq or Afghanistan more likely to have a service-connected disability than their male (Walsh 87). The disabilities mentioned before include depression and post- traumatic stress disorders. After returning from deployment, these gender disparities may enhance the challenges already faced by children with serving parents. Men are typically known for their strength, aggressiveness and potential for violence that is needed in combat positions. Woman will potentially overly feminize the military, leaving it at risk to become ineffective. The National Strength and Conditioning Association states that generally produce about two-thirds the amount of total strength and applied force that men (Williams). Not only is ineffectiveness of the greatest military a probability, but it is apparent that men have more body strength than the average woman and therefore can handle more pressure at a time without injury or strain. Addressed by recent studies performed during training operations, service members have higher rates of injury incidence than (Roy et al. 126). If women became part of combat positions within the military and anatomical characteristics are not properly taken into consideration, then overtime women will become warn and brittle sooner than expected due to the constant hardship forced upon them. On the other hand, the primary goal of American Woman Veterans is and promoting the legacy of the servicewomen, veterans and their (AMV). The American Women Veterans carry on legacies that military women have made thus far and plan on continuing to pass this power to the next generations of inspiring women. As stated by Security Student 3 of Defense Ash Carter, long as they qualify and meet the standards, women will now be able to contribute to our mission in ways they could not (Schwartz). In 2013 the ban that women could not serve in frontline combat positions was lifted and was prompted to have all roles open to both sexes by 2016 (Mercadel). The physical and mental capacity tested before, during and after discharging or retiring from the military are not achievable by the average person but are possible to be reached by anyone with enough will power. There have been women who have proven this, like the first two women who can now wear the tab of a US Army Ranger (Yuhas). Ranger school is a thought to be the most mentally and physically toughest schools the Army has to offer, previously only allowed for men. The physical fitness portion alone to receive a slot for ranger school, is six chin-ups, 59 sit-ups and a 20 minute 2.5 mile run (Mulrine). The test is not within the gender but within everyone individually. Another prominent opportunity offered by the military is the chance to work and support your family. It is not rare nowadays, to find single women that have made the ultimate sacrifice to choose to work for all that they need for themselves and their families. Although different from tradition, this has changed many futures for the better. It would not be fair to deny a woman the right to defend her country if she is so willing to sign her life away to protect the ones she loves and preserve her nation. Though Patheos and American Women share different goals there is enough similarity between the two stakeholders that an effective compromise can be settled upon. A collaborative plan that will suit the desires of each organization will be to allow women in combat positions only if there are segregated units. While devising a concrete plan prior to this implementation, it would be important to be aware of the similarities and differences in general of men and women physically and mentally. This will not lead to discrimination because it will Student 4 be based off scientific facts that if acknowledged can help to ensure the safety and protection of the men and women in uniform. Each unit can oversee specific tasks and obligations that are designated to them based off their physical and mental capabilities. Allowing gender segregation not only leaves room for more gender specific tasks but provides the opportunity for a more particular set of training. Separate trainings based off needed qualities will only build our military more strong and powerful when everyone can unite and combine what has been learned. For example, men may be able to complete a task with their strength, but women will most likely be able to complete the same task at a double rate because of their more prominent logic skills. The incorporation of this new proposal above can support both stakeholders by providing an effective medium of the two goals. If women are allowed in combat positions, there is support for American Women Veterans. If women are allowed in combat positions although in separate units, there is a great opportunity for both men and women to prosper within their natural limits. This better supports Patheos. Although this compromise steers away from a more common tradition, it still provides concrete gender roles between men and women. Distinct roles are put in place because of varying biological features pertaining to each gender. Women have a comparative advantage being capable of child bearing but are not excluded to this capacity. Women now have the ability to serve as mothers and fighters because of their courage, determination and patriotism. (WC: 1203) Student 5 Works Cited American Women Veterans. American Women Veterans, 2017, http://www.americanwomenveterans.org/. Web. Accessed 26 Jan 2017 Mercadal, Trudy. in Salem Press Encyclopedia. 17 Jan 2016. ds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Web. Accessed 26 Feb 2017. Mulrine, Anna. it like for Women Soldiers in Ranger The Christian Science Monitor. 24 Feb 2015. http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/. Web. Accessed 26 Mar 2017. Patheos. Patheos, 2017, http://www.patheos.com/. Web. Accessed 26 Jan 2017 Roy, Ritland, et al. Description of Injuries in Men and Women While Serving in Military Medicine, 2015, pp. 126-131. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=ef4f8e87- 2caf-422c-8653-082e7c03dac8@sessionmgr4010&vid=6&hid=4208. Web. Accessed 26 Mar 2017. Schwartz, Felicia. Secretary Says U.S. Opening All Military Combat Roles to Women; Effectiveness Must Come The Wall Street Journal. 4 Dec 2015. search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Web. Accessed 26 Feb 2017. Veithe, Gene. Patheos. Patheos. 28 Jan 2013. http://www.patheos.com/. Web. Accessed 26 Jan 2017 Walsh, Tova. and Deployment: Understanding the Experiences and Support Needs of Deploying Mothers of Children Birth to Journal of Family Social Work, 2017, pp. 84-105. Student 6 http://www.tandfonline.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/pdf/10.1080/10522158.2017.127957 6?needAccess=true. Web. Accessed 26 Mar 2017. Williams, Terry. Strength in Women Compared to Sports and Fitness. 5 Feb 2014. http://www.livestrong.com/article/509536-muscular-strength-in-women-compared- to-men/. Web. Accessed 26 Mar 2017. Yuhas, Alan. Female US Army Rangers doors for The Guardian. 20 Aug 2015.http://bi.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/essentials/article/GALE%7CA4261257 48/579c7407df81dc2c699da57010febce5?u=tamp44898. Web. Accessed 26 Mar 2017.